United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
51st Meeting
Thursday, 3 November 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.51
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Blandino Canto
(Dominican Republic), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 112 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations
The President (interpretation from Spanish): In a
letter contained in document A/49/400/Add.4 the Secretary-
General
informs me that, since the issuance of his
communications dated 20 and 26 September and 5 and 14
October 1994,
the Comoros has made the necessary
payment to reduce its arrears below the amount specified in
Article 19 of the Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes
note of this information?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 39 (continued)
The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina: draft
resolution (A/49/L.14/Rev.1)
Mr. Eltinay (Sudan) (interpretation from Arabic): The
so-called new international order has spawned an assault
that targeted the cultural diversity of many States under the
name of defending human rights. In the wake of the cold
war, as
the international arena became empty of
ideological conflicts, certain countries, which have
monopolized world leadership filled that vacuum with
discriminatory policies which they pursued through the
application of double standards and a marked reluctance
to take the side of right and justice in areas where some
would clamour that human rights are being violated.
It has been the misfortune of the Bosnian Muslim
people that some have chosen to consider its existence
through those double standards and through the absence
of justice. As if this was not enough, the very existence
of that people in a certain geographic context added to its
demerit in the eyes of those parties and, thereby, added to
its misery. Thus the Bosnian people fell victim to cultural
intolerance and became fair game to all kinds of
oppression and inhuman crimes
“ethnic
cleansing”, mass killing, rape and siege. At the same
time, it fell victim to the collusion and silence of those
who considered its continued existence an obstacle in the
way of their grand design.
such as
People of good conscience who belong to the region
that applies those double standards have testified to the
collusion they have witnessed in the perpetration of those
crimes by describing the limited and hesitant intervention
of the United Nations in Bosnia as too little too late
qualifying it as an action that rewards the aggressor in the
name of neutrality, while such neutrality has never been
the norm in any area where the conflicting parties
belonged to a different culture.
94-86892 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Although the resolutions adopted by the Security
Council in condemning the Serbs and establishing “safe
areas” and exclusion zones have been numerous indeed,
such resolutions have lacked the necessary ingredient,
namely the political will of the major Powers and have
fallen victim to the policy of double standards when it came
to enforcing them. Even the establishment of
the
the Prosecution of Persons
International Tribunal
Responsible
International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the
Former Yugoslavia has come up against
the hurdle of
financial difficulties. The recommendations of international
mediation have tended to reward the aggressor with the
territories acquired through the use of force, regardless of
the fact that this runs counter to the principles of the United
Nations Charter, the norms of international law and the
resolutions of the United Nations.
for Serious Violations of
for
Regardless of the courageous decision by the Bosnian
Government to accept the Contact Group’s plan of 30 July
1994, the Serb aggressors have defied even their closest
friends and rejected the plan because of their awareness of
the impotence or collusion that makes them immune to the
imposition of any such plan upon them. Even those who
have threatened to punish the Serb aggressors have been
persuaded by their allies to turn a blind eye to the situation
and to abandon any plans they might have had to deter the
aggressor by military means.
in opposition whenever it
The credibility of the United Nations, and the Security
Council in particular, has been laid bare by the Bosnian
question. Security Council
resolution 943 (1994) by
providing for a partial lifting of sanctions against Serbia
and Montenegro has exposed the true intentions of those
whose voices are loudest
is
suggested that the arms embargo against Bosnia might be
lifted, regardless of the fact that imposing such an embargo
on Bosnia contravenes Article 51 of the Charter and the
right to self-defence enshrined in that Article. The pretext
of those who oppose the lifting of that embargo has
continued to be the contention that the lifting would lead to
escalating of the conflict, closing the door to any peaceful
settlement
in addition to threatening the lives of the
international peace-keeping personnel.
The war in Bosnia is not a civil war in the full sense
of the word. There is an external party that helps the
aggressor. Serbia and Montenegro, an arms-producing State,
has been providing an unending flow of weapons and
logistical support to the Serbs. The deployment of 100
United Nations observers on the borders of Bosnia and
Herzegovina with Serbia and Montenegro does not, in any
2
51st meeting
3 November 1994
way, guarantee the stemming of that flow of arms to the
Serbs across the borders. Therefore,
lifting the arms
embargo against Bosnia would give an impetus to the
peace process by restoring some of the balance between
the aggressor and the victim, as highlighted by the recent
developments in Bosnia which demonstrate that
the
Bosnian people is quite capable of repulsing aggression.
In order for the Bosnian people to repel the aggressor,
there must be an end to the collusion that enables the
Serbs
their designs which aim at
exterminating the Bosnians and at physically removing
their State from the map of Europe, even though it is a
State Member of the United Nations whose sovereignty
and territorial integrity must be respected.
to carry out
The international community represented in the
General Assembly should clearly and strongly condemn
the crimes of the Bosnian Serbs — their mass murders,
“ethnic cleansing”, attacks against the “safe areas” and
exclusion zones established by the United Nations,
including Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Bijelina and other areas,
as well as attacks on United Nations personnel. The
international
its
commitment
to stand by the behests of international
legality and not to side with the aggressor against the
victim.
community
should
also
stress
the
and
empowered with
While we appreciate the significant efforts of the
United Nations Protection Force and are anxious to ensure
the safety of its personnel, we believe that it should be
strengthened
necessary
competence in order for it to become a deterrent force
that would repel aggression rather than continuing to be
saddled with the neutral posture imposed on it by the
Security Council. UNPROFOR should make greater
efforts to protect the “safe areas” and exclusion zones
designated by Security Council resolutions, as protection
of those areas and enforcement of those zones lie within
the mandate of the Force, with full consideration for the
right of the Bosnian people to repel aggression and to free
its territories from the occupiers. The Bosnian people has
in fact demonstrated its ability to do just that, with a great
deal of courage.
We call upon the Security Council to exercise its
competence under Article 24 of the Charter. In so doing,
the Council should not be influenced by the strategies of
some of its members and should aim at achieving a just
and lasting solution to the problem that does reward the
aggressor. This the Council should do through the
implementation of the principle of non-admissibility of
the annexation of territories by force and the principle of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the right of refugees to return to their homes. We must
make it clear that failure to enforce the Security Council’s
resolution, including that relating to the opening of Tuzla
airport, would pose a definite threat to the lives of the
population which are already threatened by lack of
medicine and food as a result of the Serb siege and their
prevention of distribution of humanitarian assistance to
Sarajevo, Tuzla and other “safe areas” designated by the
Security Council.
The application of paragraph 6 of Security Council
resolution 713 (1991) to Bosnia has no basis in legality.
Such action puts the victim and the aggressor on the same
footing and thereby deprives a United Nations Member
State of the means of exercising its legitimate right to self-
defence, a fundamental right enshrined in the Charter. We
therefore call on the Security Council once again to lift the
arms embargo imposed against Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We also pay tribute to Bosnia’s positive response that
should eliminate the obstacles in the way of lifting that
embargo.
We fully understand the circumstances under which
Bosnia is trying to deal with the situation in a manner that
would put an end to the suffering of its people who have
fallen victim to very complex regional and international
cross-currents. We call upon the Security Council to heed
the urgent humanitarian needs and suffering of the Bosnian
people and to respond by speedily lifting the embargo in
order for Bosnia to defend its sovereignty and territorial
integrity. We also call on the international community to
live up to its commitment under Article 51 of Chapter VIII
of the Charter by enabling Bosnia to defend itself. This is
a collective responsibility imposed by the Charter, to which
all peoples of the planet subscribe. The ploys of certain
groups should not prevent us from standing by what is just
and right.
Proceeding from this, our delegation is a sponsor of
draft resolution A/49/L.14/Rev.1, which we hope will be
adopted unanimously by the General Assembly.
Mr. Lamamra (Algeria) (interpretation from French):
The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is rightly of
concern to the international community. It shakes our
fundamental values and sorely tests our declared ability to
promote peace with justice and respect for the fundamental
principles of the United Nations Charter. For over two
years, one State Member of our Organization has seen its
territorial integrity and its very existence threatened, while
its people — in particular the Muslim component of that
people — has been relentlessly exposed to armed
51st meeting
3 November 1994
aggression,
deprivation.
“ethnic
cleansing”
and every sort of
The determination of the international community,
expressed in professions of faith, statements of intent and
even demands, has rarely been translated into action in
sufficient time, or on an adequate scale, to discourage and
defeat outbursts of aggression, even though the United
Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) has sought,
commendably, to carry out its difficult mission, within the
limits of its resources and its mandate, suffering insults
and injuries which undermine the authority of the Security
Council.
The painstaking search for a negotiated political
solution, which has mobilized the energy of so many
people of good will, has always encountered intransigence
from the leaders of the irredentist Serb minority, which
seeks to impose a dangerous logic of exclusion and
fait accompli. When the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina accepted the peace plan of 6 July 1994, not
without sacrifice,
it saw its hopes dashed by those
gambling on the international community’s appeasement,
or even the abandonment of its effort, in the face of their
claims.
The Permanent Representative of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina made clear to our Assembly this
morning the harsh reality of the situation in his country.
He showed beyond all doubt how the maintenance of the
status quo is neither possible nor acceptable, at three
levels: humanitarian, military and political. He also
resoundingly expressed the determination of his people to
defend their sovereignty and territorial
integrity, a
determination
their
legitimate
expectation that the international community will fully
assume its responsibilities. In particular, he defined the
context in which lifting the arms embargo is a necessary
factor in finding a just and lasting solution to the crisis
which his country is suffering, whereas extending the
applicability of Security Council resolution 713 (1991) to
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina has
the
unjustified effect of stripping that State of its natural right
to self-defence.
equalled
only
by
With the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina
marked by a rise in tension and an upsurge in armed
violence, and with the siege of Sarajevo and other cities
being tightened,
the right
moment to awaken our consciences and alert us all to our
responsibilities.
this debate comes at
just
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Algeria, motivated entirely by a concern for the
restoration of peace, security and stability in Bosnia and
Herzegovina and the region as a whole, naturally supports
the resistance of the Bosnian people and its Government, to
which my country has always shown its brotherly concern.
It was just as natural for my delegation to become a
sponsor of the draft resolution,
in which the General
Assembly will send a message of hope to the victims and
a message of resolve to those doggedly seeking to keep
peace at bay.
Mr. Türk (Slovenia): The General Assembly is
discussing the tragic situation in the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, while the war in that country is threatening to
continue into its third winter. Words spoken at diplomatic
conferences can no longer convincingly address the tragedy,
and humanitarian efforts continue without the hope that
peace can be established soon.
The international community and its institutions,
including the United Nations, have so far been unable to
address the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina effectively
or to stop the war. One of the reasons for this is the lack of
will to characterize the conflict as what it actually is. Only
a realistic assessment of the situation can give the necessary
basis for defining adequate remedies. The war in Bosnia
and Herzegovina is not a religious or ethnic conflict, nor is
it a civil war. The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina began as
a war of aggression against a United Nations Member State
and has since remained a war for territorial expansion.
That this is the nature of the war is clearly manifested
in one of its most heinous characteristics: the practice of
“ethnic cleansing”, which has reached genocidal proportions
against the Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina. “Ethnic
cleansing” was devised as a tool for territorial conquest,
aimed at the eventual creation of “greater Serbia”. “Ethnic
cleansing” is not an accidental consequence, but, rather, a
premeditated instrument, of the war. While it is true that
the war has become increasingly complex and that atrocities
have been committed by all sides, its original characteristic,
as a war of aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, remains essential.
A comprehensive assessment of the situation in Bosnia
and Herzegovina should also take into account other lessons
learned so far. One is that diplomacy without determination
or readiness to use force is fruitless when confronted with
forces of aggression. The international diplomatic action
concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina has, unfortunately,
lacked this determination. The peace efforts have been not
only unsuccessful, but, on some occasions, even ridiculed.
4
51st meeting
3 November 1994
This, after more than two years of unsuccessful
engagement, has contributed to the fact that the image of
the United Nations remains negatively affected and its
credibility is eroded.
It is true that without the involvement of the forces
of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR),
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR) and numerous other humanitarian
organizations the tragedy of Bosnia would have been even
worse. The ongoing efforts to guarantee delivery of
humanitarian aid deserve our deep appreciation and active
support. However, humanitarian assistance cannot be a
substitute for effective policies. Further efforts are needed
for an effective cessation of hostilities and for the creation
of political conditions for peace.
The United Nations has launched a number of
activities which could contribute to a comprehensive
peace — if the basic political and other conditions for
peace were created. In this context, we wish to emphasize
the importance of the work of the Special Rapporteur of
the Commission on Human Rights, Mr. Tadeusz
Mazowiecki, and that of the Commission of Experts
established pursuant to Security Council resolution 780
(1992). No substantial progress towards durable peace can
be achieved without addressing thoroughly the issue of
human rights. The perpetrators of gross human rights
violations must be punished and appropriate measures
have to be taken to secure the protection of human rights
in the future. For this reason Slovenia welcomed the
creation of the international war crimes Tribunal and
notes with appreciation that, according to the report of the
Tribunal (A/49/342), the first indictments are expected to
be ready for presentation before the end of this year.
It
is our view that an efficient and effective
international war crimes Tribunal could contribute
substantially to the just settlement of
the conflict.
However, the goal of a final comprehensive political
solution to the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina will
remain distant as long as the international community
remains unable to devise the effective policies needed to
restore peace and security as well as the territorial
integrity and political independence of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Let me now return to the question of the essential
conditions for a cessation of hostilities and for the
establishment of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The
Washington Agreements concluded several months ago
and the resulting cooperation between the Bosnian
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
restored hope that appropriate
Muslims and Croats
international assistance could meaningfully influence the
political aspects of the armed conflict. Such political
influence is essential in the efforts to change the military
reality on the ground and to open a path towards solutions.
We therefore have some reason to hope that efforts of the
Contact Group will contribute to ending the armed conflict
and to establishing conditions for a political solution with
at least the basic elements of justice. The most essential
elements of a just and durable solution are the preservation
of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the establishment of a safe environment for
the voluntary return of refugees, and the restoration of land
and other property seized through “ethnic cleansing” and
the use of force. It should be stressed again that without a
thorough reversal of the consequences of “ethnic cleansing”
and the use of force it is not likely that peace arrangements
will endure. Furthermore, failure to achieve such a reversal
could send a very clear message to other potential
aggressors that their acts of aggression might not only go
unpunished but perhaps even be rewarded.
The question before the General Assembly today
concerns the immediate steps to be taken with a view to
strengthening the possibilities for peace. What measures
should the General Assembly recommend to the Contact
Group and to the Security Council?
Over the past two years we have witnessed numerous
attempts to bring an end to the armed conflict in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. The latest proposal introduced by the
Contact Group is one of these attempts; it has the potential
to become the point of reference for a peace settlement.
However, there is still no sign from the Bosnian Serbs that
they are ready to submit to the concerted pressure of the
entire international community. This calls for
further
measures by the United Nations, which should be taken in
accordance with the provisions of the United Nations
Charter.
and Herzegovina,
regarding the inapplicability of
In that connection, Slovenia supports
the draft
resolution before the General Assembly concerning the
situation in Bosnia
including its
provisions
the arms
embargo. It is important to recognize that the embargo was
imposed on the former Yugoslavia back in 1991 when it
still existed and that the embargo was extended to the
successor States in a specific situation in 1992. Since then,
almost everything has changed. A decision that would take
into account the new realities and different situations of
each of the successor States is long overdue.
51st meeting
3 November 1994
resolution
There are of course many reasons for keeping the
arms embargo as a part of the sanctions imposed under
Security Council
the
conditions for lifting those sanctions are met. On the
other hand, there is a need to recognize the inapplicability
of the arms embargo to those engaged in self-defence,
that is in the exercise of an inherent right of all United
Nations Member States under Article 51 of the Charter.
757 (1992)
until
Finally,
in the case of Slovenia,
there is no
justification for the continuing applicability of the arms
embargo with respect
to my country, which is not
involved in any armed conflict that prompted imposition
of that arms embargo years ago against
the former
Yugoslavia, a State which has since then ceased to exist.
of
draft
It is in that context that we view the formulation of
the eighth preambular paragraph and of operative
resolution A/49/L.14/Rev.1,
paragraph 22
concerning the inapplicability of
the arms embargo
imposed by Security Council resolution 713 (1991), and
it is in that light that we support the relevant paragraphs
of the draft resolution submitted to the General Assembly
for action today.
The responsibility of
the General Assembly to
recommend realistic and effective policies on matters
concerning international peace and security is among the
most important responsibilities of this United Nations
organ. The draft resolution before us represents an effort
to act in accordance with that responsibility, and we hope
that it will be adopted by an overwhelming majority.
Mrs. Albright (United States of America): The
current
situation in the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina engages deeply the interests of my country
and bears directly on the purposes and credibility of the
United Nations.
My Government
is pleased to endorse the draft
resolution before the Assembly today. We join in
thanking the courageous personnel of the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees
(UNHCR) who are in Bosnia. We, too, demand that all
parties refrain from attacks on them and that all cooperate
in allowing them to perform their vital humanitarian and
peace-keeping missions. We reiterate our condemnation
of the massive violations of international humanitarian
law that have occurred, and are occurring, in Bosnia.
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We reaffirm also our support for the work of the war
crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Culpability for
the outrages committed in that region rests not with the
Serbs or Croats or Muslims as peoples: it rests with the
people — the individuals — who ordered and committed
those crimes. The scars of this war will heal much faster if
the perception of collective guilt for atrocities is erased and
individual responsibility is assigned.
But the healing process in Bosnia will not begin in
earnest until the war ends. My Government believes that
strong new measures are required to settle the war.
Accordingly, we urge members of the Assembly to support,
and make known that support, the Bosnian Government’s
request that the Security Council lift the arms embargo
against Bosnia now, with implementation in six months if
the Bosnian Serbs do not agree to a settlement by that time.
If this conflict is to end, the Bosnian Serbs must
choose to end it. Although they are not the only party to
the conflict to which blame may fairly be attached, they are
the only party prolonging the war. Last July, the Contact
Group proposed a territorial arrangement that was more
than fair to the Bosnian Serbs, and made it clear that if one
party rejected those arrangements and the others accepted,
that party would face grave consequences. Today,
the
Bosnian Serbs are the lone holdout against peace. They
alone have said “no” to ending this barbarous war.
Unfortunately, the consequences for them of their rejection
have not been sufficiently grave.
Clearly, the mix of incentives and disincentives now
in place is not sufficient. Economic sanctions have not been
tight enough; enforcement of safe havens and exclusion
zones has not been robust enough; and diplomatic pressures
have not been united or consistent enough to bring the
Bosnian Serbs to a new level of insight.
We must do more now to make them understand that
settlement is their best, indeed their only, option. We need
to build on the progress made in persuading the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia to cooperate in isolating the
Bosnian Serbs; we should encourage a steady strengthening
of the federation between the Bosnian Government and the
Croats; we should provide for a more rapid and forceful
response to violations of safe havens and exclusion zones;
we must tighten enforcement of sanctions; and we should
lift the arms embargo against Bosnia.
My Government recognizes that
lifting the arms
embargo, even in six months, has risks. But inaction has
greater risks. The status quo allows the Bosnian Serbs
6
51st meeting
3 November 1994
essentially to dictate the outcome of a conflict that they
began and then pursued ruthlessly and in violation of
international humanitarian law. Inaction means that United
Nations forces in Bosnia will remain vulnerable and
constrained in their operations. Inaction means that with
each passing day the credibility of the Contact Group’s
effort to settle this war erodes and begins to slip away.
Inaction means that the Bosnian people, Serb, Croat and
Muslim, will continue to suffer and to live in fear, and
that the number of orphans and displaced will continue to
grow. Inaction pushes further into the future the process
of
reconstruction and reconciliation. And
inaction denies the Bosnian Government, for no cause of
law or justice, its inherent right of self-defence.
recovery,
Bosnia has done nothing that would warrant the
imposition of international sanctions. It has not invaded
its neighbours or committed other major transgressions. It
is said that children sometimes inherit the sins of their
parents; in this case, Bosnia simply inherited the sanctions
imposed against its predecessor State.
One premise for maintaining the arms embargo
against Bosnia has always been that lifting it would harm
Bosnia’s own interests by precipitating pre-emptive
violence against Bosnian citizens. That premise had
validity only as long as one could argue that keeping the
embargo would lead to an acceptable territorial settlement
and an end to hostilities. Bosnian Serb intransigence has
robbed that argument of its force.
against United Nations
The second premise for the embargo has been the
fear that if the embargo is lifted the Bosnian Serbs will
retaliate
personnel. My
Government does not question the basis for that fear, but
we cannot allow the Bosnian Serbs to hold this world
Organization hostage; nor can we allow them to blackmail
us into depriving the Bosnian Government of its rights.
Bosnia is a sovereign State and a Member of the United
Nations. It is independent, it respects international law, it
respects its own people, and it should not need anyone’s
permission to arm and defend itself.
Fifty-eight years ago, the head of a beleaguered,
invaded, sovereign State appeared before the Assembly of
this Organization’s predecessor, the League of Nations.
Like President Izetbegovic´ today, Emperor Haile Selassie
did not ask for international intervention; he asked simply
for the right to defend his country. He said,
“The Ethiopian Government never expected
other Governments to shed their soldiers’ blood...
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Ethiopian warriors asked only for means to defend
themselves.” (Records of
the Sixteenth Ordinary
Session of the Assembly of the League of Nations,
Plenary Meetings, 18th meeting, p. 24)
Emperor Selassie continued,
“...the issue before the Assembly to-day...
is not
merely a question of [settling one case of] aggression.
It is a question of collective security;... of the trust
placed by States in international treaties; of the value
of promises made to small States that their integrity
and their independence shall be respected and assured.
It is a choice between the principle of the equality of
States and the imposition upon small Powers of the
bonds of vassalage.” (ibid., p. 25)
To its shame and ultimate sorrow, the League of
Nations did not listen to Haile Selassie, thus allowing the
momentum towards broader conflict to build. A decade
later
the United Nations was designed to prevent a
recurrence of that kind of failure of vision and will. It was
established to safeguard the rights of every nation. Its
founders rejected explicitly the doctrine that the strong
should have the right, by virtue of their strength,
to
dominate the weak. The United Nations Charter recognizes
explicitly the inherent right of individual and collective
self-defence.
Yes, there is a need for the United Nations to be
impartial in Bosnia. But impartiality means fairness, not
fecklessness. There is nothing impartial about
treating
aggressor and victim the same. There is nothing fair about
denying to both sides the weaponry that one side already
has. There has been nothing even-handed about
the
consequences of the arms embargo against Bosnia.
It is a human tendency spanning all eras and cultures
to believe that because we have said something we have
done something. The stakes in Bosnia are too great — in
terms of law, principle, precedent and humanity — for us
to indulge that tendency now. It is the essence of leadership
to choose. We can adopt yet another resolution that says all
the right things but leaves the situation in Bosnia, which is
profoundly wrong, untouched. Or we can choose a bolder
course, conscious of the risks, but determined to surmount
them.
51st meeting
3 November 1994
past commitments. Let us present the options clearly so
the Bosnian Serbs cannot misunderstand. Let us
that
allow time for a stronger mix of
incentives and
disincentives to have their effect. Let us plan together for
a changed diplomatic and military situation in Bosnia. Let
us maintain our own unity, and let us restore to Bosnia
the rights it deserves.
Mr. Nobilo (Croatia): Two years have passed since
the pictures of emaciated prisoners from the Serb-run
concentration camp in Omarska shocked the conscience
of the world. The international community has since taken
numerous measures, mostly of limited scope, hoping that
international
law and accepted norms of international
behaviour would offset
the overwhelming balance of
power and the systematic designs of evil on the part of
the Belgrade-controlled Yugoslav Army and its proxies in
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.
This policy of good intentions, despite its obvious
shortcomings, has had some positive elements which
cannot be overlooked. The international community has
appropriated vast
resources to lessen the pain and
suffering of hundreds of thousands of displaced persons
and refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am pleased
to say that my country, despite
its own dire
circumstances, has been at the forefront of this effort.
Croatia’s early and ongoing efforts have saved and
cared for some 800,000 victims of Belgrade’s aggression
in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia contributed some
$832 million for the care of Bosnian refugees through
1993 and will continue to do whatever is reasonably
possible in this regard and in other ways.
region. Despite
the
the horrific consequences of
The international community has also taken positive
legal decisions and established institutions to remedy
some of
the Serbian
aggression in the
immediate
deficiencies of the international community’s policy, some
internationally binding decisions — such as guarantees
contained in Security Council resolutions for the territorial
integrity of violated Member States — and the
International Tribunal for the punishment of war crimes
give us hope that Omarska and many other such
testimonies to genocide will not be forgotten or erased by
hasty and easy political manoeuvres.
Experience tells us that if the Bosnian Serbs are ever
going to agree to a settlement, it will be in response to a
demonstration of serious international will. The opportunity
is at hand to demonstrate that will. Let us make good on
The debate today and the draft resolution before us
should serve, not as a forum to lay blame for
opportunities forgone and responsibilities bypassed but,
rather, as a forum to remember and reaffirm our legal
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
responsibilities towards Member States and our solemn
responsibility to humanity: to stand up and defend the
innocent
barbarism and
State-sponsored mass murder. The role of the Belgrade
leadership in this cannot and should not be minimized or
traded away.
from archaic
ideologies,
Therefore, the judgements of the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Discrimination, recalled in the twelfth
preambular paragraph of draft resolution A/49/L.14/Rev.1,
and of the International Court of Justice, referred to in the
seventeenth and eighteenth preambular paragraphs, about
the role and responsibility of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) in respect of Bosnia
and Herzegovina and Croatia cannot and should not be
trivialized by short-sighted attempts to outsmart or cajole
the leadership of that entity.
(Serbia
of Yugoslavia
In this regard, the Assembly must remain cognizant of
its decisions to reject all attempts by thenew entity called
the Federal Republic
and
Montenegro) to enjoy the exclusive successor rights and
privileges of the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, which has ceased to exist. The Assembly’s
previous resolutions have clearly established that
the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)
can assume neither sole nor automatic succession of the
former Member State and that it can join the Assembly
only when it has implemented all relevant Security Council
resolutions in respect of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
Croatia and has applied for membership. This issue will be
a test of the Assembly’s continued dignity.
I have noted three important positive elements of the
international community’s policy in respect of Bosnia and
Herzegovina: humanitarian assistance, legal protection for
pre-war borders and the International Tribunal. Another
very positive element of that policy is outlined in the fifth
preambular paragraph and in operative paragraph 16 of the
draft
resolution. The Washington Agreements have
established a solid model for a political solution of the
crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My Government has
given this model its unqualified support, and it welcomes
all efforts intended to promote the timely implementation of
these Agreements.
51st meeting
3 November 1994
reports about the expulsion of Bosniac Muslims from
Mostar.
Operative paragraph 14 of the draft resolution, which
calls for mutual recognition between the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), also refers to an
important mechanism for finding a lasting solution to the
problems in the region. There are numerous proven
international models for the solution of disputes between
States through mutual recognition — for example, the
protection of minorities outside national borders. We
would welcome a strong call from the Assembly for
Belgrade’s recognition of all States successors of the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia within
their internationally recognized borders.
Operative paragraphs 5 and 19 of the draft resolution
attest to the close connection between the situation in
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the situation in the occupied
territories of Croatia. We have on numerous occasions
brought to the attention of the international community
the fact that the Bosnian Serb authorities are cooperating
with the self-proclaimed Serb authorities
from the
occupied territories in Croatia in many ways, especially
militarily, not only against Croatia but also against Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
This cooperation, which has proved costly to both
States, could be curtailed by various means, such as strict
enforcement of paragraph 12 of Security Council
resolution 820 (1993), which prohibits transshipments
through the Bosnian Serb-controlled territory without the
prior approval of the Government of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is why my Government has
called on the border monitoring mission of
the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia to
undertake measures consistent with the resolution.
in
a
My Foreign Minister,
the
Secretary-General today, notes the risks to stability in the
region associated with the coordinated activities of the
Bosnian Serb paramilitary units and the Serb paramilitary
units from the occupied territories of Croatia. He advises:
letter
to
In this
regard, one element
is especially
worrisome for my Government is the fact that since the
Washington Agreements were signed some 40,000 Bosnian
Croats have nevertheless departed from some areas under
the control of the Federation. We are also concerned by
that
8
of
“Croatia reserves the right
to act with all
appropriate means against any military involvement
from its sovereign territory against the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina."
Further in regard to the border monitoring mission
the Former
the
International Conference
on
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Yugoslavia, which has become a critical policy instrument
in the region, my delegation has pointed out that it is
possible that the Serbia-Bosnia blockade regime is being
violated by air — this idea is based on the no-fly zone
violation reports from the Secretary-General — and that the
monitoring mission should account
for hundreds of
unauthorized flights in the border areas. The latest report of
the Secretary-General (S/1994/5/Add.77), which is dated
31 October,
fixed-wing or
rotary-wing aircraft were recorded in a three-day period
between 25 and 27 October.
indicates that 61 flights of
The situations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of
Croatia are indeed linked in many ways. In the past,
Croatia has suffered only the negative consequences of this
linkage. Coming on top of the high expenditures in respect
of Bosnian refugees, Croatia’s problems with regard to
occupied territories were swept under the rug. This is not
workable, and Croatia must insist on positive consideration
in this regard. The positive linkage must come not only
through diplomatic initiatives but also through the use of
North Atlantic Treaty Organization resources and the
eventual lifting of the arms embargo. The necessary balance
in Bosnia cannot be achieved by taking a detour around
Croatia.
similarly, emphasize that
Once again we wish to emphasize the positive
elements of the international community’s policy regarding
Bosnia and,
these positive
elements should not be minimized or squandered. At times
it becomes worrisome that Bosnia and Herzegovina — a
country in the northern hemisphere — finds consistent
support in this regard mostly amongst countries of the
south. This debate should therefore remind the whole
Assembly of the source of the carnage in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and the draft resolution before us should serve
to protect the remedies that should and could bring some
justice and hope to this terribly wronged country and its
people.
Mr. Farhadi
(Afghanistan)
(interpretation from
French): One year after the General Assembly’s last debate
on this question, we find ourselves discussing the same
problem. It is a problem of extreme seriousness for the
world. If one were to compare what is happening this year
to what happened last year, one might say that the situation
has not improved.
The aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina goes on, and it continues
to threaten
international peace and security. It constitutes a very clear
threat in the region in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is
51st meeting
3 November 1994
it not be the beginning of a more
situated. Might
widespread conflict, a conflict
the whole
territory of the former Yugoslavia? The elements — in
particular, Serbian hegemonistic nationalism — for such
a conflagration are there. “Ethnic cleansing” — a crime
against mankind — has not ceased.
throughout
Mr. Biegman (Netherlands), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
The situation in Kosovo also continues to deteriorate.
There is ongoing repression — based on national,
religious and ethnic extremism on the part of the Serbs —
against 2 million people of Albanian descent, and
assurances from the Belgrade regime are deceptive.
Once again we appeal to the Organization to take up
the more general issue of the situation of minorities in the
former Yugoslavia, including Sandzak and Vojvodina, by
establishing an international presence with a view to the
preparation of a report on the matter.
An important event this year was the establishment
of the Contact Group, whose peace plan the Assembly
should now support. This is to be found in the Foreign
Ministers’ communiqué. Issued in late July 1994,
the
communiqué includes Contact Group decisions on
measures to be taken in the event of the rejection of the
proposed peace plan.
We are all well aware that the Government of the
Republic and Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina took
the decision to accept the peace plan, but that the Bosnian
Serbs, who indeed had not
implemented the relevant
Security Council resolutions, brutally rejected the peace
plan proposed by the Contact Group.
Hence,
the draft resolution must unambiguously
condemn the Bosnian Serbs for their refusal to accept the
proposed territorial settlement and must demand that they
immediately accept this settlement in full and, of course,
unconditionally.
At
this morning’s meeting,
the representative of
Ukraine stated that it was necessary and appropriate to
impose restrictions on the role of the General Assembly.
My delegation is certain that the General Assembly has
every right to encourage, indeed strongly request, the
Security Council to give serious consideration to lifting
the embargo on deliveries of weapons and military
equipment to the Republic and Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina that was imposed by the Security Council
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
three years ago in resolution 713 (1991), of 25 September
1991. That is further outlined in the eighth preambular
paragraph of the draft resolution which we have joined in
sponsoring.
There is also the principle of individual responsibility
for crimes against humanity and other serious violations of
international humanitarian law, in this case perpetrated in
the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The International
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for
Serious Violations of
International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since
1991 has now begun its work and we trust that justice will
be done.
that
in this very Hall
Turning again to the question of the embargo, I would
recall
last year, and on several
occasions in the Security Council, my delegation has stated
its view quite clearly that
if the embargo imposed on
Yugoslavia were applied in Bosnia and Herzegovina it
would be completely illegal. Indeed, this is a point of law
that has been made several times by international bodies.
The representative of
the United States, whose
eloquence we very much appreciated, rightly recalled that
Bosnia has inherited an unjustified punishment from the
predecessor State, Yugoslavia, and she used some words
that I think, and hope, will go down in history in regard to
this case:
“There is nothing impartial about treating aggressor
and victim the same”. (supra, p. 7)
When the representative of Germany addressed the
Assembly on behalf of the European Union, he made some
very important points, for which we are grateful. But we do
not agree with him that a political settlement should be
sought until all means have been exhausted and that the
embargo should be lifted only as a last resort. We feel that
the time has come to apply this last resort.
Enough blood has been shed. To continue to tie the
the victims would mean encouraging and
hands of
emboldening the aggressor, who is already armed to the
teeth, having inherited the terrifying arsenal of the former
Yugoslavia’s army.
We wish to pay tribute to President Alija Izetbegovic´
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who made a very wise and fair
proposal for a de jure lifting of the illegal embargo against
Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be followed in six months by
the actual lifting of the embargo if the Bosnian Serbs
10
51st meeting
3 November 1994
continued to reject the peace plan of the Contact Group.
Well, the Bosnian Serbs are still rejecting that peace plan.
We thank Ambassador Batu of Turkey for rightly
reminding us this morning that the five members of the
Contact Group had indeed been in agreement that the
Security Council could study the question of lifting the
embargo if the Bosnian Serb side continued to reject the
Contact Group’s peace plan.
Mr. Osvald (Sweden): I am pleased to make this
statement on behalf of the five Nordic countries —
Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
The Nordic countries share the views expressed in
the statement made by the German presidency on behalf
of the European Union.
The Nordic countries start from the premise of the
indisputable territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina and the legitimacy of its Government.
Bosnia and Herzegovina must be allowed to function once
again as the multi-cultural society it was only a few years
ago. We need a process of healing, reconciliation and
reintegration across religious and ethnic lines.
support
The Nordic countries
the process of
negotiations with a view to finding a comprehensive
political settlement of the crisis in the former Yugoslavia.
We are encouraged by the renewed contacts on a high
political
level between Belgrade and Zagreb. The
relentless efforts and the concrete proposals worked out
by the international community, including the Contact
Group and the International Conference on the Former
Yugoslavia, have our strong support. The search for a
solution is currently in a dynamic phase.
We are very concerned at renewed escalation of
fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The situation around
Sarajevo is deteriorating. Once again the civilians are
victimized in the capital and other enclaves. The Nordic
countries strongly appeal to the parties to immediately
cease all hostilities, and urge the Bosnian Serbs to
unconditionally accept the Contact Group plan.
The sanctions regime is an important element in the
search for a solution. The Nordic countries support the
Security Council’s recent decision to tighten the sanctions
against the Bosnian-Serb side for its refusal to accept a
territorial settlement for Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the
same time, the Security Council decided to suspend some
the Federal Republic of
of
the sanctions against
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Yugoslavia. Further easing of sanctions will be contingent
on additional significant and well-defined steps taken by
Belgrade.
The timely and constructive efforts of the International
Conference on the Former Yugoslavia to establish a
mission on the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia contribute to the
isolation of the Bosnian Serbs. The Nordic countries, being
so far the main contributors to the mission, urge other
countries to join in supporting it financially and with
personnel.
countries
are
among the
The Nordic
largest
contributors
to the peace process, participating in
humanitarian operations — where the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) plays
the leading role — and the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR), as well as in other efforts.
The presence of UNPROFOR will continue to be vital
for the maintenance of supply routes of humanitarian aid
into Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the safe areas and as an
overall element of stability in a volatile situation. The
agreed close coordination of UNPROFOR and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is an important
element in this regard. Despite limitations in manpower and
other resources, constant infringements on its freedom of
movement and allegations of ineffectiveness, UNPROFOR
is doing a first-rate job.
UNPROFOR must act decisively, and not fall victim
to intimidation, in order to maintain respect for its mandate
and its troops.
We welcome the procedure laid down in the meetings
of UNPROFOR between representatives of the members of
the Security Council,
the Secretary-General and the
troop-contributing countries, and call
the further
development and formalization of this mechanism for other
United Nations operations.
for
A lifting of the arms embargo would have serious
implications for the security of UNPROFOR and the
humanitarian aid operations it has been mandated to protect.
This would in turn further victimize the beneficiaries of this
vital humanitarian aid — namely, the civilian population,
including the Muslims. Moreover, the risk of an escalated
war and a proliferation of the conflict would increase.
In the absence of a negotiated settlement, the human
tragedy will continue. The Nordic countries deplore the
51st meeting
3 November 1994
continued “ethnic cleansing” taking place, particularly in
areas under Bosnian Serb control. This practice must
cease. We must support the work of the International
Tribunal with regard to the former Yugoslavia to bring
the perpetrators of breaches of international humanitarian
law to justice, and establish a deterrent for those who
might be
“ethnic
cleansing” and other abhorrent practices. In the meantime,
we must keep up our humanitarian efforts.
contemplating renewed acts of
Once a peace settlement has been achieved the
peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to start the
long and cumbersome path of a return to normal life. In
this process the international community will have to
assume its share of responsibility for rehabilitation and
reconstruction and the repatriation of
refugees and
displaced persons,
the success of which is a crucial
precondition for a durable peace. Rehabilitation plans
must be conceived in a regional context and must aim at
fostering reconciliation, respect for human rights and
democratic principles.
Efforts to achieve reconstruction have started in
certain areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, notably in
Sarajevo and Mostar, led by the United Nations and the
European Union respectively. These efforts are of the
utmost importance as a way to contribute to the peace
process
the
normalization of everyday life is also a step towards
peace.
large. Every little
step towards
at
Mr. Al-Ni’mah (Qatar) (interpretation from Arabic):
Here we are once again doing what we have done time
and again over the past years; discussing the tragic
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We find ourselves,
as we did in the past, with our world looking on while the
tragedy unfolds. Once again we find this Assembly
haunted, as in past years, by the ghosts of those martyrs,
their wounds dripping blood and their mouths and tongues
uttering words of anguish that should set the conscience
alight, calling for help, bemoaning the many Muslim
victims butchered by those unjust extremist people, the
Serbs, asking for
is not
forthcoming, that is hoped for but turns out to be a
deceptive mirage, that is aspired after but, when reveals
itself, it turns out to be a toothless champion, a rainless
cloud and a gourd that contains nothing but injustice and
harm.
international succour
that
What are we to do with promises that are made to
taste like honey, with beautiful words that come at us
from the halls of the Security Council and that ramble in
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the statements read before this Assembly? It behoves us to
call on those that are hesitant to stop being hesitant and to
spare no effort in trying to save those whose blood is being
shed. Do not those who are hesitant know that the Serb
extremists have perpetrated many unspeakable acts and
committed many atrocious crimes and do not they realize
that this forum should take the necessary action, provide the
necessary treatment and become the physician and healer
when there is no other remedy?
When one bears responsibility before history for taking
humanitarian action, one should not ignore the fact that the
wounds of Bosnia and Herzegovina still bleed, and that
bloodshed is on the increase. The Bosnian victims are
reminding all those who would not strive for peace that the
citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have no option but to
fight
livelihood. The only
alternative is the grave, since life is not worth the
humiliation.
lives and their
their
for
What kind of life is this for those who are deprived of
dignity and respect in their own homeland? The people of
Bosnia have been ignored by the United Nations. That is
why they have been suffering all this. History and the
whole world have denied them their rights, and they have
suffered the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune.
It is the Bosnian people who are living on the absolute
minimum needed for survival, and the price they pay is
their own blood and suffering. The Assembly must be
aware of all this, and if it is not, we must provide the
information: the victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina have
been victimized by mass killings and by the injustice of the
Serbs. They are at a dead end, and there is no light at the
end of the tunnel. They wonder, as we do at this late stage,
if this is not the time for this international forum to feel the
spirit of humanity and conscientiousness, and if this is not
the time for the international community to consider rising
up to its
just extending
condolences to the victims of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Words and statements mean nothing. The martyrs are
bleeding and praying to Allah to have mercy on them. They
appeal to this forum to be a place where the word of truth
is uttered, to resurrect its dead conscience, to defend them
from cruelty and to let its conscience be newly inspired by
the martyrs and the victims of Serb criminal acts.
Otherwise, no matter how long we live, this forum will
continue to witness the hatred in that part of the world and
to watch Serb hatred manifested in ethnic cleansing.
Bloodshed will demand new blood, and Bosnia and
Herzegovina will become an endless fire that spares no one.
responsibilities
instead of
12
51st meeting
3 November 1994
With regard to the question of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the State of Qatar believes that there are
self-evident
facts and principles that should not be
ignored or abandoned. These are facts that are contained
in all the resolutions of the Assembly and of the Security
Council, and in the statements made in international
forums, foremost among which are the Organization of
the Islamic Conference, the Non-Aligned Movement and
the League of Arab States. The facts we refer to are the
following:
First: the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
is a sovereign, independent State Member of the
United Nations that enjoys all the rights provided for
in the Charter, including the right to self-defence in
keeping with Article 51.
Second:
of Bosnia
the Republic
and
Herzegovina should be enabled to preserve its
independence, its unity and territorial integrity, and
it is necessary to underscore the responsibility of the
Security Council in this respect under Article 24 of
the Charter.
Third: as the odious policy of ethnic cleansing,
and its results, are unacceptable to the international
community, and as the acquisition of other people’s
territories by means of ethnic cleansing and by force
is illegal under international law, those who have
acquired such territories should be made to give up
those lands.
Fourth, perpetrators of acts of genocide and of
crimes against humanity should be brought to trial
and punished. This calls for the exercise by the
International Tribunal of its mandate without delay,
and it should be enabled to do so.
Fifth, the right of all refugees and displaced
persons to return voluntarily to their homeland in
peace and dignity must be upheld.
Sixth, the city of Sarajevo should be preserved
as it is an ancient and historic city with a special
cultural character, and the hometown of a multi-
ethnic and multi-religious community.
Seventh, all proposals to settle the conflict
should be in keeping with the United Nations
Charter and the principles of international law. They
should be just and equitable in order
the
for
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
settlement to guarantee the establishment of durable
peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The tragedy of Bosnia, whose chapters we have
witnessed from the very beginning, and the attendant
tragedies and suffering that daily befall this Muslim people,
who are
subjected to atrocities, killing and
displacement, bespeaks the inability of the international
community as represented in this General Assembly to
deter the aggressor, or to put an end to aggression.
thus
This aggression is directed at the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, a Member State of the United Nations. In
that State the aggressors, the Serb extremists, have practised
the odious policy of ethnic cleansing and all sorts of
barbaric acts including mass killings and murder, rape,
displacement of populations and serious violations of
human rights. All appeals to these aggressors have fallen on
deaf ears. This makes it imperative for the United Nations
to shoulder
failed to
discharge as the major Powers have failed to rise to their
responsibilities by imposing an adequate solution that would
put an end to this
tragic situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
the responsibility it has so far
the
effects of
aggression against Bosnia
This has added a new and sad chapter to the history of
mankind, a chapter recounting the United Nations inability
to act, the collapse of all the moral standards, enshrined in
its Charter to which we should all be committed,
the
collapse of the mainstays of peace and security in today’s
world. My delegation therefore calls upon every member of
the international community to take a firm decision and
impose decisive steps and measures that would eliminate
the
and
Herzegovina, restore what has been usurped, return what
has been plundered and thereby return to the people of that
land their rights. By so doing, the international community
would reinstate a spirit of commitment
to the United
Nations Charter, a spirit of adherence to international law
and the authority of the law, deter those who would violate
it and lay the foundations of cooperation and understanding
amongst peoples in a world in which, we hope, justice and
peace may prevail and foster tolerance, benevolence and a
spirit of mutual trust; a world in which benefits are mutual
and common interests are respected. Steps must be taken to
make the planet a happy place, a place where human well-
being can be achieved and in which all people enjoy
prosperity.
The people and Government of the State of Qatar at
every level have clearly demonstrated their position in
support of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have
51st meeting
3 November 1994
sought with all our power to extend a supporting hand to
that people and to help them face the tragedies and
afflictions that beset
them. We have contributed to
measures designed to enable that people to regain their
rights, preserve their national identity and independence
and achieve their
legitimate ambitions, which are
guaranteed and protected by the United Nations Charter.
Proceeding from this, the delegation of Qatar is a
sponsor of draft resolution A/49/L.14/Rev.1 now before
us, which embodies all
the principles I have just
enunciated and which sets forth the minimum that must
be accomplished by the international community if there
is to be a just and lasting peace settlement in Bosnia and
Herzegovina that would guarantee the rights of the
Bosnian Moslems within the borders of an independent
State.
Mr. Chung-Ha Yoo (Republic of Korea): One year
ago in this very forum we were deploring the tragedy of
the conflict in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Today, despite numerous appeals and efforts by the
largely
international community,
and
unchanged. The
bitter
Herzegovina continue to pose a serious
to
international peace and security, and acts of genocide and
“ethnic cleansing” have not ceased. Even as we speak, the
people of Bosnia continue to suffer
from senseless
brutality.
the scene remains
hostilities
in Bosnia
threat
While appreciating the efforts undertaken by the
United Nations and its Member States — including the
United States, the Russian Federation and the countries of
the European Union — to bring about a negotiated
settlement,
the
international community as a whole needs to take further
steps to end the atrocities being committed in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
the Republic of Korea believes that
In March,
The year 1994 began with relatively hopeful signs
for peace in Bosnia.
the Washington
Agreements laid down a foundation for a just and viable
peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina by defining the
framework of a federation which would preserve the
territorial integrity and unity of Bosnia and Herzegovina
as a multicultural, multireligious and multi-ethnic State.
However, the momentum for a comprehensive peace soon
dissipated, when the Bosnian Serb forces refused to join
the federation. In July the Bosnian Serb forces rejected
yet another plan presented by the Contact Group.
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In this regard, the decision of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia last August
to break off its political and
economic ties with the Bosnian Serbs and close its borders
with the Serb-held areas was noteworthy. The Republic of
Korea hopes that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will
sincerely adhere to its commitment.
However, monitoring the compliance of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia with its commitment is a substantial
task which the United Nations cannot neglect. We hope that
the Security Council will devise an effective mechanism to
verify such compliance.
The Republic of Korea has been following with grave
concern the massive and systematic violation of human
rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in those areas
under the control of the Bosnian Serb forces. In the cities
of Bosnia where Serbs, Croats and Muslims once lived side
by side, “ethnic cleansing”, genocide, abuse of women,
torture and arbitrary executions have now become a
common practice. The Republic of Korea strongly demands
that all forms of inhuman acts of “ethnic cleansing”,
wherever they occur and by whomever they are committed,
cease
the
strangulation of Sarajevo and other “safe areas” continue,
the international community should take concrete steps as
proposed by the Contact Group, including the strengthening
of sanctions against the offending party.
immediately.
cleansing”
If
“ethnic
and
Given the importance to international peace and
security of the protection of fundamental human rights, the
establishment of the International Tribunal to prosecute
those who have violated international humanitarian law in
the former Yugoslavia was an important initial step. My
Government pledges its full support for the work of the
Tribunal.
A lasting peace can be achieved only through political
means, not military force. All parties to the conflict must
understand that use of arms cannot open the door to peace.
At the same time, my delegation fully understands and
shares the apprehensions of troop-contributing countries that
lifting the arms embargo will aggravate the situation and
also seriously affect the safety of peace-keepers deployed
in the area. However, having thus far failed to secure peace
in the region, the international community has a moral and
political obligation to respond to the Bosnian people’s
legitimate concern about their very existence.
In this regard my delegation notes that President Alija
Izetbegovic´ of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
announced on 27 September that he would limit the demand
14
51st meeting
3 November 1994
the
a deferment of
for lifting the arms embargo to the adoption of a formal
resolution and accept
actual
implementation of the resolution for up to six months.
The Government of the Republic of Korea wishes to
commend his announcement as an appropriate and
judicious step. We earnestly hope that the situation in
Bosnia will improve so that the Bosnian people will not
have to face the same difficult question when the
six-month period has expired.
realize that
History teaches us that political advantage wrested
by crude military force cannot be sustained. The Bosnian
Serb leadership must
it can join the
international community only by accepting a negotiated
settlement. The Republic of Korea urges it to accept the
Contact Group peace plan unconditionally and in full and
to respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political
independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Bosnian
Serb forces should also allow the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) complete freedom of
movement and access to problem areas.
It is crucial that the international community actively
engage in alleviating the suffering of the Bosnian people
and facilitating a negotiated settlement based on the
principle of cooperation and genuine partnership. As a
Member State that is firmly committed to maintaining
international peace and protecting the welfare of the
global citizenry, the Republic of Korea will continue to
participate in international efforts to restore peace and
justice to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
My delegation believes that
the draft resolution
before us generally reflects
the position of my
Government, and we will vote in favour of it. We hope
that today’s resolution will be another significant step in
our efforts for peace in Bosnia.
In closing, the delegation of the Republic of Korea
would like to express its deep appreciation and pay tribute
to the personnel of UNPROFOR, the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), and
other humanitarian organizations.
the
dangerous situations in which they carry out their duties,
my delegation would like to emphasize the primary
importance of ensuring the safety of the brave men and
women who are risking their lives to bring peace and
humanitarian assistance to the people of Bosnia on behalf
of the international community.
In light of
Mr. Sucharipa (Austria): War, aggression, human
suffering and grave violations of human rights continue to
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the same time,
rage in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At
international efforts aimed at putting an end to the ongoing
fighting and the resulting human tragedies have entered a
critical phase.
Numerous earlier attempts to bring about an effective
cease-fire and to alleviate the intolerable humanitarian
situation have again and again raised high hopes among the
suffering people in Bosnia and Herzegovina; all of them
have fallen short of meeting these expectations. Hopes are
once again pinned upon the most recent proposal: the plan
for a territorial settlement worked out and presented to the
parties by the Contact Group.
In order to be viable, any solution will have to be
achieved in accordance with all relevant Security Council
resolutions, with the principles adopted by the London
Conference on the Former Yugoslavia in August 1992 and
with the norms established within the framework of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
On this basis,
the Contact Group plan offers a sound
foundation for a cessation of hostilities as the essential
prerequisite for further efforts towards a lasting political
solution to the conflict. This process, long and strenuous as
it might be, should and must finally lead to peace, mutual
respect and mutual understanding in a multi-ethnic
community. The logic of peace must finally overcome the
logic of war.
We therefore join the previous speakers, especially the
representative of Germany speaking on behalf of the
in welcoming the acceptance of the
European Union,
proposed territorial
settlement plan in full by the
Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We also join in condemning the continued rejection of the
plan by the Pale leadership of the Bosnian Serbs. This
rejection stands in clear opposition to the expectations of
the international community as expressed in Security
Council resolution 942 (1994), which clearly demands that
the Bosnian Serb party accept this settlement. Once again,
the credibility of the Security Council and hence of the
global system of collective security is at stake.
All international efforts must therefore now be united
to exercise the strongest possible pressure on the Bosnian
Serb leadership. Through the maintenance of political and
economic isolation two unequivocal messages must be
delivered to that leadership: first, a message of our absolute
condemnation of its continued policy of aggression and
obstruction, its rejection of the settlement plan and its lack
of cooperation even in the field of humanitarian assistance;
and, secondly, a message of our absolute condemnation of
51st meeting
3 November 1994
its continued policy of “ethnic cleansing”, its systematic
violations of
international humanitarian law and its
systematic campaign of terror. For all these acts, those
responsible must be held personally accountable. We
therefore urge the speedy initiation of the judiciary
process by the International Tribunal set up for the
punishment of all war crimes in the former Yugoslavia,
without any infringement of a political nature.
In view of the existing limitations upon international
action in the former Yugoslavia, sanctions and their
proper application in order to provide incentives and
disincentives have gained the highest importance as a
means of pressure
for gaining cooperation. The
international community has proved its willingness to act
accordingly, on the one hand in tightening the sanctions
regime against the Bosnian Serbs and their leadership to
achieve compliance with the settlement plan, and on the
other in honouring the decision of the authorities in
Belgrade, whose main responsibility for the tragic events
in former Yugoslavia has been generally recognized, to
close the border between the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Bosnia. We
support
the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia. We
sincerely hope that Belgrade, after this first step in the
right direction, will follow this path without further
hesitation and contribute constructively to the process of
finding a peaceful solution.
establishment of
the mission of
the
of
the
utilization
To maintain this momentum, Austria supports
relevant proposals that are being advanced on the best
possible
incentives-disincentives
mechanism. In this context, the recognition by the former
Republic of Yugoslavia of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and of Croatia within their present borders
must be considered as the minimum condition for any
further move on the question of sanctions. Furthermore,
the continuous violations of human rights in Kosovo,
Sandjak and Vojvodina will have to be taken into
account.
In view of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is
still denied adequate protection within the framework of
the system of collective security, we must regard as
legitimate the demands of the Government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina for the lifting of the arms embargo enacted
by Security Council resolution 713 (1991). The exercise
by the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina of its right of
self-defence under Article 51 of the Charter of this
Organization must not be impeded. At the same time, we
are aware of the dilemma that might be created by the
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
51st meeting
3 November 1994
the draft
lifting of the embargo, as well as of the difficulties inherent
in such a decision, which could entail
far-reaching
consequences. In our view, therefore, all factors must be
carefully considered,
including the necessary flexibility
concerning the timing of the decision and the actual lifting
of
the arms embargo. We understand that operative
paragraph 22 of
in
conjunction with the eighth preambular paragraph, provides
room for such careful consideration and flexibility. In this
context we have taken note of the statement made this
morning by the Permanent Representative of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, in which he referred to the need to coordinate
all efforts,
the
Security Council and the UNPROFOR troop contributors,
in the search for peace and in order to minimize any
potential negative effect on their endeavours.
including those of the Contact Group,
resolution before us,
We therefore hope and trust that further action on this
issue will be based on a thorough examination and analysis
of all relevant aspects. We would have preferred clearer
language to this effect in the draft resolution before us.
Finally, we wish to pay sincere tribute to all those at
the negotiation table and to those on the ground who,
despite many setbacks, have not ceased their efforts and
have not given up their belief in the possibility of a lasting
political settlement. In particular, we express our deepest
appreciation for the tireless endeavours, exerted under the
most difficult and dangerous conditions, of the personnel of
the United Nations Protection Force, the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
the
International Committee of the Red Cross and all other
humanitarian organizations.
Mr. Rabbani (Pakistan): During the past 32 months,
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been engulfed
in a long twilight struggle against repression and terror in
what history will record as the gravest tragedy, while the
world looked on as bystanders, as if paralysed. The
Government and the people of
this State have been
subjected to the most blatant aggression and genocide
witnessed in modern history. The people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina are not only the victims of aggression but are
also subjected to double standards and to cynical
abandonment. The international community has, by and
large, remained helpless and unwilling to defend a Member
of
the United Nations faced with extinction through
aggression and genocide.
We are discussing the situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina at a critical moment. The Government of
Bosnia has displayed a sense of responsibility by accepting
16
the peace proposal of the five-nation Contact Group,
which has recently been endorsed by the Security
Council. This peace proposal does not respond fully to the
requirements of justice and equity. It will not fully
reverse the consequences of Serbian aggression in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, nor will
the
consequences of “ethnic cleansing”.
fully remove
it
and Herzegovina
On the other hand, the Bosnian Serb party continues
to defiantly reject
the peace plan, and its wanton
aggression against the civilian population in Bosnia and
Herzegovina continues unabated. As a result of this
aggression, 70 per cent of the territory of the Republic of
Bosnia
under Serbian
occupation, 200,000 civilians have been killed, and over
1 million inhabitants of Bosnia have been expelled from
their homes. As if this were not enough, hundreds of
cities and villages have been destroyed - burned and razed
to the ground. The magnitude of the tragedy in Bosnia is
an ugly scar on the conscience of the civilized world as
to its ability to act in order to preserve the ideals that it
cherishes.
remains
In total defiance of the will of the international
community as articulated in the resolutions of the Security
Council, the General Assembly and the Organization of
the Islamic Conference (OIC), the Bosnian Serb party
continues its campaign of “ethnic cleansing”, genocide
and terror against the non-Serbian population, particularly
the Muslims, while consolidating its hold on territories
seized through the use of force. Bosnian Serb forces
continue to violate “safe areas”, the exclusion zones and
the no-fly zone in Bosnia and Herzegovina with impunity.
in particular
The international community,
the
Security Council and the States members of the European
Contact Group, have failed to effectively respond to this
situation by undertaking strong enforcement measures,
particularly the use of force and air strikes, already
authorized by the relevant Security Council resolutions. In
the recent past, the Bosnian Serbs blatantly violated the
no-fly zone by conducting hundreds of helicopter flights
between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the
Serb-held areas in Bosnia and ferried large quantities of
arms and ammunition from the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia.
While the Serbs have demonstrated utter contempt
for the mandatory Chapter VII resolutions of the Security
Council,
the international community has stood by
silently. It has, in fact, allowed Serbia and Montenegro to
act in any manner it wants. Ironically, on 23 September
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
1994, the Security Council adopted resolution 943 (1994),
which partially eased sanctions on the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia in return for its willingness to place a limited
number of international monitors along its borders with the
Serb-held areas of Bosnia. This move by the Security
Council is nothing less than appeasing and rewarding the
aggressor and sacrificing the principles of justice and equity
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. This has sent
entirely the wrong message to Belgrade. It is likely to
harden the Serbian position with regard not only to the
overall settlement of the Bosnian conflict but also to the
problems of
the Balkan region in general. Effective
monitoring of the borders between Bosnia and Herzegovina
and Serbia and Montenegro to prevent arms supplies
flowing to the Bosnian Serbs is likely to prove difficult.
Pakistan voted against that resolution.
The Organization of the Islamic Conference has all
along been seized with the tragic situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina and has made a significant contribution to
upholding the legitimate rights of the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina and its people. The solidarity and support
extended by the entire Islamic World to the brave Bosnian
people has helped them to resist the Serbian aggressors.
Our endeavours have mobilized the world community to
wake from its slumber and face the realities of the brutality
and slaughter imposed on the Bosnian people. Pakistan is
proud to be Chairman of
Islamic
Conference of Foreign Ministers, and in that capacity to
chair the OIC Contact Group on Bosnia and Herzegovina.
twenty-first
the
the Organization of
During the Seventh Extraordinary Session of the
Foreign Ministers of
Islamic
Conference, held in Islamabad from 7 to 9 September 1994,
a declaration and a comprehensive resolution were adopted
that strongly urge all concerned to take a series of measures
to strengthen the peace process and to reverse the
consequences
and
Herzegovina. An extraordinary meeting of the OIC Contact
Group at the Ministerial level took place in New York on
29 September 1994 and renewed its full and unqualified
support for our Bosnian brothers and sisters.
against Bosnia
aggression
of
Pakistan is of the view that the continuing inhuman
atrocities committed by Serbia on the non-Serb population
of Bosnia and the inexplicable inability of the international
community to effectively respond to it make it ever more
imperative that the Security Council end the de facto arms
embargo on Bosnia and permit the people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina to exercise their basic right of self-defence
under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. In this
context, we welcome the recent initiative of the United
51st meeting
3 November 1994
States in the Security Council. We extend our full support
to the early adoption of a resolution that seeks to lift the
arms embargo against Bosnia and Herzegovina.
to
relieve
catastrophe
the
in Sarajevo.
At the same time, the Security Council should take
prevailing
appropriate measures
humanitarian
should
It
meaningfully and forcefully respond to any further
violations of
including resolutions
824 (1993), 836 (1993) and 900 (1994). Further measures
should be adopted by the Security Council to declare the
entire 51 per cent territory allocated to the Muslim-Croat
Federation as a “safe area”.
resolutions,
its
Pakistan urges the International Tribunal to take
immediate measures for the prosecution and punishment
of war criminals. In this regard, we urge the international
community to come forward with material and financial
assistance to ensure the effective functioning of the
Tribunal, especially relating to the recording of evidence
of female witnesses. The Tribunal must also establish a
liaison office in Sarajevo in order to coordinate its work
with the authorities of Bosnia.
I
take this opportunity to reiterate that
the
Government and the people of Pakistan deeply appreciate
and fully support
the principled, courageous and
conciliatory position taken by the Bosnian Government,
especially in accepting the five-nation European Contact
Group’s peace plan, which imposes a difficult burden of
internal border delimitations. Pakistan fully backs the
demand made by the President of Bosnia
and
Herzegovina to the Security Council and the General
Assembly in his address in a plenary of the General
Assembly last month.
In conclusion, from the rostrum of the General
Assembly of the United Nations, let the word go forth
that no sacrifice will be too great, no difficulty
insurmountable for the Bosnian people to achieve final
victory in their struggle. While a civilized or so-called
civilized world looks helpless in its inactivity, Pakistan
expresses its solidarity with the just,
righteous and
principled struggle of
the people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and recognizes the courage, steadfastness
and commitment
the people and
leadership of this State. It is of the firm belief that, as
history comes full circle, there will be light at the end of
the tunnel.
to principles of
Mr. Abu Odeh (Jordan)
(interpretation from
Arabic): Once again, the General Assembly discusses the
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again,
General Assembly, the body that represents the international
will, tries to muster the necessary will to adopt a new
resolution in the hope that the adoption of such a resolution
will put an end to the tragedy of that Republic, which, since
its emergence, has been the target of a systematic Serbian
aggression, whose
and horrific
manifestations, which are well-known to the international
community, testify to the Organization’s inability to end
injustice and to uphold what is right.
consequences
tragic
When we speak of
the tragedy of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, we speak of a tragedy that has two facets, one
of which is humanitarian while the other is political. On the
humanitarian level,
the reports we continue to receive
describe the atrocious human suffering of the Bosnian
people, especially at the hands of the Serb militias which
wage terroristic campaigns in such places as Banja Luka
and Bijeljina and through the “ethnic cleansing” that takes
place in the territories under Serb control. The report of the
Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination in
document A/48/18 and the report of the Special Rapporteur
of the Commission on Human Rights situation in the
former Yugoslavia highlight the systematic and extensive
violations by the Serb militias of human rights and
international humanitarian law,
including the Geneva
Conventions and their Protocols. There is no doubt that the
continuance of such crimes and human tragedies — even if
it has not sufficed so far to awaken the conscience of
Europe, or to alert us to the fact that such crimes put into
question the very principle of collective security and
undermine the credibility of the United Nations as the
guardian of human rights — should suffice to alert us to
the very grave threat such unchecked criminality poses to
all peace efforts.
From the humanitarian point of view, my delegation
wishes to make the following comments:
First:
there is a need for
the international
community to commit itself to the intensification of its
humanitarian assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina,
especially before the onset of winter. This requires the
reopening of Tuzla airport because of
its vital
importance with regard to the distribution of
humanitarian assistance in conformity with Security
Council resolution 770 (1992). Here, we should like to
commend the sincere efforts of the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the
specialized agencies of the United Nations and the
United Nations Protection Force.
18
51st meeting
3 November 1994
Second: there is an absolute need to force the
Serb side to raise its siege of Sarajevo and other
cities, as such siege constitutes a main source of
human suffering and a main obstacle that impedes
all peace efforts.
Third: quick and effective action must be taken
to put an end to the policy of “ethnic cleansing”, to
bring the perpetrators of the crimes arising from that
policy before the international war crimes Tribunal,
to nullify all the results on the ground of that policy,
to affirm the right of all refugees and displaced
persons of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina to
return to their homes, and to shut down all
concentration camps.
Fourth: the international war crimes Tribunal
should be strengthened, its members protected and
all the parties concerned, especially the Serb side,
should be forced to facilitate its work and to
cooperate with it.
As to the second facet of the tragedy, namely the
political one, most of the General Assembly and Security
Council resolutions have not been implemented and, to
date, have yielded no positive results in the search for a
peaceful settlement to the issue, for the sole reason that
the Serb party has continued to enjoy military superiority
over the Bosnian army. This is precisely why the Serbs
have continued to refuse to deal seriously with any of the
peace efforts deployed by the international community
within the framework of the International Conference on
the Former Yugoslavia and to reject every peace plan
while all
such plans have been accepted by the
Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina although they
invariably reflected a tendency to appease the Serb
aggressors or even to bow to the fait accompli situation
the Serbs have continued to impose on the ground
through their military superiority.
tendency:
the overall
The most recent of those peace plans,
the plan
proposed by the Contact Group last July, did not diverge
from that
it gave the Serb aggressors
49 per cent of
territory of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Notwithstanding, the Bosnian Government
accepted the plan while the Serbs rejected it. The only
new and rather encouraging element this time has been
the insistence of the Contact Group on forcing the Serbian
party to accept the plan, to the extent of hinting at certain
measures to bring about such acceptance. Although the
measures the countries, or some of the countries, of the
Contact Group seem to threaten the Serbs with do not
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
include any collective security measures or any application
of the provisions of Chapter VII of the Charter and are no
more than a threat to the aggressor that the victim may
actually be allowed to defend itself, we believe that it is a
step in the right direction on the part of the countries
dealing with the problem.
At this level, we should like to make the following
comments:
First:
the ambitions and greed of
the Serb
aggressors should be thwarted with firmness. They
should not be allowed this time to succeed in rejecting
the peace plan, as their aim is to continue to blackmail
the international community and thereby to obtain new
concessions at the expense of the principles of the
Charter and of international law and the rights of the
people and Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The resolute stand we need in this respect is for the
Western Contact Group to honour its promise to take
the necessary measures to force the Serb party to
accept the peace plan.
Second: the Contact Group, which acts on behalf
of the international community in trying to arrive at a
peaceful settlement to this crisis, must secure, in any
peace plan,
the legitimate rights of Bosnia and
Herzegovina in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations
its
to
sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity.
and in particular
right
Third: the arms embargo imposed on Bosnia and
Herzegovina undermines the right of Bosnia and
Herzegovina to self-defence and breaches Article 51
of the Charter which guarantees that right
to all
Member States. Here we wish to recall that resolution
713 (1991) which imposed the arms embargo was
acceptable in the context of the expectation that the
international community would take upon itself the
task of defending the weaker party, an expectation
which did not materialize regardless of the stipulation
in Article 103 of the Charter that it is the obligation of
the Members of the United Nations under the Charter
that should prevail above all else. In the light of this,
the international community is called upon to shoulder
its responsibilities under Article 24 of the Charter and
provide the necessary protection to and secure the
legitimate rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a State
Member of the United Nations.
Fourth:
it
community to support
is the duty of
the international
the compromise solution
51st meeting
3 November 1994
proposed by the Government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina namely the de jure lifting by the
Security Council of the arms embargo, and the
deferment of the coming into effect of that lifting of
the embargo for six months in order to give the Serb
side a chance to accept the peace plan. This proposal
proves
and
Herzegovina prefers the political
to the military
solution. Otherwise,
that Government would not
have given such priority to persuading the Serbs to
accept the peace plan.
the Government of Bosnia
that
Fifth: if it is agreed to lift the arms embargo,
the mandate of the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) should be amended, on the one hand,
and, on the other, the areas wherein it is deployed
should be changed accordingly, in order to ensure its
neutrality and stave off any possible danger that may
threaten its personnel.
of
the
Sixth:
the mission
International
Conference on the Former Yugoslavia in charge of
monitoring the borders between the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia
and Montenegro should ensure that resolution 943
(1994) is respected and should immediately halt the
implementation of the Security Council resolution
relaxing the sanctions if Serbia and Montenegro do
not adhere to their own decision to hermetically
close their borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The
draft
resolution
us
today
before
(A/49/L.14/Rev.1) is yet another attempt
to urge the
international community to move towards the resolution
in a balanced and equitable manner of
this tragic
situation. We are among the sponsors of
the draft
resolution and we hope that all Member States will stand
by the draft resolution and adopt it without a vote — in
order to express the determination of the international
community to put an end to aggression against a Member
State of the United Nations.
(Oman)
Mr. Al-Sameen
(interpretation
from
Arabic): At
the outset allow me, on behalf of the
delegation of Oman, to extend heartfelt thanks to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Dr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali for his report on the situation in Bosnia
and Herzegovina relating to agenda item 39, which is
under discussion today.
At a time when the United Nations is preparing to
celebrate its fiftieth anniversary, we still see parts of our
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
targets that Republic’s sovereignty,
world exposed to the most horrible forms of suffering, war
and destruction. The ongoing onslaught on the Republic of
is an
Bosnia and Herzegovina today by the Serbs
aggression that
its
territorial integrity, and the culture of its people in defiance
of the numerous international resolutions adopted to this
date. The fact that this could take place leads us to say that
although we are happy to see our Organization moving
forward towards its fiftieth anniversary, we are extremely
concerned that the Bosnian Serbs should be able to continue
to defy international resolutions and violate international
humanitarian law with impunity. Such barefaced violation
and defiance throw into doubt the credibility of the United
Nations system. That such acts go unpunished while there
are more than 60 United Nations resolutions on the
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a regrettable
situation indeed.
specific
segments of
When we watch the suffering of the maimed, of
dispersed families, of displaced persons, of detainees in
Serbian horror camps and of the victims of collective rape;
when we witness the use of ethnic cleansing as a weapon
of war, when we hear of all the blatant violations of human
rights perpetrated against
the
population of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Bihac, Gorazde
and Tuzla, we should be encouraged to think again and take
a common stand that rejects such practices which run
counter to the most basic values of humanity. We should
call, once again, on the leaders of the Bosnian Serbs to
respond to the resolutions adopted by the international
community and to opt for peace through the unconditional
acceptance of the peace plan proposed by the international
Contact Group which we consider to be a sound basis for
solving the problem while taking into account the interests
of all parties and leading to the restoration of peace and
stability to that part of Europe.
My
in
through
delegation,
participation
the Member States,
the
deliberations of the Security Council, has time and again
expressed its full support for all peaceful efforts that would
restore peace and stability to the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. While we commend the efforts of
the
the international
Secretary-General,
Contact Group, and the Contact Group of the Organization
of the Islamic Conference, as well as the important role
played by UNPROFOR, United Nations personnel and the
personnel of other humanitarian organizations who work
under extremely difficult conditions
in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, we must renew our call to the United Nations
to focus on implementing its resolutions and urgently to
adopt a resolution exempting the Republic of Bosnia and
20
51st meeting
3 November 1994
Herzegovina from the arms embargo imposed by Security
Council resolution 713 (1991).
While we question the validity of maintaining the
embargo against a sovereign State Member of the United
Nations, we wish to reiterate that it is the legitimate right
of Bosnia and Herzegovina to defend itself in accordance
with Article 51 of the Charter. The right to self-defence
is a legitimate, inalienable right. The delegation of Oman
believes that it is the authority of the Charter of the
United Nations that should prevail and must prevail, and
that any contradiction with any of its provisions should
nullify any resolution or decision that runs counter to
those provisions
such
resolution or decision. We take this position out of
concern for the credibility of the Organization, and
because we do not wish to see any specific resolutions
create grave precedents
that could undermine that
credibility.
the source of
regardless of
In view of the continuing Serb aggression against the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the continuing
Bosnian Serb rejection of all peace proposals, and
because Security Council resolution 713 (1991) which
imposed the arms embargo did not lead to the peaceful
settlement and the desired stability that were the raison
d’être of its adoption, my delegation finds itself now,
more than at any other time in the past, supportive of the
call for the lifting of the arms embargo. My delegation,
therefore, supports the draft
resolution recently put
forward by the United States which is now under
discussion in the Security Council, and which calls inter
alia for the lifting of the arms embargo against Bosnia
and Herzegovina. We believe that that draft resolution is
moderate and well-balanced, particularly as it responds to
the wise call by the President of Bosnia and Herzegovina
earlier this session, to find a peaceful solution to the
crisis.
of
in the
former Yugoslavia
While we recognize the services and the outstanding
the United Nations Protection Force
efforts
(UNPROFOR)
in
particular, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we note that the
concept of protection and the very mandate of the Force
are based upon Security Council resolutions, especially
resolutions 824 (1993) and 836 (1993), which define the
concept and nature of protection, that is to say protection
for all the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not just
for specific areas.
and,
While my delegation shares the concerns expressed
by several countries regarding the revised concept of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
“safe areas”, as that new definition could impinge upon the
need to protect other areas, we wish to highlight a more
serious concern. That concern has to do with what is now
called “the protected areas”. This could give rise to
scattered protected pockets and thereby impinge on the
legitimacy and sovereignty of the Government of Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
We therefore join others in calling for blanket
protection of the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and for expanding the mandate of UNPROFOR beyond the
limits of mere self-defence. The mandate should include the
provision of needed assistance to the Government of Bosnia
and Herzegovina to enable it to protect its own people and
to effectively stand up to any attacks or crimes perpetrated
by the aggressor.
As regards the situation relating to UNPROFOR,
should the Security Council decide to exempt the Republic
and Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the arms
embargo imposed by resolution 713 (1991), my delegation’s
view is that UNPROFOR’s presence should continue and,
indeed, should be increased, for this would improve the
chances of finding a peaceful settlement to the conflict in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Should any troop-contributing
country decide to withdraw troops from UNPROFOR, it
would be sending the wrong signal to the parties and would
be weakening the concerted international stand that aims at
finding a peaceful solution.
By its resolution 827 (1993), the Security Council
established the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of
Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the
Former Yugoslavia since 1991. Even though the work of
the Tribunal has been rather slow, yet my delegation
supports its activities and hopes that those activities will
demonstrate to the international community that those who
would commit horrific crimes against humanity and defy
international
laws, conventions and norms will not go
unpunished wherever they may be. My delegation supports
the Tribunal and the Council’s decision to name Judge
Goldstone as prosecutor. Indeed, the mere existence of the
Tribunal should serve as a deterrent to any who would
think that such crimes could be perpetrated with impunity.
In conclusion, my delegation, proceeding from its
support for the stand of the international community and the
legitimate rights of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
has, for the second time, sponsored a draft resolution that
is now before the Assembly, and that, in our view, contains
positive elements.
51st meeting
3 November 1994
Mr. Jerandi (Tunisia) (interpretation from French):
Allow me to congratulate the President yet again on the
exemplary manner in which he is conducting the work of
the General Assembly.
Since the General Assembly has been seized of the
tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, many delegations,
including my own, have come to this rostrum or gone to
the Security Council or to various other international and
regional forums to add their voices to the appeals to the
international community to take resolute and vigorous
action in response to the aggression against a State
Member of our Organization. Appeal followed appeal,
resolution followed resolution, and now ultimatums have
lost their meaning and effectiveness, and the credibility of
our Organization and its capacity to respond to aggression
by appropriate means have been trampled underfoot by
the Serbs — that is the situation today, after three years
of systematic aggression.
Pressure, condemnations, warnings, sanctions and
isolation have not succeeded in convincing the Serbs to
put an end to their murderous campaign and their constant
breaking of promises.
on
the
serious
repercussions
On several occasions my delegation has alerted our
Organization
and
consequences of the lack of will and decisive measures to
curb the deterioration of the situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Each time we have emphasized that half
measures send no message to the Serbs, who have chosen
the abominable road of “ethnic cleansing” to bring about
the disappearance of a civilization, an entire people and
a State Member of our Organization.
to guarantee the full
Hence, we called for the adoption of emergency
measures
implementation of
resolutions of the General Assembly and of the Security
Council, many of which fall under Chapter VII, including,
inter alia, Security Council resolutions 824 (1993) and
836 (1993), which call for the use of all necessary means,
including military means, to protect the “safe areas”.
The Charter of the United Nations and the principles
of international law offer the international community a
basis for the use of all means available to it to face up to
this blatant aggression against a Member of our
Organization,
the norms of
international conduct, to see that justice is done for the
victims and to restore to their rightful owners the lands
that have been taken by force.
to ensure respect
for
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Nothing has really been done. What is more, we can
see, unfortunately, that our Organization is caught in the
trap of its own silence. As a result, if we are not careful,
aggression will become commonplace and we shall simply
look on, impassive and resigned, as a series of horrors
continues ruthlessly to ravage that multi-ethnic, multiracial
and multireligious land.
The Serbian war machine continues implacably along
its route of death and devastation. Massacres and “ethnic
cleansing” are increasing in ferocity. The “safe areas” are
constantly violated. The personnel of the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) is attacked. Humanitarian
convoys are blocked. And, finally, the whole effort agreed
upon by the international community to seek an acceptable
solution through the Contact Group’s plan is
simply
doomed to failure because, quite obviously, of the constant
defiance and obstinacy of the Serbs.
We continue to believe that these acts of madness
could have been prevented had the international community,
the Security Council, the regional institutions and individual
Governments had acted in time with the necessary resolve
and commitment.
Although my delegation respects and appreciates the
real value of the frequent initiatives of our Organization and
of certain Member States to promote the search for a
peaceful solution to this tragedy, it feels that the virtue of
patience — which has been shown to excess vis-à-vis this
tragedy — should not excuse our Organization, most
especially the Security Council,
from its primary
responsibility for
the maintenance and protection of
international peace and security.
and
the
provision
operations
Assistance
of
humanitarian aid should not be, in our view, a source of
pride for our Organization unless they are accompanied by
serious
the
expansionist designs of the Serbs and guarantee the survival
and safety of a State Member of our Organization and
preserve its territorial integrity.
and effective measures
that
can alter
Mr. Idris (Sudan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The time has come to enable Bosnia and Herzegovina
to exercise fully its right, under Article 51 of the Charter,
to take matters into its own hands and fight for its own
survival. How long can we continue to deny the Bosniacs
access to the means of protecting themselves as a nation
and a sovereign people? It is unacceptable and morally
22
51st meeting
3 November 1994
reprehensible for a people to be at once disarmed and
unprotected because of international inaction.
In this context, we support
the United States
initiative to bring this matter before the Security Council,
which is the only way resolution 713 (1991) can be
reviewed in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina’s right to
self-defence, now that it seems not to have been possible
to contain the Serbs and to have them live up to their
commitments. We trust that this time firmness will prevail
and that all members of the international community will
be unanimous in their approach so that the aggression can
be stopped and legitimacy can be restored. The credibility
of our Organization and our ability to ensure respect for
its Charter are at stake.
Mr. Seydou (Niger) (interpretation from French): In
its 11 October statement before the General Assembly
during the general debate,
the delegation of Niger
expressed its deep concern over the situation in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. Today’s debate on agenda item 39 gives
us an opportunity to reaffirm Niger’s position on the
aggression against a victim that is a Member of the
and
United Nations — the Republic
Herzegovina — and to state again that
the efforts
undertaken thus far by the international community have
not, unfortunately, been able to halt that aggression.
of Bosnia
territorial
the human person and respect
Niger attaches great importance to respect for the
ideals and principles enshrined in the Charter of our
Organization, particularly those concerning respect for the
dignity of
the
independence,
integrity and sovereignty of
States. This is why my country cannot countenance the
Serbs’ violation of these fundamental principles with
impunity since they took up their war of hegemony
against Bosnia and Herzegovina, using in their strategy of
occupation and “ethnic cleansing” all methods condemned
by the international community, methods that the world
thought had been relegated to the dustbin of history.
for
Niger is concerned that on the eve of the fiftieth
anniversary of our Organization a people can be
massacred and stripped of its rights, that it can be given
no appropriate international protection and that, in view
of this regrettable failing, it is not given an opportunity to
exercise its inherent right to self-defence, although that
right is enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
Last year, in resolution 48/88, the General Assembly
urged, inter alia, that the Security Council, in keeping
with Article 24 of the Charter, ensure the restoration of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the political independence and territorial integrity and unity
of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
But the truth is that so far neither the resolutions of
the Council nor the many initiatives of the Contact Group
have been able to halt the massacre of civilians by Serbs or
the siege of Sarajevo or to ensure respect for the so-called
safe areas, although these were created by the Security
Council itself. Instead, as if to reward the Serbs for their
intransigence,
in resolution 943
(1994), decided to ease the sanctions against the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).
the Security Council,
In my delegation’s opinion, that decision, which was
taken in haste — haste which the situation at that time did
not
in any way justify — will not help to lay the
foundations of a just and lasting peace in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. We believe that such a decision would have
had merit only if the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had
accepted the internationally recognized borders of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Croatia and all the other States in the
region.
My country welcomes the position taken up by the
Government of
the United States of America, which
constitutes a clear and firm message to the Serb side. Niger
once again welcomes the political courage and far-
sightedness that has always been displayed by President
Alija Izetbegovic´ and supports his proposal — made right
here on 29 September last — that there be a de jure lifting
of the arms embargo imposed against the Government of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Security
Council resolution 713 (1991). That course decided upon by
the Bosnian Government, far from having been chosen out
of desperation, would be a fair compromise aimed at
securing, at last, recognition of the victim’s legitimate right
to preserve its
integrity and sovereignty.
Accordingly, it should be supported by us all.
territorial
In conclusion,
I wish to say, on behalf of
the
delegation of Niger, that for countries such as mine, which
can ensure their security only on the basis of respect for the
principles
effective
implementation of the resolutions of the United Nations —
in particular,
those adopted under Chapter VII of the
Charter — the tragic experience of Bosnia is a disturbing
and worrying precedent.
of
international
law and
the
This precedent, which seems to put
the stamp of
approval on the rule of might over right, can no longer be
tolerated. It is my delegation’s hope that the Assembly, by
providing massive support for the draft resolution before us,
51st meeting
3 November 1994
will clearly demonstrate its determination to fulfil the
responsibility entrusted to it under the Charter in the field
of international peace and security.
(interpretation
Mr. Snoussi
(Morocco)
from
to consider yet again the tragic
French): We meet
situation that
the Muslim people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina are still experiencing. Since the outbreak of
armed conflict in Bosnia the situation has only worsened,
and the human suffering and losses have increased despite
all the efforts of the international community and despite
the many and varied measures taken by the Security
Council, the principal United Nations organ responsible
for the maintenance of international peace and security.
The
impressive number of Security Council
resolutions — some of them adopted under Chapter VII
of the Charter — and the many presidential statements
concerning the tragic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina
have not succeeded either in dissuading the Serbs from
massacring Bosnian civilians or in persuading them to
listen to the voice of reason and wisdom.
All the international community’s efforts to preserve
the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of
Bosnia and Herzegovina have led nowhere because of the
intransigence of
the Serbs and their persistence in
pursuing aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina,
which clearly constitutes a grave threat to international
peace and security and a flagrant violation of
the
fundamental principles of international law. Indeed, the
Serbs, flouting all the resolutions and decisions of the
Security Council and defying the entire international
community, have coldly and cruelly pursued their policy
of occupation, “ethnic cleansing” and expulsion of
Muslims. Television and the press give us day after day
good reasons to have a guilty conscience, with often vivid
reporting of the continual massacres of these courageous
people.
Since the beginning of this tragedy my country has
unceasingly called, in every United Nations body, for full
recognition of the need to enable this unarmed people to
have at its disposal the necessary means to ensure self-
defence and the restoration of its territorial integrity and
sovereignty. To demonstrate its solidarity with the kindred
Bosnian people, Morocco has always advocated the lifting
of the embargo imposed on that State, which, it should be
remembered, is a full Member of our Organization.
The various resolutions of the Security Council have,
indeed, recognized that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
victim of Serbian aggression — aggression that it has not
been possible to halt, even through the many measures
taken by the Security Council. Hence the need to
supplement these measures by authorizing that country to
acquire the means to ensure its self-defence and to exclude
it from the scope of resolution 713 (1991), which provides
for an arms embargo against
the whole of the former
Yugoslavia with a view to avoiding any perverse
impression.
The lifting of the arms embargo should be envisaged
as complementary to the measures already adopted by the
Security Council and the very effective and courageous
action of the United Nations Protection Force. This could
be the means of restoring the balance that is necessary to
the success of the negotiations aimed at securing a just and
lasting solution that would safeguard the territorial integrity,
independence and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The international community cannot allow aggression
to be rewarded and a fait accompli to be legitimized. In this
connection, Security Council resolution 943 (1994) —
adopted on 23 September under Chapter VII of the United
Nations Charter — which suspends, for an initial period of
100 days, some of the sanctions imposed on the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), was not
welcomed with relief by everyone, as many people consider
it a hasty reward for the aggressor. It would have been
better to wait for real progress in the peace process before
easing the sanctions imposed on the Serbs.
for
The Bosnian Government,
its part, cannot
indefinitely be prevented from acquiring the necessary
means of maintaining its territorial integrity and of ensuring
respect for its independence, or even seeking the aid that it
needs for this purpose. The international community has not
succeeded in helping the Bosnian Government to achieve
this objective, despite the cooperation and flexibility shown
throughout
the conflict by that Government. In these
circumstances,
the international
community to authorize the Bosnian Government to acquire
the means of ensuring the safety of its civilians and the
recovery of its territory.
remains only for
it
Morocco firmly supports the draft resolution before us
on the lifting of the embargo. For two and a half years we
have been calling for this measure to be taken by the
international community. We hope that flexibility on the
part of the countries still hesitating will enable us to put an
end to this injustice imposed on the Bosnian Government.
Without any doubt, this would help to deter the Serbs and
to make them see reason and accept the plan that was
24
51st meeting
3 November 1994
presented by the Contact Group and has already been
accepted by the Bosnian Government.
Moreover, the right to self-defence is enshrined in
Article 51 of the Charter, which states:
“Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the
inherent right of individual or collective self-defence
if an armed attack occurs against a Member of the
United Nations”.
My delegation wishes to express its appreciation for
the tireless efforts made by the Secretary-General, by the
two Co-Chairmen of the International Conference and by
the Contact Group. We also wish to pay a heartfelt tribute
to the courageous men and women of the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the personnel of the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR) and of
the other humanitarian
organizations which have been helping to cope with this
disaster.
like to emphasize that
Mr. Kulla (Albania) (interpretation from French):
I would first
the international
community has never had any doubt regarding the origin
of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina or that we must
speed up our joint efforts to find a solution. The conflict
involves
application — or
non-application — of basic norms and principles, which
have an impact on all the other elements of the crisis in
the former Yugoslavia.
questions
the
of
However, our biggest concern, along with the
suffering caused by great human losses and incalculable
material damage is the fact that this conflict involves
violations of the basic principles underlying contemporary
international relations, principles that are the basis of the
Charter and the Helsinki Final Act. If, through lack of
resolve or ineptitude, we allow this reality to become an
established fact, we shall clearly have established a
precedent that is very dangerous for the Balkans and
beyond and thus have allowed events to take a wrong
turning.
the talk,
In spite of all
the many decisions,
declarations and resolutions, and the various peace plans
that have been drafted but never
the
international community is again faced with failure, as
recent events show.
implemented,
The situation has certainly been influenced by the
lack of political will behind efforts to find solutions, by
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
differing points of view and by the absence of prompt and
firm action to enforce implementation of measures decided
upon, and these factors have encouraged aggressive Serbian
nationalism. It is also clear to everybody that the attitude
towards the arms embargo against the former Yugoslavia
was detrimental only to the victims of the conflict — the
Bosnians. We welcome the initiative of the United States in
putting before the Security Council a draft resolution on
lifting the arms embargo against Bosnia and Herzegovina,
and we urge the Council to give serious consideration to
this matter.
The Serbian side’s refusal
to cooperate with the
international community, its intransigence and its rejection
of every peace plan and all decisions and resolutions led the
international community some time ago to consider
recourse to appropriate measures under the Charter. There
have been many violations of the air space of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the safe areas and the exclusion zone around
Sarajevo — as we have seen recently. All in all, the dead-
end into which they have led the international community,
as well as the successive violations of all
the norms
governing international relations, demanded more than
sporadic
strikes by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO), which in fact warned rather than
punished the aggressors.
air
Serbian rejection was also responsible for the failure
of the Contact Group’s efforts to find a solution to the
crisis. It is abundantly clear that without the resolve of the
international community, without a combination of intensive
diplomacy and other relevant means,
the prospects for
peace are even more remote.
But there is one fundamental thing to be done — the
implementation of measures already decided upon. That is
the only way in which we should be communicating with
those who deny the fundamental principles of international
law and who arbitrarily arrogate to themselves the right to
determine the fate of others. This must be the message to
the aggressor; it is the only way to do justice and achieve
the desired solution.
Albania unreservedly supported the establishment of
the International Tribunal to prosecute those responsible for
war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, and calls for its
mandate to be speedily implemented. It
is absolutely
imperative that those responsible for “ethnic cleansing” and
other abominable crimes in the territory of the former
Yugoslavia be individually brought to justice and punished
appropriately. This would confirm international resolve not
51st meeting
3 November 1994
to tolerate “ethnic cleansing” or other crimes against
humanity.
The adoption of Security Council resolution 943
(1994) on easing the sanctions against Serbia and
Montenegro, when it had not met the basic conditions for
even discussing the lifting of
the embargo, was a
concession to the Milosevic regime, casting doubt on the
possibility of any resolution of the Yugoslav crisis and
the establishment of lasting peace throughout the region.
We hope that that action was not premature and that it
will bring the desired result. But it is perfectly clear to
the Belgrade regime, as the party solely responsible for
the aggression, as its sole inspiration and promoter, what
measures it must take to bring its people prosperity and
a return to the family of nations. It is clear that unless it
renounces implementation of the memorandum of the
Academy of Sciences of Serbia, recognizes the former
Yugoslav Republics within internationally recognized
borders and respects the will of the Albanian people of
Kosovo we should not consider lifting the sanctions
regime or bringing Serbia and Montenegro back into the
family of nations.
It
is widely known and generally accepted that
prevention is better than cure. Prevention is also easier
and — this has a bearing on one of the most burning
problems facing the Organization — less expensive.
In this context I should like to recall that Kosovo,
where more than 2 million people of Albanian stock live,
is increasingly threatened by an outbreak of conflict. It is
essential to take measures to establish an appropriate
international presence there in order to prevent an even
greater tragedy. It must be acknowledged that since the
expulsion of the mission of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) nothing has been
done to bring about
the
international community has always favoured, and no
progress has been made in improving the situation in
Kosovo. On the contrary, according to reports from the
CSCE troika following visits to Kosovo, the situation
there is alarming, Serbian violence and repression having
intensified since August 1993.
its return, something that
We firmly believe that the United Nations has the
capacity to take preventive measures in Kosovo to avert
a conflict. Action that it has not been possible to take in
other parts of the former Yugoslavia must be taken
swiftly in Kosovo and be effective.
25
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Finally, I would like to express my delegation’s full
support for the draft resolution, which we hope will be
adopted by an overwhelming majority.
Mr. Andreev (Bulgaria): The war in Bosnia and
Herzegovina is one of the most serious conflicts of the
present day and as such it represents a challenge to the
United Nations at the end of the twentieth century. It is of
vital importance for my country, a neighbouring State of
this troubled area, that a speedy, lasting and just solution be
found on the basis of a mutually acceptable agreement,
without any negative consequences for the future of the
region.
It is obvious that in order to achieve this goal a
decisive step has to be taken to put an immediate end to the
war. All parties to the conflict should make the necessary
compromises to this end. The cessation of hostilities should
be effected without delay, for it
is hardly possible to
imagine any fruitful political decision being implemented in
the absence of this precondition. Bulgaria will continue to
support the endeavours of the international community in
this direction.
The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina has revealed
many important and complex problems the solution of
which will, in our opinion, influence the approach of the
United Nations to similar situations that may arise —
although this is not to be desired — in the future.
constitute
a
precedent with
First, we have been witnessing the abhorrent practice
of “ethnic cleansing” in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bulgaria
regards this practice as unacceptable and is of the view that
it will
unforeseeable
consequences, not only for the new States which have
emerged on the territory of former Yugoslavia but for the
Balkans as a whole. If this process were left without any
reaction from the international community, it would amount
to silent acceptance of the policy of fait accompli. It would
also mean condoning the acquisition of new territories by
military force. Bulgaria could hardly champion that.
Secondly, we believe that the conduct of all countries
neighbouring the zone of conflict should be conducive to its
settlement. With the benefit of our historical experience, we
have called upon all Balkan countries not to participate with
military force in any hostilities in former Yugoslavia. For
our part, we went even further by declaring that we would
not be involved in any military activities on the territory of
former Yugoslavia, either directly or indirectly, or even
under the auspices of the United Nations. Let me assure the
Assembly that this is not because of a lack of support for
26
51st meeting
3 November 1994
the efforts of the Organization. It is our knowledge of the
history of the region and our desire to contribute to the
peace process that determines the position I have just set
forth. For this reason, we have also stated that we are
against the formation of any kind of axis in the region,
which we regard as a practice of the past.
Thirdly, we are concerned at the possibility of a
spillover of the conflict to other areas or countries in the
region, especially to the south-east. Peace is quite fragile
there, and for this reason we support full recourse to the
instruments of preventive diplomacy. Therefore we view
the presence of the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) in Macedonia as a good example, for it
serves as a stabilizing factor that helps to localize the
conflict and prevent its possible spillover.
Bearing in mind my country’s position of principle
of supporting all international efforts aimed at finding a
solution to the conflict, Bulgaria has welcomed the
cooperation of this Organization,
the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO), the European Union, the
United States of America and the Russian Federation to
this end. Even more important, it is a clear signal that
when the international community takes active and
coordinated steps, mutually acceptable solutions can be
found.
The signing of the Washington Agreements was an
important act in the positive process of resolving the
conflict. We hope that the process will be completed
despite the difficulties.
On these lines, we endorse the important role of the
peace-keeping forces under the auspices of the United
Nations. At the same time, in deciding on the problem of
the composition of UNPROFOR we should take into
consideration the need to increase its personnel,
in
accordance with Security Council resolution 900 (1994),
as well as the prospects for future stability in the region;
we must avoid fostering an environment conducive to
increasing suspicions and mutual claims, which would
give rise to new “cold” or to “hot” conflicts.
Bulgaria declared its support for the peace plan of
the Contact Group. We consider it a good basis for
compromise in the search for a peaceful solution to the
conflict. The refusal of the Bosnian Serbs to accept the
plan may turn out to be the obstacle on the way to
achieving peace in the region, and we think that their
leaders must bear an enormous responsibility in that
respect. Once again we call upon them to accept the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
proposals of the Contact Group, which will open prospects
for reviving cooperation in the region and will help the
Balkan States to be gradually integrated into the European
processes and structures.
At the same time, Bulgaria continues to express the
hope that the members of the Contact Group, and especially
the permanent members of the Security Council, will
carefully weigh the pros and cons of lifting the arms
embargo vis-à-vis the Government of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. The influx of new weapons may
lead to an escalation of the hostilities in Bosnia and
Herzegovina and to their possible spread to other,
neighbouring territories.
As a result of the good cooperation between the
members of the Contact Group, we have recently noted
some encouraging elements in the position of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) regarding
the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The deployment of
international observers along the border of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the territory of Bosnia and
Herzegovina under the control of the Bosnian Serbs made
it possible to suspend the sanctions partially. This is
considered to be a positive step on the way to the complete
lifting of the sanctions, which are placing such a heavy
burden on the economy of my country.
In conclusion, I should like once again to state that
the
Bulgaria is ready to contribute to the efforts of
international community in the process of finding a lasting
and peaceful solution to the conflict
in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
in
numerous
expressed
statements
Mr. Kovanda (Czech Republic): The developments in
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina have caused
anguish in the Czech Republic from the very beginning of
the war. The feelings of the Czech people have been
repeatedly
by
President Vaclav Havel
and Foreign Minister Josef
Zieleniec, and in this very Hall as well as in the Security
Council. They have also been expressed in the Czech
Republic’s contribution of almost 1,000 men to the United
Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR), and in its
long-standing readiness to have a Unit transferred to the
Bosnian theatre. Even more telling perhaps are private
efforts of Czech citizens who have sent truckload after
truckload of relief to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Nobody can therefore doubt the motives that inform
the policies of the Czech Republic. We have steadfastly
supported the unity and territorial integrity of the Republic.
51st meeting
3 November 1994
We have welcomed the creation of the Federation. We
have cried out
against “ethnic cleansing”. Czech
authorities have throughout maintained high-level contacts
with the leadership of
the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
We are encouraged by a number of positive
developments that have taken place in the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina since we spoke in this forum a
year ago. The creation and step-by-step consolidation of
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, between the
Bosniac and the Croat areas of
the country, has
far-reaching consequences. On the military side, it has led
to the end of fratricidal fighting. On the humanitarian
side, it has improved the situation of thousands who a
year ago had been trapped in the despair of Mostar and
other places. On the political side, it has demonstrated
that the principle of coexistence of differing ethnic groups
is not dead even in these most
cruelly trying
circumstances.
The Federation remains open to Serb-controlled
areas of the Republic, but has had the effect of a greater
isolation of these areas. Their self-proclaimed leaders can
no longer exploit differences between Bosniacs and
Croats.
The isolation of the Bosnian Serbs was, however,
deepened even further when the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) accepted the Contact
Group’s plan and closed off its borders with the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is precisely in continuing
and strengthening the isolation of the Bosnian Serbs that
we now see the best way out. That is why this past
September
the Czech Republic supported not only
Security Council resolution 941 (1994), which yet again
condemned “ethnic cleansing” and related phenomena in
much the same language as today’s draft resolution does,
but also co-sponsored Security Council resolution 942
(1994), which tightened the sanctions on the Bosnian
Serbs. In a day or two, the Security Council will receive
another certification from the Co-Chairmen of
the
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia
(ICFY) about the results of the border-monitoring process.
So far, we have heard nothing substantive that would cast
doubts on the seriousness with which the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia is keeping the border closed. But
let me reiterate that the isolation of the Bosnian Serbs is
not an end in itself. Rather, it is an exercise directed at
forcing them to accept
the Contact Group territorial
arrangement for the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
27
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Six weeks ago, during the discussion of the resolutions
we have mentioned, we made a point that my Foreign
Minister also reiterated during this year’s general debate:
one of the most useful next steps for settling the situation
in the former Yugoslavia would be the mutual recognition
of the several States in the area, within their internationally
recognized borders. And one side effect of the sealing of its
border with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is that it amounts to a de
facto recognition of at least the border that those two States
share. Surely de jure recognition should follow without
further delay.
The points I have made so far indicate the great
sympathy that my delegation has for the issues dealt with
in the draft resolution before us. Nevertheless, even if we
agreed with every single one of
its other numerous
paragraphs, we would still have difficulties with operative
paragraph 22. They are procedural,
and
substantive.
technical
First, with regard to the procedural difficulty,
the
Security Council, too, is about to discuss a draft resolution
concerning lifting the arms embargo against the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. The discussion will be a very
earnest one, and I would not want to anticipate its outcome.
Nevertheless, as a member of the Security Council, the
Czech Republic does not wish to bind itself in advance of
that discussion, even if only morally, by voting in favour of
a draft resolution in the General Assembly calling on the
Security Council to reach a specific outcome.
Secondly, there is a technical difficulty. The Czech
Republic does not believe it helpful for the Security
Council to take a binding decision to apply a particular
measure at a specific time in the future. Recently we made
this point when debating the continuation of sanctions
imposed on Iraq. At that time, too, we did not think it wise
for the Council to take a binding decision, with whatever
conditionalities might be attached, on a specific course of
action to be taken six months later. We did not think it
wise then, we do not think it wise now.
Thirdly, with regard to the substantive difficulty —
which we consider most important — my Government does
not believe that lifting the arms embargo would improve the
overall situation. This situation in the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina cannot be viewed in isolation. And it is
our opinion that the situation in the region as a whole
would deteriorate. We fear that fighting would escalate
throughout the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it
would engulf many United Nations protected areas in
28
51st meeting
3 November 1994
that
Croatia,
Protection
humanitarian assistance.
it would jeopardize the United Nations
interrupt
Force
(UNPROFOR)
and
For all those reasons, my delegation will abstain in
the vote on the draft resolution.
Mr. Taher (Bangladesh): Bangladesh’s position on
the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been
consistent and categorical. We are deeply committed to
strengthening all efforts towards a negotiated settlement
aimed at restoring peace to the entire territory of Bosnia
and Herzegovina and preserving its territorial unity and
integrity within its internationally recognized borders,
including all occupied areas.
We cannot but strongly underscore that what is at
stake is the fate of not only Bosnia and Herzegovina but
also all weaker and smaller States Members of this great
Organization. At issue here is the very credibility of the
United Nations, and particularly that of the Security
Council, in upholding the immutable principles of the
the sovereignty, political
Charter — in this case,
independence and territorial
integrity of a sovereign
Member of the United Nations, and particularly that of
the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory through
the use of force. Respect for human rights and the
sanctity of borders are also integral elements in these
principles and in the search for any lasting political
solution. It goes without saying that Bangladesh fully
reaffirms the rights provided in the United Nations
Charter and, particularly applicable in the present case of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, the inherent right of self-defence
under Article 51 of the Charter.
The current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina
remains one of deep concern, especially in the wake of its
past history and the continuing prevalence of unprovoked
armed hostilities, indiscriminate acts of bombing and the
use of poisonous gases, the strangulation by siege of
major cities, safe areas and exclusion zones and violations
of international humanitarian law tantamount to genocide.
No one can doubt that the objective was nothing less than
the systematic dismemberment of a country which is a
sovereign, independent Member of the United Nations.
We have welcomed efforts by the Security Council
and the Contact Group to create the groundwork for a
peaceful settlement in difficult circumstances, including
cease-fire arrangements and deterrent measures. We
cannot but be conscious, however, that the responses to
the evolving situation have often been too little and too
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
indeed encouraged,
late. They have been characterized by hesitation, ex post
facto rationalization, piecemeal and ad hoc responses, lack
of anticipation and lack of political will
to implement
decisions taken. Such an approach has in no way deterred,
but
the Serbs in their continued
encroachment on territory,
calculated duplicity and
bypassing of agreements. Violations of the cease-fire,
unprovoked attacks on United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) personnel and the tightening of the siege of
Sarajevo continue. The aim of enforcing the comprehensive
cessation of the hostilities and of extending safe havens all
over Bosnia and Herzegovina is far from being realized.
Human misery and suffering continue on an unprecedented
scale, with thousands of refugees and displaced persons.
to serve as
Through its resolutions the General Assembly has
sought
the conscience of humanity in
approaching remedial solutions. There continues to be a
large variance between the gauge established by the
Assembly and actions taken by the Council. It is vitally
important for the Security Council
to take purposeful
remedial action on all fronts in a concerted and coordinated
manner, be the measures political, military, legal, economic
or humanitarian.
It is in this context that Bangladesh would like to
highlight what it considers to be the indispensable elements
for moving towards a resolution of the problem.
First and foremost, we have all repeatedly reaffirmed
the need to preserve and protect the territorial integrity and
political
independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All
Serbian-controlled parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be
reintegrated into the rest of the country. Efforts to integrate
occupied areas under any form of control or administrative
system of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia contributing
to de facto occupation must be rejected as illegal. Similarly,
all actions and declarations made under duress are null and
void, especially with regard to property and land ownership.
Secondly, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia must
actively demonstrate its bona fides by overt acts of
restitution. Its declared support for the Contact Group peace
proposal must be substantiated by its readiness to mutually
recognize Bosnia and Herzegovina; to comply with relevant
resolutions of the Security Council, including cessation of
any military or logistic support to the Bosnian Serbs; to
respect the territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
and to stop and reverse the efforts to integrate occupied
areas into the fold of its own authority. Failure to conform
to these fundamental measures must immediately lead to
51st meeting
3 November 1994
the termination of the partial suspension of sanctions
against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Thirdly, Bangladesh has always strongly supported
the lifting of the arms embargo against Bosnia and
Herzegovina, consistent with guarantees laid down for all
States in Article 51 of the Charter. In this regard, we
welcome the compromise offer of the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina to seek de jure lifting of the arms
embargo, with effective application deferred up to six
months. It is our considered opinion that in the absence
of sustained pressure on both the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bosnian Serbs progress towards a
peaceful settlement will remain a pious wish.
Fourthly, we strongly support the safeguarding and
extension of the exclusion zones so that the whole of
Bosnia and Herzegovina can be declared a safe haven.
it
is
important
Fifthly, we believe that
that
UNPROFOR be strengthened, not only in numbers, but
also in terms of its specific mandate to deter aggression,
protect exclusion zones and check unlawful access of
goods and contraband materials along the border with the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Unimpeded access of
United Nations and UNPROFOR personnel must be
accorded in all areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
especially to check and stop “ethnic cleansing” and the
persistent campaign of terror that is continuing.
to
facilitate
the
for
the
unhindered
restoration,
rehabilitation
Sixthly, on the humanitarian front all efforts must be
undertaken
flow of
humanitarian assistance, particularly in the safe areas, and
measures
and
reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Immediate
steps must be taken to open Tuzla airport. Detention and
concentration camps established by the Serbs must be
dismantled and free access be given to the International
Committee of the Red Cross and humanitarian institutions
to check the welfare of all persons imprisoned in such
camps. All refugees and displaced persons must be
assured the right to return to their homes voluntarily in
safety and dignity.
Finally, Bangladesh welcomes the establishment of
the International Tribunal for the prosecution of war
crimes committed in the territories of former Yugoslavia.
We also fully support the call on the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, in the wake of the Order of the International
Court of Justice, to take all measures within its power to
prevent the commission of the crime of genocide.
29
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The international community’s prime objective is to
assist the parties to reach a negotiated settlement acceptable
to all sides. In view of the long history of duplicity and
back-tracking by the Bosnian Serbs and by the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, we believe that pressure must be
maintained and intensified. Failure to move forward must
be accompanied by steps to reinforce sanctions, to enhance
and expand exclusion zones and to lift the arms embargo.
Bangladesh
fully
supports
draft
resolution
A/49/L.14/Rev.l and is happy to be a sponsor.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in the
debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/49/L.14/Rev.1.
I should like to announce that the following countries
have become sponsors of the draft resolution: Antigua and
Barbuda, Eritrea, Kyrgyzstan, Mali and Yemen.
Several representatives wish to make statements in
explanation of vote before the vote. May I
remind
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10
minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
Mr. Sidorov (Russian Federation) (interpretation from
Russian): The delegation of the Russian Federation cannot
support draft resolution A/49/L.14/Rev.1 on the situation in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, owing to the document’s one-
sided and unbalanced character and its failure sufficiently
to reflect the complexity of the situation.
Our debate on the draft resolution has been held
against
the background of a renewal of the dangerous
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and intensified large-
scale violence on the part of the Government forces. It
should be noted that the crimes perpetrated by those forces
in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of Bihac is an open
challenge to the decisions of the Security Council
in
resolution 913 (1994), which, in paragraph 4, called for
“an end to any provocative action by whomsoever
committed in and around the safe areas”.
We cannot but express concern at the mass exodus of
the civilian population in the region, nor can we ignore the
worsening situation in and around Sarajevo as a result of
the constant violations of the demilitarized-zone regime by
the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is
30
51st meeting
3 November 1994
every reason to fear that if this dangerous trend is not
stopped, there will inevitably be a flare-up of large-scale
civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will destroy all
hope for a peaceful settlement.
Because there is such a threat, the draft resolution
should contain a demand that all the parties in Bosnia
cease any military activity; it is precisely the lack of this
provision — which was
included
year’s
resolution — that prompts reflection.
in last
Instead of including such a provision, the whole
blame for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is put,
as usual, on the Bosnian Serbs. Of course, we are not
minimizing the responsibility of the Bosnian Serb party
for the dangerous developments of events in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, as well as their refusal to adopt the map of
territorial settlement contained in the Contact Group’s
proposal. But neither can we close our eyes to the fact
that there are good reasons to bring serious complaints
against
the
I have already
provocative and aggressive actions
mentioned but also for the flagrant violations of human
rights and harassment of minorities which are very
reminiscent of
“ethnic cleansing”
condemned by the international community.
the other Bosnian parties not only for
the practice of
The fact that the draft resolution ignores the new
realities of the situation in the Yugoslav settlement
process, which have gained international recognition —
first and foremost in the Security Council’s decisions —
is startling. We are thinking, of course, of the closing by
Belgrade of the frontier with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Incidentally,
and
controllable implementation of this draft resolution, we
cannot but be surprised at the contents of paragraph 15 of
the draft resolution, concerning the so-called activities
taking place “to achieve integration of the occupied
territories” into the administrative and other systems of
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
an effective
in the
context of
A number of the provisions in the draft resolution in
general have nothing to do with the subject of this
particular agenda item. For example, paragraph 12 raises
questions that come under the internal jurisdiction of
another State and are unsuitable for consideration at the
United Nations. Something else that is puzzling is the
wording used to describe the situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina as “aggression” and the areas under Bosnian-
Serb control as “occupied territories”.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
As to the requests to raise the embargo on arms
supplies to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to
emphasize that Russia, in complete accordance with the
Geneva Communiqué from the Ministers of Foreign Affairs
in the Contact Group, 30 July 1994, sees this step as
extremely undesirable. Its implementation at
this point
would have extremely negative consequences for a political
settlement, for the United Nations peace-keeping operations
and for a continuation of the provision of humanitarian aid
to the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In accordance with what I have said, the Russian
delegation will refrain from voting on the draft resolution
as a whole; if several paragraphs in the draft, particularly
paragraphs 12, 15, 22 and 23, were to be put to a separate
vote, our delegation would vote against them all.
In conclusion, allow me to recall
that, from the
beginning of the crisis in the former Yugoslavia, Russia has
played an active role in the international community’s
efforts to promote a political settlement to the Bosnian
conflict. Our premise continues to be that the United
Nations steps must be directed towards supporting the
peaceful efforts of the Contact Group to bring the parties to
accept the Group’s proposals. We continue to be convinced
that these proposals, together with the relevant resolutions
of the Security Council, are a realistic basis for a stable,
peaceful settlement based on the principles of justice,
impartiality and equal rights for all parties.
Mr. Mongbe (Benin) (interpretation from French):
Benin and its delegation unreservedly condemn any act of
barbarity and any violation of human rights anywhere in the
world; such acts and violations have been visited upon the
Bosnian people every day for the last three years. “Ethnic
cleansing” is an odious practice that cannot be tolerated by
any responsible Government. Benin is for an immediate and
lasting peace but not a peace built on cemeteries.
That is why we welcome the peace plan produced by
the Contact Group and supported by all of the international
community. My delegation welcomes the noble and
courageous decision of the Government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina to accept this plan, which is a serious basis for
restoring peace and security not only in this martyred
country but also in the Balkan region as a whole. My
delegation finds it difficult to understand the rejection of
the peace plan by the Bosnian Serbs and condemns this
attitude, which is, to say the least, dangerous. How will the
Bosnian Serbs be able to carry out political negotiations
with the other interested parties, if they maintain such
irascible obstinacy? Benin is relieved to hear of the decision
51st meeting
3 November 1994
by the Belgrade authorities to accept the peace plan and
to close the frontiers of their country with a view to
respecting the arms embargo decided upon by the
Security Council in its resolution 713 (1991).
The task of the United Nations under the Charter is
to promote peace, not to bring together all the ingredients
to encourage war. This is why, while we subscribe in
general
resolution
A/49/L.14/Rev.1, our delegation cannot support the idea
contained in paragraph 22, encouraging
provisions
draft
to
the
in
“the Security Council to give all due consideration
and exempt the Governments of the Republic and
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the
embargo on deliveries of weapons and military
equipment”.
My delegation urges the sponsors to measure all the
consequences of this paragraph. Its implementation would
lead to an increase in the perilous flow of arms and
would make of the Balkans, alas, an infernal powder-keg
once again. And what about the fate of the personnel of
the United Nations Protection Force in the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina if weapons were to enter as
freely as the paragraph I have just referred to implies?
The situation remains explosive in that country.
Nothing has really changed since the Security Council’s
adoption of resolution 713 (1991). The peoples of these
new States are suffering and will go on suffering even
more if our Assembly, which has not yet regained its full
credibility, goes ahead and raises the arms embargo as
specified in the draft resolution. Let us not be blinded.
Let us not get carried away by any considerations other
than those that are likely to help free the populations of
Bosnia and Herzegovina from the torments of war, from
horror, and from crimes of every sort.
Benin reiterates its position, already expressed in this
Hall by its Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation
on 30 September last, that, faced with the intransigence of
the Bosnian Serbs,
the international community must
ensure the protection and defence of the sovereignty and
the territorial integrity of Bosnia. That certainly will not
be accomplished by escalating hostilities or authorizing
rearmament.
Benin states again its support for the establishment
of an international tribunal to bring to trial those who
have committed crimes related to the practice of “ethnic
cleansing” and other massive human-rights violations.
31
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In a word, my country is in favour of a peaceful
solution to this conflict, which has gone on for too long. It
should therefore be easy to understand that the delegation
of Benin cannot but abstain in the voting on draft resolution
A/49/L.14/Rev.1.
Mr. Karsgaard (Canada): Canada’s deep concern for
the plight of the Bosnian people and our commitment to a
peaceful solution to the conflict are well known. While we
support most of the views expressed in the draft resolution,
Canada is not in a position to vote for a draft resolution
that calls for a lifting of
the arms embargo on the
Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We, like Bosnia,
desire a speedy resolution to the conflict, but we must point
out that the best hope for a durable and peaceful end to the
conflict remains the Contact Group’s peace plan. The status
quo is not an acceptable solution.
We are encouraged by recent positive steps, including
the decision by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia
and Montenegro) to close its border with the Bosnian Serbs
and to allow monitoring of this decision. We must allow
more time for sanctions and other non-violent measures to
convince the Bosnian Serbs that accepting the Contact
Group plan is in their best interest.
The Security Council decided to impose an arms
embargo on all of the former Yugoslavia in 1991 because
it believed that reducing the arms supply would help lower
the level of hostilities and enable avenues for a peaceful
settlement to be pursued. This analysis remains as valid
today as it was then. Allowing more and heavier weapons
to come into Bosnia would lead to a greater loss of life. It
would make it impossible for the United Nations Protection
Force (UNPROFOR) to deliver humanitarian assistance to
the desperate people in Bosnia and would force countries
such as Canada to withdraw their troops.
Canada remains firmly committed to helping the
people of Bosnia come to a peaceful solution to the
conflict, but we cannot endorse any draft resolution that
would lead to an increase in fighting and loss of life. For
these reasons, Canada cannot support the draft resolution
and will abstain in the voting.
(interpretation
Mr. Laptsenok (Belarus)
from
Russian): The Republic of Belarus is extremely concerned
at the recent complications in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
However, we start from the premise that military measures
will not help stabilize the situation in the Balkans and could
have unforeseeable consequences.
32
51st meeting
3 November 1994
In this connection, we cannot support the proposal to
lift the arms embargo on Bosnia and Herzegovina, since
such a step would lead to a further escalation of
hostilities, threaten the whole negotiating process and give
rise to conditions that could spread the conflict beyond
the frontiers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We would like,
if possible,
to achieve a political settlement of the
conflict.
Bearing all that in mind, my delegation will abstain
in the voting.
The President: The Assembly will now begin the
voting process.
I put to the vote draft resolution A/49/L.14/Rev.1.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
Indonesia,
Botswana,
In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Antigua
and Barbuda, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina,
Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia,
Comoros, Costa Rica, Croatia, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Eritrea, Fiji, Gabon, Guatemala, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Lithuania, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Yemen
Against: None
Abstaining: Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Brazil,
Bulgaria,
China,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Grenada, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Cameroon,
Burundi,
Canada,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Kenya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malta, Mexico,
Monaco, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation,
San Marino, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Swaziland,
Sweden, Togo, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zambia,
Zimbabwe
Draft resolution A/49/L.14/Rev.1 was adopted by 97
votes to none, with 61 abstentions (resolution 49/10).
The President: We
those
representatives who wish to explain their vote on the draft
resolution just adopted.
now hear
shall
May I
that
remind delegations
in
explanation of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be
made by delegations from their seats.
statements
Mr. Albin (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has caused great
concern in the international community. The General
Assembly has tackled the question on three occasions, but
unfortunately no solution to this difficult and complex
conflict has been found. We regret that the sad fate of this
Member State of the United Nations has not been relieved.
Indeed, there have been new outbreaks of armed violence.
For the Government of Mexico, the persistence of
human-rights violations, “ethnic-cleansing” policies and acts
of aggression designed to acquire territory by the use of
force undermine the very basis of civilized relations
between nations and cause a worsening in relations between
peoples. Mexico also would reject any action that would
limit the political independence, territorial integrity, self-
determination, indeed the very sovereignty, of the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We join in strongly appealing to all the parties directly
or
indirectly related to the situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina to seek a solution to the conflict in good faith.
The aggression and violence, which have made the
living conditions of millions of human beings intolerable,
must come to an end. Political dialogue and understanding,
the best way to achieve peace, must prevail over the horrors
of war. We therefore support all political and diplomatic
efforts to achieve a definitive solution to the problems of
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
51st meeting
3 November 1994
The resolution the General Assembly has adopted
today has numerous elements that we support and fully
endorse. My delegation abstained in the voting, however,
because we believe that the text also contains provisions
that are at variance with the letter and spirit of the United
Nations Charter. Mexico’s abstention on this resolution is
a statement
in favour of a solution based not on
considerations of expedience, but on the principles of the
Charter thus guaranteeing a secure, permanent peace in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr. Francis (Australia): Australia is appalled that
fighting continues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, adding
further to the suffering of innocent civilian populations
there. We support the calls contained in this resolution for
an end to this violence and to the violations of human
rights,
including the practice of “ethnic cleansing”,
whoever the perpetrator might be, and for the restoration
of peace and stability to the country and to the region as
a whole.
For these reasons, we should have liked to vote in
favour of the resolution, as we did at the forty-seventh
and forty-eighth sessions of
the General Assembly.
However, Australia has reservations about the wisdom at
this time of lifting the arms embargo as it affects the
Government of Bosnia
and Herzegovina and the
Federation. The Contact Group has acknowledged that
such a lifting may be unavoidable, but as a last resort. We
do not believe that
time is yet upon us. Other
avenues to end the conflict are still being explored by the
Contact Group. In addition, new pressure now being
applied on the Bosnian Serbs, which we hope will be
maintained, should be given time to have its effect.
that
settlement of
We recognize, as do many others here today, that a
decision to lift the arms embargo would very likely bring
to an end the current initiatives aimed at facilitating a
peaceful
in Bosnia and
in
Herzegovina. Lifting the arms embargo would,
particular, have very serious
for
an
intensification of hostilities, for the continued presence of
the United Nations Protection Force and for
the
humanitarian relief effort in the country.
the conflict
implications
We strongly support the actions taken today by the
international community and the Security Council to bring
to an end the fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We
strongly urge that those efforts be continued. Above all,
Australia wishes to see a peaceful, negotiated solution to
this tragic conflict. For these reasons, we were compelled
to abstain in the voting on this resolution.
33
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
(Argentina)
Mr. Cárdenas
(interpretation from
Spanish): I should like to explain the position of the
Argentine Republic in the voting on the resolution,
contained in document A/49/L.14/Rev.1, which the General
Assembly has just adopted.
My country generally supports all the initiatives of our
Organization aimed at
sovereignty,
independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we are determined to see
respected.
reaffirming the
The current diplomatic position, undermined by the
Bosnian Serbs’ regrettable rejection of the Contact Group’s
peace plan, has made it necessary for the international
community to reaffirm its determination to contribute to a
peaceful settlement to the conflict.
Today we are faced with a situation in which one
side — that of the Bosnian Serbs — is continuing to
promote an ethnic, fratricidal war rather than devote itself
to achieving a settlement with the international guarantees
which our Organization could offer. We therefore urge that
side once again to reconsider the matter and work with the
international community to put an end to aggression. The
grave violations of human rights
and international
humanitarian law in Bosnia and Herzegovina have
disturbed, and continue to disturb,
international public
opinion. To deal with them, the International Tribunal on
the matter will soon become a cornerstone of the effort to
restore justice. In the present delicate security situation, we
would once again appeal for respect for the cease-fire and
the safe areas.
Not all the indications are negative, however. I refer
in particular to the measures recently adopted in connection
with the partial closing of the border between the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). We believe that these
measures,
if pursued, will contribute to the gradual
achievement of peace in the region.
The Argentine Republic supports the basic principles
contained in the resolution just adopted on the situation in
Bosnia and Herzegovina and considers them to be fair.
Nevertheless, we regret that we were unable to support the
resolution, in part because of the specific recommendation
in operative paragraph 22. After a thorough consideration
and assessment of
the various options proposed for
achieving the desired objectives, we believe the measure
would not contribute to a settlement of the conflict. We
believe that the partial lifting of the arms embargo imposed
34
51st meeting
3 November 1994
by Security Council resolution 713 (1991) on the whole
of the former Yugoslavia would not help to achieve peace
and security in the region.
We also believe that this measure would to a certain
extent imply an assessment that diplomatic efforts had
proved to be in vain. Moreover, the risks of an escalation
of the conflict cast a shadow not only over the future of
the long-suffering population of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
but also over
the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) as it strives to fulfil its mandate.
guidelines
for
fundamental
I would point out here that, as in all other peace-
keeping operations, the principle of neutrality is one of
the
troop-contributing
countries. On that understanding, States that provide
troops to UNPROFOR have done so, and will continue to
do so, with the clear intention of contributing to the
maintenance of peace and security in the region,
generously and with no desire to take sides in the conflict.
The mandate and composition of UNPROFOR are,
moreover, the result of a very delicate balance, which
circumstances suggest should be maintained. It
is a
question of recognizing and duly assessing the positive
effects of the peace-keeping effort there, which cannot be
minimized.
We basically agree with the Secretary-General’s
judgement, contained in document S/1994/1067 — a
report produced in the context of the most recent renewal
of UNPROFOR’S mandate — that a measure such as that
recommended in paragraph 22 of the resolution would
change — in our opinion substantially — the nature of
the United Nations presence in the area and imply
unacceptable risks to the Force.
Mr. Chirila (Romania) (interpretation from French):
My delegation abstained in the voting on draft resolution
A/49/L.14/Rev.1, because of similar and even identical
concerns to those already mentioned, particularly by the
representative of Germany, on behalf of the European
Union.
I am referring in particular to paragraph 22 on lifting
the embargo on deliveries of weapons. Romania is a
neighbour of the former Yugoslavia, and has always, in
its capacity as member of the Security Council until 1992,
and elsewhere, advocated a political settlement to the
conflict in the former Yugoslavia in general and Bosnia
and Herzegovina in particular. The economic sacrifices
my country faithfully agreed to make, under the sanctions
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
imposed against
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
(Serbia and Montenegro), are well known. We are doing
our very best to use our good relations with all the States
of the former Yugoslavia to encourage and establish a
lasting political settlement on the basis of the participation
of all parties involved and the parallel contribution of all
those who have committed themselves to facilitating the
process.
This is a particularly critical time. In our view, there
are two alternatives: either a speedy end to the stalemate in
the search for a political settlement or playing for time and
accept responsibility for any potential rise in tension and
confrontation. The extension of the mandate of the United
Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) until 31 March
1995 should not be seen as a breathing space. Every effort
must be made by the parties directly concerned, and by
those who are called upon to contribute to the search for a
peaceful settlement, to define and implement an overall
approach acceptable to all sides in order to ensure that the
Bosnian Serbs agree to the territorial settlement proposed
by the Contact Group and to bring the three parties to the
negotiating table.
In this context,
the parallel process initiated by
Security Council resolution 943 (1994) for the gradual
lifting of the economic sanctions on the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia
should be
continued, while keeping the latter’s conduct very much in
mind.
and Montenegro)
(Serbia
More than ever before, the elements that can bring the
parties closer together should be emphasized; this should
encourage those who are showing the true political will to
ensure that peace and a political settlement among the
parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina will prevail.
Mr. Keating (New Zealand): Since the Assembly last
addressed the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a
number of important developments have taken place. The
Bosniac and Croat communities in the Republic have
resolved their political differences and have formed a
Federation. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) air power, authorized by the United Nations, has
stopped the worst of the bombardment of Sarajevo and
attacks on the other safe areas. The member nations of the
Contact Group have devised a peace plan for Bosnia and
Herzegovina which has been accepted by all parties except
the Bosnian Serbs. The authorities of the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) have closed their
border with Bosnia so as to isolate the recalcitrant Bosnian
Serbs, and as a result, some of the measures imposed on
51st meeting
3 November 1994
Belgrade have been suspended. The Yugoslavia war
crimes Tribunal is now established.
These changes have come about because of the
determination and commitment of
the international
community. They constitute a significant improvement in
both the material and the political situation of
the
beleaguered citizens of Bosnia. But they fall far short of
what we would have hoped to see 12 months ago. The
resolution on which we have just taken action, in its
reiteration of provisions from last year, reminds us just
how much still has to be achieved: firstly, the restoration
and reconstruction of Sarajevo; secondly, the opening of
Tuzla airport; thirdly, full implementation of the safe
areas; fourthly, redress of the consequences of “ethnic
cleansing”; and,
refugees and
displaced persons.
the return of
fifthly,
More fundamentally,
the resolution records and
rightly condemns the refusal of the Bosnian Serbs to
negotiate within a framework which takes as its starting-
point the territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
It is at this level that we are no further ahead this year
than last. By clinging to outmoded and repugnant
concepts of ethnic purity,
the Bosnian Serbs are
condemning themselves to a state of banishment. There is
indeed a depressing familiarity about
their continued
refusal to acknowledge that their political future cannot be
determined in isolation from that of
the other
communities in Bosnia. The Bosniacs and the Croats have
acknowledged this
through the establishment of a
Federation and their endorsement of the peace plan put on
the table by the Contact Group. The Bosnian Serbs must
do likewise.
The means to ensure that the Bosnian Serbs do turn
round is the nub of the challenge the United Nations
faces. The international community now has a range of
measures at
its disposal, diplomatic, economic and
military. These measures have two characteristics in
common: first, they are collective, and second, they are
sanctioned by the United Nations. That means that they
carry the full weight of the international community.
to exempt
This cannot be said of the provision in the resolution
that encourages the Security Council
the
Governments of the Republic and Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina from the arms embargo imposed on the
former Yugoslavia in 1991. For the Council to take such
a step would be to move away from collective action.
There may come a time when there is no alternative to
such a step. When that time comes, it would mean that
35
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the United Nations as such, in terms of the collective
security provisions of the Charter, no longer had a role.
New Zealand does not believe that that time has come,
nor will it be welcome if it does, because it will mean an
abandonment of peacemaking and a recourse to the verdict
of war. Now is the time to redouble efforts in the search
for a political settlement, not to signal a return to general
warfare. For this reason, New Zealand abstained in the vote
on the draft resolution.
Mr. Ponce (Ecuador) (interpretation from Spanish):
The solidarity of the people and the Government of
Ecuador with the long-suffering people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and the need to preserve the territorial
integrity of States has prompted my delegation today to
vote in favour of the resolution that has just been adopted.
that
However, we would like to point out
the
complicated peace process has in the past few months made
considerable progress, which the international community
must acknowledge. This progress has been made possible
thanks to the flexibility of all the Governments that are
parties to the conflict. Hence, Ecuador has doubts about the
desirability of adopting decisions, such as the lifting of the
arms embargo, which might reignite the conflict and make
a final settlement even more remote.
With this conviction, had paragraph 22 been put to a
separate vote my delegation would have abstained.
The President: One representative has requested to
speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind
members that statements in exercise of the right of reply
are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Sacirbey (Bosnia and Herzegovina): After the
lengthy day all of us have had, and with my sincere thanks
to all my colleagues,
I shall certainly refrain from
exceeding the imposed time-limit.
The statement made in this debate on behalf of the
European Union, while once again repeating the Union’s
opposition to the lifting of the arms embargo, endorses a
new set of guidelines as an alternative not only to the
lifting of the arms embargo but also, effectively, to the
United Nations Charter,
the principles of the London
Conference and even the Contact Group peace plan. The
European Union proposes, in particular
36
51st meeting
3 November 1994
for
the Bosniac Croat and
“balanced treatment
Bosnian Serb entities, including the establishment of
relationships with neighbouring
parallel special
countries, provided that
this would not be
inconsistent with the integrity of the Union of
Bosnia and Herzegovina”. (Official Records of the
General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary
Meetings, 50th meeting, p. 18)
I
regret
to say that, whether by oversight or
otherwise, that proposal is morally and legally flawed,
and disregards the relevant principles — and, in fact, the
United Nations Charter — for the following reasons:
First, how can we speak of a “parallel special
is designed to promote the same
relationship” that
consequences for the aggressor and the victim?
Secondly, the proposal is especially troubling in
view of the fact that the war — the aggression — was
started by the Serbian-Montenegrans in conjunction with
the so-called Bosnian Serbs in order, in fact, to achieve
the very goal of an ethnically homogeneous “greater
Serbia” at the expense of its neighbours. This aspect of
the European Union plan proposes now, in effect, the
creation of this “greater Serbia” as part of the settlement
of this war.
Thirdly, there is not and cannot be any parallel
between the Bosniac and Croat Federation on the one
hand and the so-called Bosnian Serb entity on the other.
The Bosniac and Croat Federation and the proposed
closer relationship between the Republic and Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia
is born out of a desire to reintensify the support for
multiculturalism and coexistence in the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina for all, including Croats, Serbs,
Jews, Muslims and others, while a “greater Serbia”, to the
contrary, promotes ethnic “purity” at
the expense of
multiculturalism. Unfortunately,
the
aspect of
this
European Union proposal, unintentionally or not, can only
give new hope and vigour to those who seek the creation
of unprecedented and ethnically “pure” States.
Finally, and most unfortunately, this aspect of the
European Union statement reflects a lack of consciousness
with respect to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The sovereignty
and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina are not mentioned, while the statement says
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
“provided that this would not be inconsistent with the
integrity of the Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina”.
(ibid.)
There is no Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Union
of Bosnia and Herzegovina may be a concept promoted by
some — maybe even by some members of the European
Union — as a weaker substitute for the Republic, designed
to induce the Serbians to accept the peace plan. However,
the Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot now become
a substitute for the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina or
a mechanism to substitute for, and effectively undermine,
the sovereignty, territorial integrity and legitimacy of the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Any proposed
settlement must respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity
and legitimacy of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
51st meeting
3 November 1994
circumvent
and cannot
these principles by
first,
emphasizing a proposed union. Maybe some members of
the European Union had a different reading in mind when
this statement was drafted, but we cannot afford to be
either casual or lacking in vigilance.
Unfortunately,
the statement also reflected the
erosion of the Contact Group peace plan from some
sectors within, owing to a lack of commitment and will
to confront those who oppose the Contact Group peace
plan from without — that is, the Bosnian Serbs. I am
afraid that
this also reflects once again a growing
tendency towards expediency. It is also more evidence of
why the choice for all of us here was not purely the issue
of lifting the arms embargo: it was a choice between the
marginalization and even abandonment of international
law and the United Nations Charter
in favour of
expediency, versus demanding options to soundly support
our common principles.
No one can afford to be neutral, to abstain, on this
communal route of legality. The future of the United
Nations as a whole cannot lie in selective application of
legality. It must be based on the united and objective
commitment
in particular to the
United Nations Charter.
to shared principles,
In response to the comments of the representative of
the Russian Federation, we would like once again to
emphasize unequivocally our acceptance of the Contact
Group peace plan and our commitment to exercising our
right to self-defence. However, we cannot be expected to
abandon our right to self-defence and to acquiesce in the
continuing rejection of the peace plan by the so-called
Bosnian Serbs. Simply, when the Serbians are ready to
accept and implement the Contact Group peace plan, give
up occupation of most of our country and stop the “ethnic
cleansing” and sieges of our cities, then we will also be
prepared to restrain our
to acquire defensive
weapons.
right
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded
the present stage of its consideration of agenda item 39.
The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m.
37
