United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
40th Meeting
Thursday, 20 October 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.40
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 3
Credentials of representatives to the forty-ninth
session of the General Assembly
(b) First report of the Credentials Committee
(A/49/517)
The President (interpretation from French): The
draft resolution recommended by the Credentials
Committee appears in paragraph 10 of its first report.
We shall now proceed to consider the draft
resolution recommended by the Credentials Committee.
We shall first hear representatives who wish to
speak in explanation of vote or position on the
recommendation of the Credentials Committee. May I
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from
their seats.
Mr. Amer (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): As the General Assembly is about to
approve the first report by the Credentials Committee, as
it appears in document A/49/517, the fact that my
delegation does not object to this report does not mean in
any way that we recognize the credentials of the Israelis,
because in spite of the latest developments regarding the
Palestinian question, we do not find that this constitutes
any comprehensive solution to this question, and that
such solution will be achieved only by recognizing all
the rights of the Palestinian people, foremost among
which is their right to return to their land, to exercise
self-determination and to establish a democratic state in
Palestine where Arabs and Jews live together, with
Al-Quds as its capital.
Mr. Oulia (Islamic Republic of Iran): My
delegation would like to express its reservation
regarding paragraph 10 of the first report of the
Credentials Committee (A/49/517) on the credentials of
Israel.
the Islamic Republic of Iran on the issue, my delegation
wishes to dissociate itself from the parts of the said
report referring to the approval of the credentials of
Israel.
In line with the position of the Government of
The President (interpretation from French): We
shall now take action on the recommendation of the
Credentials Committee contained in paragraph 10 of its
first report (A/49/517). The Committee adopted the
draft resolution without a vote. May I take it that the
Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 49/4).
The President (interpretation from French): We
have thus concluded this stage of our consideration of
sub-item (b) of agenda item 3.
94-86758 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Organization of work
The President (interpretation from French):
I wish
to remind members that the deadline for submission, in
writing, of the views of Member States on Programme 6
of the medium-term plan (Elimination of apartheid)
contained in document A/49/6 (Prog. 6) - which will be
transmitted to the Fifth Committee - is Wednesday,
26 October.
The meeting was suspended at 3.20 p.m. and resumed
at 3.25 p.m.
40th meeting
20 October 1994
elected from Africa and Asia, one should be from Africa
and one from Asia.
I should like to inform the Assembly that
the
number of candidates, not exceeding the number of seats
to be filled, receiving the greatest number of votes and a
two-thirds majority of those present and voting will be
declared elected.
In the case of a tie vote for a remaining seat, there
will be a restricted ballot limited to those candidates
which have obtained an equal number of votes.
Agenda item 15
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of the
Security Council
The President (interpretation from French): The
General Assembly will now proceed to the election of five
non-permanent members of the Security Council to replace
those members whose
expires on
31 December 1994.
term of office
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President (interpretation from French): In
accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, the
election shall be held by secret ballot, and there shall be
no nominations.
I now call on the representative of the Gambia as
Chairman of the Group of African States.
The five non-permanent outgoing members are the
following: Brazil, Djibouti, New Zealand, Pakistan and
Spain. These five States cannot be re-elected and therefore
their names should not appear on the ballot papers.
Mr. Jallow (Gambia): On behalf of the African
Group I am pleased to indicate that the African Group
endorses the candidature of Botswana for the vacancy
allocated to Africa in the Security Council.
Apart from the five permanent members, the Security
Council will
include in 1995 the following States:
Argentina, Czech Republic, Nigeria, Oman and Rwanda.
The names of those States, therefore, should not appear on
the ballot papers.
Of the five non-permanent members which will remain
in office in 1995 three are from Africa and Asia, one is
from Eastern Europe and one is from Latin America and
the Caribbean.
Consequently, pursuant to paragraph 3 of General
Assembly resolution 1991 A (XVIII) of 17 December 1963,
should be elected
the five non-permanent members
according to the following pattern:
two from Africa and
Asia, one from Latin America and the Caribbean and two
from the Group of Western European and Other States.
The ballot papers reflect this pattern.
In accordance with the established practice, there is an
understanding to the effect that, of the two States to be
2
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the representative of Samoa as Chairman of the
Group of Asian States.
Mr. Slade (Samoa): As Chairman of the Group of
Asian States Samoa is honoured to inform the General
Assembly that the Republic of Indonesia is the endorsed
and sole candidate for election to the non-permanent seat
in the Security Council allocated to the Asian region for
the term 1995-1996.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the representative of Paraguay as Chairman of the
Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
Mr.
Fernandez
Estigarribia
(Paraguay)
(interpretation from Spanish): The delegation of Paraguay
as Chairman of the Latin American and Caribbean Group
for this month has the honour of informing the General
Assembly that the candidacy of the Republic of Honduras
40th meeting
20 October 1994
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Botswana
Indonesia
Gabon
Japan
Group B - Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Honduras
0
170
114
168
164
1
1
170
0
170
0
170
114
170
170
0
170
0
170
114
167
164
1
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
is endorsed by the Group as the only candidate from our
region to become a member of the Security Council.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the representative of Canada as Chairman of the
Group of Western European and Other States.
Mrs. Fréchette (Canada) (interpretation from French):
On behalf of the Group of Western European and Other
States I wish to remind members of the Assembly that
Germany and Italy are candidates for
the two non-
permanent seats in the Security Council allocated to our
region. The candidatures of these two countries, Germany
and Italy, have been endorsed by our Group.
The President
(interpretation from French):
In
accordance with the rules of procedure, we shall now
proceed to the election by secret ballot, taking into account
the statements made by the representatives of Gambia,
Samoa, Paraguay and Canada.
I request representatives to use only those ballot
papers that have been distributed and to write on them the
names of the five States for which they wish to vote.
A ballot paper containing the names of more States
from the relevant region than the number of seats assigned
to it will be declared invalid. Names, on a ballot paper, of
Member States that do not belong to that region will not be
counted.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Diaz Paniagua
(Costa Rica), Mr. Andresen Guimaraes (Portugal) and
Mr. Shardelow (South Africa) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 3.45 p.m. and resumed
at 4.40 p.m.
The President (interpretation from French): The
result of the voting for the election of five non-permanent
members of the Security Council is as follows:
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now be
distributed.
Group C - Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Italy
Germany
Australia
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority,
the following States were elected non-permanent members
of the Security Council for a two-year period beginning
1 January 1995:
Botswana, Germany, Honduras,
Indonesia and Italy.
The President (interpretation from French):
I
congratulate the States which have been elected members
of the Security Council, and I thank the Tellers for their
assistance in this election.
Group A - African and Asian States
That concludes our consideration of sub-item (a) of
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
170
0
170
agenda item 15.
The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m.
3
