United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
47th Meeting
Thursday, 27 October 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Côte d’Ivoire)
In the absence of
(Netherlands), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Biegman
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 10 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization (A/49/1)
Mr. Bhatia (India): Our congratulations go to the
President, Mr. Essy, who assumed the presidency at a
significant juncture in the evolution of the functioning of
the United Nations. The discussions on the report of the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization (A/49/1)
provide a particularly opportune occasion for us to share
our vision of the United Nations as we approach its fiftieth
anniversary and as we move ever closer to the twenty-first
century.
At the outset, I would like to place on record my
Government’s deep appreciation for the leadership and
drive that Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has provided to the
functioning of the United Nations. His deep understanding
of the problems that face the international community at
this critical juncture in its history are a great asset. We
applaud his efforts in attempting to provide a new vision
for the United Nations, keeping in view the individual
complexities that abound in Member States and the need
for consensus decision-making.
The report of
the Secretary-General has been
painstakingly produced. In his very opening remarks, the
Secretary-General has sought to correct the impression
that the United Nations as an Organization is dedicated
primarily to peace-keeping. He stresses that the United
Nations is deepening its attention to the foundations of
peace, which lie in the realm of development. We in India
have been concerned at the imbalance that created the
impression referred to by the Secretary-General, and we
firmly believe that the new agenda of the United Nations
must give peace and development equal priority and
treatment. It will be recalled that in his statement at the
14th meeting, on 3 October 1994, the leader of the Indian
delegation to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session stressed that with its universal participation and
comprehensive mandate, the General Assembly should
approach such a holistic vision and revitalize that vision
into action.
As we debate the report of the Secretary-General in
the perspective of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations and the approach of the twenty-first century, we
should perhaps first dwell upon the challenges that we are
likely to carry from the past into the twenty-first century.
An understanding of these challenges is critical to the
new role that we envisage for the United Nations. The
United Nations is constituted of sovereign nation-States
and the challenge they face on the path of nation-building,
based on pluralism, is first and foremost the massive
challenge of development. Failure to meet this challenge
would mean greater inequality and poverty, which would
only breed further tension. The other major challenges are
care for the environment, the threat to the unity and peace
of nation-States and fundamentalist fanaticism traceable
to causes unrelated to religion.
94-86842 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The Secretary-General’s annual report makes a valiant
effort to address the challenges to which I have referred.
The position of my Government on the issues involved and
the methodology for addressing these challenges was spelt
out in some detail in the statement of the leader of the
Indian delegation in the general debate on 3 October 1994.
The efforts made by my Government to adapt to the
historic changes that have taken place in the world during
the past few years have focused on adapting available
positive ideas, processes and technologies to India’s specific
requirements. In doing so, we do not intend to forget our
own traditions and our own special circumstances. The
challenges are common, but uniform solutions,
to be
successfully implemented, keeping in view considerations
of equity, must necessarily take cognizance of national
situations.
Solutions must also be flexible. As the Prime Minister
of India once described it:
“In India we recognize the change but maintain a
balance, which has come to be known as the middle
way.”
47th meeting
27 October 1994
I have chosen to address the report of the Secretary-
General in philosophical terms, for I believe that our
debate on his report provides us with yet another
opportunity to learn from our past mistakes and to focus
the United Nations on a direction that would enable us
together to establish a new world order characterized by
true equity, peace and prosperity for all peoples and
nations.
Before I conclude, I should like to associate my
delegation with the statement made earlier today by
Indonesia on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Mr. Kalpagé, (Sri Lanka): I would like to extend
the grateful thanks of the Sri Lanka delegation to the
Secretary-General for his report on the work of the
Organization. Last year’s report was described by the
Secretary-General himself as "the longest report...to the
General Assembly...in many years" (A/48/l, para.26). I
a
would like
the
comprehensive and well-conceived account of
multifarious
of
the
Organization at a particularly complex time in its
evolution.
to describe
far-reaching
activities
this year’s
report
as
and
We believe that at this United Nations we must find
a "collective middle way" that reflects the genius of our
individual traditions and is consistent with the need for
rapid economic development, modernity and sustained
peace.
The Chairman of
the Non-Aligned Movement,
speaking on behalf of the non-aligned countries, has made
an analysis of the Secretary-General’s report on the work
of the Organization, with which my delegation, in general,
agrees.
The United Nations is today involved in attempting to
keep the peace in different parts of the world. In the
absence of a common vision in the post-cold-war era, its
experiences in this domain have been mixed. In spite of the
end of the cold war, the perception persists that, somehow,
balance-of-power considerations continue to impact on
decision-making at the United Nations. The notions of
balance of power and the retention of exclusive rights for
the militarily and economically dominant States are still
preponderant. It
is still being argued by some leading
analysts that a new world order will have to emerge, much
as it did in the past century, from a reconciliation and
balancing of competing national interests. It is regrettable
that such perceptions not only exist but continue to
influence the activities of the international community. For
the international community to succeed in the imperative of
maintaining international peace and security, it must be
ensured that the purposes and principles set forth in the
United Nations Charter are adhered to, not only by Member
States, but by the Organization itself and its specialized agencies.
2
indicates,
As the introduction to the report
the
Secretary-General has sought to shift the Organization’s
focus away from a primary emphasis on post-cold-war
political priorities to a more fundamental, if less dramatic,
focus on development concerns. The emphasis on
development is not one which ignores or shies away from
political realities. In fact the Secretary-General seeks to
delve into the root causes of political instability —
“deepening...attention to the foundations of peace,
which lie in the realm of development”. (A/49/1,
para.1)
The report covers the full gamut of the United
Nations global and regional involvement — development
activities, social and humanitarian concerns, the protection
of human rights, preventive diplomacy, peacemaking,
peace-keeping, peace-building, disarmament, and so on.
What is of particular importance to my delegation is that
each of these specific areas should not be considered as
separate entities to be approached in isolation. We see all
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
these issues as interconnected and intrinsically related to the
Organization’s ultimate goal: the welfare of humanity in all
its dimensions. In his report, the Secretary-General himself
identifies five development dimensions which he sees as
functioning together
in an interlocking and mutually
reinforcing manner. These are peace, the economy, the
environment, society and democracy — parts of a whole.
These are all aspects of critical importance to every
State. However, the United Nations is perhaps of greater
relevance to smaller developing countries which are more
vulnerable to the fallout from the immense changes that are
still taking place. These countries need to rely heavily on
the United Nations, including at the most basic level, to
preserve their independence and sovereignty and to protect
them from unsolicited external intervention.
Small countries are not merely subjective recipients of
the benefits of the United Nations. In a real way, by their
active participation in the work of the Organization, they
contribute to the common purposes and principles of the
Charter. In a world in which interdependence has moved
from an abstraction to a reality, a reality which we are all
being forced to accept, the function of the United Nations
as a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations has
become even more central. The United Nations remains a
parliament to which all sovereign national units of the
human family need to belong. In this situation, the Security
Council plays very much the role of a cabinet as in a
functioning parliamentary democracy.
Interest
in the work of the Security Council, and
indeed of membership in it,
stems not only from
apprehensions that small States may be left out of vital
decisions affecting their people. The United Nations, more
than at any other time in its history, is not only more
deeply involved in its traditional functions but has moved
into radically new areas of activity which profoundly affect
all States as never before. The Secretary-General’s report
makes this abundantly clear.
special
It is in this context that the establishment of the Open-
ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the
Security Council, acquires
significance. The
Secretary-General has noted that although the discussions
in the Group were constructive they did not result
in
concrete recommendations. Nevertheless the message that
emanated from the Group is not one that should be ignored.
We are glad that the President of the General Assembly has
caused the Open-ended Working Group to continue its
mandate in the current session as well. We hope that in the
47th meeting
27 October 1994
Secretary-General’s report next year he will be able to
report conclusions which will make the Security Council
more transparent in methodology, more representative in
character, and therefore,
in sum, more efficient and
effective in its functioning.
Confronted with an increasing case-load of conflicts,
the use of the instrument of peace-keeping has grown in
frequency, variety, complexity and cost. Some peace-
keeping efforts have fully succeeded while others have
not. Some have generated controversy. There were also
situations in which the peace-keeping efforts failed to
materialize in a timely manner. We agree with the
Secretary-General that these setbacks should not make us
discard this useful tool. However, our experience shows
that peace-keeping operations are not an all-embracing
panacea. A consultative rather
than a prescriptive
approach is needed. Action has to be taken selectively and
on a case-by-case basis. We therefore agree with the
Secretary-General that much can be learned from the
setbacks suffered by the current operations in defining a
pragmatic policy.
The Secretary-General himself points out that some
conflicts simply cannot be managed effectively, let alone
resolved solely through the instrument of United Nations
peace-keeping. There have also been instances where
political interests of individual countries rather than the
objective merits of the situation appear to dictate action
or inaction. Peace-keeping costs have risen sharply. All
Member States are required to share these costs, while
decisions on peace-keeping are being taken by a limited
number of Member States. This raises the question of
accountability and legitimacy. The capacity of the United
Nations and its agencies has been stretched to the
maximum in coping with their peace-keeping obligations.
This has sometimes resulted in the determination of
priorities detrimental to the development activities of the
United Nations.
The fiftieth anniversary of the Organization will be
an appropriate occasion to rededicate the Organization to
its indisputable mandate for collective action in promoting
development, economic growth and prosperity for all. The
World Summit for Social Development, which will take
place in the fiftieth anniversary year, will be an
opportunity to be grasped. We would therefore hope that
the preparatory international debate on the critical
questions of development and democratization will move
beyond a replay of known positions. The Summit should
produce a realistic programme of action which will
promote prosperity for all. The trend of democratization
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
sweeping across the globe runs the danger of being
reversed if a renewed vision of development is not put into
action and the underlying causes of conflict are not
addressed. Without development, no enduring foundation
for peace and security can be built. In 1995 we must strive
to have a creative international consensus without sliding
back to the rhetoric of a bygone era.
The financial situation of the United Nations continues
to be in crisis. The cash-flow situation remains critical.
There is a note of desperation when the Secretary-General
states:
“The
unpredictability
of
contributions from Member States make it extremely
difficult to manage the Organization effectively”.
(A/49/1, para. 103)
irregularity
and
47th meeting
27 October 1994
the idea that development
concept of how to solve the most difficult tasks facing the
United Nations at this stage — that is, how to attain the
purposes set forth in the Charter. We note the scientific
and philosophic elaboration of the idea of development as
a means of ensuring long-term progress for mankind; and
we fully support
is a
multidimensional notion with a number of conceptual
global categories. It is a process dealing with such areas
of human activity as peace;
the
environment; and the social sphere, with its most
important political component — democracy. It is vitally
important that, at a time when bloodshed and conflict are
escalating in so many parts of the world, the Secretary-
General’s report should point out the causes of such
conflicts. Conflicts, primarily the most brutal ones, are
ignited in those parts of the world where hunger rages,
lawlessness rules and human rights are abused.
economy;
the
My delegation supports the specific measures outlined in
the report
their
Charter obligations.
to encourage Member States to meet
In the interests of time, my delegation will refrain
from discussing specific issues such as the Middle East,
apartheid
positive
developments have been reported by the Secretary-General.
peacemaking,
on which
and
There are several other issues also which threaten the
efficient functioning of the United Nations. My delegation
will reserve comment on such matters for the relevant
agenda items.
In a rapidly changing international scene, it is difficult
to foresee much of the future. But as the Secretary-General
states:
“The extraordinary challenges and possibilities of this
moment in time require the most dedicated and far-
reaching response.” (Ibid., para. 795)
In the fiftieth anniversary year ahead, the occasion
must be seized to provide a new momentum, a new vision,
for the United Nations.
Mr. Tsepkala (Belarus) (interpretation from Russian):
The delegation of the Republic of Belarus expresses deep
gratitude to the Secretary-General
for preparing and
submitting to us the report on the work of the Organization
for the past year (A/49/l). The report certainly contains an
in-depth and comprehensive analysis of the activities of the
bodies of the United Nations and Departments of the
Secretariat over the past year and, in addition, develops a
4
Over the past year the international community has
witnessed a dynamic transitional period, with phenomena
such as a re-evaluation of the present potential for
peacemaking, development and cooperation between
States. So it is quite natural that the United Nations
should not have stood aloof from all of this. Its principal
and subsidiary bodies, which are currently being
restructured, are adapting to new circumstances and some
of them, having achieved their noble goals, are yielding
to other bodies confronted with equally difficult tasks.
The Trusteeship Council and the Special Committee
against Apartheid are good examples. The Commission
for Sustainable Development is one of the new bodies.
The Republic of Belarus has already expressed its
views on reform in the United Nations. We advocate a
more effective, a more dynamic and a more democratic
Organization which would act as a centre for coordinating
the actions of States on a global, regional and national
level. In the present rapidly changing circumstances, this
can be achieved only if the Organization can adapt to a
new situation quickly. In this connection, we support the
Secretary-General’s ideas on the principal organs of the
Organization, including the Trusteeship Council.
The success of United Nations activities and
implementation of its decisions depend to a large extent
on what is done by the Secretariat. The Republic of
Belarus welcomes the restructuring of the Secretariat
being carried out by the Secretary-General which is
designed to make it more streamlined and to ensure a
stricter system of accountability and hierarchy. We trust
that this will lead to a more economic use of the financial
resources available.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
47th meeting
27 October 1994
are
related. The
The report of the Secretary-General now before us
states quite correctly that there is no doubt that peace and
development
convening of many
international conferences on development bears witness to
the fact that peace is based on development, humanitarian
activities and respect for human rights. These conferences
are held at a time when conflicts are escalating, and this is
no accident. In trying to root out the underlying causes of
conflict, the international community must constantly turn
to issues of development,
including the sustainable
development of small island States, reduction of the dangers
of natural disasters, and issues of with population, housing
and social development. Our Republic has participated in
several international conferences on these issues and has
contributed to the elaboration of the recommendations
adopted.
In this connection,
large numbers of the population”. (A/49/1, para. 343)
However, as the Secretary-General also notes, there is a
severe shortage of funds for the work of the Inter-Agency
Task Force on Chernobyl.
the
delegation of Belarus expresses its sincere thanks to the
United Nations Coordinator of International Cooperation
on Chernobyl for his measures to mobilize assistance in
dealing with the consequences of
In
particular, we thank him for sending letters to the heads
of private enterprises throughout the world asking for
participation in helping to alleviate the problems resulting
from the accident. The Government of the Republic of
Belarus hopes that these requests will be duly responded
to and that additional resources will be received for the
Chernobyl relief operation.
the disaster.
Most of these events and conferences have been
focused on the interests and needs of developing countries.
Belarus accepts these specific circumstances and recognizes
the needs of this group of countries, primarily the least
developed and the ecologically most vulnerable. We have
always supported, and will continue to support, international
initiatives for those countries.
We also note that measures have been taken in the
interest of countries that have their economies in transition,
although these have not been very significant ones. But we
cannot agree that
the United Nations should pay little
attention to the specific circumstances of economies in
transition. Like other groups of States, these have their own
needs and their own problems in trying to carry out the
transition to sustainable development, and their legitimate
interests should be taken into account. This is necessary
also because of negative developments relating to the
interim period of transition from a centralized economy to
a market one: the untimely, limited application of measures
for the protection and restoration of the environment to
certain countries in this period of transition may have
negative global implications for sustainable development in
various parts of the world. There are serious obstacles to
integration into the world and the European economy, most
of which are not of an economic nature and constitute the
vestiges of cold-war stereotypes. However, the economies
in transition, including Belarus, are making active efforts to
create open economic systems with a market orientation.
The delegation of Belarus thanks the Secretary-General
for focusing attention in his report on relief operations
relating to the Chernobyl disaster. The report states quite
rightly that Belarus “bore the brunt of the radioactive
contamination” and that the “consequences ... still affect
IV of
Turning now to chapter
the Secretary-
General’s report, which concerns preventive diplomacy
and conflict
resolution, my delegation first of all
underlines the significance of “An Agenda for Peace”
(A/47/277), which offers a conceptual foundation for
discussing issues relating to international peace and
security following the end of the cold war. The report, in
fact, has been a starting-point for many specific reforms
within the United Nations system. We therefore welcome
the measures taken by the Secretary-General, pursuant to
General Assembly resolution 47/120 A and the request of
the President of the Security Council. We feel that the
effectiveness, streamlining and transparency of peace-
keeping operations and activities will be improved
through the holding of briefings for Security Council
members by representatives of the Secretary-General,
through better coordination by the Secretariat in making
and implementing decisions on peace-keeping activities
through the adoption of measures to create an early-
warning mechanism for situations that might threaten
international peace and security, and through the
elaboration of measures to strengthen the Organization’s
capacity to prepare for and carry out peace-keeping
operations.
We welcome the Secretary-General’s conclusion that
the resources to implement preventive diplomacy and
peace-keeping
“are paltry by comparison with the huge cost in
human suffering and material damage which war
always brings or with the less huge, but nevertheless
substantial, cost of deploying a peace-keeping
operation after hostilities have broken out.” (A/49/1,
para. 411)
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
On the basis of this conclusion, the Secretary-General has
attached priority to preventive diplomacy and peacemaking.
This is fully in accord with the observations made by the
Belarusian representatives on peace-keeping-operation
issues. Over
the long term we should try to focus
exclusively on preventive diplomacy, establishing peace-
keeping operations only in exceptional circumstances.
resolution: we have provided specialists
Belarus currently makes a rather modest contribution
to United Nations activities on crisis management and
conflict
for
monitoring elections. However, we recognize that there is
a shortage in military and other personnel for peace-keeping
operations; this point was made by the Secretary-General
when he visited Belarus in April of this year, and it is
reflected in the report before us. We are taking measures to
respond to this concern in concrete and positive terms. The
issue of the participation of Belarusian military contingents
in peace-keeping operations is currently under consideration
by our legislative and executive authorities.
this overload may be a threat
Our brief comments on chapter IV of the report testify
to our support for United Nations activities in preventive
diplomacy and conflict resolution. Nevertheless, the greater
involvement of the United Nations in the resolution of a
growing number of conflicts is creating a considerable
overload in the financial and human resources of the
Organization. Given the long-term financial crisis facing the
United Nations,
to the
Organization. The time may come when the United Nations
will simply not be able to meet its obligations, which will
make it much more difficult to settle any conflicts and will
also do serious damage to the Organization’s credibility.
Furthermore, the increase in the number of United Nations
peace-keeping operations invariably leads to a substantial
increase in the financial burden on the Members of the
Organization, which may become too heavy for some to
bear. This relates primarily to those countries whose
contribution does not reflect their actual economic capacity.
Alas, the Republic of Belarus is one such country.
understand
the difficult
financial
that
situation of
to
owing
Thus so we understand the concern of the Secretary-
the
General over
Organization. We
the
unpredictability and irregularity of contributions made by
Member States, it is extremely difficult to manage the
Organization efficiently. However, we can hardly agree to
such measures as the charging of interest on late payments.
This will not really help the United Nations to deal with its
financial crisis; rather, it will simply lead to an increase in
unpaid contributions of countries, particularly when
financial debts to the United Nations are occasioned by the
6
47th meeting
27 October 1994
difficult economic situation of the Member concerned.
Indebtedness and the resulting financial crisis for the
United Nations constitute in themselves a kind of conflict,
and as in the case of any other conflict we have to look
at the underlying causes if we are going to resolve it. We
believe that one of the main problems is the applying of
outdated approaches
scale of
assessments for the regular budget and for peace-keeping
operations, which does not
the fundamental
principle of the ability of States to pay. We believe this
is one of the major causes of the financial crisis.
to elaborating the
reflect
The establishment of a sound legislative basis for the
financial activities of the Organization would substantially
contribute to the preparations for the fiftieth anniversary
of the United Nations, and we welcome the report’s
chapter on the subject.
Finally, I should like once again to express our
support for the United Nations in its new phase of
activities aimed at achieving the goals of development in
all its dimensions and, through this, at the elimination of
the roots of conflict, the creation of a new system of
international cooperation and the establishment of a solid
foundation for a secure, just and creative era for the
benefit of all mankind.
(Algeria)
Mr. Lamamra
(interpretation
from
French): On behalf of the Algerian delegation, I should
like to extend my warm congratulations to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the substantive
report he has submitted to the General Assembly. My
delegation is pleased to be participating in a discussion on
the report,
the content of which is not confined to
examining the Organization’s work over the past year but
contains proposals and ideas, sometimes innovative,
calling for deeper reflection in the evaluation of their
impact on the functioning and effectiveness of our
Organization.
The particularly compact nature of the report reflects
the vitality of the United Nations and the irreplaceability
of its role and vocation as a centre for dialogue and
cooperation among States. On the other hand, this makes
a deep and painstaking analysis of
this document
somewhat
laborious. Thus, I shall confine myself to
making a few comments on those parts of the report
which we feel
to our situation as a
developing country resolved more than ever before to
making the United Nations the vector of multilateral
cooperation for development. In this spirit, Algeria fully
endorses the comments and suggestions made this
to be crucial
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
morning by the Permanent Representative of Indonesia,
speaking on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and its
member States.
concrete
expression to the decisions
The Secretary-General’s report is a valuable tool for
evaluating the determination of the international community
to give
and
recommendations it has laboured to negotiate and adopt. It
thus constitutes a test of the credibility of the professions of
faith so often proclaimed over the resolve of the Member
States
stipulated in
Article 1 (4) of the Charter:
to make this Organization, as
“a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the
attainment of these common ends”.
of
scope
report
particular
The United Nations is about to celebrate solemnly the
fiftieth anniversary of its foundation. This event makes the
Secretary-General’s
and
significance this year. It is more than a mere yearly account
of the Organization’s work. Indeed, one cannot read this
document without bearing in mind the original mission of
the United Nations, its failures and successes, and its ability
to respond to the aspirations of the people of the United
Nations who chose to unite their efforts in order to build a
more harmonious world of greater solidarity. This careful
scrutiny of the United Nations activities and its incomplete
achievements should not, however, make us lose sight of
the unavoidable truth that the Member States are primarily
responsible for its work, or make us forget
the
difficulties and shortcomings are due in part
to the
increasingly frequent recourse made to the Organization,
which is now being compelled to take action in many
different fields and to confront increasingly complex crises,
while at the same time facing an acute financial crisis.
that
This past year has been particularly heavy for the
United Nations. Undeniable successes have been achieved
and there have been significant breakthroughs
in
negotiations and in the discussion of certain questions. The
reception of
the new South Africa into the General
Assembly was a brilliant political victory for our
Organization, whose firm position on the principles adopted
20 years ago has thus been rewarded.
47th meeting
27 October 1994
for
equitable
the need
The discussions on Security Council reform have
highlighted
representation
accompanied by an in-depth reform of its methods of
work and decision-making processes. Here, we would
reiterate our belief in a reform of the Security Council
that would ensure fair representation, transparency and
democracy in its functioning, and greater effectiveness
arising from a stronger confirmation of its legitimacy.
Increasing recourse to the International Court of
Justice for the settlement of disputes is a healthy and
positive trend bearing witness to a change of attitude in
the subjects of international law concerning the principal
judicial organ of the United Nations. It also demonstrates
the prevalence of a greater awareness of the virtues of
building an international order based on law. Cooperation
between the Court and the Security Council in connection
with the successful settlement of the dispute on the
Aouzou Strip illustrates
for
international peace and security whenever the potential of
all United Nations bodies for the peaceful settlement of
disputes is actually tapped.
the positive
fallout
The restructured Economic and Social Council held
its first session this year. The substantive session was an
enriching experience. However,
the deplorable trend
towards the marginalization and reduced participation of
the developing countries, and Africa in particular, in that
organ and its subsidiary bodies is for us grounds for
legitimate concern.
them. It
Some of
initiatives
the Secretary-General’s
in
restructuring the Secretariat with a view to enhancing its
effectiveness and streamlining resource management are
commendable and we support
is imperative,
however, that those Secretariat departments dealing with
economic and social issues take increasing account of the
needs of developing countries and pay careful heed to
their requests. We should also like to express our support
for
at
decentralizing the activities of the United Nations in the
economic and social sectors, which would particularly
benefit the regional economic commissions, whose great
potential has yet to be fully exploited.
Secretary-General’s
initiatives
aimed
the
The restructuring of the United Nations has now
entered a crucial stage. The adoption of resolution 48/264
on the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly,
despite its imperfections, has enabled this truly democratic
and universal body somewhat to re-establish its powers to
coordinate and monitor all
the activities of the United
Nations.
“An Agenda for Development”, together with “An
in principle, offer an
Agenda for Peace” should,
integrated institutional and operational framework for
United Nations activities. In this connection, I reaffirm
our commitment to an integrated approach to peace and
development. In this respect, we share the Secretary-
General’s view on the need for:
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
“thinking about the pursuit of development as a means
of building foundations for enduring human progress”.
(A/49/1, para. 5)
Like the Secretary-General, we believe that the time has
come to stop simply acting upon the consequences or
reacting to actual emergencies; rather, we should undertake
serious action that would establish the basis for sustainable
development. The forthcoming World Summit on Social
Development is, in this respect, an excellent opportunity
to elaborate an
which mankind must seize in order
ambitious programme of action that will confront
the
challenges and significant problems of our times.
We must recognize that the progress made in setting
out concepts and policies, and even in drafting institutional
and legal instruments, has been somewhat curtailed by the
chronic financial crisis resulting from late payments of
contributions and a disturbing drop in resources earmarked
for development.
The Algerian delegation fully shares in this respect the
oft-stated concern of the Secretary-General, a concern that
is clearly reflected in this year’s report.
The
and
peace
security. The
late payment of
contributions places our
Organization in a precarious situation and greatly reduces
its capacity for action. The first repercussions of this crisis
can already be seen in the area of the maintenance of
international
dangerous
consequences of reductions in, or withdrawals of, peace-
keeping forces for financial reasons are well known: unless
a political solution is found, collapse there could once again
be appalling tragedies in countries such as Somalia and
Rwanda. With more and more devastating and murderous
conflicts breaking out, the international community and the
Security Council
their
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security, while fully respecting the sovereignty, territorial
integrity and independence of States.
should shoulder
in particular
Resources earmarked for operational activities related
to development and humanitarian assistance are also
dropping to dangerously low levels, thereby jeopardizing
the financing of any new projects for the developing
countries. This unfortunate trend could imperil whole
sectors
for
development. The current system of financing, based on
voluntary contributions, has to be reconsidered with a view
to guaranteeing the reliability and predictability of the
resources and finances that can be mobilized.
of multilateral
cooperation
economic
8
47th meeting
27 October 1994
towards
this year
On another level,
the completion of
there has been no significant
progress
the
decolonization process, which is still one of the priority
tasks
facing our Organization. Many peoples and
territories still under foreign domination are waiting for
the United Nations to shoulder its responsibility under the
Charter
and the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. This is
the case of the people of Western Sahara, who wish to
exercise their right to self-determination through a fair,
free and credible referendum carried out by the United
Nations in cooperation with the Organization of African
Unity. Nothing should keep the United Nations from
fulfilling that mission.
In reading the report of the Secretary-General, we
are not only further enlightened as to the problems and
challenges facing us, but also become more aware of their
scope. Fortunately, however, every year we find some
grounds for satisfaction that strengthen our belief that the
United Nations has a valid mission and a universal
message.
We can only hope that next year’s report, which will
coincide with the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, will live up even more fully to our expectations
and give us even more grounds for hope.
(Uruguay)
Mrs. Flores
(interpretation
from
Spanish): First of all, my delegation wishes to thank the
Secretary-General for the report (A/49/1) that he has
submitted on the work of the Organization. Uruguay
considers that discussion of this report in the General
Assembly gives Member States an excellent opportunity
to exchange views on the functioning of the Organization,
to evaluate results and to lay down guidelines for future
action.
A basic idea is set forth in the “Introduction” which,
as we see it, underlies the entire development of the
document - that is, to correct the mistaken impression that
the United Nations is devoting its attention almost
exclusively to the maintenance of peace. Through a
description of the Organization’s activities over the last
12 months,
the
Organization is playing a large role not only in the
maintenance of peace but also in the economic and social
fields.
the report attempts
to show that
My delegation, broadly speaking,
the
approach taken in the report. However, we feel that it
would be interesting to go more deeply into some of the
shares
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
ideas that are set forth in the document. Along these lines,
the global, integrated approach to the original purposes of
the Organization - peace,
justice, human rights and
development - should be supported by the adoption of
concrete measures
appropriate
fulfilment of those objectives.
that will
ensure
the
Article 1, paragraph 1 of the Charter sets forth peace
as the fundamental purpose of the Organization. The desire
to strengthen the United Nations and make it more effective
in the area of preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and
peace-building was at the origin of the “Agenda for Peace”.
In that document, fundamental questions were raised, such
as those mentioned in paragraph 400 of the present report.
Some of the problems mentioned there remain unresolved.
We might mention, for example, the implementation of
Article 50 of the Charter.
As regards the specific issues that are dealt with in the
chapter of the report of the Secretary-General entitled
“Preventive diplomacy and peacemaking”, we wish to
emphasize the establishment and good functioning of the
Situation Centre. The work of the staff of this Centre has
improved communications between the missions in the
field, Headquarters and the troop-contributing countries.
Uruguay, as a troop-contributing country, feels that the
functions of
the
contributing countries receive the maximum amount of
information. That is why we were surprised at the decision
to suspend the distribution of the weekly report on the main
events relating to missions in the field. This report was
especially useful
to the missions and provided a full
understanding of events during the period under review.
the Centre are vital
to ensure that
47th meeting
27 October 1994
more flexible, especially when these relate to substantive
issues of their respective mandates.
With the passage of time we see that peace and
development are two closely related concepts. It has been
said that peace is a key factor
in the process of
development and that international peace and security, in
turn, will be truly guaranteed only if we eliminate the
underlying causes of conflicts. Thus economic and social
development
the
consolidation of international peace and security.
is seen as one of
the bases for
The international community wants to promote
economic and social progress among all peoples. This
desire was expressed by the General Assembly in its
resolution 47/181 of 22 November 1992, which gave rise
to the report “An Agenda for Development”. Despite the
undeniable importance of this subject, we still do not have
firm proposals regarding the adoption of policies and
measures that indicate a course of concrete and effective
action.
to the efforts of
The Organization is no longer a protagonist
in
dealing with macro-economic and financial problems. Its
work must be a counterpart
the
developing countries to regain as far as possible the
privileges established by the Charter in the area of
economic development. A subsection of the report is
devoted to the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development
(UNCTAD). My delegation notes the
activities in this field that have occurred over the past
year. These have enhanced the effectiveness of this
Organization and its ability to operate.
We also wish to express our satisfaction at
the
arrangements to establish the nucleus of a Planning Unit.
This will help in planning an operation during its initial
stages and in coordinating its various elements in an
integrated manner. The same could be said of the efforts
made to strengthen the staff of the Office of the Military
Adviser to the Secretary-General.
As for relations between the Secretariat and the
Governments that provide contingents, my delegation
regards as very positive the initiatives that were taken to
increase the number of meetings between contributing
countries and the relevant offices in the area of each
mission. Without prejudice to these meetings, within the
framework of the Security Council, we should note the
proposal contained in document S/1994/1063 to make the
participation of troop-contributing countries in consultations
When it was set up in 1964 the intention was that
UNCTAD would play an important role in the sphere of
economic cooperation. Although many of these matters
are currently dealt with through the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund or,
in the past, by the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the fact is that
UNCTAD is the only forum with a comprehensive
overview of development and with the mandate and the
jurisdiction to enable it
to tackle a broad range of
important items in the context of global interdependence.
This is why, in our judgement, UNCTAD must be
revitalized even further; must recover its functions in the
areas of coordination, analysis and negotiation of
economic policies world wide; and must be strengthened
as an instrument of technical assistance for developing
countries.
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
47th meeting
27 October 1994
Furthermore, my delegation believes that UNCTAD
must act as a catalyst by creating a new international
consensus and new types of cooperation between developed
and developing countries. We might also point
to
administrative measures that are indispensable if UNCTAD
is to be strengthened — including measures that relate to
the appointment of the body’s secretary-general.
General’s report — the role of the International Court of
Justice (ICJ); approval by the General Assembly of an
agreement on the implementation of part XI of the United
Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea, of
10 December 1982; and approval by the International
Law Commission of the draft statute for a permanent
international criminal court.
to improve
In another area, the delegation of Uruguay supports
the Secretary-General’s initiative for the appointment of an
adviser whose purpose would be
the
coordination of operational activities in the field of
development. This would include strengthening the system
of resident coordinators. The adviser would introduce
consistency in the area of policies and would improve
coordination within the United Nations — especially
coordination between the departments at Headquarters, the
regional Commissions and the Funds and Programmes of
the Organization.
in six areas:
Paragraph 194 of the report refers to the concentration
of the work of the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP)
alleviation of poverty,
management development, technical cooperation between
the developing countries, environment and natural resource
management, women in development, and technology for
development. Uruguay suggests encouraging the designing
of means for evaluating the concrete results achieved.
the
serious
Paragraph 101 of the report deals with a point that
gives rise to concern. I refer to the financial crisis that the
Organization is going through. The Secretary-General has
highlighted the
cash flow situation in the
Organization, especially in respect of peace-keeping
missions. Cited once again as the main cause of the
situation is that some Member States are still failing to
comply with their obligation to pay their assessed
contributions fully and on time. My delegation shares the
view — a view that has been expressed already — that if
all Member States paid the amounts they owed,
this
problem would be resolved.
On this point, my delegation understands that
if
contributions were assessed on the basis of a State’s
capacity to pay, the impact of the payment of the quota
would be the same on all of the national economies. This
subject should be discussed thoroughly with the widest
possible participation. The debate on that subject in the
Fifth Committee will undoubtedly be very useful.
the binding jurisdiction of
Currently there are 186 States parties to the Statute
of the ICJ, and 58 States have declared their recognition
of
the Court under
paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 36 of the Statute. Uruguay
was the first country to sign the optional clause accepting
that jurisdiction. In 1921 we acceded to the Permanent
Court of International Justice, and under paragraph 5 of
Article 36 of the Statute of the ICJ this declaration
remains in effect in respect of the International Court of
Justice.
In the General Assembly just a few days ago my
delegation followed very carefully the introduction by the
President of the ICJ, Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui, of the
report on the Court. We share fully the views that the
President of the Court expressed when he said that,
although a renewed interest in the Court’s jurisdiction had
been evident in recent years, the fundamental question
was not whether that body was extremely busy but,
rather, whether it was fully occupying its rightful place in
the system for the maintenance of peace, as instituted by
the Charter.
Uruguay, as a maritime country, attaches great
importance to the entry into force of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea. My country was one
of the sponsors of resolution 48/263, which contains the
agreement on the implementation of Part XI. In this
action we were guided by the desire to see respect for the
unitary nature of the Convention of 1982 and by the
desire to secure universal participation and support for the
principles and norms set forth in the Convention.
My delegation is happy with the work that was
done by the International Law Commission at its forty-
sixth session. In particular, we welcome the conclusion of
the draft statute for a permanent international criminal
court. Although the tribunal that Uruguay favours would
have binding and exclusive jurisdiction, we feel that this
has been an important step in the area of the development
of international law.
Finally, my delegation would like to refer to several
legal problems that are mentioned in the Secretary-
My delegation hopes that, with the advent of the
fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this Organization,
10
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the guiding force that led in 1918 to the founding of the
League of Nations and in 1945 to the creation of the United
Nations will now guide the international community as a
whole and enable us to respond appropriately to the
challenges that we shall face in the coming century.
Mr. Shah (Pakistan): My delegation would like to
express its deep appreciation to the Secretary-General for
his report on the work of the Organization, contained in
document A/49/1.
The views already expressed by the Chairman of the
Non-Aligned Movement, the Ambassador of Indonesia, and
the Chairman of the Group of 77,
the Ambassador of
Algeria, enjoy the full support of the Pakistan delegation.
The Secretary-General’s
truly
manifests his outstanding qualities as an academic and the
vision he shows in his activities aimed at resolving the
many crises confronting the world. The report highlights the
numerous achievements of the Organization as well as the
challenges of the present which require an urgent and
prompt response by this Assembly.
comprehensive
report
and
the
report
for Development"
The Secretary-General’s earlier report entitled "An
under
Agenda
the
consideration both reflect an incisive analysis of
multiple dimensions of development as well as of the
unique potential of our Organization to forge a global
consensus for multilateral action and an integrated approach
encompassing all dimensions of the development challenge.
My delegation fully subscribes to the linkages established
growth,
in
conditions,
environmental
democracy and development.
the
definition of security in today’s world is no longer limited
to questions of
land and weapons but now includes
economic well-being, environmental sustainability and the
protection of human rights. As rightly pointed out by the
Secretary-General, there is a direct relationship between
international peace and security and development.
between
protection,
It also agrees that
economic
social
peace,
healthy
report
the
We agree with the Secretary-General that the World
Summit for Social Development and the upcoming fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations present us with historic
opportunities. These opportunities should be utilized to
enhance global cooperation and create new ways to use the
original aims of the Charter - justice, human rights and
development
to establish a lasting foundation for
international peace and security.
-
The Pakistan delegation is particularly grateful
to
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for drawing the
47th meeting
27 October 1994
attention of the world community, in paragraphs 541 and
542 of his report, to the tensions and threat to peace
arising from the problems in Jammu and Kashmir. We
welcome his willingness to exert all possible efforts to
facilitate the search for a lasting solution to one of the
oldest unresolved conflicts, a conflict still on the United
Nations agenda. Despite assurances and commitments
made by the Indian leaders, the right to self-determination
has been denied to the oppressed peoples of Jammu and
Kashmir since 1947. The world has witnessed an
unparalleled reign of terror, which has trampled the
human rights of the civilians in that area. Forty-five
thousand Kashmiris have been killed and thousands have
been tortured or arbitrarily arrested.
The tensions generated by this dispute threaten both
regional and international peace and security. My
delegation considers it imperative that the international
community intercede to promote a just and peaceful
solution to the Jammu and Kashmir dispute.
ln this
context, Pakistan has accepted the Secretary-General’s
offer of good offices to facilitate the solution of this
dispute. We hope India will also accept the Secretary-
General’s offer.
Ms. Arystanbekova (Kazakhstan), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
to
Mr. Muthaura (Kenya):
congratulate
I wish to take this
opportunity
the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on the in-depth report he has
presented to the General Assembly on the work of the
Organization over the last year. We pay tribute to the
Secretary-General
and far-sighted
leadership he has continued to render to the Organization.
Kenya assures him of its cooperation and support in his
arduous task.
creative
the
for
The Secretary-General has made a very able and
thorough review of the operations the Organization has
undertaken in the past 12 months, particularly those
concerning the implementation of the resolutions of
United Nations organs. He has also set out in detail his
vision of the future challenges facing the Organization in
the main areas of peace and security,
sustainable
development and social justice.
My delegation concurs with the Secretary-General’s
view that the success of the United Nations in carrying
out its mission will continue to depend principally on the
commitment of its Member States and of the general
public to the Organization. With the end of the cold war,
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
there is renewed support for the Organization and therefore
the need to seize the opportunity to reinforce its moral
authority in the pursuit of its noble objectives as inscribed
in the Charter.
The United Nations,
like any other Organization,
cannot function effectively without a sound financial base.
All of us, as Members of
the Organization, have a
responsibility to ensure that the assessed contributions are
paid on time and that the budget of the Organization is
consonant with the demands and the responsibilities that the
general membership puts on it.
has
particular
expressed
Kenya is appreciative of the stress that the Secretary-
General is placing on the need to balance appropriations for
peace and security and those allocated to social and
economic development. It is of great interest to us that the
Secretary-General
concern
regarding the need to strengthen the links between
emergency
long-term
development. We commend him for appointing the
Administrator of
the United Nations Development
Programme, Mr. James Speth, to assist in shouldering the
overall responsibility of improving the coordination of
operational activities for development. In that regard, the
strategy to strengthen United Nations activities at
the
regional and national levels is most welcome.
rehabilitation
assistance,
and
for
As the United Nations reassesses itself
the
forthcoming fiftieth anniversary of the Organization and
maps out its strategy for the future, Kenya subscribes to the
view that a bottom-up approach in regard to international
peace and security, sustainable development and social
justice is the most effective way forward. Capacity-building
at
relates to
governmental and non-governmental organizations, as well
as general mobilization of the population in support of
United Nations activities and the Organization’s response to
local,
be
national
overemphasized.
the national and regional
levels as it
concerns,
regional
cannot
and
47th meeting
27 October 1994
of the Organization. In this regard reform of the Security
Council has acquired crucial importance and urgency.
My delegation welcomes the decision already made
by the Assembly to extend the mandate of the Open-
ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the
Security Council. My delegation looks forward to the
conclusion of the work of the Working Group during this
session. The extensive debate which has already taken
place over the item has substantially highlighted the
urgent need for the reform of the Council, not only to
enhance its efficiency, transparency and working methods,
but also to reflect a more realistic and equitable
representation of
the
Organization.
the general membership of
equitable
Of crucial importance is the need for the Council to
reflect
representation. My
delegation has already expressed its views under agenda
item 33 of the Assembly and looks forward to participate
further in the work of the Group.
geographical
We welcome the arrangements that the Secretary-
General has already put in place with a view to servicing
the Council,
including the appointment of a Special
Adviser, at Under-Secretary-General level, to serve as his
personal representative to the Council.
to the General Assembly in June 1994,
In chapter III of the report, the Secretary-General
describes development, humanitarian action and human
rights as the foundations of peace. Building on "An
Agenda for Development" submitted by the Secretary-
General
the
Assembly has devoted several meetings to an in-depth
discussion of
the
Agenda also took place at
the World Hearings on
Development, convened by the President of the General
Assembly last June, as well as at the Economic and
Social Council session, also held in June 1994.
the Agenda. Lively discussion of
May I now comment on a few specific aspects of the
Secretary-General’s report. We welcome the progress made
so far regarding reform of the Organization with a view to
improving the efficiency and administrative functioning of
the Organization. Chapter II of the Secretary-General’s
report entitled "Coordinating a comprehensive strategy"
highlights, inter alia, the increased responsibility of the
Security Council in the light of the numerous challenges to
international peace and security that it is called upon to
address. With the demise of the cold war, the international
community has now reposed greater confidence in the role
to strengthen the
In this regard we welcome the proposal by the
links between
Secretary-General
emergency assistance,
rehabilitation and long-term
development. The Secretary-General’s decision to entrust
the Administrator of the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) with overall
responsibility for
assisting him in improving coordination activities for
development is particularly welcomed by our delegation.
It is our strong conviction that the United Nations has an
important
role to play in matters of development.
Whereas the donor community and the Bretton Woods
12
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
institutions have an important role to play in this regard, the
experiences of many developing countries, including my
own, is that these organizations tend to impose — although
not intended — policies that tend to have very adverse
effects on vulnerable members of society. The structural
adjustment programmes, though usually necessary, need to
be accompanied by safety nets that can cushion the
vulnerable groups from the adverse effects that usually
accompany such programmes.
In this
regard, we look forward to the major
forthcoming world conferences where some of these issues
will be discussed in detail. In particular, the World Summit
for Social Development to be held in Copenhagen next year
is expected to articulate a programme of action for the
international community in this vital field. That Conference
must contend with the reality that the social situation of
people cannot be improved without, in general, improved
economic conditions.
My delegation has noted with great concern,
the
observation in paragraph 188 of the report that there has
been a considerable downturn in resources for operational
activities of the Organization. In particular, the resource
allocations to some of the organizations whose mandates
are of critical importance to developing countries such as
UNDP,
the United Nations Environment Programme
(UNEP), the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
(Habitat), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) have
been going down. The Secretary-General’s report clearly
demonstrates the necessity to strengthen the capacity of
these organizations to enable them to cope with their
increased responsibilities, especially as envisaged in chapter
38 of Agenda 21. Paragraph 181 of the report specifically
points out that despite the clear call by Agenda 21 for
UNEP to be given greater expertise and additional
resources, resource constraints are continuing to affect its
activities in a number of programme areas such as energy,
environmental health,
and environmental
assessment.
atmosphere
We also note the observation that resources remain the
most important challenge facing Habitat in preparing for the
Habitat II Conference. UNDP has experienced a 15 per cent
reduction in core resources, while UNICEF faced a serious
reversal in contributions in 1993, bringing the level down
by $150 million from the peak in 1992 of $688 million.
UNFPA experienced
of
$18.4 million in 1993 from $238 million in 1992.
contributions
drop
in
a
47th meeting
27 October 1994
This situation should not be allowed to continue.
There is clear evidence that the Organization’s resources
continue to be directed towards peace-keeping and
humanitarian budgets at the expense of development. We
wish to reiterate what the Secretary-General has himself
pointed out that development must be given priority as it
is the foundation of peace.
for
the
five
following
With specific regard to UNEP, it is pointed out in
the Secretary-General’s report that UNEP provides the
secretariats
international
conventions: the Convention on Biological Diversity; the
Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements
of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal; the Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer to
the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone
Layer;
in
Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna; and the
Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of
Wild Animals.
the Convention on International Trade
Furthermore, the programme continues to coordinate
and support 13 regional sea programmes, nine of which
are based upon regional conventions.
in
the
agency
the United Nations
conventions.
Environment
environmental
on
Thus UNEP has built considerable expertise in
The
servicing
Rio de Janeiro Conference
and
Development also underscored the role of UNEP as the
lead
system on
environmental issues. For these reasons, we are convinced
that the permanent secretariats of the new environmental
conventions should also be located with UNEP in
Nairobi; these include biological diversity, climate change
and desertification. This would indeed be consistent with
the wish of the General Assembly and the decisions of
the Governing Council of UNEP which have consistently
called for
cost-
effectiveness and enhancement of the efficiency of UNEP
and indeed of other United Nations programmes.
strengthening, harmonization,
the
With regard to section D of chapter III entitled “The
the Secretary-General has
humanitarian imperative”,
elaborated on the measures that he has put in place to
strengthen coordination among the various actors in the
humanitarian, political and peace-keeping activities of the
United Nations.
We wish to emphasize that the United Nations needs
to strengthen its capacity to respond to situations
requiring
avoid
catastrophes of the type we recently witnessed in Rwanda.
diplomacy
preventive
so
as
to
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Mr. Butler (Australia): We wish to express our
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his comprehensive
and forward-looking report on the work of the organization
(A/49/1).
The report demonstrates clearly the challenges and
opportunities which now face the United Nations in an
increasingly complex global environment. It also outlines
the significant action which has been taken in many areas
during the past year to strengthen the role and functioning
of
the Organization to respond effectively to those
challenges and opportunities.
that
The Secretary-General emphasizes
the new
international context and the multidimensional nature of the
challenges call for multilateral action and an integrated
approach, and we agree. Our shared objective must be one
of cooperating for peace through strengthening cooperative
security in all of its manifestations.
As the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs, Senator
Gareth Evans, stated three weeks ago during the general
debate:
"The distinction between peace and security on
the one hand and development on the other has too
often been a matter for sterile and unhelpful debate,
with attempts to trade off one for the other as key
goals for the United Nations. Any viable modern
concept of international peace, let alone peace within
States, must recognize that the two are indissolubly
bound up with each other: there can be no sustainable
peace without development, and no development
without peace." (Official Records of
the General
Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 15th
meeting, p. 8)
47th meeting
27 October 1994
humanitarian assistance, effective governance and the key
social issues which form the agenda of the World Summit
on Social Development.
A more integrated effort will clearly be required —
required of the United Nations system — if the objectives
set out
in the Agenda for Development are to be
achieved. It is imperative that we improve the system’s
ability to develop and implement social and economic
development programmes in a more coordinated and
coherent manner, including finding ways to allow the
Bretton Woods institutions and United Nations bodies to
work in closer harmony. But more than this will be
required, including changes in the senior decision-making
structure of the United Nations Secretariat. Considerable
reform in the intergovernmental elements of the United
Nations system has been achieved and is being worked
out, but the same is not true of the Secretariat itself.
Notwithstanding some welcome
changes —
including, in particular, the appointment of the Special
Adviser
for Operational
Activities — Australia believes that there continues to be
a strong case for creating a new working collegiate
executive of four Deputy Secretaries-General to work
with the Secretary-General responsible, respectively, for
economic and social affairs, peace and security affairs,
humanitarian affairs and administration and management.
to the Secretary-General
recent
One of the most crucial elements in any functioning
system of cooperative security is an effective capacity for
preventive diplomacy. We are therefore pleased to note
that the Secretary-General’s report contains an extensive
chapter on expanding the role of the United Nations in
preventive diplomacy and conflict resolution, in which, as
the report records, considerable progress has been made
in a number of areas since the publication of “An Agenda
for Peace”.
between
For these reasons, Australia welcomes the Secretary-
General’s efforts in producing an Agenda for Development,
following on, as it does, from “An Agenda for Peace”.
Among other important considerations, it recognizes the
relationship
development,
acknowledging that equitable development eradicates many
of the socio-political conditions in which threats to peace
breed. And — this is very important — it places emphasis
on individual human beings
and
beneficiaries of our development efforts. It recognizes that
economies should serve people.
subjects
peace
and
as
the
We also applaud the focus the Secretary-General has
international cooperation for global
placed on practical
human security, for example in the areas of emergency
14
Australia is convinced that the United Nations can
and should do more in this respect to prevent disputes
from escalating into armed conflicts. This can be done in
today’s world; it must be done and there is abundant
evidence that prevention is not only preferable but also
less costly than cure. To give further impetus to this
process we propose to introduce at the current session a
draft resolution on enhancing preventive diplomacy. We
believe that there is widespread support for the United
Nations
diplomacy
machinery — to develop the capacity, foreseen by its
founders and articulated in Article 33 of the Charter, to
operate as an active agent in the peaceful settlement of
disputes.
preventive
strong
build
to
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The Organization would be able to operate more
effectively in this area by giving its staff additional skills in
dispute resolution and in conflict management. We
commend its efforts to do so through the fellowship course
of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research
(UNITAR), and Australia will continue to provide backing
for this training. We propose that
the United Nations
develop a dispute-resolution service within its Secretariat.
We advocate strengthening the Department of Political
Affairs and increasing coordination, information sharing and
early warning capacity amongst and between the various
elements of the United Nations system. Greater use should
also be made of the resources of Member States and
stronger
security
arrangements.
forged with
linkages
regional
Such regional organizations and arrangements can
themselves play a very useful role, but we must have
realistic expectations of them because most cannot match
the capacity of global bodies to marshal resources for
peace-building or, at the other end of the scale, for military
responses to crises. They nevertheless offer a way of
bringing together the parties to disputes in a constructive
and non-confrontational framework.
47th meeting
27 October 1994
Through consultations between the political parties,
carried out in a spirit of reconciliation, a new President
has been invested in Burundi and a new Government has
been formed. The efforts of the international community
at preventive action in Burundi have been encouraging,
but they need to be sustained. As the Secretary-General
noted in a recent report on Burundi,
“Compared with the exorbitant amounts that would
have been needed for emergency assistance if the
Rwandese tragedy were repeated in Burundi, the
price to be paid for prevention today seems
minimal”. (S/1994/1152, para. 47)
The Secretary-General observes in his report that the
fiftieth anniversary year, which I might mention began at
midnight four days ago,
an exhilarating challenge
“represents
and an
invaluable opportunity to forge a global consensus
behind development, in all of its dimensions, as the
most lasting foundation for international peace and
security and as the greatest hope for all humanity”.
(para. 12)
in particular the recent
We welcome recent developments to strengthen
regional approaches,
inaugural
meeting of the regional forum of the Association of South-
East Asian Nations (ASEAN), with its evident willingness
to develop preventive diplomacy in the Asia-Pacific region.
We hope others will share our interest in exploring the
scope for establishing regional peace and security resource
centres to advance these objectives under the banner of
regional organizations or the United Nations itself, or both.
We Australians fully endorse this view. We also believe
that an integral part of the new approach the United
Nations must take to meet this challenge is to give greater
emphasis to the role that preventive diplomacy, in all of
its manifestations, can play. We can do more to
strengthen the contribution that preventive diplomacy can
make to international peace and security, and we can do
this at this session of the General Assembly. It is an
opportunity that we should seize.
for example,
The role which preventive diplomacy can play in
contributing to cooperative security is vital. Earlier this
week,
the General Assembly adopted a
resolution which addressed the situation in the Central
African Republic of Burundi, a country which is proving to
be a test case for
international efforts at preventive
diplomacy. It was not until the tragic events in Rwanda
earlier this year that the international community’s attention
was drawn properly to the situation in Burundi. Given the
historical links between the two countries and their similar
internal tensions, it was only natural that Burundi was seen
as vulnerable to the same tragic events that had gripped
Rwanda. Although the situation in Burundi remains fragile,
peace does prevail there, and this is partly owing to the
preventive steps taken by the international community,
which have helped allow Burundi to avoid following in
Rwanda’s path.
Mr. Remirez
de Estenoz Barciela
(Cuba)
(interpretation from Spanish): The discussion under item
10 of the agenda is probably one of the most important of
this session. Its importance lies precisely in the fact that,
as we approach the commemoration of the first half-
century of this Organization, the debate grows stronger on
what the Organization should be in the future, what its
powers and aims should be and how it should act to face
the enormous challenges confronting mankind during the
final years of the millennium.
My delegation has examined the Secretary-General’s
report with great care, and we agree in essence with the
statement made by the Chairman of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries, which contains many of the
doubts and concerns that Cuba shares.
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is impossible to include in a single statement the
wide-ranging ideas contained in the Secretary-General’s
report. Therefore we will confine ourselves to a number of
necessary reflections and to commenting on concepts that
we consider erroneous, while the Cuban delegation will
continue to comment on the elements contained in this
report both in plenary meetings and in the Main
Committees of this forty-ninth session.
It is gratifying to find in the Introduction of this
document a number of ideas that in our opinion should
make up the essence of the work of the United Nations at
this stage of its history. We consider that the emphasis
upon the issue of development is crucial, and in this context
we find it appropriate that
is
determined
the Secretary-General
“to correct the common misperception of the United
Nations as an Organization dedicated primarily to
peace-keeping”. (para. 1)
But this Organization itself is probably to blame for
that misperception. In the euphoria of these few last years
it may have forgotten the multidisciplinary nature of its role
and may have concentrated excessively on peace-keeping
and related activities. We have observed with concern on
many occasions how most of the resources at the disposal
of the international community for multilateral activities
have been devoted to peace-keeping while ignoring other
fields, such as economic and social development, which
should constitute areas of priority attention.
It likewise does not seem appropriate that, as stated in
the report,
the international community is obligated to
redefine the concept of development. This Organization is
not new, nor are the economic and social problems that
affect a large part of mankind. For decades
this
Organization has adopted hundreds of documents that
clearly define, in one way or another, what development is
and what role this Organization should play in the efforts
to extend the benefits of progress to all and to create just
and equitable international economic relations in the world.
We do not have to prepare new definitions of
development, nor do we have to adopt new agendas that
ignore the achievements of decades and, moveover, contain
concepts that are frequently not acceptable to all States, in
particular those that would most benefit from development.
We must be capable of creating conditions for
the
emergence of a true political willingness to promote
development on a world-wide scale and to recognize as the
main role of the United Nations the management of
16
47th meeting
27 October 1994
international cooperation to that end, as the report itself
states.
Thus, even if we agree that various elements in
today’s world are closely related, we must not ignore the
fact that development occupies the highest place. There
can be no peace without development, as the Secretary-
General himself has recognized on more than one
occasion; without development there can be no guarantee
of stopping the deterioration of the environment; without
development true social justice cannot be promoted; and
there can be no true democracy, either within or between
States, without an accelerated advance towards economic
and social development.
We are surprised that the philosophical foundations
of the report do not give due attention to the principles
enshrined in the Charter — which is the cornerstone of
the work of this Organization — or to the manner in
which they will be applied in the future. We find it also
surprising that the report does not refer in a precise
manner to the main objective of the United Nations: to
promote international cooperation in a wide range of
fields. We think that these issues cannot be disregarded
and that the Member States should rectify this regrettable
omission, especially in periods that are tending to clear
the ground for such equivocal concepts as that of "limited
sovereignty", when interference in the internal affairs of
States is increasingly practised and when attempts are
frequently made to replace cooperation with coercion.
ongoing
restructuring
of
The Chairman of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries clearly recalled the positions of the Movement
regarding some of the most important issues concerning
the
this Organization.
Nevertheless, I would like to place on record that the
description of the various principal organs contained in
the Secretary-General’s report is also illustrative in this
regard. For example, figure 4, which appears on page 5
of
in informal
consultations of the whole of the Security Council with
the increase in the Council’s formal meetings. This
clearly shows why the work of the Security Council
requires a greater transparency.
report, contrasts
the increase
the
Similarly, reference is made throughout the report to
the restructuring of the Secretariat, and we believe that
the legislative mandates of the organs of the United
Nations have not been adequately respected in all cases.
We must not forget, in this context, that the priorities of
this Organization can only be determined by its Member
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
47th meeting
27 October 1994
States. We hope that this rule will not continue to be
ignored in the future.
economic order? Is not the achievement of development
the best means for the effective prevention of conflicts?
By
is
the
same
token,
the Secretariat
also
autonomously carrying out other activities which,
in
practice, tend to create conditions for the introduction of
changes that the majority of Member States do not want.
For example, in paragraph 383 of the report, there is a
reference to discussions between the Centre for Human
Rights and the Department of Peace-keeping Operations on
ways and means of securing the further support of the
Centre in peace-keeping operations. We should be wary of
the precedent that activities of this nature can create.
by
about
armed
brought
conflict,
We agree with the aim of trying to avoid human
tragedies
but
underdevelopment, poverty, malnutrition and lack of
access to adequate health care are more costly today in
terms of human lives than all the wars being waged on
our planet. Is the proportion of three-to-one between the
resources being devoted to peace-keeping and related
activities and those devoted to development appropriate?
Obviously, priorities are being inverted and even the most
cursory glance through the report shows this to be so.
We must also be careful about current concepts linked
to this trend. Among them is so-called “humanitarian
preventive
appear
commendable, contains a great potential for interventionism
that must be avoided.
action”, which,
it may
though
We are also concerned by the imbalance in the report
between the various activities to be carried out by the
Organization. Only a small portion of the report is truly
devoted to development and yet, despite this, elements
regarding humanitarian assistance and human rights are
added to it. On the other hand, and in contrast, practically
the entire text is permeated one way or another with the
concept of preventive diplomacy. It would seem as if,
rather than a report on the work of the United Nations for
the year, we were examining a second edition of the
document “An Agenda for Peace”.
third world
In the statement I had the honour to make last year on
this
I
referred to our concern regarding the
item,
subordination
of
the
implementation of new concepts allegedly addressing the
maintenance of international peace and security. We also
expressed our concern about
the change in priorities
represented by the loss of the necessary balance between
peace-keeping and the obligations of the United Nations in
the field of international cooperation for development.
development
to
The approach prevailing in this year’s report has also
inverted the priorities of the Organization, a phenomenon
which seems to be on its way to becoming a rule. Does the
Secretariat not consider it worth while to promote the
renewal of a serious and meaningful North-South dialogue?
Does the Secretariat, which feels empowered to devote
priority attention to preventive diplomacy and peacemaking,
not feel equally empowered to offer its good offices for the
establishment of a more just and equitable international
the
financial
This equation inevitably prompts us to address an
issue that has been receiving much attention lately. We
are referring to the Organization’s so-called “financial
crisis”. We have our doubts that this is the appropriate
term for this situation. It would seem that what we
actually have is a “cash-flow crisis”. It has not been
demonstrated that
the
Organization and their operating mechanisms, such as the
different scales of assessments, are in crisis. If we
compare the figures of the Organization’s debts, provided
by the Secretariat itself, against the figure of monies
owed to the Organization, the assertion I made earlier
would seem to be confirmed. Thus we see no need to
carry out the radical changes proposed to satisfy a few
big Powers nor to go against the established procedures
for the discussion of budgetary issues by setting aside the
Fifth Committee of this General Assembly.
structures of
On the other hand, we cannot lose sight of the fact
that the large expenses incurred in the past few years
have come through peace-keeping operations. We should
first determine whether those expenses have really been
justified, whether they have responded to the interests of
the Organization as a whole, and whether they are in line
with the priorities accepted by the majority of Member
States. Then, and only then, should we review the
financial procedures of this Organization.
Lastly, I should like to refer to issues related to
peace-keeping. It continues to amaze us that nowhere in
the report is there mentioned the principles that should
govern these operations and their related activities —
essentially,
the consent of the parties involved in a
conflict, as a necessary precondition to the establishment
of a peace-keeping operation. We are concerned by the
growing practice of having the Security Council “license”
certain States or groups of States to resolve specific
situations, which also seems to be legitimized by the
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
report, as is the tendency to encourage the United Nations
through peace-keeping operations or other related activities
to interfere in issues that fall exclusively within the internal
jurisdiction of States. Further comment on the unpredictable
consequences of these actions is unnecessary.
We have made a few comments on the Secretary-
General’s report for this year and, above all, on its
underlying philosophy. We continue to disagree with the
Secretary-General on a number of issues and concepts, but
we agree with him on many others. As always, we are
ready to show flexibility and to try to find,
through
dialogue and negotiation among Member States, common
views that will allow the United Nations to meet the second
half of its first century of existence with a truly human face
and with priorities that truly respond to the interests of
mankind as a whole, and not just a part of it.
the fiftieth anniversary of
Mr. Pashovski (Bulgaria): Our deliberations at this
session of the General Assembly are being held at an
important time in the life of the United Nations, since we
are on the eve of
the
Organization. It
is therefore our duty to cast a glance
backwards at past successes and problems and to take stock
of them. In doing so, it is all the more necessary to keep
our minds focused on the future and on the need to adapt
the Organization to present-day challenges and those yet to
come.
The past year has marked further progress in the
process of restructuring the social and economic sector of
the Organization and in efforts to strengthen its role and
effectiveness in the area of international cooperation for
development. The evolving perception that peace, economic
growth, the environment, social justice and democracy are
interlocking and mutually reinforcing has been widely
recognized. The need for a comprehensive innovative
approach to development has gained wide support. In this
context, particular importance should be attached to the
further discussions on the report of the Secretary-General
on “An Agenda for Development”. We share the view that
“An Agenda for Development” should be aimed at making
the United Nations more responsive to new development
realities. Identifying ways and means of harmonizing and
coordinating the interrelationships between peace and
development and the manner they are dealt with deserves
adequate attention.
Efforts to restructure and revitalize the activities of the
United Nations, bearing in mind the
requirements
mentioned earlier, should be continued. Since its creation
the United Nations has evolved as a unique international
18
47th meeting
27 October 1994
body in which all pressing issues, across the political,
economic and social spectrum can be approached in an
integrated manner. It has increased responsibilities and
plays a greater role today;
the cold war and bipolar
confrontation have come to an end, but the international
community faces new challenges and threats.
We are confident that the restructuring of the United
Nations economic and social sectors will ensure a better
balance in the activities of the Organization and will
make it more responsive to and more effective in dealing
with the interrelated problems of development. In this
context, it is our strong belief that the United Nations will
continue to give due attention to the problems of the
countries in transition. The reinforcement of the United
Nations system for operational activities and a more
active cooperation between the United Nations and the
Bretton Woods institutions are important elements in this
process.
Along with increased attention to and concern for
the trend
the socio-economic dimension of security,
towards expanding the involvement of the United Nations
in preventive diplomacy and crisis management that we
have witnessed in recent years should be further upheld
and promoted. Bulgaria has traditionally acknowledged
and supported making better use of the instruments for
the prevention of conflicts and crises, and we welcome
the substantive progress made in that area.
Another major component of the Organization’s
conflict- resolution efforts is the growing involvement of
the United Nations in peace-keeping throughout
the
world. We welcome the efforts to enhance its peace-
keeping capacity in a changing world. As peace-keeping
operations become more
and
expensive, special attention should be given to such
pressing
the Organization’s
institutional framework in the area of peace-keeping, the
search for ways and means to solve the financial
problems related to peace-keeping operations, and the
imperative need to ensure a greater level of safety and
security for peace-keeping personnel.
complex, dangerous
issues
as
enhancing
Significant progress has been made in these areas.
We support the development of the system of “stand-by
arrangements”, and have already committed national
resources for use in United Nations peace-keeping
operations. We are actively contributing to the work on an
international convention dealing with safety and security
of United Nations and associated personnel. We share the
growing concern over existing problems in the financial
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
aspects of peace-keeping. Therefore, we join those who call
for
redoubling the efforts to seek answers to those
questions.
On the topic of the comprehensive array of preventive
and enforcement measures to solve conflicts, let me recall
that Bulgaria attaches extreme importance to the issues
related to devising an overall mechanism for
the
implementation of Article 50 of the Charter of the United
Nations. We are in favour of devising such a mechanism,
which would guarantee the equitable sharing of
the
economic burden by the whole international community.
The cooperation of the United Nations with regional
organizations is an essential element of the evolving new
international system of security and stability. Bulgaria was
among the initiators of the process of cooperation and
coordination between the United Nations
and the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
and consistently supports its promotion. It is also our desire
to see a closer link between the United Nations and the
Council of Europe. We think that stronger interaction
between the two organizations is possible, especially in the
area of human rights issues and in the efforts towards
conflict prevention, post-conflict peace-building and the
consolidation of democratic institutions. A good starting
point in this regard is the existing framework of tripartite
meetings between the Council of Europe, the CSCE and the
United Nations.
I
In conclusion,
should like to underscore the
significance my country attaches to the overall process of
reforming and adapting
the Organization to the new
challenges of our time, and to reaffirm our dedication and
commitment to this process.
Mr. Vilchez
(Nicaragua)
(interpretation
from
Spanish): Nicaragua, as a member of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries and the Group of 77, fully supports
the statements made by the Permanent Representatives of
Indonesia and Algeria on this subject. Nevertheless, we
would like to state Nicaragua’s position on such an
important document as the report of the Secretary-General
on the work of the Organization, for which we would like
to express our special gratitude.
In 1995 the United Nations will
turn 50. Our
Organization, created in San Francisco to save humankind
“from the scourge of war”, will then have the opportunity
to undertake a thorough study of the achievements and
errors made during that historic period, so full of hope,
which saw the rebirth of the great ideal of democracy.
47th meeting
27 October 1994
The 1980s in particular bore clear witness to a
monumental change of a historical, political and social
nature. Our United Nations has today become a beacon
signalling a safe haven from upheavals caused by
conflicts of all kinds. The hopes of all humankind are
today placed in our Organization.
In his recently published report on the work of the
Organization the Secretary-General states:
to correct
I have sought
the United Nations
“During the period covered by this, my third annual
the common
report,
misperception of
an
organization dedicated primarily to peace-keeping.
Economic and social questions have long occupied
the major part of United Nations efforts. Such work
has become all the more important today precisely
as conflicts are increasingly recognized to have
economic and social origins.” (A/49/1, para. 1).
as
In this context, we consider that our Organization
must devote itself with renewed vigour to the struggle
against inequity and injustice. The United Nations must
not only be the bearer of hope, but must fulfil
its
commitments in the economic and social areas, working
hard to achieve at least a minimal improvement in the
living conditions of humankind. The Organization must
meet this historic challenge, updating its methods, making
better use of the experience it has accumulated and trying
to optimize the availability of resources, which are
inadequate to carry out at the same time three essential
tasks: the maintenance of international peace and security,
economic and social development and the protection of
the environment for future generations.
It is a matter of concern that even as the United
Nations has increased its responsibilities, especially as
regards peace-keeping operations, it is left defenceless in
a deep and almost permanent
financial crisis. The
international community must give financing top priority,
but it must be complemented by rational management of
existing resources, and the General Assembly must be
able to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken by
the Secretary-General
in establishing a more direct
structure of responsibility of States. We also welcome the
creation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services,
headed by an Under-Secretary-General.
The multidimensional character of
the United
Nations is reflected in the increasing responsibilities of its
organs and specialized agencies. The General Assembly
is playing a more valuable role in international relations,
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
47th meeting
27 October 1994
that
the role of
is important
its President be
so it
strengthened. One of the most important tasks facing us this
session is the restructuring of the United Nations. Hence,
the approach to reform and restructuring must be
comprehensive and balanced. We must promote a more
balanced relationship between the General Assembly, the
Security Council and the Secretary-General, in accordance
with the provisions of the Charter.
General Assembly sessions have seen an increase in
the number of agenda items. We welcome the growing
tendency to adopt draft resolutions by consensus and the
increasing participation of Heads of State and Government
in the General Assembly’s general debates. We must also
highlight
the General Assembly’s
establishment of an open-ended working group to deal with
the question of equitable representation on and an increase
in the membership of the Security Council.
the importance of
to
the
We are particularly happy to see that all matters
relating to human rights are appropriately reflected in the
Secretary-General’s report. The report contains pertinent
references
the High
Commissioner for Human Rights, who is now charged with
the promotion and protection of all civil, cultural,
economic, political and social rights. Our delegation is
pleased with the manner in which Ambassador José Ayala
Lasso is carrying out his mandate.
activities
various
of
As the Secretary-General says, the High Commissioner
has principal responsibility for human rights activities
within the United Nations. My delegation considers it
appropriate that, as part of the process of restructuring to
increase the effectiveness of our efforts in the field of
human rights, we should try to coordinate the tasks of all
the competent bodies and allocate the necessary financial
resources for this important work.
The steady increase in the work of the Security
Council has aroused great interest among States Members
of the Organization. We agree with the point made by
many delegations that there must be greater transparency in
the Security Council’s methods of work. There is almost
universal interest and support for considering the question
of increasing the membership of the Council with a view to
bringing its work into line with current
international
realities.
We are therefore satisfied with the Council’s decision
to set up a working group to study the question of how its
methods of work could be improved with a view to
achieving, among other things, greater transparency. In this
20
context, we should like to refer to the report (A/49/2)
presented by the Council to the General Assembly. In
spite of its very large size, this does not seem to be a
document of substance. The report should be analytical
rather
the
questions discussed by the Security Council and should
contain a detailed evaluation of the work of the Council’s
special committees.
It should deal with all
than descriptive.
In 1992 the General Assembly welcomed the
Secretary-General’s report entitled “An Agenda for
Peace”, and in September 1993 the Assembly adopted a
second resolution on this subject. The Security Council
has held a number of meetings to deal with specific
proposals on “An Agenda for Peace”. The Agenda has led
to many concrete reforms in the United Nations system
through the adoption of tangible measures. We applaud
the adoption of these measures recommended by the
Secretary-General.
We endorse, albeit with some concern, what has
been achieved through preventive diplomacy and
initiatives in the field of peace-keeping operations as well
as instruments for the maintenance of international peace
and security. These operations, so long as they are carried
out appropriately, can be very beneficial. The sums
required are minimal by comparison with the inevitable
enormous cost, in terms of human suffering and material
damage, of war and continued conflict. We congratulate
the Secretary-General on giving priority to preventive
diplomacy, and we hope that
this will be further
strengthened as an effective instrument of collective
security.
We are very interested in the report entitled “An
Agenda for Development” which the Secretary-General
presented to the General Assembly on 4 May 1994. This
report has given rise to a stimulating and lively debate.
During the Economic and Social Council’s discussions on
the subject, Governments indicated their desire to enhance
the effectiveness of the development activities of the
United Nations and to strengthen practical cooperation in
these activities. We believe that greater consistency must
be achieved in the criteria governing development
activities. This task cannot be postponed. All Member
States must categorically promote the adoption of an
action-oriented agenda that defines strategies, parameters
and the means of achieving reform of
the current
international economic system and of fulfilling many of
the aspirations of the developing world.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We are particularly concerned over the fact that the
question of foreign debt — a principal source of instability
in the developing world — is not reflected adequately in
the Secretary-General’s report. Nicaragua, as a country with
a high indebtedness, attributes great importance to this
subject. We believe that the United Nations should play a
greater role in the search for viable solutions to the whole
problem. An agenda for development, to be feasible, must
take into account
the impact of external debt on the
economies of the developing countries, especially the least
developed of them.
As regards the restructuring of the United Nations
development system, we are confident that the appointment
of an Administrator of the United Nations Development
Programme to help the Secretary-General
improve the
coordination of operational activities for development —
activities such as strengthening the role of the resident
coordinator and improving the consistency of policies in the
United Nations system — will yield good results.
I should like now to refer to a matter of major
importance to my delegation. My country, Nicaragua, is a
new democracy. The country and its people have recent
experience of a terrible internal conflict that devastated the
land for more than a decade. This experience has taught us
to believe in coexistence and in the merits of democracy.
In this context, we are particularly concerned that the
Secretary-General’s report — specifically the part dealing
with the
“Agenda for Peace” — does not adequately
address all the initiatives the United Nations system has
taken and all the support it has given to many countries of
the international community with a view to consolidating
peace and strengthening democracy and its institutions.
The strengthening of democracy is a vital component
of preventive diplomacy and of economic and social
development. The United Nations must feel proud of the
success of its efforts to consolidate democracy in various
parts of the world — among them, my country.
We consider that the Organization’s work in support
of democracy and peace must be strengthened and that it
merits close attention. Here we should like to refer to the
support of the United Nations for the holding of the Second
International Conference of New or Restored Democracies,
which took place in Managua, Nicaragua, last July and was
attended by 77 countries as participants or observers. This
would not have been possible without the support of the
United Nations system. In the Plan of Action that the
the Secretary-
Conference adopted it was agreed that
47th meeting
27 October 1994
General should be asked to prepare a study on how the
United Nations system could promote the consolidation of
new or restored democracies. In the coming days we shall
be submitting a draft resolution on this subject.
In conclusion, we should like to commend the
Secretary-General for his broad vision — the product of
his great experience as a diplomat and statesman. We
agree with the comment in his report that this difficult
period for mankind provides us with a great opportunity
to bring together, in a coherent and unified fashion, the
original
the world Organization. This
comprehensive vision would enable the United Nations to
enhance its operational effectiveness in dealing with the
multidimensional questions
related to an integrated
approach and renewed multilateral action.
aims
of
As it completes 50 years, the United Nations must
recognize that, in large part, the attitudes and experiences
of the past are no longer relevant. The new political
situation and the economic challenges that we face on the
threshold of
the twenty-first century require major
decisions on the part of the international community as a
whole. The time has come to cast off the shackles of the
past and to face together the challenges of world-wide
and economic social reconstruction.
Mr. Mwaungulu (Malawi), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Mr. Yoo (Republic of Korea): The delegation of the
Republic of Korea welcomes the report of the Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization. At the outset, I
would like to express my deep appreciation to the
Secretary-General and his staff for producing an important
and useful document. Today, the United Nations is deeply
involved in a wide range of issues which have a far-
reaching impact on our lives and the environment. It is
for
the
comprehensive yet concise overview of the whole range
of activities of the world body over the past 12 months.
delegation
that my
reason
values
this
Rather than trying to touch upon the multiplicity of
issues, activities and actors covered in the report, I will
make general observations on such key areas as
development, humanitarian assistance, peace-keeping
operations and the financial situation of the Organization.
the
Despite
in
development during the last 50 years, developing
countries are continuously confronted with daunting
achievements
considerable
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
challenges,
inadequate education and environmental degradation.
such as poverty, disease, unemployment
If the international community is to surmount these
challenges, it must continue to focus on development as a
top priority of the global agenda. As development is one of
the most effective means of preventive diplomacy,
development and peace naturally go hand in hand.
My delegation is pleased to see that
the United
Nations has progressively attached more importance to the
issue of development. The Secretary-General’s report
entitled “An Agenda for Development” is a most timely and
important document. We feel that in order to serve as a
strong complement to “An Agenda for Peace” the report
could be enhanced with further feasible and action-oriented
recommendations.
through its
Although individual countries must bear the primary
responsibility for development, national efforts must be
buttressed by international cooperation. The United Nations
is the most appropriate and capable forum to deal with this
vital issue, particularly in formulating a comprehensive
approach for development
capacity to
accumulate experience, expertise and human resources in
this field. At the same time, the reform and restructuring of
the United Nations should be continued and further
strengthened to meet new and complex responsibilities. In
coordination among development-related
this
agencies
the
Secretary-General’s decision to assign new responsibility to
the Administrator of the United Nations Development
Programme to assist him in enhancing policy coherence
with the United Nations and overall coordination of
operational activities for development. Given the broad-
based and comprehensive concept of development,
the
United Nations must reinforce its role in this area by
adopting a new approach which will effectively respond to
the challenging needs of developing countries.
is essential. My delegation welcomes
regard,
a
past
12 months,
the
number
the
has witnessed
international
During
community
of massive
humanitarian crises world wide. Particularly shocking is the
genocide committed in flagrant violation of the principles
and purposes of the United Nations Charter. Faced with
unprecedented humanitarian disasters caused by armed
ethnic and civil conflicts and natural disasters, the relevant
organs of the United Nations, particularly the Department
of Humanitarian Assistance, have played an instrumental
role in arranging and coordinating humanitarian assistance
to victims. However, the report alerts us to the disturbing
fact that over 30 million people in 29 countries are still
22
47th meeting
27 October 1994
plagued by humanitarian emergencies. Given the
magnitude of the situation, strengthened coordination
among the various actors in the humanitarian field, as
well as among the humanitarian, political and peace-
keeping activities of the United Nations, should be
strongly
the
international community to reinforce its assistance to the
affected populations, while the United Nations, through
the Department of Humanitarian Affairs
and the
Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC), continues to
endeavour to enhance its ability to respond quickly and in
a coherent manner.
encouraged. My
delegation
urges
With humanitarian relief operations frequently being
carried out in the midst of violent conflict, another major
challenge lies
in securing adequate protection for
humanitarian personnel. In this regard, principles and
operational guidelines for relief programmes in conditions
of conflict, which are being worked out under the
auspices of the IASC, should be elaborated as quickly as
possible.
Peace-keeping operations are also being conducted
in more challenging settings. As operations have increased
not only in peril but also in cost, it has become difficult
to find sufficient troops and support personnel to cope
with the most arduous tasks, while emergency conflict
situations demand rapid deployment of military and
civilian personnel. Moreover,
the persistent United
Nations financial crisis, due to the failure of Member
States to pay their assessments on time, has delayed
troop-contributor reimbursement.
In light of the difficult conditions surrounding peace-
keeping operations these days, more efforts should be
made to effectively employ preventive diplomacy. If
prevention has failed, the decision of the United Nations
to get involved in actual conflicts should be made with
discretion and prioritization. Greater focus should be
given to address the modality of intervention and the
means of securing necessary resources.
Finally, my delegation believes that ensuring an
adequate financial base is a central prerequisite for any
United Nations activity. The report shows that, as in
previous years, the financial situation of the Organization
has not seen any improvement over the past year. The
fact that the chronic state of financial crisis has always
been at the core of debates at the United Nations reflects
the complexity of this problem. My delegation agrees
with the Secretary-General’s observation that
the
unpredictability and irregularity of contributions from
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Member States make it extremely difficult to manage the
Organization effectively.
As one of the Member States which appreciates the
necessity of consistent and faithful payment of assessed
contributions, the Republic of Korea shares the concern
expressed by the Secretary-General
to the General
Assembly regarding the gravity of the financial situation of
the United Nations. My Government will carefully study
the ideas of the Secretary-General for extricating the
Organization from its financial predicament and make
further comments on them at the appropriate time.
Mr. Yassin (Sudan): The Secretary-General’s report
on the work of the Organization, contained in document
A/49/1 of 2 September 1994, is a valued and painstaking
human endeavour to make this world a better place to live
in. One can say with confidence that the report reflects the
Secretary-General’s eagerness to translate the hopes and
aspirations of the international community, to move beyond
the mistakes and hesitation of the past, even the near past,
and set the ongoing human march in the right direction,
towards realizing the respect and dignity of every individual
human being. As the task is no doubt difficult and
cumbersome, the report ascends into heights of considerable
achievements,
towards unaccomplished
endeavours and finally lands on thorny grounds of bitter
failures due to lack of either necessary funds and reporting
or the necessary political will of some Member States.
then descends
It is thus a true reflection of our diverse tendencies. It
is therefore evident that the Secretary-General in person,
and the Organization in general, require a true environment
of cooperation and goodwill, with an absence of self-
centred attitudes on the part of those who must be guided
by impartiality.
The report dwells on a multitude of United Nations
activities which are hard to cover in this limited statement.
But on the whole we can safely say that its main thrust is
the broader concept of the human aspect, a natural by-
product of the preoccupations of the Secretary-General
himself, already truly reflected in his “Agenda for Peace”
and also in his intended “Agenda for Development”. We
commend the Secretary-General for his efforts. Success or
failure, good or poor delivery,
is attributable to the
performance of those who are directly responsible for
participating, evaluating and even adjudicating without
malice or bad faith.
We cannot but agree with the report that peace and
security are organically linked to development. But, as the
47th meeting
27 October 1994
report truly reflects, what we have so far witnessed in
developmental activities and collective thinking is not
enough. The attainment of genuine peace and security
essentially means uprooting the lingering causes of
conflicts. Long-term development in its wider meaning is
the answer and the remedy. But, just as we concur with
the report that peace, a good economy, the environment,
and societies and good governance intermarry to produce
development, and just as we equally concur that peace,
justice, human rights and development are necessary
prerequisites for the advancement and welfare of nations,
it is equally important to ascertain their universality in
application and practice. Certain States cannot simply
impose their own interpretations and applications of these
lofty concepts on others
indiscriminately. Different
nations adopt different applications, which are also sound
and just. The commitment remains the same however.
It is against this background that we view the efforts
of the Organization to realize and cement peace and
security world wide. The strategic preoccupations of big
nations, whether military, economic or political, should
not devour the interests or aspirations of smaller nations.
Democratic norms can never be applied ready-made. Each
nation has the right to apply the form of democracy most
suitable to satisfying the political, social and religious
inclinations of its own citizens. The objective is the real
contribution of citizens in self-rule, good governance and
full accountability to the people.
Allow me to go into somewhat greater detail.
Sudan fully supports the continuing process of
streamlining the structures and work of all United Nations
bodies. But what we aspire to is perfection with the least
expense, achievements without overlooking important
areas or issues.
The
role of
the General Assembly in the
maintenance of international peace and security should be
strengthened in order to achieve equity with the Security
Council.
As for the enlargement of the Security Council and
how it should function, we support
the input of the
non-aligned countries in this respect. In broad terms, we
believe that membership of
the Security Council,
permanent or non-permanent, is a responsibility by proxy
and not a privilege and that the Council represents a
sensitive scale that must be balanced and not unbalanced,
a platform on which to spell out the real attitudes and
convictions of the whole international community and not
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
a sanctuary for those who want to govern the world. In this
context we feel that it is of special importance that the
group entrusted with the task of looking to improve the
work of the Council should broaden its contacts to include
regional organizations, whose role in maintaining regional
peace and security is still marginalized. We are particularly
worried that the Council is increasingly tilting towards
inconsistency and clandestine methods of work.
There must, we believe, be strict guiding principles for
peace-keeping operations. The non-aligned have offered a
handsome contribution in this respect.
As for regional conflicts, we continue to emphasize
the fact
that sustained economic growth and equitable
functioning of the world economy are the most appropriate
approaches. This can clearly be seen in the case of
developing countries.
The experience involved in the creation of the Office
of the High Commissioner for Human Rights is an evolving
one. The report gives considerable space to this. But, as this
experience is still under way, we continue to support the
ideas presented by the non-aligned with a view to
consolidating the High Commissioner’s mandate. But on the
whole we do not concur with the continuing inclination to
use the pretext of the protection of human rights as a
political excuse to interfere in the internal affairs of
sovereign States. Respect for human rights should be
universal; and human rights should be strictly observed by
all States.
In the Secretary-General’s report the situation in the
Sudan is described as follows:
“The Sudan remains one of the most enduring
and serious humanitarian crises in the world.” (A/49/1,
para. 355)
We consider this statement to be highly generalized, not
really factual, rather inflammatory and motivated by the
idea of exerting pressure on Sudan. The Arabic translation
gives the statement a more strident
tone and shows a
subjective approach. The figures quoted concerning the
number who have died because of the hostilities or the
number who were displaced are far from true. The total is
stated to be 6 million. The truth is that the entire population
of the southern Sudan in time of peace does not reach that
figure. The truth also is that about 3 million inhabitants of
the south have moved northwards seeking protection from
the inhuman treatment and banditry of all the rebel factions.
24
47th meeting
27 October 1994
We would have preferred truthfulness, accuracy and
professionalism in this type of description.
some
allegedly
The report also speaks of cases of the Government’s
non-cooperation with
non-governmental
organizations which has
contributed to
obstructing the delivery of emergency aid to those in
need. The truth is that the Government has established a
large commission to facilitate the work of non-
governmental organizations in Sudan. It has successfully
concluded an agreement encompassing every non-
governmental organization operating in the country. It
also consented to their request to choose five of their
number as coordinators with governmental authorities. I
should like to confirm from this rostrum that the large
majority of
these organizations are operating in all
tranquillity with all the Sudanese authorities concerned.
Some, however, tend to exceed their mandate and meddle
in the internal affairs of the country. Sudan is not the
only example; similar examples can be cited from various
parts of the world. The sense of mission should not
overlap the humanitarian outlook of these organizations.
Public opinion in their own constituencies at home should
not blind them to the truth as they see it in reality, on the
ground. In this respect, Sudan accepts the testimony of
the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),
the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and
other non-governmental organizations.
that
this
conflict,
I find it my duty to inform this body, as my Minister
did earlier,
the Government of Sudan has made
extensive strides in its untiring search for a peaceful
settlement of
inflamed by external
interference. Our efforts, however, will continue to be in
vain if we are not left alone to settle our differences. As
the Sudan Government has, in good faith, signed three
Sudan Lifeline operations agreements, it is time for the
world to condemn the rebel movements
that are
obstructing, looting and confiscating food and medicine
aid. The United Nations authorities have adequately
proved this. My delegation will take up this matter again
at a later stage, during the consideration of this item in
the appropriate Committee.
the comprehensive report on the work of
Mr. Henze (Germany): First of all I should like to
join others in thanking the Secretary-General and his staff
for
the
Organization (A/49/1). It demonstrates once again the
increasing demands made on the United Nations and the
Secretary-General.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Whereas during the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly much attention was devoted to the development
and improvement of peace-keeping activities based on “An
Agenda for Peace” (A/47/27), this year we must once again
focus our work on the problems of economic and social
development. We welcome the intention of the Secretary-
General to correct the misperception that the United Nations
is primarily devoted to peace-keeping. Important as this
field of activities is, the United Nations will succeed in its
purpose “to maintain international peace and security” only
if it deals with the roots of instability. We share the view
of the Secretary-General that many conflicts have economic
and social origins. The prevention of conflicts must
therefore start at their roots. In this context the Agenda for
Development must be the centrepiece of our work.
report
In his
“An Agenda
the foundations of
for Development”
(A/48/935), the Secretary-General has provided us with an
in-depth analysis of
international
cooperation for development. The fundamental changes in
the political situation and in economic policy world wide
have created a new environment in which we have a real
chance of “bringing to fulfilment a renewed vision of
development”. The Agenda
for Development must
complement
the Agenda for Peace as there is a clear
interrelationship between peace and development.
Without peace there can be no development, and
without development we will face increasing insecurity and
conflicts in many parts of the world. A new framework for
addressing new dimensions of development, including the
role the United Nations could play is indeed strongly
needed.
These past years have made us understand that
development is of a very complex nature and that it is not
enough to promote simple economic growth. That is why
my Government strongly supports the concept of the five
dimensions of development identified and defined in the
Report of the Secretary-General. They should be seen as
part of an integrated concept of sustainable human
development. The addendum to be prepared by the
Secretary-General
five
dimensions in order to reach a number of operational
conclusions.
should be built upon these
a
clear
We share the view expressed in the Secretary-
General’s report “An Agenda for Development” that there
is
stability and
development. Democracy, development and respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent
primary
and mutually
linkage between political
reinforcing. They
the
are
47th meeting
27 October 1994
responsibility of Governments, which have to ensure the
framework conditions for development.
The process of rendering the Agenda operational
must be based on a spirit of partnership founded on
recognition of mutual interest and solidarity. There is a
need to recognize the increasing diversity of
the
developing world and the growing differentiation among
developing countries. Several developing countries are
now key actors in the world economy and should play an
increased role in development cooperation efforts. There
is also a need to recognize the role of new actors in
development, including non-governmental actors.
The fight against poverty is a centrepiece of
development assistance. The addendum to the Agenda for
Development should pay particular attention to the least-
developed countries and Africa. Particular problems of
countries in transition should also be addressed.
on
integrating
A number of conferences held this year and to be
held in 1995 are dealing with development-related
problems. In May we discussed the problems of small
island countries and agreed on a plan of action. The
International Conference on Population and Development
in Cairo not only focused attention on the central issue —
it was also able to reach a broad
population — but
agreement
and
development. Next year the World Summit for Social
Development
in Copenhagen, which has been an
important issue this week, will have to agree on a set of
commitments on the
eradication of poverty, on
employment and on social integration. These are essential
elements of national and international stability. The
Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing will not
only recognize
role of women in
development but also, as we hope, agree on guidelines for
further promoting this role.
population
important
issues
the
these conferences
The United Nations is the only forum where we can
integrate the results of
into a
comprehensive concept for development. But in order to
do so the role of the United Nations in development has
to be revitalized. Further reforms designed to increase its
relevance in this field are needed. We look forward to the
addendum to the report of the Secretary-General on an
Agenda for Development, which we hope will contain
proposals to this effect.
In conclusion, my Government believes
that
development is a fundamental human right. Peace as the
foundation, the economy as the engine of progress, the
25
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
environment as a basis for sustainability, justice as a pillar
of society, and democracy as good governance constitute
the safest foundation for its realization.
Mr. Abibi (Congo) (interpretation from French): The
report on the work of the Organization provided to us every
year by the Secretary-General gives us an opportunity to
assess the progress made on the road travelled by the
international community in its quest for more freedom,
security, peace and social progress for all people.
First of all my delegation would like to pay a well-
deserved tribute to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and express our great
appreciation for the high quality of the document before us.
We noted in particular that the report describes clearly
all aspects of the activities of the Organization, ranging
from our many achievements — some of which still have
to be strengthened — to the innumerable challenges that
still lie before us, and some understandable shortcomings
that remain to be dealt with. The report presents to us the
Organization as it is today and as it functions today on the
eve of its fiftieth anniversary and thus helps us to better
understand the actual limits of the United Nations system.
It also highlights the main axes round which we should
focus our thoughts so as to provide our Organization with
the conceptual resources and the operational resources that
are necessary in order to take up the major challenges
facing the international community today.
The Organization can pride itself on a number of
achievements during the period covered by the report. One
of the first was the historic change in South Africa with the
eradication of apartheid, a major event
in which this
Organization had invested enormous energies. Likewise,
persevering and patient work in Mozambique allows us to
glimpse, with the holding of free elections, the prospect of
a happy future for this brother country. In Angola, the
forthcoming signing of the peace agreement, thanks to the
outstanding work of the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, will unquestionably do credit
to the
United Nations.
These few achievements on our continent strengthen
our belief that with a stronger political will on the part of
Member States the United Nations will be able to solve the
other absurd conflicts that still engulf certain African
countries, putting an end to the nightmare suffered by
innocent peoples who are forced to wandering through their
own homelands. That is why my country cannot endorse
any attempt to have the United Nations disengage from
26
47th meeting
27 October 1994
certain hot points that are mainly in Africa. My country
believes that we must constantly urge the various parties
to these conflicts to show greater
responsibility by
cooperating with the United Nations to seek lasting
solutions to the problems undermining their countries.
My delegation believes that
the peace-keeping
operations maintained by the United Nations, if entered
into with care and with respect for the provisions of the
Charter, contribute enormously to the safeguarding of
international peace and security. We reaffirm here the
commitment of the Republic of the Congo to increasing
its future contributions as a troop-contributing country.
My delegation also believes that within the context of
those peace-keeping operations, the United Nations, in the
spirit of the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter,
should step up its cooperation with regional bodies, and
in the particular case of Africa,
the
Organization of African States (OAU) in making the
latter’s conflict prevention, management and settlement
mechanisms more effective.
that
it assist
The United Nations is an instrument for peace; it
must also efficiently promote development. My delegation
welcomes the emerging consensus among the Member
States that, as the report emphasizes in several places,
today’s world,
the
“In the altered context of
definition of security is no longer
limited to
questions of land and weapons. It now includes
economic well-being, environmental sustainability
and the protection of human rights”.
(A/49/1,
para. 4).
This point was made on 27 September 1994 from
this very rostrum by the Congolese Foreign Minister,
when he said,
“peace and security in our States and throughout the
world require a solution to our people’s economic
and social problems” (Official Records of
the
General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary
Meetings, 7th meeting, p. 44).
Unfortunately, as the report very rightly points out,
“While we have seen some progress towards peace
and conflict management, we have seen little
concerted action towards development”. (Ibid.)
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
47th meeting
27 October 1994
The case of Africa vividly illustrates these weaknesses in
terms of international solidarity and the failure to live up to
commitments entered into.
escape the destiny of abject poverty and to take their
rightful place in the international community.
This is a time of great hope for economic recovery in
many parts of our planet, suggesting that we will soon
emerge from the turbulence imposed by the crisis that the
world has been facing and that has highlighted the vanity
of ideological and doctrinaire clichés on economic matters;
Africa, however, stands tragically apart from this general
movement. Our marginalization at the levels of international
technology,
trade, monetary
communication
is
increasingly apparent. To this we can add the reduction in
official development assistance and the burden of foreign
debt, which remains one of the most serious hindrances to
African countries’ efforts
to mobilize the necessary
resources for development. The socio-economic situation of
Africa remains disturbing.
information
exchanges
finances,
affairs,
and
of
Unfortunately, the report hardly reassures us, as it
confirms a negative trend: resources devoted to operational
activities of the United Nations for development continue,
tragically, to drop. My delegation therefore appeals to donor
they establish a more stable financing
countries that
mechanism and work resolutely to implement
the
commitments they have entered into. When all is said and
done, the problem here is that which is quite rightly noted
in the report, and with which my delegation agrees
wholeheartedly:
“The United Nations must renew and strengthen its
commitment
to work in the economic and social
fields”. (Ibid., para. 4)
As the twentieth century draws to an close, with the
end of the cold war and with the enormous potential
offered by science and technology, mankind has the means
to usher
in a new era based on sustainable human
development for everyone, everywhere. We agree with the
point emphasized by the report that
“As a forum for discussion and awareness-raising, as
a tool for cooperation and decision-making, and as a
vehicle for promoting multilateral action, the United
Nations
can help forge
the necessary global
consensus” (A/49/1, para. 9)
the attainment of
for
is why the
Organization offers hope for the future to small countries
such as my own that struggle with all their energy to
this goal. That
on
report
Mr. Gambari (Nigeria): I consider it a great honour
and a distinct privilege to address this Assembly on the
Secretary-General’s
our
Organization. My delegation attaches great importance to
the work of the United Nations, which holds the greatest
hope for the maintenance of international peace and
security and the enhancement of international cooperation
for desirable economic growth and social development in
a sound and sustainable environment.
the work
of
I would like to commend the efforts and the
demonstrated determination of our very able Secretary-
General to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of our
Organization. I would also like to state that my delegation
endorses the position of the non-aligned countries, as ably
presented earlier by my colleague, the representative of
Indonesia. I would like, however, to make a few specific
comments on some of the issues raised.
the members of
The profound and rapid changes on the international
scene make it necessary for
this
Assembly to renew their commitment to the objectives of
the United Nations as set up by the founding fathers.
Happily, the cold war has ended, and there is a new
opportunity to fulfil the principles and purposes of the
United Nations as contained in the Charter of our
Organization.
the
Nevertheless,
post-cold-war world
has,
regrettably, witnessed numerous
extremely serious
conflicts, sometimes of an ethnic or tribal nature, in some
regions of the world. The United Nations has been called
upon to play leading roles to solve or manage such
conflicts. Unfortunately, Member States have not always
matched the authorizations of peace-keeping operations
and peacemaking efforts with the necessary resources.
these conflicts have also assumed such
Many of
dimensions and complexities that
they pose serious
consequences for the maintenance of international peace
and security.
However, it is the view of my delegation that the
United Nations must continue to persevere in its efforts to
promote lasting solutions to these conflicts, wherever they
may occur. Our Organization cannot simply pack up and
exit from Somalia, for example, or from Liberia while
staying on in Bosnia,
in Lebanon and
elsewhere. Peace is truly indivisible and the search for
peace is the collective responsibility of all of us.
in Cyprus,
27
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Member States should demonstrate renewed political
will to support the efforts of the Secretary-General in the
quest for peace and security, economic growth and social
development, which are all necessary bases and foundations
for international and human solidarity, which the Secretary-
General has called for in both the “Agenda for Peace” and
the complementary “Agenda for Development”. In our
view,
there
sustainable
development.
can be no peace without
My delegation endorses the Secretary-General’s call to
Members to consider making prompt payment of assessed
contributions for the operations of the Organization. The
prompt payment of assessed contributions is to be regarded
as a priority for all of us in order
to enhance the
effectiveness of our Organization and better to facilitate the
operation of United Nations organs and several of its
activities. Good intentions and comprehensive programmes
of action can be useful only when supported by the
necessary financial resources on the part of Member States.
While there must be strict adherence to the principles of
mutual respect for the equality and sovereignty of States,
the rights of all States effectively to participate in the
deliberations and decision-making mechanism of the United
Nations on issues of global and regional interest must be
balanced
financial
responsibilities and obligations to the Organization. The
financial difficulty of the United Nations as reported
recently by the Secretary-General demands the urgent
attention of all Members.
by Members’
fulfilling
their
My delegation commented earlier on Security Council
reforms and has already made suggestions on the review of
the Council’s composition and operation. We will continue
to make constructive contributions to the ongoing debate
and consultations on Security Council reform and related
matters. Specifically, democratization and transparency in
its operation must remain the cornerstones of the process of
reform, not only in the Security Council but in other forums
of our Organization as well.
The United Nations, which has provided a forum for
dialogue to defuse several hotbeds of tension in the world,
remains a veritable catalyst in the efforts to maintain peace
and security through the enforcement of
fundamental
human rights. The Charter of the United Nations, which
embodies the principles that are basic to the attainment of
international peace and security, needs the support of all
Members at
is
therefore my delegation’s belief that each and every one of
us has a stake in a shared responsibility to strengthen our
Organization. This is necessary in order to make it more
the turn of the century and beyond. It
28
47th meeting
27 October 1994
able and capable of achieving the objectives of
maintaining international peace and security in a
politically stable and economically sound atmosphere.
My delegation will support
intensified efforts to
strengthen coordination and collaboration among the
major organs of the United Nations. In particular, we
support greater
consultation between the General
Assembly and the Security Council on all major issues of
common concern. My delegation supports the suggestion
that the Economic and Social Council should be made to
play a more active role in the renewed efforts to support
economic and social development as envisaged in the
Secretary-General’s report.
The ongoing exercise within the United Nations
system to improve internal coordination and cooperation
aimed at eliminating waste and at strengthening the
effective utilization of
in the
implementation of programmes and approved projects
should be encouraged and supported. In this regard, we
commend the efforts of the Secretary-General and his
collaborators, and we urge them to intensify those efforts.
resources
available
Finally, it is my delegation’s view that the United
Nations can be better strengthened through our renewed
commitment and actions in support of the objectives of
our Organization as enunciated in its Charter and of the
idea of shared global responsibility and new partnership
in development. We believe that, with the requisite
political will and renewed commitment to the idea of
human solidarity,
international peace and security,
economic growth and sustainable development in a sound
environment can be achieved under a reinvigorated United
Nations, while our efforts and priority should continue to
be focused on peacemaking, preventive diplomacy,
appropriate mechanisms for conflict resolution, and peace-
building.
Mr. Zawels
(Argentina)
(interpretation
from
Spanish): The Argentine delegation is delighted that the
General Assembly is again discussing a report of the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization. For a
number of years now, the Secretary-General’s reports
have helped us to reflect on the tasks facing the
Organization. In this context, we wish to highlight the
document submitted to us this year by the Secretary-
General. We appreciate not only the format, which
includes tables and graphs based on statistics, but also the
report’s comprehensive approach, which emphasizes that
there is an interrelationship between the question of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
47th meeting
27 October 1994
economic and social development and the question of
international peace and security.
which are a crucial element for the developing world as
a whole.
Any organization, to fulfil the tasks assigned to it,
must have sufficient and necessary resources. In recent
years the United Nations has suffered a chronic shortfall in
the flow of financial resources. This has given rise to a
persistent crisis, described by the Secretary-General as
unprecedented. It is clear that the main cause of this crisis
is the fact that Member States do not pay their dues in full
or punctually. In the view of the Argentine Republic, this
crisis should be thoroughly analysed. Only by considering
all the elements of the crisis will it be possible to find
appropriate solutions to every aspect of the problem. We
believe that this is a matter of priority, because if a solution
is not found to this problem the United Nations runs the
risk of seeing its various tasks seriously compromised, in
the field both of economic and social development and of
international peace and security.
forum for debate and for
The United Nations Charter assigns a central role to
the United Nations in the field of economic development.
For the Argentine Republic, the mandate of the United
Nations in this sphere encompasses two directly interrelated
the United Nations is an
areas. On the one hand,
exceptional
increasing the
international community’s
international
economic problems. In this respect, the agreements reached
- for example at the special session of the Group of 18, the
Rio Summit and the Cairo Conference - undoubtedly
constitute milestones in defining the general political
guidelines that
should govern international economic
activities.
awareness of
Unfortunately, real-world indicators tell us that each
time we meet we find ourselves farther removed from the
world that we envisage here in these halls. We believe that
most of the international economic problems could be
resolved if each country present here were to put into
practice the commitments undertaken.
The debate on a programme for development
constitutes once again an opportunity to put into practice,
from an overall, realistic and pragmatic standpoint, the
guidelines agreed on in the documents mentioned earlier.
Secondly, the United Nations, and in the particular the
United Nations Development Programme, have a central
role to play in cooperation for development, promoting,
through the operational activities of the system, concrete
programmes of economic cooperation for development,
Argentina views with great concern the reduction in
contributions suffered by the system at large. We hope
that
the negotiations which are to take place in the
framework of restructuring the economic and social
system of the United Nations will make it easier in future
to be able to rely on adequate and foreseeable resources,
so that the United Nations can efficiently and effectively
fulfil its mandate in this field.
In the social sphere,
the Republic of Argentina
attaches particular
importance to the protection and
promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
because we are firmly convinced that
is virtually
impossible to live together in international peace until the
last vestige of oppression of the world’s peoples is
eliminated. At the present time, it is hard to identify any
international crisis that does not contain some element of
human-rights violation.
it
In this context, we reaffirm our commitment to the
strengthening of the machinery of the United Nations in
the field of human rights and in particular to the Office of
the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
In this context, we want
The Republic of Argentina attaches great importance,
especially in the framework of the fiftieth anniversary of
this Organization, to the holding of high-level meetings
aimed at reviewing economic and social development
issues.
to underscore the
importance of upcoming meetings such as the World
Summit on Social Development for Social Development
and the Fourth World Conference on Women. In this
connection, it will be remembered that my country had
the pleasure recently of organizing the sixth regional
conference on the integration of women in economic and
social development, held in the city of Mar del Plata,
which was a preparatory meeting, in the framework of
Latin America and the Caribbean,
the Beijing
Conference.
for
We have already referred to the close link between
peace and development. In this context, the Republic of
Argentina sees enormous potential in all of the United
Nations operational activities for development. None the
less, there is room for improvement in one particular area
of the system’s work: the link between the emergency
stage and that of rehabilitation for development.
29
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In this respect, the delegation of Argentina will be
proposing to the Assembly, for its consideration at this
session and in the context of agenda item 37, on emergency
humanitarian assistance, implementation of an initiative by
the President of the Republic of Argentina, Mr. Carlos
Menem: which he called the "White Helmets".
The terms of
reference of
the proposal are the
following.
First, with respect to the mandate, countries would
establish national volunteer corps with a high level of
professionalism in the field of technical assistance for
emergency situations
followed by rehabilitation for
development. These volunteer corps will be made available
to the Secretary-General for participation in emergency
operations.
to
as
aspects,
Secondly,
institutional
existing
multilateral mechanisms must be fully utilized. The United
Nations has, in the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, an
excellent mechanism for coordination, and in the United
Nations volunteers a perfect operational instrument. The
proposal would make optimal use of them.
Thirdly, with respect to the financial aspects, every
country is responsible for financing, for which,
in all
countries, the participation of the private sector would be
encouraged.
We hope, through this practical and viable proposal,
which maximizes the potential of the volunteer work force,
to contribute to the work of
the United Nations in
rehabilitation for development, which affects more and
more countries in the wake of natural or man-made
disasters.
Lastly, we wish to refer only briefly, because we will
elaborate on this subject in the debate on the report of the
Security Council to the General Assembly, to the role of
the United Nations in the sphere of international peace and
security. The United Nations Secretariat has an exceptional
role to play in the implementation of the system of
collective security.
through the
management and organization of peace-keeping operations,
good-offices missions or fact-finding missions.
It accomplishes
this
The Republic of Argentina wishes to underscore the
work accomplished in this field by the United Nations
Secretariat, in particular in meeting the growing demand for
personnel and equipment for the various peace-keeping
30
47th meeting
27 October 1994
operations that are under way and also in restructuring its
own internal organization.
With Argentina’s active participation in peace-
keeping, we can value the work of
the Secretariat
especially. Argentina is contributing to this effort, not
only with troops and specialized units, but also through
military personnel seconded to the Secretariat and
concrete proposals to organize some of
the current
systems, such as air transport. In this context, Argentina
also supports the system of reserve forces, which it
believes will be highly useful in the future.
Nor should we fail to mention the subject of the
safety of peace-keeping operations personnel. Argentina
pays tribute to the men and women who have given their
lives in the fulfilment of the tasks assigned them by the
United Nations. In this context, we appeal to States to
cooperate with a view to the adoption by the Assembly of
the draft convention on the safety and security of
personnel, prepared by the Ad Hoc Committee of the
Sixth Committee.
report
rapidly
Mr. Pierre
shows, over
the past year
(Guyana): The
evolving
circumstances of the current international context continue
to present a host of challenges, as well as new
opportunities, for the United Nations. As the Secretary-
General’s
the
Organization has actively sought to address the manifold
critical global events and issues requiring urgent action
and international collaboration. While the responsiveness
of the Organization is evidently now less handicapped by
obstacles previously produced by ideological rivalries of
the cold war, it has been limited by various constraints.
However, despite this fact,
the United Nations has
undoubtedly made concerted efforts to deal with the
pressing demands it now faces.
encompassing
sustainability,
An encouraging feature of this year’s report is the
emphasis placed upon the multidimensional nature of
international peace and security, which is now correctly
economic well-being,
perceived
as
environmental
democracy
the
protection of human rights. It is gratifying to note that
economic and social
issues are increasingly gaining
prominence on the international agenda and within the
framework of the United Nations, where it is accepted
that there is an inextricable interlinkage and a symbiotic
relationship between international peace and security and
development. The Secretary-General has affirmed in his
report that
and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
“the United Nations is deepening its attention to the
foundations of peace, which lie in the realm of
development.” (A/49/1, para. 1)
It is widely acknowledged within the membership of
the United Nations that the current structure, which was
originally conceived almost half a century ago to address
the traditional narrow concepts of international peace and
security, is not in consonance with the prevailing global
realities now compelling the Organization to address a
myriad of unprecedented and complex issues and events.
Over the past year considerable progress has been
made in deliberations and decisions regarding reform and
restructuring of the Organization to enhance its efficiency
and effectiveness.
With respect to the Security Council, the extensive and
very constructive deliberations on the structure and
functioning of that body were encouraging and positive, and
they augur well for the future. It is hoped that concrete and
timely results will emerge from the general agreement that
the Council should be enlarged and made more democratic,
transparent and representative of the current United Nations
membership.
some positive measures were
implemented to make its functioning transparent, and the
General Assembly is apparently playing a more active role
in addressing the functioning of the Council.
Indeed,
In response
to the growing concerns of
the
international community on the issue of human rights, the
United Nations has sought to enhance its effectiveness in
addressing this
issue by creating the post of High
Commissioner for Human Rights. It is expected that this
decision will result in the active promotion by the United
Nations of the enjoyment of civil, cultural, economic,
political and social rights, which form the basis of human-
centred development.
The Agenda for Development, which was initiated as
a response, and, indeed, a necessary complement, to the
Agenda for Peace, launched in 1992, has been the subject
of intensive consultations over the past year. The World
Hearings on Development have elicited positive reactions
from the international community and will certainly serve
to advance the many concerns and proposals that will
eventually be integrated into the Agenda for Development.
It is hoped that the Agenda for Development will provide
the
the
international community to adopt an integrated and dynamic
approach to the promotion of development that focuses on
enduring human progress as its ultimate objective.
fundamental principles
and guidelines
for
47th meeting
27 October 1994
interrelated
encompasses
During discussions on this subject it was constantly
stressed that the United Nations needed to improve its
own internal structures and operations to effectively
promote the new concept of sustainable development,
which
various
issues —
something that could result
in duplication and an
unnecessary waste of scarce resources. It was widely felt
that more
and
approaches were required to streamline the Organization’s
work in this vital area. The decision of the Secretary-
General
to mandate the Administrator of the United
Nations Development Programme with responsibility to
enhance the coordination of operational activities for
development was a direct response to such appeals.
and coordinated policies
coherent
It
and social development
is indeed commendable that, despite pressing
financial constraints and a severe shortfall in resources for
development, the United Nations is demonstrating the will
to expand and enhance its activities in the area of
economic
a manifest
acknowledgment that development is a sine qua non for
lasting international peace and security. The convening of
a number of
international conferences on relevant
development issues during the past year further attests to
this international commitment. It is sincerely hoped that
the findings and conclusions of these conferences will
benefit from a continued global commitment and thereby
produce positive long-term results.
as
While the United Nations continued actively to
pursue its humanitarian and peace-keeping activities
occasioned by the eruption of numerous internal conflicts
and emergency situations of a global dimension,
it
nevertheless made stringent efforts to maintain its role in
preventive diplomacy and peacemaking. The numerous
peace-keeping operations and relief activities carried out
in the last year continue to strain the Organization’s
limited resources. However, these are a vital responsibility
of the international community that cannot and must not
be neglected.
Preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping should be
a priority of the United Nations since such measures
would serve to prevent human suffering and an
unnecessary and undesirable depletion of all resources.
The successful outcome of preventive diplomacy and
peacemaking, which have political, economic and social
components, should obviate the outbreak of conflicts and
the concomitant necessity for costly peace-keeping
exercises.
31
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
On a more positive note, the world was happy to
witness the progress achieved in the Middle East peace
process and the acceptance by the membership of the
United Nations of the credentials of Israel. The entry of a
democratic and non-racial South Africa into the United
Nations was another highlight of the year. It is sincerely
hoped that this spirit of cooperation and conciliation and the
promotion of democracy globally will continue to gather
impetus and serve to enhance the functioning of the United
Nations.
towards
assiduously
With the impending fiftieth anniversary of this body,
all Member States should strive to make a renewed
commitment to assist in the rebirth of an Organization that
sets the well-being of all peoples as its ultimate objective.
In view of
the rapid globalization process and the
increasing interdependence between nations, we should
work
international
cooperation and towards adopting an integrated and
dynamic approach to address the root causes of conflict in
order
and security. The
international community increasingly looks to the United
Nations to resolve global problems. However, this cannot
be
serious
commitment by all Member States. Let us not allow
ourselves to become complacent, but,
instead, strive
relentlessly towards achieving greater progress.
effectively achieved unless
lasting peace
to achieve
enhancing
there
is
a
The President: It is customary for the Assembly to
take note of the annual report of the Secretary-General. If
I hear no objection, may I take it that the Assembly wishes
to take note of the report?
It was so decided.
The President:
those
representatives who wish to speak in exercise of the right
of reply.
now call
shall
on
I
47th meeting
27 October 1994
“None the less, the level of tension in Jammu and
Kashmir has increased considerably in recent years.”
(A/49/1, para. 541)
Members of the Assembly will recall that this rather
sweeping assertion, covering a longish period of time,
was totally absent from the Secretary-General’s report to
the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
My Government’s response to that rather puzzling
conclusion in the Secretary-General’s
report was
conveyed in a statement issued by the official spokesman
of the Government of India on 24 September 1994. He
said:
repeatedly
“We note the Secretary-General’s reference to
increase in tension in Jammu and Kashmir. As we
have
been
acknowledged by impartial observers, this is entirely
due to Pakistan’s sponsorship of terrorism, militancy
and extremism across the line of control.”
said,
this
and
has
The spokesman went on to say:
India
expects
“The Government of
the
Government of Pakistan will demonstrate sincerity
to find a peaceful solution by eschewing sponsorship
of terrorism across the line of control, and returning
to the negotiating table for bilateral dialogue.”
that
The representative of Pakistan has asserted that there
is a threat to peace and security. I would request him to
reconcile this with repeated statements of the Defence
Minister of Pakistan discounting the possibility of war.
The same has been said by senior representatives of
Pakistan’s armed forces. Need I suggest that the purpose
of the Pakistani eloquence in this General Assembly is
somewhat different?
May I remind members that statements in exercise of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes for the second, and should
be made by delegations from their seats.
What is being concealed is Pakistan’s illicit desire
for Indian territory. In pursuit of this, Pakistan has used
war — and terrorism, on its own admission — as well as
sophistry and chicanery.
Mr. Sreenivasan (India): The delegation of Pakistan
has ceased to surprise. Its focus on India has become
somewhat tiresome, its arguments too evidently motivated.
The portion of the statement of the representative of
Pakistan relating to India was anchored in paragraphs 541
and 542 of the Secretary-General’s report in document
A/49/1. It
is still not clear to my delegation how the
Secretary-General has drawn the conclusion:
We in India shall not succumb to any of this. We
have offered our hand of friendship to Pakistan. We have
repeatedly offered a bilateral dialogue to Pakistan. We
have consistently emphasized that the Simla Agreement
of 1972, signed by President Bhutto of Pakistan and
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India, remains very
much in place, and is the only viable framework,
32
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
mutually agreed upon, under which such a bilateral
dialogue with a view to settling differences can take place.
For the dialogue to resume, Pakistan merely has to
propose a time and a place, either in India or in Pakistan,
for a meeting. No international intervention, no resolution,
no new modality is required for such a dialogue. It would
be counterproductive.
Mr. Akram (Pakistan): Our colleague from India has
sought
to deny what India is doing on the ground in
Kashmir. He has challenged the report of the Secretary-
General of the United Nations. The Secretary-General’s
report is objective and truthful. The falsehood emanates
from New Delhi. The situation between India and Pakistan
is tense because, for the past five years, India has sent an
army of over half a million men into Jammu and Kashmir.
This army is engaged in a campaign of repression and
genocide against the innocent Kashmiri people.
The Defence Minister of Pakistan has stated that there
is no threat of war because Pakistan has exercised self-
restraint despite Indian provocations and has refused to
answer the provocations of India. It is for this reason that
there is no threat to war. In the month of August, Indian
forces along the line of control violated the cease-fire line
142 times. This is confirmed by the United Nations Military
Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP).
In the Indian press there are reports of daily killings.
Mr. Banyal, Hindustan Times, 13 October — a typical
example:
“Not a single day passes when two or three dozen
people are not killed in the valley or other parts of the
State of Jammu and Kashmir.”
The Indian Prime Minister held out a threat
to
Pakistan, on 15 August, when he threatened to complete the
unfinished task by regaining Azad Kashmir by force. This
statement was a virtual threat of war against Pakistan, and
yet my colleague from India argues that there is no threat
to peace. The Secretary-General is right; the representative
of India is wrong.
India blames Pakistan for instigating the tension by
terrorism. But the Kashmiri struggle against a half-million-
strong Indian army is not terrorism. The Kashmiris have a
right to self-defence in the exercise of their right to self-
determination. This is their inherent, inborn right, and no
one can take this away from them. India is responsible for
State terrorism against the Kashmiri people and Pakistan
47th meeting
27 October 1994
condemns this State terrorism which India resorts to.
Pakistan has offered monitoring of the line of control by
UNMOGIP. We have proposed to strengthen UNMOGIP
from 35 to 200 observers. I hope India can accept that
offer so that India’s allegations of cross-border assistance
to the Kashmiris can be verified by these observers.
Anyone is free to visit any part of Azad Kashmir or
any part of Pakistan. I hope India can say the same about
Indian-held Jammu and Kashmir.
India blames everything wrong that happens within
India on Pakistan. Recently, a distinguished Indian deputy
opposition leader claimed that Pakistan had sent infested
rats into Kashmir to spread the plague. This is the extent
of the depravity of the thought processes that take place
in India.
India offers bilateral dialogue to Pakistan and does
not want intercession by any third party. But the only two
agreements concluded between India and Pakistan were
concluded with the intercession of third parties: the one
concerning the Rann of Kush dispute and the Indus
Waters Treaty. No dispute — no major dispute —
between India and Pakistan has ever been resolved
through bilateral means. What
India wants through
bilateralism is simply hegemonism, Indian diktat — and
Pakistan is not prepared to submit to Indian diktat.
India talks about bilateralism. Ten rounds of talks
were held in 1972; seven rounds of talks were held
between 1990 and 1993. At each round of talks, India
took the position that Jammu and Kashmir was an integral
part of India and that there was nothing to talk about.
There is an inherent contradiction in the Indian position.
If they are prepared to discuss the Jammu and Kashmir
dispute, then
33
47th meeting
27 October 1994
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
it cannot be an integral part of India. Let India say this
openly, and let India halt its war against the Kashmiri
people, and we can resume talks, we can reach an
agreement, we can conclude peace with India, we can clasp
hands in friendship and bring prosperity to over a billion
people. But let India stop its killing in Kashmir.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded the
present stage of its consideration of agenda item 10.
The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.
34
