United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
35th Meeting
Tuesday, 18 October 1994, 10 a.m.
New York
A/49/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 95
Social development, including questions relating to the
world social situation and to youth, ageing, disabled
persons and the family
International Conference on Families
The President (interpretation from French): This
morning, the General Assembly, in accordance with the
decision taken at its 3rd plenary meeting and pursuant to its
resolution 47/237 of 20 September 1993, will hold, under
agenda item 95, the first of the plenary meetings devoted to
the implementation of the follow-up to the International
Year of the Family, to be designated as the International
Conference on Families.
I am pleased to welcome participants
to this
International Conference on Families.
In particular, it is my pleasure to extend a warm
welcome to the many Ministers and other senior policy-
makers who have travelled from their respective capitals to
participate in this Conference. Their attendance is a most
fitting response to the decision of the General Assembly
last year that
this Conference should take place at an
appropriate global policy-making level. Their presence
today, just as this event itself does, is a tribute to families
throughout the world and a testimony to the importance and
high priority that the global community attaches to families
and to family issues in the process of sustainable
development.
The International Conference on Families is taking
place at a time when humanity is facing a defining
moment for its common future. So too is the United
Nations. The realities, opportunities and challenges facing
human civilization today present a vastly different picture
than in the last decade. Almost all spheres of human
endeavour have been affected by this development — not
simply the basic aspects of daily life at the level of the
individual, of the family as the basic social unit, of the
community and national society, but also the global
community of nations in the broader socio-political
spectrum.
As a result,
the United Nations has begun to
elaborate an increasingly refined and effective conceptual
base in order to cope with today’s realities in our
endeavours in various spheres. We are on the verge of
crystallizing a development process centred on the human
being, one that would integrate the various spheres of
human activity into an interrelated but coherent whole and
that would include as its basic elements peace, sustainable
economic growth, environment, social justice, democracy
and good governance.
Numerous recent events and initiatives have greatly
contributed to this evolutionary process in their respective
spheres and have played a significant role to this end. The
same will be true of other, forthcoming events, such as
the World Summit for Social Development.
94-86714 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
1
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
By proclaiming 1994 the International Year of the
Family, the General Assembly acknowledged the significant
role that another essential element of society — the families
as the basic social unit — could play in the context of this
process.
for
the first
Consequently,
time in history,
the
Assembly also focused special attention on families as a
subject of social action, since it is both an agent and a
beneficiary
is
advantageously positioned at the crux of various problems
affecting various social groups and sectors of activity.
development
process
and
the
of
As my predecessor stated last year when the Assembly
held a special meeting to launch the International Year of
the Family, the basic notion of the importance of families
to society at all levels was laid at the foundation of the
creation of our United Nations.
However, just as other socio-political institutions throughout
the world have been undergoing profound transformations,
particularly in recent years, the family, which is the most
fundamental of social institutions, has also undergone great
upheavals in an age that also gives it new opportunities and
unprecedented challenges.
On the one hand, present-day socio-political realities
have heightened the importance and responsibilities of
families and have made their role even more vital. They
also reinforce the essential function of families in the
building of a just civil society and in our global efforts for
peace and sustainable development. Faced, however, with
recent changes outside the family and the profound parallel
transformations in families themselves,
the response of
families has varied from successful adaptation to total
breakdown.
the intimate nature of
On the other hand, one often sees negative behaviour
and exploitation within the family. These are tolerated
precisely because of
family
relationships, and because of them all family members
cannot enjoy their individual rights on an equal footing.
Hence, families as democratic social units remain an ideal
that does not correspond entirely to reality. This takes on
added significance because the family can be the foundation
for the well-being of individuals, societies and nations only
when it
the
inviolability and equality of the rights and responsibilities
of the individual, whether male or female, mutual respect,
love and tolerance.
founded on principles of equality,
is
2
35th meeting
18 October 1994
Clearly, the current state of the world’s families is
a vital factor that can influence the pace of social
progress and development. It is essential that society,
without delay, support families in meeting their needs and
fulfilling their functions, that it foster further positive
changes within families and that it
reinforce the role of
the family as the fundamental place of learning and of the
exercise of values, rights, responsibilities and democracy.
As the International Conference on Families opens,
the international community is fast approaching the
completion of the first phase of its important efforts to
give the family greater consideration. In proclaiming the
International Year of the Family, the General Assembly
set as one of its main objectives an increased awareness,
among both policy makers and the general public, of the
unique role played by families. Great strides have been
made in fulfilling this objective. The Year has made it
possible to make the subject of the family an essential
component of
the concept of development and of
international dialogue on that issue.
to
respond
holistic,
There is no doubt that the Year has made it possible
to redefine some fundamental concepts related to the
family. For example, it has been acknowledged that social
policies must
family-centred
principles;
that many of the crucial problems facing
families and States, however diverse they might be, are
manifested in the same way in all regions and all
countries; that the Year is only the first step in a long
process of support for families; and that international
cooperation is essential in dealing with family-related
issues.
We have also seen that an especially constructive
approach to family-related problems has come about in
the course of the Year. There has been a consistent effort
to ensure that the activities of the Year at all levels be
characterized, first, by recognition of the diversity of
family life and the principle of pluralism in the
functioning of families; secondly, by emphasis on gender
equality in society and the family; and, thirdly, the major
importance attached to the rights of children. As a result,
there
absolute
indispensability of addressing family-related issues and
bringing about positive changes in families, because this
is
essential for the achievement of significant and
sustainable progress in the global effort on behalf of
women, children and other disadvantaged members of
society.
awareness
growing
the
of
is
a
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the private
the international community,
Considering the manner in which, over the space of
just a few years, and thanks to the assiduous efforts devoted
to it,
the Year has grown from a small bud into full
maturity, one cannot but conclude that the basic strategy for
the Year has been effectively carried out
through the
concerted efforts of
in
harmony with a large number of partners playing a crucial
role. Evidence of this includes the active involvement of
some 150 Member States, national authorities at the highest
level, numerous organs of the United Nations and of other
intergovernmental organizations, hundreds of national and
international non-governmental organizations, academic
communities,
and thousands of
enthusiastic volunteers all over the world. The decision to
focus the Year’s activities at the national and local levels
has also contributed much to the success of the Year, since
it has been effectively supported by numerous regional and
global measures, such as the four regional preparatory
meetings and the world Non-Governmental Organization
Forum launching the Year. The resources mobilized through
the Voluntary Fund for the Year, as well as through in-kind
contributions, have proven to be vital. The various phases
of the observances of the Year have also included well-
conceived promotional and public-information strategies and
activities. But all this is just a beginning. The hard work
of mobilizing energies and striving for more sustained
activities still lies ahead of us.
sector
and
their
action
I wish to pay a well-deserved tribute to our numerous
partners in the International Year of the Family for their
effective
in-kind
and
contributions. Both the preparatory phase
and the
observance of the Year have been orchestrated by the
secretariat of the Year, which has effectively played the
roles of catalyst, promoter and coordinator of national and
international efforts.
financial
35th meeting
18 October 1994
with regard to the Year, Member States should be able to
articulate even more solid principles on which to base our
future action for the family. We should provide a clear
direction for such action and begin to mark out
its
modalities and priorities. The General Assembly has
requested that the secretariat submit a draft plan of action
on the family at the Assembly’s fiftieth session, and our
deliberations should also be a very useful instrument in
the accomplishment of that task.
In short, this Conference should set the stage for
action to be taken in the long term. The task is an
extremely difficult one, but we owe our best effort to all
the families of the world.
I now call on the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who
wishes to address the General Assembly at this time.
The Secretary-General: Five years ago, the General
Assembly decided that 1994 was to be the International
Year of the Family.
At the time, there was no consensus. Some did not
see the point of an International Year of the Family.
Opinions were divided as to what the Year was about.
Some people argued that
the family
discriminates against those who prefer to live outside
family units. There were also disagreements over the
activities which should be organized to mark the year.
support
for
And so, in my speech last December to launch this
International Year,
I urged that we concentrate on
practical outcomes: the Year should result in concrete
measures to strengthen the situation of the family around
the world.
Allow me also to express, on behalf of the Assembly,
deepest gratitude to the Secretary-General and warmest
congratulations on his outstanding work in this area, taking
particular account of the technical complexities of the
subject, the chronic lack of resources and the fact that the
secretariat of the Year is one of the smallest units ever
charged with the global coordination of an international
event of this magnitude. We must welcome this example of
good management of resources and rationalization of work.
Today I can report that a great deal of practical
action is indeed being taken, and more is planned. But I
can also report that in one key respect this International
Year of the Family has already exceeded expectations.
The International Year of the Family has stimulated
a worldwide debate. Many political notions have been
clarified. Out of the process of debate and reflection have
come new insights.
The successes achieved by the International Year of
the Family, impressive as they already are, also set high
standards for this Conference. Last year the Assembly
decided to devote the Conference to the implementation of
the follow-up activities to the Year. Through deliberations
Instead of confusion and hesitation, there is now
consensus about the role of the family in human society.
Today, a new realism prevails. It is accepted that the
family is a fundamental institution of human society.
Indeed, it is established that society is a structure made
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
up of families and individuals related to society, in the first
instance, through families.
Views may differ about what an ideal family should
be like -indeed, families themselves vary greatly. But there
can be no doubt as to the importance of the family. Like
the State, the nation and this world Organization itself, the
family is a living, functioning organism, which has to cope
with the many profound changes which are occurring in the
world.
It has also been recognized that families have many
needs and that in many societies families are under stress.
They face serious economic and social difficulties. Families
should therefore receive the full protection and support of
society and the State -going well beyond broad statements
of principle. Families need tangible assistance through
policies, programmes and services.
It is clear that all areas of social policy affect families.
But families also need support. Policies should therefore be
made sensitive to the situation of families. The aim must be
to empower families to fulfil all their roles and functions in
society.
The debate about the role of the family has coincided
with the process of rethinking the role of the United
Nations in development. The two have overlapped, and, as
a result, it is now generally accepted that action to support
families is an important component of the development
effort generally.
issues has vast
This new awareness of the centrality of families to
development
implications. Families are
major actors in and beneficiaries of
the sustainable
development process. Without the participation of families
in the development process, it cannot succeed. As producers
and as educators, families play a significant role in human
development. In these and in many other ways, families are
the primary mechanisms
through which the human
community achieves its ends.
Families are universally recognized as important actors
in education. Their role in health cannot be disputed. They
are the building blocks of communities and cities. The
importance of families for the well-being and development
of children is a point of long-standing, universal consensus.
The decisions taken in families are at the centre of such
questions as population growth, economic development and
environmental protection. Behaviour and attitudes
in
families crucially influence approaches to gender equality.
4
35th meeting
18 October 1994
Families provide an integrated focus for many
development problems. A focus on families helps to build
bridges
and
professions. It shows clearly how different development
issues are interconnected. It provides a mechanism for
coherent action at the basic level of human life.
disciplines,
between
policy
sectors
Families also provide an operational approach to the
integration of human rights into the conduct of everyday
life. The family is the first and primary conduit for
human rights education. Our roles in society and in public
life are formed as children in families. Children raised in
a family where tolerance and gender equality are practised
will have the best human rights education. The experience
of fairness and social justice provides the best assurance
that these values will be sought in the greater society.
It has shown that
The International Year has been productive in
another sense.
the international
community can mobilize action at the grass-roots level
and find unity of purpose in a pluralistic world. The Year
of the Family is proof of a new political will and a new
capacity for solving global problems through the basic
units of society.
and
Intergovernmental
non-governmental
organizations have rallied to support the Year. They have
begun long-term processes of benefit to families. The
hallmark of the Year has been the involvement of the full
spectrum of professional groups. The Year has also drawn
guidance from an array of disciplines. It has been an
initiative built on partnership. Its strength testifies to the
power of a family focus. Its global appeal derives from
the universal significance of
families to the human
experience.
Through the International Year of the Family —
from the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, the World Conference on Human Rights
and the International Conference on Population and
Development — new insights, new principles and a new
vision are emerging.
Next year we observe the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations. The year 1995 will also see the World
Summit
and the World
Conference on Women at Beijing. This will be a time for
reflection and thinking, especially about development
issues.
for Social Development
The challenge now is to ensure that the momentum
gained in the course of the preparation and observance of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the Year is maintained. Mechanisms for future action are
already in place. National coordinating bodies have been a
catalytic force in mobilizing action in countries all around
the world. Some Governments have acted already. Some
have set up ministries with a specific mandate for family
policy.
From its heights to its most basic level the human
family must be united in its dedication to a sustainable
future for all people. The International Year of the Family
has provided a starting-point.
Looking back over the past few years it now seems
extraordinary that the importance of the family as a human
institution should ever have been regarded as controversial.
But it is now clear that there has been a geological change
in political attitudes.
35th meeting
18 October 1994
I now call upon Her Excellency Dr. Amal Osman,
Minister of Social Insurance and Social Affairs of Egypt.
Mrs. Osman (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
General Assembly resolution 44/82 of 1989, which
designated 1994 as the International Year of the Family,
reflected awareness of the fact
that the family is the
principal underpinning of society and the foundation of its
development and progress. The United Nations and its
specialized agencies have played a pioneering role in
protecting and supporting the family and in mobilizing
international cooperation in its support in the economic,
social, cultural and public health areas. The United
Nation’s international conferences have highlighted the
role of the family and adopted international strategies and
programmes of
aim has been the
strengthening of the moral foundations of the family and
the enhancement of its economic capabilities.
action whose
it
Today,
is recognized that
the family is a key
institution in the social structure of every human society.
Indeed, precisely because of
its importance, opinions
differed as to the role, function and future of the family.
Today,
the world is
acknowledging the importance of families. Allow me,
therefore,
to conclude with a statement attributed to
Confucius, who wrote:
in a new spirit of pragmatism,
“When there is love in the marriage, there is
harmony in the home; when there is harmony in the
home, there is contentment in the community; when
there is contentment
there is
prosperity in the nation; when there is prosperity in
the nation, there is peace in the world.”
in the community,
The United Nations will
the many
accomplishments of the Year. The United Nations will
continue to support families at the international level.
honour
The President (interpretation from French): I thank
the United Nations for his
the Secretary-General of
statement.
Before calling on the next speaker, I should like to
the International
propose that
Conference on Families be closed today at 11 a.m.
the list of speakers at
It was so decided.
The President
(interpretation from French):
I
therefore request those representatives wishing to participate
in the International Conference on Families to inscribe their
names on the list as soon as possible.
The Cairo International Conference on Population
and Development, the latest of those conferences, stressed
the role of the family with its Programme of Action,
which was adopted by unprecedented consensus. The
Programme underscored the need to strengthen the
capabilities of women and the importance of
their
empowerment and integration in the programmes of
comprehensive
the
importance of education, health, culture and other services
that are needed to promote the family at the social and
economic levels. Chapter V of the Programme of Action
also stressed the role and rights of the family as the
nucleus of society and the foundation of its progress and
development.
development
focused
and
on
as
such
organizations
Non-governmental
the
International Union of Family Organizations have
undertaken ambitious projects at the international, regional
and local levels to prepare for the International Year of
the Family. Egypt has played an active part in all the
activities relating to the International Year. We have
participated in the Cyprus Conference in 1991 on the
social rights of families, the 1992 Conference in Poland
on the legal rights of the family and the 1992 Brazil
Conference on the economic rights of the family, and, in
1993, we were happy to host a conference on the cultural
rights of the family in Cairo under the chairmanship of
Mrs. Suzanne Mubarak, the President’s wife.
We in Egypt have taken special interest in this event
and in all the activities relating to it. We have not been
content to use it merely as an occasion for exchanging
cultural exchanges or information training, but have made
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
it a concrete tangible reality that would impact on each and
every family in every Egyptian city, village and governorate
through the establishment of the Advisory Committee on
the Family which I have had the honour of chairing. The
Committee, which had among its members a number of
experts and specialists in all areas relating to the family,
was concerned with the formulation of policies and
strategies at
level. A number of technical
subcommittees at the local level have been entrusted with
the local implementation of such policies and strategies.
the national
I do not intend to speak at length of our successes in
this field, but I should like to focus on two of them.
The first success was in the social-security area. We
have expanded the social-security umbrella to cover every
Egyptian citizen, whether he or she works inside or outside
the country, and thus we have guaranteed for the Egyptian
family its present and future security. This year, the number
of those who benefit from this direct type of insurance has
risen, as at 30 June 1994 to 15.9 million. In the past
financial year 5.4 million Egyptian pounds were paid out in
pensions and compensations to nearly 6.7 million people.
These legislative and other specific measures are evidence
of
the
the family and society, without distinction
individual,
between men and women, against the hardships and hazards
of old age, disability, death of the breadwinner, work-place
injuries, unemployment, pregnancy and child birth. Among
the most important schemes of insurance coverage are the
following:
the emphasis we lay on the need to protect
— Social-security insurance has been expanded. This
insurance covers government, public and private sector
workers under the provisions of law 79 of 1975. On
13 June 1994,
the number of those insured under the
scheme was almost 9 million.
— Social-security insurance covering employers and
such categories under law 108 of 1977 now covers nearly
503,000 according to the figures of the past financial year.
— Social-security insurance covering Egyptians
working abroad under law 51 of 1978 now covers 54,000
persons.
— Social-security insurance covering street vendors
and seasonal workers in agriculture, fishing, domestic
services and other areas under law 112 of 1980 now covers
nearly 5.4 million citizens.
6
35th meeting
18 October 1994
Our other success to which I should like to refer
is a means of
concerns productive families. This
integrated development
transforming the
that aims at
family unit into a productive unit capable of adapting to
economic and social changes through redoubling the
family’s financial skills and capabilities. The project now
applies to 900,000 families, with a waiting list of
1 million families which want to join the scheme.
We in Egypt can pride ourselves today on our
success in developing our disposable potential local and
environmental
resources and turning them into end
products with added economic value. We have succeeded
in steering social conduct towards individual and family
awareness of the social value of productive behaviour. In
addition, we have managed to preserve authentic Egyptian
crafts
types,
components and raw materials of their products. Proof of
this endeavour can be seen in 34
the success of
permanent
products. Such
exhibitions have been organized also in Europe, in Africa
and, more recently, in Latin America.
and industries while developing the
family
exhibitions
of
In his statement to the General Assembly at the
current session Egypt’s Minister of Foreign Affairs,
Mr. Amr Moussa, emphasized the importance we attach
to social development and its universality and to the
promotion of the role of the United Nations in this field.
He also stressed that we should like to see the social
dimension given priority in international life. Proceeding
from this, we shall take part in the preparatory activities
for international conferences which will address social
issues.
I should like to refer in particular to the World
Summit on Social Development,
the Fourth World
Conference on Women and the Second United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements. The Copenhagen
Summit will deal with the struggle against the three-
pronged problem of poverty, unemployment and social
integration. The Beijing Summit will be aimed at enabling
women, who constitute 50 per cent of society, to enjoy
their rights and to increase their skills in the interests of
progress and peace. The Istanbul Conference will be
aimed at
improving circumstances relating to human
settlements. Special attention will be paid to the
vulnerable sectors of society, beginning with women.
Those Conferences are all links in the long and
wider context of social development
in its fullest
meaning. Such development can be achieved only through
the development of the family and the strengthening of its
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
foundations. The family, no matter how it may be viewed
culturally, is a constant of social organization, an enduring
institutional reality and a productive economic unit. That
being the
and international,
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations
should protect and promote that unit.
all Governments
case,
As the purpose of this debate is to support and
consolidate international cooperation with the aim of
developing and promoting the role of the family, we are
required to set up an international programme of action
with clear objectives, that would lend itself to division into
short-term and long-term stages. Such a plan of action
should be formulated in a manner that would ensure
acceptance and participation by all governments, individuals
and international and national organizations under the
umbrella of the United Nations and its Economic and Social
Council with all its subsidiary organs.
Economic, political and cultural changes throughout
the world have impacted directly on the everyday life of the
family and will affect its prospects in the near and distant
future. That being the case, it is unthinkable that we should
try to bring about the emergence of tomorrow’s world and
to ensure and consolidate balance in international political
and economic relations without making the nucleus of
stability and balance — namely, the family, the starting
point of our endeavours. That is to say, the protection of
the family and the preservation of its enduring cultural and
material components is our collective responsibility at the
local, national and international levels. It is undeniable that,
in this respect, governments have a direct responsibility and
an increasingly important role to play.
and
donor
organizations — especially
Given the international interest in the family, we must
take concrete and serious action at the international level.
States
the
International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other
financial institutions — must provide the wherewithal to
strengthen the productive capacity of families in a manner
that would be commensurate with the requirements of
economic restructuring in certain societies and with the
challenges of the free market economy in other societies.
Governments must act as good conductors that ensure the
swift transfer of international technological and financial
assistance
societies. Non-governmental
organizations are required to strengthen the decentralization
of national and international action on behalf of the family
and through the family.
to
their
From this rostrum, we call once again for a formula
of cooperation that would lead to peace, progress and
35th meeting
18 October 1994
prosperity for the international community as a whole —
without distinction between cultures, regimes or levels of
wealth — in the interests of the social peace, progress
and prosperity of the basic nucleus of society, namely, the
family.
The President (interpretation from French): I call
now on the representative of Uruguay, Mrs. Burmester de
Maynard, Director of the National Institute for the Family
and Women.
de Maynard
Mrs. Burmester
(Uruguay)
(interpretation from Spanish): From the very beginning of
its history as a nation, Uruguay has demonstrated a firm
commitment to social issues, a commitment which has
shaped our concerns and actions. Initially, our actions
were focused on strong State intervention, based on the
notion of social policies as an integrating factor. That type
of intervention, characterized by a virtual State monopoly
on the supplying of social services, was designed more to
consolidate a common identity as a mechanism for
ensuring equal opportunity than to achieve uniform results
as a strategy for combating poverty.
that
Because of the characteristics of Uruguayan society
time, “positive discrimination” — to use a
at
contemporary term — was not thought to be an effective
way of making opportunities available to the masses, or
of ensuring equal treatment and uniform results. From a
legislative standpoint, since the beginning of this century
Uruguay has made significant social progress in the
realms of labour, politics and civil rights. I shall now
endeavour to describe recent years’ progress in the
elaboration of family-service policies.
In that connection, the thrust of my Government’s
efforts has been fourfold:
First, in 1991, we established under the aegis of the
Ministry of Education and Culture, the National Institute
for the Family and Women to administer Government
policies in that sphere. The creation of that Institute has
had a strong impact on society as a whole. The Institute’s
permanent status and the resources allocated to it attest to
my Government’s commitment.
Secondly, in April 1994, with a view to lending
permanence, continuity and consistency, rather than mere
political change,
the
Government of Uruguay established the National
Commission on the Family. Its pluralistic membership
includes eminent experts and in this first year of
to the relevant public policies,
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
management the Commission is already demonstrating its
ability to come up with proposals on concrete issues
affecting
every
Uruguayan.
therefore,
families
each
and,
and
Those proposals — or institutional options — involve
intervention at various
a new
relationship between society and the State. They are geared
to providing families with better social services, thanks to
institutional coordination and the support of the entire State
apparatus.
they reflect
levels;
The Government of Uruguay has committed itself to
Uruguayan families, to each of every one of their members,
laying special emphasis on the most vulnerable sectors of
the population: women, children, adolescents and the aged.
Uruguay has a high life expectancy; senior citizens are thus
among our target groups. In order to maximize our social
services, we seek the input of all recipient groups by
providing them with a forum in which to voice their
expectations, needs and demands.
plan
social
in 1990,
action
To that end,
of
the Government adopted a
national
for
policies, with
governmental experts and the private sector joining together
in a pluralistic and participatory framework. We have also
established a comprehensive and integrated programme of
social policies, based mainly on labour, cultural and
educational guidelines, to deal with the difficulties faced by
families in adapting to the rapid changes and deep
transformations affecting them.
The National Institute for the Family and Women and
the National Commission for the Family are part of a
comprehensive policy aimed at maximizing the efficiency
of our social service apparatus. They were created not to
compete institutionally with the traditional public policy
administrators, which would make them redundant, but to
enhance
various
dimensions — the family, gender and the State — and by
coordinating existing programmes and tailoring education,
health, employment and social security policies to the
specific requirements of each sector of the population, with
particular emphasis on the family.
integrating
policy
public
by
its
Prince Sisowath Sirirath (Cambodia), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
To ensure that maximum benefit accrues to the target
group, programmes have been planned, designed, executed,
implemented and evaluated based on thorough research and
on an analysis of the dynamics of the family unit.
8
35th meeting
18 October 1994
Thirdly, within the scope of the Office for Planning
and Budget and under the aegis of the Presidency of the
Republic, a new mechanism — a social infrastructure
programme — has been created. One of its tasks is to
fine-tune social policies so as to ensure optimum results.
It also serves as a think-tank for the
analysis and
formulation of policies pertaining to food, education and
health.
These three organs have demonstrated an innovative
approach to social policies and made the priority needs of
families — in particular, families which are socially the
most vulnerable — the subject of decision-making at the
highest levels of government.
A fourth avenue of coordination has surely been the
Social Cabinet, established in 1991 and composed of
experts in social legislation. A national plan of action,
submitted by the National Institute for the Family and
Women, was adopted by the Social Cabinet in May 1992.
The plan embraced six main categories: education, health,
employment,
the
environment. Each category has specific programmes.
There being as many as 40, I shall not enumerate them.
legislation
human
rights,
and
The six main categories,
in turn, have eight
interrelated programmes of action covering high-risk
priority items to be dealt with in the five-year period
which began in May 1992.These include: women and
families suffering critical poverty; children in particularly
difficult situations; teen-age mothers; rural women and
families; the elderly; families and gender; the disabled;
and victims of domestic violence.
Six operational programmes complete the plan: the
establishment of offices in the various regions of the
country, information centres to publicize the rights of
women and the family, specialized libraries, activity
rooms and databases. Most important of all, though, is
our training programme, which allows us to make use of
our human resources. Given the fact that we have this
type of cross-sectoral policy, this has become the most
important tool at our disposal.
Two and a half years after its adoption the plan is 75
per cent operative, with 34 specific programmes under
way. Those programmes
the opening of
information centres throughout the country; measures to
combat domestic violence, which already have had a
profound impact on families;
the establishment of a
Centre for the Prevention of Domestic Violence and
Assistance to its Victims; the training of public officials,
include:
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
and of personnel for the police, emergency medical services
and the Centre for the Prevention of Domestic Violence;
the creation of a hospice for the victims of violence;
research and an interactive radio programme; measures to
combat child prostitution; the promotion of coeducation and
non-sexist education; public awareness and advocacy,
covering more than 23,000 direct beneficiaries and 960
indirect beneficiaries.
Programmes on the following topics are still in the
research-and-analysis stage: job placement; rural women
and families; teen-age mothers; heads of household; and
intergenerational poverty.
That prompts the following remarks on the family.
If we continue to accept
the present discrepancy
between the actual and the ideal, we shall be sending a
mixed message to children and adolescents, as well as to
adults, that will only reinforce stereotypes, impose rigid
models and, therefore, undermine the accepted concept of
the family.
If families today continue to aspire to unrealistic goals,
it will gradually destroy the basic structure of social
relations, the family; it would clearly be a step backwards.
The stereotype of the traditional family — in which the
man is the breadwinner, or at least the principal provider —
of
is
unconventional, more open and,
less stable
relationships. That instability often results in the absence of
an adequate role model for the children.
acceptance
therefore,
growing
the
being
eroded
by
Much has been written about the need to define the
role of the family in society. Current changes in society —
notably the participation of women in the public sector and
in the labour market — are transforming the family. But
why not approach the problem and transform the world
from the perspective of the family?
On the day when the National Commission for the
Family was established, the President of the Commission,
Mrs. Maria Julia Pou de Lacalle, and wife of the President
of the Republic, issued this challenge: Let us not allow the
family to become the prisoner of changes in society. Let the
family decide what changes it wants in society.
35th meeting
18 October 1994
the wisdom derived from their heterogeneity. Let that be
our challenge.
We have just come from Cairo, where we
contributed our perspectives and our vision; onward now
to the social Summit in Beijing. Let us transform society:
the private sector, the public sector, the family. Let us
build a world that will include and recognize each and
every one of us — a world in which we recognize
ourselves — a world to which we feel we belong, where
men and women, young and old, can begin to reassess
their relationships,
their attitudes towards
decision-making and towards access to and control over
resources. Let us be realistic: Goals that are not based on
reality are, by definition, mere aspirations; they cannot be
achieved.
their roles,
relevant
institutions,
With support by its
the
commemorated this
Government of Uruguay has
International Year of
the Family with deeds and
achievements. We hail the initiative of the United Nations
in proclaiming 1994 the International Year of the Family
and in holding this International Conference on Families,
which will enable us to have a fruitful and enriching
exchange.
These conclaves allow us to renew our strength and
reaffirm our commitment
to the family, which is
uppermost in our minds and in our daily actions. Our
great challenge is to adapt family structures and dynamics
so that the family becomes an agent for change. By
strengthening the family we shall be strengthening society
itself. Indeed, by giving priority to human values idealism
and sharing, we shall be ensuring our very future.
Let me conclude by quoting a great contemporary
Uruguayan poet, Graciela Genta de Fernandez, who has
always struck a receptive chord in us and in the words of
another contemporary poet, Sylvia Puentes de Oyenard,
given us time to live and to dream. In these few lines
from one of her celebrated poems she reflects upon the
world, freedom, openness, spontaneity, frontiers, and the
obstacles that divide us; she gives us a new sense of hope
and creativity and lends a new dimension to life, to
commitment and to love. Our policies must always be
inspired by those values.
That challenge implies pro-active families — families
that take responsibility for their actions — families that
shape events rather than yield passively to them — families
that contribute to society with all their vigour and with all
“I wish to leave you a world of doves in flight, of
open paths, of children’s smiles, a world without
frontiers, of brotherhood, where the word ’friend’
means something. I wish to leave you a world of
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
hopes and dreams, a vast horizon that is never empty.”
The President:
I now call on the Permanent
Representative of Turkey, Mr. Batu.
Mr. Batu (Turkey): I have the honour and pleasure of
speaking today on agenda item 95, the follow-up of the
International Year of the Family, which has been observed
by this Organization to underline the meaning of the family
as a fundamental unit of society.
I should like to take this opportunity to submit some
information regarding the preparatory process for this event
in Turkey, which is clearly an expression of the broad
interest of our people and Government in this initiative.
Ongoing economic and social changes around the
globe with transcending human effects have an enormous
impact on the family as an institutionand its members. At
a time when we have been living through an era of radical
change, I believe the proclamation of the International Year
of the Family has been a timely and appropriate occasion
in order to reflect the moral values preserved by the family
and the vital functions it fulfils. It has also been a useful
opportunity for the international community to demonstrate
its commitment to the role of the family in all walks of life.
The family is the fundamental source of social well-
being and the stability of society. At the same time it is a
force for progress in so far as we, as universal human
society, succeed in promoting its dynamic structure by
effectively furthering its social, legal and economic rights
as a whole and the rights of its members as human beings.
Only then will we be able to strengthen the dynamic
potential of the family to reproduce its functions. Protecting
the family and enhancing its role in society can only be
attained by taking into consideration all aspects thus paving
the way for
future
generations.
the prosperity and well-being of
It is in this spirit that my country has approached the
International Year of the Family and celebrated it with the
following activities.
The reports on overall activities concerning the
International Year of the Family prepared by the specialized
commissions that had been established by the National
Committee, were disseminated and presented in a book.
Furthermore, nine different research programmes on various
aspects of
family problems have been completed in
cooperation with the universities, and three of these have
been published by the Turkish Family Research Institution.
10
35th meeting
18 October 1994
That non-governmental organization also launched this
year the Family and Society Magazine, which is being
published on a regular basis.
Various educational programmes were carried out in
cooperation with the Turkish National Broadcasting
Company. Numerous informative announcements and 40
drama series examining Turkish family life were
broadcast on our television. Thousands of posters, as well
as other promotional material displaying information and
emblems of the International Year of the Family, were
distributed throughout
the country to enhance public
awareness.
In order to focus the attention of our society on this
event new practical means have been used. In this context
National Lottery tickets with the International Year of the
Family logo printed on them were presented to the public
on 9 May. In addition, low-income families with newborn
babies are being supplied with an educational audio
cassette series in collaboration with maternity hospitals.
Envelopes and stamps have been printed by the General
Directorate of Postal Services with the logo and slogans
of International Family Day.
In order
to spread the meaning of
the 1994
International Year of the Family throughout the country,
instructions were given to provincial governors requesting
the wide dissemination of
the information on the
objectives and principles of the event.
International Family Day, 15 May, was celebrated in
our capital with the participation of various social
organizations and non-governmental organizations, while
in several other cities entertainment programmes were
organized and performed.
Meanwhile, activities with regard to the formation of
the Second Family Council have begun. Additional
television dramas on family life are being prepared, some
of them with the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture.
Several projects for Family Week, 10 to 16 October 1994,
have been organized, and the fourth issue of Family and
Society magazine will be a special issue dedicated to the
International Year of the Family.
In summary,
I am happy to note that
the
International Year of the Family has provided a valuable
opportunity for us to increase the level of awareness on
the part of policy-making mechanisms at the local and the
national level and to reassess our legislation with the aim
of clarifying its potential impact on families. It has further
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
35th meeting
18 October 1994
encouraged us to explore new horizons for the promotion
and protection of the family.
measures that ensure the co-equality of the parents with
respect to child custody.
In conclusion, I would like to extend our best wishes
for the full success of the International Year of the Family.
I am confident that the Year will constitute an important
basis for activities in the social field and on human rights
matters in the future, carrying us into the twenty-first
century. The observance of
the Year will also be a
significant prelude to important events such as the World
Summit for Social Development and the fourth World
Conference on Women, the work of which will directly
concern the family as an institution and all its members as
individuals.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on Her Excellency, Mrs. Nebiha Gueddana, President
and Director General of the National Office of Family and
Population of Tunisia.
Ms. Gueddana (Tunisia) (interpretation from Arabic):
I am grateful for this opportunity to address the Assembly.
I have the honour today, near the end of the International
Year of the Family, to present on behalf of the Republic of
Tunisia an overview of our experience in the area of family
policy, and to explain why Tunisia has chosen to address its
various aspects.
independence,
Since the early days of
in 1956,
Tunisian family policy has been characterized by coherence
and comprehensiveness. It focused on all members of the
family at the legislative, economic, social, cultural and
educational levels. The intention was to preserve the family
unit and ensure its prosperity in order for it to be able to
positively interact with society — and continue to be its
principal nucleus.
elected earlier. The
In order for us to achieve that end, it was necessary to
set up an appropriate legislative and legal framework which
would make it possible to translate into concrete reality the
options Tunisia
the
promulgation in 1956 of the Personal Statute Code, which
laid down the solid foundations of family relationships
within the Tunisian family, on the basis of mutual respect
between man and wife, of shared responsibility, and of
guaranteed rights of both parties, while taking into account
the interests and well-being of children.
start was
This involved the prohibition of polygamy, the raising
of the marriage age to 17 years for girls and to 20 years for
boys,
the regulation of divorce, and the adoption of
The Personal Statute Code has been amended
already on five occasions. The major and more significant
amendment has been embodied in the measures approved,
in August 1992, by His Excellency the President of the
Republic with
reaffirming Tunisia’s
determination to protect the family, ensure its unity, and
guarantee the interests of its members.
view to
a
introduced more stringent punishment
The reforms I speak of, side by side with the
Personal Statute Code, encompassed the penal, labour and
nationality codes. This empowered Tunisian mothers to
confer their nationality upon their children from foreign
the husband. The
husbands, with the agreement of
reforms
for
husband or wife in cases of domestic violence, and
created maintenance-allowance funds to guarantee an
income for divorced women and their offspring. These
and other bold, well-thought-out measures demonstrate
how Tunisia has approached this issue by invoking both
the precepts of Islam and the needs of a democratic and
open civil society.
In the course of 1994, the International Year of the
Family, Tunisia has translated these last measures into
concrete reality, and has set up the structures and
machinery necessary for their full implementation so that
they may produce the desired results. Moreover, many
government bodies and voluntary organizations have
organized important events and waged information
campaigns to familiarize the public with these measures,
to popularize them and to help citizens understand their
rights and duties.
for
Our progress over the past three decades in the field
of educating the young is one of our most important
achievements, and is a constant of our drive to develop
our human resources which are a must
the
achievement of any progress. Since the first educational
reforms, which were introduced in 1956, with the aim of
making schooling available to the children of every
family throughout the country, irrespective of means,
Tunisia began, in 1991, to set in motion a comprehensive
educational
reform programme, aimed especially at
primary education and compulsory schooling. These
efforts have enabled us to reduce adult illiteracy from
85 per cent to 37 per cent. In 1993, the rate of school
attendance by those between 6 and 16 years of age
reached 82 per cent for girls and 88.7 per cent for boys.
In 1994, we launched a special programme to reduce
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
illiteracy among women in the rural areas. It is fair to say
that any State that earmarks some 25 per cent of its budget
for education and learning will be well placed to cope with
the challenges of the future.
In the area of health-care services, our policy
recognizes the right of every citizen to health coverage, and
our health-care provision is among the best in the world.
Mortality rates decreased from 15 per thousand in
1966 to 6.2 per thousand in 1992. The average rate of
infant mortality decreased from 153 per thousand in 1966
to 32 per thousand in 1992.
Such results have been achieved thanks to the
expansion of the network of health-care centres throughout
our cities, villages and rural areas, side by side with
specific programmes aimed at the eradication of epidemic
and contagious diseases, the promotion of environmental
health,
drinking water,
reinforcement of school and university medical care,
immunization programmes and health care and protection
programmes for the elderly and the handicapped.
control
purity
of
the
of
It is worth mentioning that, in 1994, additional efforts
have been made to establish health centres in the remote
rural areas and to man them with the necessary staff.
Teams of specialist physicians moved to those areas and
participated in the provision of health-care services to
increasing numbers of our citizens.
The year 1994 has been characterized also by a
noticeable reinforcement of the health infrastructure, far-
reaching reform of its institutions and the acquisition of
modern equipment and instruments to help the health-care
sector in Tunisia developing its know-how in various new
fields and different medical specializations.
Along with this health-care policy, and proceeding
from our awareness that
it was necessary to control
population growth, in view of the positive returns of such
control, we embarked, as early as 1964, on an ambitious
family planning and birth-control programme, implemented
by The Family and Population National Agency. The
competence of this Agency covers the whole country
through a wide network of stationary and mobile offices
that provide health and educational services, and carry out
research.
These programmes have been accompanied by the
introduction of appropriate measures, such as allowing the
the
private sector
to import contraceptives in 1961,
12
35th meeting
18 October 1994
limiting family
provision of general social coverage,
allowances to the first three children and the provision, at
no cost to the recipients, of a wide range of family-
planning services. These measures have led to a rapid
increase in the number of people making use of such
services, so that the use of contraceptives has risen from
31.4 per cent, in 1978, to 50 per cent at present. The
average birth rate fell from 39 per thousand in 1970 to 25
per thousand in 1992, whereas the composite fecundity
index fell to 3.2 children, from 7.2 children in 1965.
The year 1994 has witnessed the implementation of
a special action programme for the benefit of rural
families with the aim of improving the integrated family
health approach that deals with family planning as one of
the components of comprehensive health care. Human and
material resources have been increased in areas still
lacking appropriate coverage to promote greater use of
contraceptives. Priority has been given to on-site
education and to the provision of medical services
through mobile clinics. The programme will continue to
be implemented over the next few years, till it achieves
its health-care and demographic objectives.
I should also mention here that our family policy has
focused increasing attention on the needs of women. For
example, in addition to all I have referred to, Tunisia has
ratified many agreements, of which I may mention the
Copenhagen Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Discrimination Against Women. The year 1994 has
witnessed the implementation of the latter measures in the
interest of women. For example, working mothers covered
by social security receive additional bonuses to enable
them to make use of nurseries for the care of their
children. Agreements have been reached also with various
national societies to assist such societies in providing new
nurseries and improving services therein.
As far as the child is concerned, Tunisia has made
available all legal and institutional guarantees and has
ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child. His
Excellency the President of the Republic, last August,
adopted a decision concerning the re-examination of
divorce conciliation sessions in cases where there are
children in the family. Tunisian law provides protection
for children exposed to various forms of exploitation in
order to shield them from threats and dangers of all kinds.
This is done mainly through the strengthening of
punishments for those who maltreat, exploit or brutalize
a child.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Proceeding from Tunisia’s firm belief that there is no
dignity for any family which does not earn an appropriate
income that would enable it to function properly and protect
it from want, we have focused, since independence, on
increasing family incomes through job creation schemes of
various kinds. For more than three decades now, we have
been earmarking no less than 18 per cent of our gross
national product for social outlays.
In that way, the State has been able to provide every
family with a supplementary income that is equal to the
minimum guaranteed wage. This is provided through the
compensation fund and the free health care fund, as well as
by transport fare subsidies, free education and assistance in
kind. Thanks to this policy, we have achieved a great deal,
especially at the level of better family incomes, which have
been multiplied by 4.3 times over a period of 15 years.
This has enabled families to raise their standards of living
and poverty, which afflicted 33 per cent of our population
in 1967, was reduced to 6.7 per cent in 1990.
On the initiative of His Excellency President Zine El-
Abidine Ben Ali, a national solidarity fund was created in
1993 to provide for those underprivileged areas and groups
that are in need of the basic infrastructure of social
services. In 1993 and 1994 alone, some 300,000 citizens
have benefited from the fund, through programmes aimed
at
improving living conditions by providing that basic
infrastructure, electricity, drinking water, schools and health
centres as well as income-creating opportunities that suit the
conditions of each area.
that
awareness
Proceeding from Tunisia’s
the
availability of housing is a factor of family stability and
prosperity and an essential requirement of the family is to
focus on performing its functions, we have pursued an
ambitious housing policy that embraced the enactment of
legislation and the adoption of practical measures, such as
the setting up of institutions, with the aim of promoting the
housing sector. Special financing mechanisms have been set
up for the benefit of low-income families. This policy and
the legislative measures accompanying it have led to a
reduction in the rate of unsuitable housing from 44 per cent
in 1964 to 4.8 per cent in 1980. Today, we can proudly
state that 80 per cent of Tunisian families own their own
homes.
Social security is the best cover that protects the
Tunisian family and forms a good social safety net. The
number of people covered by social security increased
sevenfold from 1964 to 1991. In 1991, the rate of coverage
stood at 62 per cent of the working population. Special
35th meeting
18 October 1994
attention has been paid also to Tunisian nationals living
abroad. This attention has been heightened over the past
few years and has led to the creation of a government
agency and a supreme council for Tunisians abroad. The
aim is to protect the rights of those Tunisian nationals
especially after the enactment of the new laws of the
united Europe.
During the World Conference on Population and
Development, held recently in Cairo, Tunisia called for
the convening of a world symposium that would bring
together
the countries concerned with the issue of
immigration to discuss the issues and problems relating to
that issue and to find suitable solutions to the difficulties
which are now surfacing.
As the family is the fundamental nucleus of any
society and its backbone; as it is the yardstick whereby
we can gauge any society’s adherence to the norms of
civilized living; and as it represents one of the most
important values and is one of the most solid institutions,
we in Tunisia have accorded it a high priority. Despite the
profound changes we are going through, we have
continued to attach the highest importance to protecting
the family. To this end, we have established a new
Ministry and a Supreme Council for Women and the
Family. Furthermore,
the Republic
declared 11 December National Family Day, 11 January
National Children’s Day and 13 August National
Women’s Day. On those days, we intensify our family-
oriented information campaigns with the aim of increasing
public awareness of the rights and obligations of the
family and of women and children.
the President of
The President returned to the Chair.
At
level, our
the national
family policy is in
harmony with general international trends. We have been
focusing on the link between human rights in general and
the rights of special sections of the population, such as
women and children. Tunisia is committed to its
international agreements relating to the family and the
protection of its members. It has ratified, implemented
and entrenched international
treaties and conventions
adopted in that area. This has been made evident by our
participation in international and regional meetings and
conferences, where we discussed a whole range of
problems relating to the family. In addition, we have
participated in all the activities of the International Year
of the Family, where we expressed our views and shared
our experiences.
13
35th meeting
18 October 1994
innocent children, because they are the very
foundation of any real or lasting development. This
is an international obligation that we must fulfil in
consonance with our countries’ ratification of the
International Declaration on the Rights of the Child
and the Plan of Action relating to the welfare of the
child.”
Tunisian non-governmental organizations have taken
many decisions and initiatives for the benefit of children
and families in Rwanda and Bosnia and Herzegovina to
help them surmount the difficulties they are now facing
and to provide them with some of their basic needs.
The strategy of Tunisia’s policy strikes a balance
between, on the one hand, the provision of the required
financial means and, on the other, the present and future
difficulties which do affect any innovative action. In our
strategy we try to analyse all kinds of Tunisian policies in
order to meet their needs. However, obstacles presented
by the new economic world order and the new directions
taken by a number of
international organizations
concerned with investment in health and social projects,
as well as the heavy burden of servicing foreign debts,
make it very difficult for developing countries, including
middle-income developing countries such as Tunisia, to
muster the required financial means to invest in social
programmes and projects.
Against this backdrop, I cannot but remind of the
appeal President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali made from this
very rostrum when he called upon the international
community to reschedule the debts of
third world
countries so that funds could be invested in the future of
the family and in various social programmes. Sustainable
development can be achieved only through greater
solidarity between nations and through a new collective
effort, taking into account the interests of all.
The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
and
encouraging
creating national
functions; Second:
We also hosted the United Nations Africa and Western
Asia Preparatory Meeting for the International Year of the
Family, held from 29 March to 2 April 1993. Many of the
conclusions and recommendations adopted at that meeting
focused on: First: supporting and protecting the family in
order to enable it to perform its social, economic and
cultural
family
commissions
non-governmental
organizations to participate in that effort. Tunisia has put
this recommendation into effect by setting up the Supreme
Council for Women and the Family; Third: declaring
15 May an International Day of the Family. Tunisia has
celebrated that day in the current year by organizing a
number of events; Fourth: the convening of an international
symposium to
the
International Year of the Family. This meeting is part of
such effort; Fifth: promoting cooperation and the exchange
of information between nations; and, Sixth: the creation of
an international family centre to monitor the implementation
of the various recommendations adopted and evaluate the
policies enacted in this area.
evaluate
the
achievements
of
In Tunisia, numerous events and activities have taken
place in celebration of the International Year of the Family,
from 19 June 1994, the starting date of the celebration, as
declared by President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali, through the
end of September 1994.
We have been actively preparing to participate in the
World Conference on Women, to be held in Beijing in June
1995, after having participated very meaningfully in the
Cairo Population Conference.
His Excellency President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali of
Tunisia is this year’s President of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU). From the first day of his presidency,
he has highlighted — as he did in his speech before the
African Heads of State at
the African summit held in
Tunisia in June 1994 — the importance of human
resources, the lot of children and the suffering of many
families as a result of various natural disasters and other
difficulties affecting some African societies. On this subject
he said,
“It is evident that we need to develop our human
resources and safeguard the rights of our children in
the fields of education, learning and health. Some of
our countries have achieved things that deserve to be
consolidated and followed up, because in certain parts
of our continent our children -victims of war, famine,
disease and expulsion — are still suffering. Therefore,
we have to mobilize all efforts to rescue those
14
