United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
10th Meeting
Thursday, 29 September 1994, 10 a.m.
New York
A/49/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Address by Mr. Mircea Ion Snegur, President of the
Republic of Moldova
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Moldova.
Mr. Mircea Ion Snegur, President of the Republic of
Moldova, was escorted into the General Assembly
Hall.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of
the
Republic of Moldova, His Excellency Mr. Mircea Ion
Snegur, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Snegur (spoke in Moldovan; English text
furnished by the delegation): Allow me at the outset, Sir,
to extend to you my cordial and sincere congratulations on
the occasion of your election as President of the forty-ninth
session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that your
competence and active cooperation with Member States will
pave the way for a successful and fruitful session.
At the same time, I should like to express my deep
gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally for the
outstanding work accomplished in his capacity as President
of the previous session.
I should also like to express sentiments of our
utmost consideration to His Excellency Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, whose activities in redefining the role of
this prestigious Organization in this changing world enjoy
the appreciation and support of the Republic of Moldova.
I am honoured to represent the Republic of Moldova
for the second time at this rostrum. Nearly three years
ago, in March 1992, I expressed gratitude to Member
States for their considerable support extended to my
country by recognizing it at the international level as an
independent State and by accepting it
into the large
family of the United Nations.
Looking back over these years, I should like to note
that the Republic of Moldova gained its independence in
a complex political context in which the aspirations for
freedom and democracy of nations led to the collapse of
totalitarian regimes and the emergence of new States.
Unfortunately, those positive changes were followed
by negative tendencies, such as threats to subregional and
regional security. Moreover, we are witnessing the
reappearance and aggravation of some older problems
connected to national minorities, territorial disputes, the
presence of foreign military troops on the territory of new
independent States, the intensification of some separatist
tendencies, often inspired and directed from abroad, and
so on.
Under these circumstances, the state of affairs is
more complex than we could imagine. The euphoria that
94-86451 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
followed the events in Eastern Europe and on the territory
of the former Soviet Union generated in some the opinion
that the two main objectives - democratization of society
and building a market-oriented economy, both compulsory
for the institutional reintegration of new States into the
democratic world - would not face serious obstacles. Now,
however, we find that there is a desynchronization and even
a time disparity between those two objectives. I would say
that
in the new
independent States that emerged as a result of the collapse
of the former Soviet Union. In this sense, the Republic of
Moldova is no exception.
that disparity is even more evident
remain indifferent
The situation requires a larger conceptual and practical
effort to correct such desynchronizations. It is obvious that
the United Nations cannot
to the
difficulties that confront the countries in transition. In this
connection, we consider
the Secretary-General’s
intention to draw up an agenda for development
is
particularly opportune, and we welcome it. In our opinion
the assistance granted by the United Nations to young
States should be provided on the basis of the concrete
conditions prevailing in every specific country and the
programmes being elaborated in each.
that
Located at the intersection of the geopolitical interests
of some great Powers, Moldova was incorporated into a
State and political entity in which democratic values were
meaningless. The experience of Moldova is different from
that of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, where
the communist "freezer" functioned for only four decades
and something was preserved from the previous democratic
development. That is why we had to begin the process of
democratization and market transition almost from the very
beginning. The deepening of the economic crisis can be
explained to a large extent by the fact that we do not have
at our disposal sufficient financial and energy resources or
the raw materials necessary to support these reforms.
10th meeting
29 September 1994
assistance to the Republic of Moldova" during the forty-
eighth session of the General Assembly.
Over the three years that have elapsed since the
proclamation of the independence of the Republic of
Moldova, on 27 August 1991, our decision to develop
democracy and a State of law with a market economy has
remained firm, in spite of transitional difficulties. This
firm decision is being realized through our efforts to
create the necessary legislative premises for promoting
reforms,
including privatization, for transforming the
economy to one based on market relations and for
ensuring respect
fundamental human rights and
freedoms.
for
The recent parliamentary elections held on a multi-
party basis were free and fair, and this was confirmed by
international observers. Another significant event was the
adoption of the Constitution, which paves the way for the
real independence and democracy chosen by the people of
the Republic of Moldova.
The Republic of Moldova has ratified a series of
important international Conventions on human rights. We
have consequently undertaken new commitments to
change the internal juridical framework in accordance
with international standards. Measures have been taken
to guarantee the rights of the national minorities, some of
which were on the edge of losing their identity during the
Soviet regime. Many provisions of Moldovan legislation
are aimed at protecting the right to retain, develop and
utilize the language spoken on the territory of the country.
Under the new Constitution, special forms of autonomy
may be granted to some human settlements in the east
and south of the Republic of Moldova in accordance with
special juridical statutes adopted under the constitutional
laws. For example, a draft for such a statute for the
southern region is being examined in the Parliament.
In addition, our country’s potential was affected this
year by a natural disaster of which the international
community has already been informed. We suffered human
losses and considerable material damage, and we had to
mobilize every effort and all resources to subdue the
elements and overcome their consequences. Our voice was
I should like to
heard by the international community.
express my
international
organizations and countries that granted humanitarian
assistance to the Republic of Moldova and my sincere
gratitude to the Members of the United Nations for their
understanding and sympathy, which they manifested by
adopting the resolution (48/266) entitled "Emergency
gratitude
sincere
to
the
that
We consider
the good intentions of
the
Government of the Republic of Moldova and its concrete
and positive actions represent essential premises for the
elimination of sources of tension.
It is our strong belief
that they can be eliminated, and with less controversy, not
through the use of force but in a peaceful way through
negotiation and dialogue; as an old saying teaches us: "It
is better to have a year of negotiations than a day of
war". This is true, since any armed conflict provokes
human and material losses.
The Republic of Moldova is and will remain fully
committed to constructive negotiations, on the condition,
2
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
of course, that all the parties involved demonstrate political
will and common sense.
At the same time we cannot ignore the fact that in
spite of
reasonable compromises made by Chisinau,
tendencies of separatism still exist in eastern regions, and
human rights continue to be flagrantly violated.
For
example, despite the fact that the Moldovan authorities and
several international organizations, including the United
Nations, have expressed their deep concern about
the
situation of the "Ilascu Group", as of today the members of
the Group are still illegally detained. Another example is
this:
the Moldovans from the left bank of the Dniester
river are prohibited from using the Latin alphabet in their
schooling. The separatist leaders from Tiraspol continue to
obstruct the signing of the already-endorsed agreement on
the legal status and the modalities and stages of the
complete withdrawal of the 14th Army.
I want
to emphasize once again that a complete,
orderly and unconditional withdrawal of foreign military
troops from the territory of the Republic of Moldova is the
will of our people. This will is clearly reflected in our
Constitution, which forbids the deployment of foreign
troops on the territory of the Republic of Moldova. In this
context, it should be mentioned that the authorities of the
Russian Federation show a correct understanding of our
position. I would like to underline the important role of the
international community, the international organizations,
including the United Nations, and especially the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
in
facilitating the bilateral negotiations.
I avail myself of this opportunity to congratulate
Estonia and Latvia on the withdrawal of foreign military
troops from their territory and, at the same time, to express
our hope that the international community will support the
same kind of appropriate and orderly withdrawal of foreign
troops in the case of the Republic of Moldova.
I should like to touch upon the subject of separatism
and discuss it in a larger perspective. It is well known that
many regions of the world are currently affected by
separatist tendencies. Respecting the right of nations to
self-determination -
right outlined in
international documents - we cannot ignore the fact that this
right is often used as a tool serving the interests of certain
political groups and, in that context, this right has nothing
to do with the legitimate aspirations of people to liberty and
national sovereignty.
fundamental
a
10th meeting
29 September 1994
indeed,
for
the entire world.
Today, in my opinion, at the end of the millennium
the separatist phenomenon is an extremely negative one,
and to ignore it can lead to tragic consequences for many
countries -
In such
circumstances, can we afford to allow dozens of
artificially induced States to emerge as a result of the
pressure of certain interested political groups? Will this
further the strengthening of international stability and
security? We do not believe so. Given that the majority
of States have a multi-ethnic configuration, and could be
affected by such separatist tendencies, we cannot but
emphasize the dangers this might entail. That is why we
believe that this kind of separatism - today’s deadly world
virus - must be
international
community. We think that this issue should be more
closely examined, and we hope that the United Nations
will give due attention to this matter.
condemned by the
The Republic of Moldova has joined the United
Nations as a young European country. Our European
aspirations are determined by our geopolitical and cultural
affiliations to the European democratic space, and we are
linked to it by our Latin heritage also. For us, to be
isolated from the European space and its values means to
facilitate the re-emergence of some influences from which
we suffered painfully in the recent past. That is why our
is the integration of our
vital and fundamental goal
country into Europe.
In this context, we firmly look
forward to increasing cooperation and linkage with the
Council of Europe, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO), the Western European Union (WEU), and the
CSCE,
relations with the
European Union, which represents the main guarantee of
democratic practices and values.
including expanding our
The implementation of our options depends crucially
on the willingness of the economic and political-strategic
Euro-Atlantic structures to support Moldova actively.
I think that establishing economic relations with the
independent States of the former Soviet Union and joining
the Commonwealth of Independent States - where we
participate only in the economic structures and are not
involved in collective security or political-military
cooperation - will not become an obstacle to our gradual
integration into the Euro-Atlantic structures. We believe
that in these times nobody wants new dividing lines in
Europe or in any other part of the world. On the
contrary, we need to eliminate those once generated by
the cold war. At the turn of the century, not only Europe
but the whole world finds itself in a complex process of
to establish new forms of
transformation. We want
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
collaboration that would respond to the aspirations and the
needs of all States.
The day is approaching when the international
community will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the
founding of the United Nations.
In all these years the
United Nations has been - and it remains - the major
universal centre for maintaining peace and international
security and for mobilizing the efforts of States,
in
cooperation with regional organizations, towards settling
global issues. The Republic of Moldova has the honour to
contribute, together with other States, to the implementation
of the noble ideals of the World Organization.
I am
especially pleased to inform the Assembly that a committee
for coordinating the activities and manifestations dedicated
to the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations has been created in the Republic of Moldova.
In calling to mind the achievements and successes of
the United Nations system, we cannot but mention the fact
that so far it has operated under the guidance of a Charter
conceived 50 years ago. I think that the new international
realities might call for some essential modifications to adapt
the provisions of the Charter to these realities.
The Republic of Moldova supports the reforms
initiated by the United Nations aimed at improving the
efficiency of the Organization and its major bodies.
Our country shares the views expressed by the
delegations of many countries within the Open-ended
Working Group regarding the issue of fair representation on
the Security Council.
its
functioning and methods of work should be modified
without affecting the efficiency of its activities in its main
field, which is ensuring international peace and security.
The Council’s composition,
Taking into account the active role and contribution
performed in the United Nations by Germany and Japan
and their possibilities of assuming specific responsibilities
in keeping international peace and security, Moldova
supports the candidatures of
these two countries as
permanent members of the Security Council. Our position
on fair representation on the Security Council is that it is
regional groups
necessary to take into account all
the
recognized in the United Nations.
Republic of Moldova supports
the
Netherlands to grant an additional seat to each geographic
group, including countries from Eastern Europe.
In this sense,
the proposal of
Consultations and debates on such an important
practical
supplemented with
should
be
subject
4
10th meeting
29 September 1994
organizational and procedural measures, such as setting
up some subsidiary bodies of the Security Council in
accordance with Article 29 of the Charter, and increasing
and expanding cooperation with the General Assembly
and the regional organizations.
At the same time, we consider that the working
methods of the most representative body of the United
Nations - the General Assembly - could also be modified.
We are all interested in directing those activities as much
as possible towards consolidating the principles of justice,
democracy and development. The delegation of Moldova
supports the decisions adopted at the forty-seventh session
aimed at
the General
Assembly
its
Commissions.
increasing the efficiency of
and
rationalizing
activities
the
of
There is a direct link between peace and security on
the one hand and economic and social development on
the other.
In this new era, when the United Nations is
increasing its efforts to maintain international peace and
security, we should not forget about the persistence of
inequalities and of grave social and economic problems,
which affect all countries, particularly those in transition
In this sense, reform of the
and the developing ones.
Organization should include
and social
mechanisms, especially the Economic and Social Council.
This reform, already initiated, should be more effective in
implementation and be more rational in the utilization of
available resources.
economic
In this context, I should like to stress the importance
of the two previous sessions of the Commission for
Sustainable Development, whose work we hope will
maintain and intensify the impulse generated by the Rio
de Janeiro Conference on Environment and Development
with respect
to the rapid implementation of
the
commitments made in the framework of Agenda 21.
indifferent
Turning to another matter, I would like to note that
the Republic of Moldova is aware of the financial crisis
of the Organization. We are not
to this
situation, and I would like to assure the Assembly that
my country will do its best to fulfil its commitments.
the
The recommendations of
Committee
the
re-examination and adjustment of the scale of assessments
of Member States reflect more justly States’ real capacity
to pay. We hope that the General Assembly will take
these recommendations into consideration in the spirit of
justice and solidarity which characterizes the United
Nations.
session of
concerning
Contributions
the last
on
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In conclusion, I express the hope that the constructive
atmosphere that characterizes the United Nations will help
us to identify the problems faced by the international
community and to find the necessary solutions.
The delegation of the Republic of Moldova expresses
its readiness to cooperate most actively and efficiently with
the delegations of other States in order to achieve the high
goals of the United Nations.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Moldova for the statement he
has just made.
Mr. Mircea Ion Snegur, President of the Republic of
Moldova, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
Address by Mr. Runaldo Ronald Venetiaan, President
of the Republic of Suriname
The President (interpretation from French):
The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Suriname.
Mr. Runaldo Ronald Venetiaan, President of the
Republic of Suriname, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The President (interpretation from French):
On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of
the
Republic of Suriname, His Excellency Mr. Runaldo Ronald
Venetiaan, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Venetiaan: Our world is moving into a
new era which has not yet taken a permanent shape. This
process of change entails profound transformations, some
of which promote development, the rule of law, respect for
human rights and care for the environment, while others
present a serious threat to life and to the world itself.
During this process cultural, social and political principles
which once seemed to be of eternal value are superseded by
new ones.
In many parts of the world instability reigns, causing
tragedy and chaos.
In these challenging times, Sir, your unanimous
election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-
ninth session merits compliments. Your election to this
10th meeting
29 September 1994
high office is a demonstration of the Member States’
confidence in you.
The Republic of Suriname is
convinced that under Your Excellency’s guidance our
deliberations during this important year will produce
tangible results.
We pay tribute to Ambassador Samuel Insanally of
Guyana for the excellent way in which he presided at the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
The vital, extraordinary and excellent manner in
which Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali fulfils his mission as
Secretary-General of the United Nations in these critical
times of intensified disputes, war and violence earns our
gratitude, admiration and respect. We wish to thank him
most heartily and, at the same time, congratulate him on
his
the
international system.
role in shaping the future of
important
the confrontational clash of
Events during recent years have confronted the
international community with the reality that the demise
of
ideologies did not
automatically usher in the stability and prosperity to
which we all aspire.
Immense problems persist in the
political, social and economic spheres and at the national,
regional and international levels.
We are witnessing the eruption, the continuation and
the spreading of severe national and ethnic rivalries, as in
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda. These conflicts
and disputes have given rise to the emergence of a large
number of displaced persons, who are subjected to the
worst kind of harassment, starvation and deprivation.
These manifestations are compounded by practices
that once again leave a shameful blot on our civilization.
The international community cannot close its eyes to
these practices or fail to act in the face of such horrifying
and unacceptable situations. Such crises, regardless of the
various causes and motives from which they may ensue,
tend to have in common the fact that masses of innocent
women, children and elderly people pay the price and
bear the brunt of conflicts and wars.
The real concern is not only the number of victims
claimed or the scale of the destruction that may ensue but
also the possibility that the seeds of those conflicts will
spread, both in the developed and in the developing
countries, in the absence of the attention of a world order
capable of containing and addressing their causes.
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is legitimate for the international community to
regard these problems as a shared burden and to strive for
their peaceful and prompt solution on the basis of practical
cooperation. We should in the short term resort to such
mechanisms as are deemed practical
to come to the
immediate rescue of those who are suffering. Furthermore,
we should increase our efforts to eliminate the deeprooted
causes of the unresolved national conflicts, to ensure the
civil and human rights of ethnic minorities and to promote
peaceful coexistence through respect for each other’s race,
colour, ethnicity, religion and sex. If we fail to do so, the
suffering will be prolonged and will threaten regional and
international peace and security.
As we discuss the issues now confronting our world,
we cannot but refer to the importance of building a new
reality that aims at the full development of the people’s
potential through the establishment of peace, the building of
democracy and the shaping of sound economies.
We know that it is a difficult process to establish
democracy, dependable democratic institutions and a
democratic culture. Notwithstanding the commitment or
vigour with which our Governments strive to achieve this
objective, the process is bound to be slow and full of
complications. Suriname is convinced, however, that we
must endeavour to reach this goal, led by the perception
that the core of democracy, as we see it, is not merely
adherence to an ideal system but one of the most important
prerequisites for a stable, united and integrated society that
can swiftly settle its differences, realize its aspirations and
enjoy and preserve its cultural, political and socio-economic
achievements.
The commitment of Suriname to the cause of
democracy is strengthened by the distressing experience of
the rule of dictatorship under which its people had to live
some years ago. There are indeed tremendous efforts
involved in bringing a democratic system back on track.
Our involvement in the building of a new national
political reality establishes a link between us and the
regional process of political renewal, in which Governments
of the region are faced with the complex task of restoring
and safeguarding democracy.
Indeed,
in Latin America
and the Caribbean,
democracy has suffered some severe setbacks.
The problems of Haiti are of particular concern to us.
interruption of the democratic
The violent and illegal
process in this country has led to continued violations of
6
10th meeting
29 September 1994
human rights, to increased poverty and to suffering for
the Haitian people, as well as to the flight of thousands
from their home country. It
this background
that my Government has granted a request to provide a
temporary safe haven for Haitian refugees and has
pledged its support to the multinational force.
is against
Furthermore, my Government decided to make
members of the national army and the police force
available to the United Nations mission in Haiti, which,
within the framework of the implementation of Security
Council resolution 940 (1994), will become operational
simultaneously with the restoration of the democratic
Government under the leadership of President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide.
My Government’s decision to support and participate
in the United Nations mission in Haiti was inspired by its
conception of regional and international responsibility to
contribute to the safeguarding of constitutional democracy
in the region.
We believe that our hemisphere is in need of
permanent mechanisms to guarantee swift and direct
action when democracy is threatened - for example, by
the unconstitutional take-over of Governments.
The significant efforts made by the United Nations
and the Organization of American States, including the
various resolutions adopted, the missions sent to Haiti and
the threat of an immediate military intervention, have
finally convinced the military leadership to step down not
later than 15 October.
In a general sense, we are hopeful
that current
developments in Haiti, which are the result of initiatives
taken within the framework of the United Nations, will
lead to a peaceful resolution of the crisis. Suriname
wishes to emphasize that all efforts to restore democracy
in Haiti will appear to have been in vain if the rich
countries do not forthwith pool financial resources in a
fund for the reconstruction and development of Haiti.
The developments in South Africa which led to the
demise of the abhorrent regime of apartheid and to the
establishment of a democratic and non-racist South Africa
have led to the conviction that in the end the rightful
struggle of people for justice, equality and majority rule
will meet with success.
Indeed, the birth of the new
South Africa last April has demonstrated that structures
imposed by force cannot survive the determination of
those who seek justice.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The people and Government of the Republic of
Suriname wish to congratulate the people of South Africa
and their leaders, especially President Nelson Mandela, on
this success, which will have a positive impact on the world
community.
We are all greatly indebted to the Special Committee
against Apartheid, which for 32 years played a vital role in
global efforts to end apartheid. My country is confident
that the new Government in South Africa will cope well
with the new challenges it faces. We hope that
the
international community will not wait to assist the new
Government in bringing about the necessary economic and
social changes to build a future of security, stability and
prosperity for the South African people.
The many positive political changes and international
breakthroughs resulting from the end of the cold-war era
have had a profound influence on the problem of the
Middle East, especially the Palestine issue. The conflict
has taken a positive turn in line with those changes. My
Government wishes to record its satisfaction over the
historic agreement signed between Israel and Jordan, which
followed the accord between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization in September 1993. The historic
opportunity to achieve lasting peace has now materialized
and the international community must guarantee that this
important momentum is not lost.
The statistics of the United Nations Development
Programme, the World Bank and the United Nations give
rise to only one conclusion:
that we live in a world beset
by inequality, gross disparity and imbalance in the
distribution of wealth and resources, and urgent solutions
for the economic situation of developing countries are
required.
The problem of economic imbalance is not limited to
a few countries or to one region. It is a global issue - just
as peace and democracy are global issues - and for that
reason this forum must deal with it as a matter of priority.
No longer is it the nuclear nightmare that frightens us most:
rather, it is the scourge of poverty, which continues to
erode the foundations of our civilization.
In Suriname, as elsewhere in Latin America,
the
Caribbean and other regions, bold but necessary reforms
have been set
to
development and economic competitiveness in order to
adapt to new international realities.
In this context, my
country is endeavouring to rehabilitate and reconstruct the
in motion to eliminate obstacles
10th meeting
29 September 1994
beleaguered economy of our nation on a sound and solid
foundation.
Within the framework of these economic reforms we
consider the development of human resources to be a
priority issue. We consider it to be extremely important
to improve the living conditions and basic health and
nutrition of our people. We are committed to these goals
because we believe that every human being has the
ultimate right to development.
it
The austerity measures which were subscribed to by
my Government have not been easy to implement because
of the weakness of the economy and the hardships and
suffering they impose on our people. Notwithstanding the
progress made so far,
is obvious that such an
undertaking calls for the availability of vast resources,
which cannot be mobilized at the national level only. We
therefore have called on the international community to
provide assistance to complement our domestic efforts.
In particular, we have called on our historical partner to
fulfil
the agreements reached in this context and to
support us in our attempts to create prosperity for our
people.
We must add to this that it is our obligation to see
lead to the
that our need for aid does not
to it
recolonization of our country.
shares
the
My Government
international
community’s concern for the fragile ecosystem in our
world, which must be protected. Like other developing
countries, Suriname is confronted with the challenge to
meet its present development needs and simultaneously
safeguard the environment and natural resources for
generations to come.
In trying to establish a sound
balance between development and environment my
Government has committed itself
the
measures necessary to protect
the
environment, in accordance with the guidelines adopted
by the Rio de Janeiro Conference, and has incorporated
the concept of sustainable development in its national
development programmes.
to taking all
and preserve
If the international community does not have the
political will to deal effectively with the crises occurring
in so many economies, the world will continue to lack
stability and will remain vulnerable to upheavals and
setbacks that could undermine the foundations of the
future.
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In the context of
the recently held International
Conference on Population and Development and the
forthcoming Fourth World Conference on Women, a World
Summit for Social Development
is therefore a timely
initiative as it will provide an opportunity to embark on an
in-depth analysis of human development in all its aspects.
These international meetings should afford all of us the
opportunity to address in an integrated manner the issues of
poverty, unemployment and social integration.
In Latin America
and the Caribbean various
encouraging initiatives have been taken to deal effectively
with the imperatives of economic and social development
and to enhance the capability of the countries of the region
to respond to the pressing challenges ahead. Joint efforts
aimed at
integration and
cooperation have been made.
the strengthening of regional
On 24 July 1994 in Cartagena, Colombia, we stood at
the cradle of the Association of Caribbean States, an
association which brings together member States of the
Caribbean Community (CARICOM),
the countries of
Central America, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Haiti,
Suriname, Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela. This is
indeed proof of
the growing awareness among the
leadership in the region that closer economic and political
relations are tools to enhance our capacity to bring
prosperity to our peoples. By joining the Association of
Caribbean States, Suriname has demonstrated that it is part
of the region and wants to participate in the shaping of its
future.
Suriname has also explored the possibility of joining
CARICOM as a full member since it believes that by
joining Suriname will both enhance its own capacity to
intensify regional cooperation and bring to the Caribbean
Community its
economic
opportunities.
and its
richness
cultural
Our hemisphere, which includes both developed and
is being challenged to take the
developing countries,
opportunity provided by global changes
to develop
initiatives for the cultivation of international relations
conducive to prosperity for all on the basis of sustainable
development, social reform and equity.
In the light of these aims, my country welcomes the
proposed Summit for the Americas, to be held in December
1994, at which representatives of countries of the Western
hemisphere will come together to address these issues and
to act as catalysts
the changes needed in the
development patterns of both the countries of the North and
for
8
10th meeting
29 September 1994
those of the South in order for them to reach their
common goals.
important multilateral
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea has on many occasions been described as one of the
most
instruments of our
century. My Government participated actively in its
preparation, and I take great pleasure in congratulating the
world community on the coming into force of this
Convention on 16 November 1994.
legal
On behalf of my Government, I also wish to express
my satisfaction with the agreement that has been reached
with regard to the mining of minerals in the deep sea-bed,
as contemplated in the aforementioned Convention.
All Members of the United Nations pledge their
support for the principles and initiatives of the United
Nations. At
the Member States are
keeping an eye both on the kind of support and on the
level of
from this
Organization. Suriname does so.
they can generate
the same time,
assistance
For Suriname, many aid programmes from the
specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies have
been hampered by the implementation of one of the main
criteria for assistance. Suriname was counted among the
net contributors of the United Nations Development
Programme because our national per capita income was
calculated to be higher than $3,000. This figure is wrong
because of an unrealistic official exchange rate. Now that
the official exchange rate has moved to a realistic level,
which is more than 100 times the former rate, Suriname
is looking forward to a readjustment of its status and
subsequently to a reclassification, and also to the aid
programme that will follow this transformation.
We are involved in an evolutionary process, with
both the world and the United Nations adjusting to new
demands with regard to peace, security and sustainable
development.
It is clear that a new international order
based on the democratic participation of all States calls
for a restructuring and strengthening of
the United
Nations in response to its new responsibilities.
Indeed,
the role of the United Nations has taken on more
relevance than ever before, and it is most urgent for the
international community to restructure this Organization
in order to enable it to play the important role for which
it was created.
The celebration in 1995 of the fiftieth anniversary of
the United Nations will be a good occasion on which to
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
reflect on the new role of the Organization and the
attainment of that objective, provided that the relations
between the General Assembly, the Security Council and
the Secretary-General are reorganized.
My Government is committed to contributing to the
successful outcome of this endeavour.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Suriname for the statement he
has just made.
His Excellency Mr. Runaldo Ronald Venetiaan,
President of the Republic of Suriname, was escorted
from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on His Excellency The Honourable André Ouellet,
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada.
Mr. Ouellet (Canada) (interpretation from French):
Canada is very pleased, Sir, that you have been elected to
the presidency of the Assembly, and it is certain that you
will, with tact and efficiency, assume the responsibility of
guiding our work. You can count on our full cooperation.
The United Nations has always had a special place in
Canada’s foreign policy. As I address the Assembly for the
first time as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I am reminded of
something one of my illustrious predecessors, Lester B.
Pearson, said about the United Nations:
"We must cultivate international
international
institutions, above all
peace and progress can be made secure."
ideals, develop
international
the United Nations, so that
strengthen
policies,
The Government that I represent shares his broad and
noble vision of the role and place of the United Nations.
In order to face the challenges that await it at the dawn of
the twenty-first century, the international community needs,
more than ever, a strong, credible multilateral institution
equipped with the tools needed to fulfil our expectations.
These challenges are the maintenance of peace and
justice,
international security, as well as development,
democracy, human rights and the fight against inequalities.
10th meeting
29 September 1994
At a time when we are preparing to celebrate the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations,
there is no more
urgent task than the intensification of our efforts for
reform in order to give our Organization the second wind
it needs. Let us draw inspiration from the vision and
enthusiasm of the people who drafted the Charter of the
United Nations 50 years ago.
The extensive upheavals that have shaken our planet
since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold
war can be symbolized in a few images. I am thinking of
the moving image of President Nelson Mandela taking the
oath of office as democratically elected President of South
Africa and the historic handshake between Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin and the Palestine Liberation Organization
leader, Yasser Arafat. For their people and those in
Cambodia, El Salvador - and soon, perhaps, Mozambique
and Angola - who have discovered the road to peace, with
the help of the United Nations, the future is filled with
hope.
There is also hope in Haiti, where a courageous
people has been subjected for too long to oppression and
abject poverty. We shall share their joy when they can
finally welcome to his native land President Aristide, a
living symbol of nascent democracy.
But there are also unbearable images of the victims
in the market in Sarajevo and the flood of humanity
fleeing the killings in Rwanda.
The
cannot
community
international
remain
indifferent to conflicts that threaten the lives of millions
of
innocent people and expose them to the worst
violations of their most fundamental rights. Recent
experience has shown us that only a concerted and
determined effort on the part of
the international
community can solve these problems.
It is no easy task. Faced with the problems in
Bosnia, Somalia, Rwanda or even Haiti, some people will
be tempted to give up and wonder if the United Nations
is wrong in trying to resolve essentially internal conflicts
that have numerous complex causes.
Canada does not share this opinion. We think that,
despite these problems, the Security Council is on the
right track, even though the steps it has taken have not
always proved capable of solving all
the problems.
Consistent with that belief, we have always made a
tangible contribution to United Nations operations, as far
as our circumstances permit.
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The Canadian contribution to peace-keeping operations
in the territories of the former Yugoslavia totals more than
2,000 soldiers and civilian police.
The Canadian
Government decided a few days ago to renew once more
the mandate of its troops for a six-month period. Canada
has always been convinced that there can be no military
solution to the Yugoslavian conflict. It is because we wish
to give peace another chance that we have chosen to
maintain our contribution to the United Nations Protection
Force.
We have also responded to the Secretary-General’s
appeal for help in the tragedy of Rwanda. For two months
ours was the only country providing an air bridge to Kigali.
There are 600 Canadian soldiers serving under the United
Nations
flag, and many Canadian non-governmental
organizations have mobilized to provide help to those in
distress.
We will also be in Haiti, with 600 soldiers and 100
police officers when the time comes to deploy the United
Nations peace-keeping force. Our participation is a logical
sequel to our numerous efforts of the past three years to
restore the democratic process in this country, to which we
are attached by language, geographical proximity and the
many personal ties between our peoples. The Haitian
people can count on Canada’s lasting help as they rebuild
their economy.
We are also contributing to the Middle East peace
process. As the leader of the multilateral Working Group
on Refugees, we are tackling with determination that task
entrusted to us by the international community. Our
objective is to contribute to the construction of a renewed
region where, 10 years hence, no one will consider himself
or herself a refugee. We are also providing substantial
financial
people’s
reconstruction projects. We would favourably consider
sending peace-keepers if
thus
carrying on a lengthy tradition of Canadian participation in
peace-keeping operations in the region.
the need should arise,
Palestinian
the
assistance
to
(spoke in English)
The economic and social problems
facing the
international community often receive
less headline
attention than the armed conflicts. However, they are every
bit as urgent. Hundreds of millions of people around the
world continue to be condemned to a life of poverty. For
whole sectors of humanity, such basic needs as a proper
diet, drinking water, education and medical care are more
of a dream than a reality.
10
10th meeting
29 September 1994
Certain parts of the developing world are currently
experiencing
others,
unfortunately - the African continent in particular - are
continuing to struggle.
progress, while
remarkable
It is estimated that there are an unprecedented 19
million refugees and displaced persons in the world. We
are witnessing a massive movement of people that none
of our societies is able to manage without the cooperation
of the entire international community.
The recent Cairo Conference revealed the urgent
need for effective measures to cope with the problems of
population and development, problems that cannot be
resolved without giving full recognition to the essential
roles of women.
Our ability to translate into reality the concept of
sustainable development will have a very direct impact on
the daily lives of our fellow citizens. The fishermen of
Newfoundland and the Maritime Provinces of Canada are
all too familiar with this problem. Their livelihood has
disappeared, through the plundering of fish stocks in
international waters off our shores. This is why we
believe an agreement must be reached without delay on
fishing on the high seas.
We could easily add to the list of pressing problems
that I have just mentioned. And no one can challenge the
fact that all of these problems - from peace-keeping to
development, including the fight against AIDS, drug-
trafficking and the protection of human rights and the
environment - require a determined, coordinated effort on
the part of the international community.
A great deal has been done over the past few years
to help our multilateral institutions to effectively face
these numerous challenges. However, much more needs
to be done. Too often, the intervention of the United
Nations comes too late, is too slow and is carried out
under inadequate conditions.
The lack of political will on the part of Member
States cannot be blamed on the Secretary-General. On
the contrary, I would like to pay special tribute to the
Secretary-General and his staff. They have done more
and better than anyone should expect from an institution
deprived of the most elementary resources, lacking even
a solid financial foundation.
We must fully assume our responsibilities and give
the United Nations the tools required to fulfil its unique
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
mandate successfully. However,
unable to take a second look at the habits of the past.
it seems that we are
We invest too much energy in activities of marginal
use and in unimportant quarrels when there is an
emergency right under our noses.
We waste valuable resources by allowing the
numerous institutions and agencies we have created over
the years to jealously protect their independence and resist
change when circumstances require a pooling of energies.
As a result of our extreme reticence to implement
administrative reforms, we are handicapping the only
institution on which we can depend, when modern and
flexible management methods would enable us to respond
much more effectively to the needs of the moment.
Canada believes that the reforms of the United Nations
system must be deepened and accelerated. We must do
more and better with the resources at our disposal.
Efforts should be concentrated on the following five
major priorities, which I would like to bring to your
attention.
Firstly, we must strengthen the United Nations
The United
system’s capacity for preventive action.
Nations already has a number of
tools for detecting
potential conflicts, and can use a variety of mechanisms to
try to eliminate problems before crises break out. Lack of
information is not the problem; what we need is the ability
to better analyse this information, to develop appropriate
strategies and above all
to mobilize energy from all
components of the system.
In order to act rapidly, the United Nations must be
able to count on qualified human resources, available on
short notice, to complement its own personnel. This is why
Canada has prepared for the Secretary-General an inventory
of resource persons suited to missions of good offices or
specializing in elections, human rights, the administration
of justice and other such fields.
At
its first summit
in January 1992,
the Security
Council recognized that non-military sources of instability
in the economic, social, humanitarian and ecological fields
have become threats to international peace and security.
Let us recognize once and for all the need to expand the
traditional concept of
security, and to mobilize all
components of the United Nations system to attack conflict
at its very roots.
10th meeting
29 September 1994
We also feel that the preventive capacity of the
United Nations system will be strengthened if we make
better use of the expertise of those who have direct
knowledge of the field. The United Nations Economic
and Social Council should periodically hold public
hearings, similar to those held last June on the Agenda
for Development, with a view to assisting the United
Nations to better anticipate problems and to develop
strategies for attacking the economic and social causes of
conflicts. The findings of its hearings could and should
be provided to the Security Council and the Secretary-
General so that they can develop appropriate preventive
measures.
Any strategy for preventing armed conflicts also
involves pursuing tangible disarmament objectives.
Canada has established two priority objectives for the
next few years: nuclear non-proliferation and the control
of conventional arms.
Nuclear arms control and disarmament are under
way: we are continuing negotiations on a comprehensive
test-ban treaty to ban nuclear testing for all time. Canada
is working in the Conference on Disarmament to secure
a mandate for negotiations on a convention to prohibit the
production of fissile material for weapons purposes.
Together,
effect of
constraining and preventing a future nuclear arms race.
treaties will have
these
the
In 1995 we will have to decide the fate of the
world’s nuclear non-proliferation regime; the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is very
important for Canada, and we believe that there is only
one option:
that the NPT must be indefinitely extended.
I urge all Governments to support this option, which will
allow for the continuation of a crucial
in
preventing the spread of nuclear-weapon technology and
provide new impetus to reduce existing stocks.
instrument
We must also recognize that, although the threat of
nuclear weapons is of prime concern, the ongoing use of
conventional weapons is an equally dangerous and very
real threat to peace and security.
The task of controlling conventional weapons is the
responsibility of every Government. Huge sums are
being spent each year purchasing such weapons, often to
the detriment of services essential to the public, such as
education and health care.
Those who are more
concerned about the size of their military arsenal than
about the welfare of their people should no longer expect
to receive unconditional international aid.
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The recently established United Nations Register of
Conventional Arms is a start, and I urge Member States to
make information available to the Register as Canada has
done.
More can be done, however. For example, next year
we will be
reviewing the Convention on certain
conventional weapons that deals with land-mines. The
abuse of land-mines is responsible for continued suffering
and death of civilians long after the fighting has stopped.
I welcome the proposal made by President Clinton on
Monday to reduce and eventually eliminate the use of anti-
personnel land mines. He can count on the support and
assistance of the Government of Canada on this useful idea.
We must strengthen the Convention by extending its scope
to cover internal as well as international conflicts and by
insisting on effective verification measures to ensure
compliance. We will create a task force in Canada to
consider other initiatives that might be taken in the coming
months, and I look forward to sharing ideas on this subject
with other ministers.
Secondly, we must conduct an in-depth review of the
United Nations economic and social activities.
I think I
speak for most members of the Assembly when I express
serious concerns regarding what can best be described as
the drift of the United Nations in the economic and social
sectors. While the debate on the United Nations mandate
in the areas of peace and security is lively and productive,
it is unfortunately too often vague and directionless when
we tackle economic and social problems.
We are not saying that everything must be changed -
far
from it. But certain reforms have already been
introduced; to mention but one, we welcome the decision
to make the United Nations Development Programme
Administrator responsible for system-wide coordination.
But at a time when large sectors of international economic
activities are beyond the control of States, and when the
resources devoted to development
and international
cooperation are subject to all manner of constraint in all of
our countries, we must rethink the role and mandate of all
our multilateral
including those of Bretton
Woods. These questions will be taken up at next year’s
Group of Seven summit, to be held in Halifax, and should
be debated as widely as possible within other relevant
institutions.
institutions,
Canada is ready to proceed with a comprehensive re-
evaluation of
its multilateral system as it applies to
economic and social issues. If necessary, the relevance of
12
10th meeting
29 September 1994
certain institutions must be rethought, and a real solution
must be found to the problem of duplication.
We expect great things of the next chapter of the
Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development. We share
to a great extent his
visions of development, which
encompass all facets of human activity, and particularly
its social dimensions. Although the full importance of
these dimensions has finally been grasped, they are still
poorly integrated in our development strategies. The time
has come to translate this vision into new operational
priorities and to adapt our institutions and structures to it.
The Secretary-General should not hesitate to recommend
radical reform if necessary. Together we can restore the
relevance and leadership of the United Nations system.
We must adapt it to the new realities of an ever-changing
world.
Thirdly, we must strengthen the rapid-intervention
capability of the United Nations. The implementation of
a number of the proposals advanced by the Secretary-
General in "An Agenda for Peace" has enabled the United
Nations to make great strides in the area of peace-
keeping. Last April the Government of Canada took the
initiative of inviting the major troop-contributing countries
to a meeting in Ottawa to discuss problems associated
with political direction, command and control and the
training of peace-keeping- operations personnel.
In this regard, I am pleased to announce that Canada
will soon open a centre for peace-keeping research and
training. The centre, to be located on the site of the
former military base in Cornwallis, Nova Scotia, will be
named after Lester B. Pearson, Canadian recipient of the
Nobel Peace Prize. I invite Member States to come and
join us so they can share our experience and help fine-
tune our future approach.
The experience of the last few years leads us to
believe that we need to explore even more innovative
options than those considered to date. Recent peace-
keeping missions have demonstrated the limitations of the
traditional approach. As we now fully realize, rapid
deployment of intervention forces is essential.
In the light of
the prevailing situation,
the
Government of Canada has decided to conduct an in-
depth review of the short-, medium- and long-term
options available to us to strengthen the rapid-response
capability of the United Nations in times of crisis. From
among these options, we feel that the time has come to
study the possibility, over the long term, of creating a
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
permanent United Nations military force. We will ask the
world’s leading experts for their input and will inform all
Member States of the results of the study.
(spoke in French)
Fourthly, we must improve the functioning of United
Nations decision-making bodies.
For this reason,
it
The Security Council currently bears enormous
responsibilities.
Its decisions are binding on all Member
States and have a determining influence on millions of
people. It is essential that the Council be able to reflect as
accurately as possible the wishes of the entire international
community.
the
composition of the Council be reviewed. By making the
Council more representative of today’s world, we can
enhance the legitimacy of its actions and facilitate their
implementation. Canada will continue to play an active
role in the negotiations launched during the last session of
the General Assembly, with a view to concluding an
agreement as soon as possible.
is imperative that
However, an expanded Council must not be seen as a
panacea. As we have said on a number of occasions, the
Council must make its working methods more transparent
and become more receptive to the viewpoints of non-
member States with special concerns. More specifically,
Canada has advocated closer dialogue between the Council
and troop-contributing countries. The informal practices
developed in recent years are a good start, but in our view
we must look for practical ways to institutionalize them.
We ask the members of the Council to keep an open mind
in this regard.
Finally, we must put the United Nations on a sound
financial footing.
their
It goes without saying that the United Nations can
that
the mandates we give it only to the extent
fulfil
Member States meet
financial obligations and
contribute generously to its voluntary funds. The sums in
question are no doubt modest when compared with those
invested elsewhere, but
they represent none the less a
burden that is already significant and growing larger at a
time when many of our countries, Canada most definitely
included, are going through a difficult period of budgetary
adjustment.
Our taxpayers do not question the need to contribute
to the United Nations, but they are entitled to expect that
their contributions will be spent judiciously. That is why
10th meeting
29 September 1994
we attach such great importance to the need for sound
management of the system’s resources.
The recent
creation of the new position of inspector general should
help tighten controls and improve administrative practices.
There is also a need to review budgetary procedures in
order to make them more transparent and to simplify
those that govern peace-keeping operations.
Reviewing the scale of assessments is always a
perilous undertaking, but I believe the need to do so has
become urgent. The current system suffers from serious
distortions and no longer reflects properly Member States’
ability to pay. We hope the General Assembly will make
this a priority issue at the current session.
In the final analysis, the future of the United Nations
depends on the willingness of its Member States to lend
it political and practical support. This support depends in
turn on the degree of support the Organization receives
from our respective citizenries.
It is not only Member
States’ credibility that
is at stake, but, even more
important, that of the United Nations.
Governments must strive to work together and in
cooperation with private enterprise and non-governmental
organizations to define our new vision of the United
Nations for the next century. This is, in part, why the
Canadian Government has provided support
to the
Canadian Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
United Nations. That Committee, which brings together
leaders from all sectors, has prepared a remarkable
programme of activities to commemorate the anniversary
everywhere in our country. The emphasis is being placed
on youth education and the main subjects of the United
Nations agenda.
Next year at
this time, all eyes will be turned
towards the General Assembly.
Let us make that
anniversary the beginning of a new era for the United
Nations.
The President (interpretation from French): The
next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Israel,
Mr. Shimon Peres.
I now call on him.
Mr. Peres (Israel):
I should like to congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General
Assembly. We are pleased that the representative of Côte
d’Ivoire - a nation for which Israel has high regard - has
been elected to this distinguished post.
I should like to
express to the Secretary General our deepest appreciation
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
for his contribution to world peace in general, and to peace
in the Middle East in particular.
A year ago, I offered a concept for a new Middle
East. Many applauded; more remained sceptical. What at
that time seemed lofty is today a reality.
I feel I can
submit today an invitation to a further journey in the new
Middle East.
Last year was a year of remarkable events. The
Palestinian people, as a result of our agreement, gained
authority in Gaza and Jericho; Jordan and Israel agreed, in
the Washington Declaration, to end the state of war and
move towards an agreement of full peace; voices of
promise are exchanged between Damascus and Jerusalem;
multilateral meetings produced a network of
regional
cooperation; Morocco and Israel
established formal
relations; and an agenda for a new Middle East will emerge
from an unprecedented economic conference in Casablanca
next month.
The desire for peace is rooted in the millenniums of
Jewish existence. Generations prayed for it, and now a
young generation in Israel is today engaged in making it.
The search for peace is shared by young people all over the
Middle East, Arabs and Israelis alike. We have to fulfil
their hope.
I am addressing this Assembly for the first time, not
as a party to a controversy, but as a representative of a
country that has shown a capacity to solve conflicts that
seemed insoluble.
The United Nations should play an increasing role
facing the changing times. It can define new destinies. It
can adopt new means.
As
celebrates
its
the United Nations
fiftieth
anniversary, it may adopt models for new endeavours by
mobilizing builders
just by
deploying troops to keep it. Economic structures will offer
more than military deployment.
to construct peace, not
Gaza, as an example, has a new authority. It needs a
new economy. The United Nations can provide an answer.
The 7,000 years of Gaza are mainly a history of suffering.
Its population density today is among the highest in the
world.
10th meeting
29 September 1994
Then UNRWA came and supplied food, health and
education to the refugees.
Then UNDP contributed
greatly to the construction of an infrastructure in the Gaza
Strip.
The United Nations can help Gaza today become
free from want.
It can introduce there the necessary
economic and proper social institutions. An enlarged
allocation for Gaza, with the existing United Nations
administration, will produce immediate results and may
make Gaza a new model of United Nations endeavours.
The world is moving from military might to social
It is time to turn from political confrontation
In the Middle East, economic
priorities.
to economic cooperation.
growth can compensate for political compromises.
We no longer live in a closed world. The intensive
flow of information has opened the eyes of many people.
No longer can tyranny blind their perceptions.
Iron
curtains can no longer bar the spread of the true story.
Knowledge has finally overcome propaganda.
This current is profound and lasting. The sources of
strength and wealth are today universal
rather than
national, intellectual rather than material. The size of the
territory, the number of its people, the wealth of its raw
materials, no longer decide the fate of a nation. It is the
scope of education,
science, applied
technology and up-to-date information that make all the
difference.
the level of
Science has no territorial
Intellectual sources are no longer partitioned by
traditional divides.
limits.
Technology has no national flags. Information can travel
without visas. Armies cannot conquer wisdom. Borders
cannot protect knowledge. The talent of creation is
replacing the strategies of destruction. Computers, not
rifles, mark the difference. The hunting season in history
is disappearing.
Ms. Arystanbekova (Kazakhstan), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
This does not mean an end to agonies. Starvation,
disease,
terrorism, desertification, nuclear weapons,
ecological damage and dangerous drugs overflow the
boundaries of land and the boundaries of reason.
There is a role for the United Nations in Gaza, and it
has played one. It began by stationing troops - which were
recalled, unfortunately, on the eve of the Six-Day War.
Violence
employs new tactics:
it has not
Confrontations in the future may not
disappeared.
necessarily be wars of conquest, but bloodshed of protest.
14
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The strong know that they will not be strengthened by
dominating the poor, or by owning their deserts. The poor
cannot, and will not, comply with their conditions, tolerated
by the indifference of the well-off.
Existing institutions were initiated in a different time.
They are based today on memories rather than on needs.
Ministries of foreign affairs and defence were structured to
confront enemies. Now we face dangers more than
enemies, but without our being organized to handle them.
We are not answering the need. Diplomacy and strategy
should be mobilized to face the undefined dangers. Disease
will not be overcome by traditional diplomatic démarches.
Starvation cannot be eliminated by guns. Deserts will not
bloom beneath air raids. Remedies will not arrive of their
own accord:
they should be invented and introduced.
Israel
is on the side of this tendency. We are
committed to ending the conflicts. We are determined to
uproot
their causes. We do not
intend to stop this
momentum or allow its interruption.
For the last five decades the mere existence of Israel
has served as a temptation to try and destroy it. For half a
century we had to give security top priority. To this very
day, we shed tears on the tombs of our children, who paid
with their young lives to overcome the menace. When
wars became futile, suspicion succeeded fighting. The
allegation was that Israel was trying to expand territorially
and was unwilling to compromise geographically. Reality
ended this allegation as well.
Egypt, first to negotiate peace, found an Israel willing
to exchange land for peace. The Palestinians, next in line,
gained jurisdiction over territories they had never controlled
before. With Jordan, we agreed to delineate a permanent
border without one side encroaching on the land of the
other. Syria was told at the outset of negotiations that the
nature of peace would affect the depth of the withdrawal.
Lebanon was told that Israel had no demands on its
territory and no intention of compromising its integrity.
Negotiations have not been easy. With the
Palestinians, we negotiated on uncharted ground. Never
had the Palestinian people experienced self-rule. Today
they possess a territorial address and an administrative
authority. For the first time in their history, their children’s
education is solely in Palestinian hands. In the coming days
Israel will hand over additional responsibilities to the
Palestinian Authority. The Declaration of Principles will be
fully implemented in the spirit and letter. We shall support
a Palestinian readiness to hold democratic elections.
10th meeting
29 September 1994
democracy
Israel, as well as the Palestinians, may discover that
Palestinian
are
complementary. We have demonstrated that we are true
in our moral choice not to govern the destiny of another
people.
security
and
Israeli
We shall continue to negotiate with Syria. We are
negotiating out of conviction, not weakness, and we hope
to conclude the negotiations with a settlement that will
respect the interests of both sides, without harming Syrian
dignity or compromising Israeli security. Syria insists on
a narrow path for the negotiations, postponing meetings
between the leaders and thus slowing the pace of
negotiations. Israel is ready for accelerated negotiations.
We address the Syrians by saying: "Let us talk face to
face. Let us negotiate, as proclaimed in Damascus, with
courage to attain a peace of honour. By ending suspicion,
introducing creativity and allowing flexibility, we can
transform a promising climate into a solid terrain." Syria
declared its strategy for peace. We appreciate it.
Military threats and territorial positions should be
transformed by security arrangements, diplomatic rapport,
full peace and economic endeavours. That will erode the
motivation for conflict. Without peaceful relations,
balances of power are meaningless.
The range of
understanding can serve as the only answer to the range
of ballistic missiles.
President Clinton and Secretary of State Christopher
are relentlessly pushing for peace. European, Russian and
many other leaders are genuinely supportive.
Important
Middle Eastern leaders are actively engaged in the same
direction. Still, much depends on direct negotiations.
Yesterday’s enemies, tomorrow’s partners, should become
today’s interlocutors.
A peace treaty between Israel and Syria may
produce a historic result greater than just an agreement
between two countries. It may well become the crowning
of a comprehensive peace. It may become an opportunity
for the leaders of the region - Kings, Presidents, Prime
Ministers, supported by the most prominent leaders of our
time - to gather and announce the end of the conflict and
to proclaim full peace throughout the region.
Peace can hardly emerge from stinginess. By
definition, it calls for generosity. Peace is more than a
mere ceremony.
it
awaits a passionate cultivation of new relations. We hope
that our neighbours, from Saudi Arabia to Lebanon, from
Djibouti to Algeria, will become constructive partners in
It requires ongoing maintenance;
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
it. Dark clouds are still hanging over the horizon - the
shadows of missed opportunities.
We have to build a coalition to prevent subversive
turbulence from undermining legitimate Governments and
harassing the stability needed for the inflow of investment.
All countries of the Middle East face a choice:
to remain
politically divided and economically stagnant or to become
economically advanced and politically just.
A high standard of living for the people - all people -
is the best promise for stability in our midst.
Israel is
willing to participate in achieving it. There are sceptics, we
know, who do not believe that the Middle East is ripe for
a common market similar to the European one. They forget
that Europe did not do it in one leap.
It started with a
Community of coal and steel. We can start with a
community of water and tourism.
Nor do they believe that the Middle East is ready for
a free trade zone like the one in North America. Yet the
North American Free Trade Agreement emerged in a short
while as a success by linking geographic proximity with
economic growth. Those sceptics claim that generations are
needed to cement a new market in the Middle East. Well,
they can see what in 10 short years happened to Asian
countries, which attained unpredicted prosperity. They
achieved it by adopting a market economy.
The profile of a market economy is clear. It is made
of comprehensive education, open borders, free movement,
science-based industries and competitive trade. A market
economy is a fabric woven from political silk and durable
threads of welfare. The time is ripe for its rendezvous with
the Middle East.
At the end of October, under the presidency of King
Hassan II, we shall
take the first step to implement a
regional design. We shall try to establish instruments for
development:
a regional bank, channels for private
investment and a framework for regional planning. The
wealth of the Middle East should be convinced to remain
at home. Over the last decade it has invested the better
part of its fortunes abroad. Homebound wealth will attract
foreign investment as well.
We should cut the enormous expense - $70 billion
annually - of the arms race. The savings can be directed to
development. The arms race can be reduced only by
regional consent. No single country will do it alone.
16
10th meeting
29 September 1994
call
To transform the region and make it a stable and
attractive place we need the emergence of the region as
a whole, committed to a new future. Nature, and not
only politics, calls for it. The waters, the winds, the
environment
and
cooperation, for desalinization plants, energy stations,
highways, railways, runways, piers, telecommunication
networks, high-tech industries,
tourism infrastructure,
banking systems, computer
terminals and ecological
considerations - a landscape that will meet the future will
create a state of prosperity, and it is a regional challenge.
responsibility
for
regional
The Middle East was the cradle of civilization and
has a capacity to contribute. It experienced golden ages,
economically and culturally.
It should be our collective
ambition to make it happen again and to make it happen
soon.
shortages can be bridged rapidly.
Computers can carry children not only from grade to
grade but from age to age. The software of knowledge
will better replace the hardware of weapons.
Today,
I have served my country since its birth.
I have
learned that complex problems call for unconventional
solutions.
I feel that over the past year we have won a
licence to build a new Middle East, to make it part of the
globe in its new age, free of wars, free of enemies, free
of terrorism; a Middle East which will be nuclear-free,
missile-free, hunger-free, discrimination-free, tyranny-free;
a constituency of peace, a domain of freedom, a land of
prosperity. There is a morning awaiting us after a long
night, calling us to direct our energies and our aims and
our prayers towards that great opportunity.
The President returned to the Chair.
Address by Mr. Abdellatif Filali, Prime Minister and
Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the
Kingdom of Morocco
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will now hear an address by the Prime Minister
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the
Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr. Abdellatif Filali, Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom
of Morocco, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President (interpretation from French): I have
great pleasure in welcoming the Prime Minister and
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Kingdom of Morocco, His Excellency Mr. Abdellatif Filali,
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
to
to
extend
you, Sir, my
Mr. Filali (Morocco) (interpretation from Arabic): I
sincere
am pleased
congratulations on your election to the presidency of the
forty-ninth session of the General Assembly and to express
to you my great delight at seeing you, a distinguished
friend from a sisterly country, conducting the work of this
session.
Your competence and great diplomatic experience are
assets which ensure the success of our deliberations. We
are convinced that, through you, Africa will bring to this
session its well-known capabilities and talents in order to
secure the best results for our work. Allow me to assure
you of the full cooperation of the delegation of the
Kingdom of Morocco.
Samuel
I should also like to pay tribute to His Excellency
Ambassador
Permanent
Representative of the Republic of Guyana and President of
the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, for the
laudable work he accomplished.
Insanally,
the
I should like also to express to our Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, my sincere regards
and
appreciation for his untiring efforts in upholding the
principles of the Charter and for the wisdom and the
perspicacity with which
increasing
responsibilities assigned to the United Nations in recent
years.
faces
the
he
10th meeting
29 September 1994
that
There is no doubt
these two last questions
deserve every attention, since they are among the
underpinnings of any system of honest government and of
social justice and have always been among the goals of
enlightened civilizations in their search for a fair society
in which justice and social peace may prevail.
Maybe it would be going too far to insist, as some
do, on the adoption of one model of democracy, out of all
the other models, by all the countries and societies of the
world without taking into account the numerous factors
which have to do with the civilizations of the peoples of
those countries, their customs, traditions, cultures, the
degree of their development, their general conception of
the universe we live in, or their views concerning life and
society.
As regards our Organization,
the principles of
democracy require us to examine its methods of operation
in order
its
resolutions and ensure efficiency in the discharge of its
duties.
to secure a unified implementation of
In view of the ever-increasing importance of the role
the Security Council now plays in international affairs, we
must debate the extent of its adaptation to the great
changes that have taken place in the world recently and
which have affected the balance of power, side by side
with the new political and economic trends, so that we
may find consensus solutions in reviewing the Security
Council’s methods of work and in trying to enhance its
efficacy.
The end of the cold war gave the peoples of the world
cause for hope that they were about to see the dawn of a
new era in international relations, an era of democracy,
justice and an effective international solidarity which would
take into account the interests of all.
The changes I have spoken of require us to review
also some of the provisions of the Charter with a view to
enabling our Organization to face up to the new
international challenges with the participation of all in the
interests of all.
Years after that historic opportunity, we have come to
realize that our optimism was unjustified. We are to see
yet any sincere international effort towards the creation of
a new world order and of the hoped-for peace dividends we
have seen nothing concrete yet. On the contrary, what we
see now makes us fear that that historic opportunity is on
the verge of being dissipated in the fog of an ambiguous
international political atmosphere.
A close examination of the characteristics of the
present world order reveals that its thrust focuses almost
totally on the issues of economic openness, freedom of
international trade, democracy and human rights.
As for the question of human rights, the Kingdom of
Morocco attaches great importance to those rights, which
are enshrined in our constitution. However, I wish to
point out - as I did in past years - that human rights have
different aspects which must be respected fully. We
should not focus solely on the political aspect whose
importance has been established. The rights of the human
being to the essential, basic human needs such as food,
clothing, medicine and shelter are inalienable and
fundamental, just exactly as the right to life. That is why
the World Conference on Human Rights, which was
convened in Vienna last year, determined that economic
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
10th meeting
29 September 1994
development which makes it possible to satisfy those needs
was a fundamental human right.
and put an end to the law of the primacy of strength that
prevailed in the past.
Consequently, the affluent nations have an obligation
to pay more attention to the economic interests of the
developing world in order to help it reach the levels of
development that will allow it to accord to those rights the
priority they deserve.
In this context, we expect
the World Summit for
Social Development, which will take place in Copenhagen
next year,
to define the essential needs of man the
satisfaction of which would guarantee a decent life and
expect the Summit to set up a plan of action to stimulate
social development and economic progress in the countries
of the third world.
The world has entered upon a new era marked by
fundamental changes in the traditional international relations
which emphasized the primacy of political beliefs.
In
addition, the great Powers have engaged in a new race for
economic interests in place of the arms race. The race that
now concerns them is characterized by the strengthening of
relations within great economic groupings with a view to
the creation of new economic blocs. These developments
will undoubtedly alter the economic and political map of
the world and will, thereby, widen the gap between the
developed and the developing countries.
In a much more interdependent world, thanks to the
new means of communication and technology, such as live
television broadcasts, it has become ever more difficult to
persuade the peoples of the developing countries to be
content with their lot while the disparities between the
affluence of the developed countries and the misery of the
developing countries are constantly worsening. Therefore,
it would be illogical
lasting peace and
security could prevail in a world wherein the overwhelming
majority of people live in despair, deprivation and social
misery.
to expect
that
The rich countries should find satisfactory solutions to
in
the economic problems of developing countries -
particular, to those related to the deterioration in terms of
trade,
external
indebtedness and technological weaknesses.
commodity
decline
prices,
the
in
In April 1994,
the city of Marrakech hosted the
signing of various agreements under the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Through these agreements,
the international community established the primacy of the
rule of law in international economic and trade relations
18
the most
significant
results of
the creation of
The agreements, which were signed by 109 States,
included a number of extremely positive elements. One
of
the Marrakech
agreements was
the World Trade
Organization, which will come into being next year and
will have competence in the areas of control and
implementation. We hope that this new organization,
thanks to its competences, the policies laid for it, and the
programme of work designed to pursue those policies will
be able to lay real foundations for international trade that
would free trade from the protectionism that plagues it
so-called social
under many guises
considerations
and
environmental considerations.
to workers’
such as
rights
that
relate
the
In the aftermath of the Second World War and the
setting up of the United Nations, international relations
have been characterized essentially by the movement
towards the liberation of peoples from the colonial yoke,
especially in Africa and Asia. Nowadays, only some
enclaves remain from the colonial era. For particular
reasons,
those enclaves required more time for their
liberation, and they are now involved in settlement
processes with the agreement of the interested parties.
The British colony of Hong Kong will revert to
Chinese sovereignty in 1997, as will
the Portuguese
colony of Macau in the near future. Similarly, the status
of Gibraltar is the subject of continuous discussions
between Spain and the United Kingdom with a view to
the return of that Territory to Spanish sovereignty. These
are settlement processes that we in Morocco strongly
support.
As we know, some enclaves in the northern part of
Morocco are still under Spanish control. These are the
cities of Sebta and Melilia and the neighbouring islands.
Since its accession to independence, my country has
tirelessly asked Spain to return those enclaves so that we
may restore our territorial integrity and put an end to this
long-standing dispute.
There is no doubt the ideal solution in this respect
would be to follow the same procedure that was adopted
in the case of each of
the territories I have just
mentioned, namely, dialogue, natural understanding and
harking to the voice of wisdom by heeding the logic of
our time and taking into account the interests of both
parties.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We believe that the Moroccan-Spanish group proposed
by His Majesty King Hassan II to reflect and consult on
that question is the best framework within which it would
be possible to reach a settlement that may safeguard the
sovereign rights of Morocco and, at the same time, allows
Spain to protect its economic interests.
We are convinced that the historic ties of civilization
between Morocco and Spain as well as our relations of
good-neighbourliness and our fruitful cooperation in several
areas will make it possible to overcome the difficulties that
lie in the way of the settlement of this dispute.
The freeing of relations between Morocco and Spain
from the remnants of the past is a matter of significant
importance in view of the fact that both countries belong to
the Mediterranean region, that sensitive part of the world
which should be a region of cooperation, stability and
solidarity.
In this context, we are convinced that the prosperity
and security of Europe and particularly of its Mediterranean
countries could not be fully achieved without genuine
efforts to contribute to the development of the southern
Mediterranean countries. We are also convinced that this
will be achieved only through the eradication of the existing
gap between the countries of
the
Mediterranean and the establishment of a multifaceted
cooperation that would be inspired by a comprehensive
vision of the concept of cooperation and anchored in the
will of both sides to enter into a partnership that may
provide a solid foundation for the prosperity and stability of
the region.
the two sides of
Proceeding from this conviction,
the Kingdom of
Morocco proposed to the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe at
its fourth session held in
December 1993 in Rome, the convening of a ministerial
meeting to address the issues of security and cooperation in
the Mediterranean region in which all the Mediterranean
countries as well as all other countries interested in the
future of that sensitive region would participate in order to
consult over the various issues and problems that face the
region. We do hope that the proposal will gain the support
of the countries concerned.
Along with our brethren from the countries of the
Arab Maghreb, Morocco has made sustained efforts aimed
at securing the unity of the region and ensuring the coming
to being of the institutions of such unity.
10th meeting
29 September 1994
However,
is no secret
to anyone that
it
the desired unity still
the
achievement of
faces certain
difficulties regardless of all that has been accomplished so
far at the institutional, structural and regulatory levels.
Nevertheless, it is the conviction of all concerned that the
setting up of that edifice will benefit all the people of the
region and will open up great vistas in the areas of
development and progress.
It is obvious that the pace of progress towards the
achievement of the desired objectives is rather slow at the
time. However, my country remains prompted by a
sincere determination and by a firm will to overcome
those difficulties, in the conviction that its future and that
of the countries of the region depend to a great extent on
the achievement of such unity and solidarity amongst
them. In all this, there is the awareness that the ties of
common heritage, of common history, of culture, of
language and of religion bind all our peoples together.
With regard to the so-called question of Western
Sahara, the United Nations settlement plan has entered the
final stage of implementation. The Kingdom of Morocco
has cooperated sincerely with the Secretary-General, as
attested to in the Secretary-General’s reports, with a view
to facilitating his mission and speeding up the ongoing
process. Therefore, we look forward with optimism to
the holding of the referendum within the next few
months.
The past decade was one of the most disastrous for
the African continent in economic and in social terms.
The limited international effort provided to assist the
continent has not yielded any improvement so far. As a
matter of fact, standards of living in many sub-Saharan
countries continue to worsen as the per capita income
continues to decline while the growth rate of the gross
national product dropped to less than 1.5 per cent at a
time when the population grows at a much greater rate.
of
and
such
Thus the overall economic situation in Africa has
fallen to a level below the one recorded in the seventies.
Because
the
marginalization from which Africa suffers, partial and
temporary solutions cannot satisfy us.
Exceptional
international efforts should be undertaken and drastic
solutions designed to remedy to the situation.
deterioration
constant
On the occasion of the holding of the historic
meeting of Marrakech, in the context of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) Agreements,
His Majesty the King has called upon the leaders of the
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
world to integrate the economy of Africa in the global
economy and urged the elaboration of a Marshall Plan with
a view to reducing poverty and alleviating the suffering of
millions of human beings in our continent.
As an African country,
the Kingdom of Morocco
continues to do its utmost in assisting sisterly countries in
the sub-Saharan region by all the means at its disposal. In
fact, my country channels 90 per cent of the funds it
allocates to international cooperation to the assistance of
sisterly African countries.
During the month of April 1994, the African scene
witnessed an important event, namely,
the victory of
democratic forces, the forces of peace and freedom, against
the forces of racial discrimination. Thus, South Africa’s
first free elections in which all segments of its people
participated have resulted in the election of Mr. Nelson
Mandela to the presidency of the Republic.
The Kingdom of Morocco had earlier expressed its
satisfaction at those decisive developments, which ended a
half-century-long conflict and allowed South Africa, a sister
country, to usher in a new era of national harmony and
democracy and give it
reason to look forward to a
prosperous future for all its people. My country made its
contribution by giving an impetus to the reconciliation
process through meeting with and offering encouragement
to Presidents Mandela and De Klerk, both known for their
wisdom and clearsightedness.
We were one of
the first countries to establish
diplomatic relations with the new South Africa - more than
two years ago now - and we will make every effort to
strengthen the basis of our cooperation with that country,
which, to our great satisfaction, has taken back its rightful
place within the United Nations. We have no doubt that
South Africa will greatly and positively contribute to the
enrichment
the work of our
Organization and to the well-being of the entire African
continent.
and effectiveness of
One year after the signing in Washington of the
Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government
Arrangements in Gaza and Jericho, between the Palestine
Liberation Organization and Israel, we note today that the
peace process in the Middle East is moving along at a
steady pace, thus giving rise to some optimism for the first
time in the last 50 years.
In spite of the hindrances and obstacles it faces from
is being effectively and
this agreement
time to time,
20
10th meeting
29 September 1994
include all
practically implemented. We hope that this encouraging
start will continue and will
the occupied
Palestinian territory, and that it will result in the transfer
of all powers to the Palestinian National Authority to
pave the way for a comprehensive solution that would
grant the totality of its legitimate rights to the Palestinian
people, including the creation of an independent State
with Al-Quds as its capital, in accordance with the United
Nations resolutions.
that
It was only natural
the Palestinian self-
government experience should face initial difficulties and
experience sensitive beginnings. We hope that the States
members of
the international community that have
followed this issue for decades and that supported the
struggle of the Palestinian people throughout its different
stages will not fail to grant all the necessary material aid
and assistance to the Palestinian National Authority
during this delicate period, in order to help it build its
national institutions and its economic structures, and to
ensure the success of this experience.
Similarly,
Jordan and Israel have
signed an
agreement recently in Washington. However, the advent
of peace and security in that region will always depend
on the achievement of a comprehensive solution, which
would guarantee the recovery of Syrian and Lebanese
territories, in conformity with international legality and in
particular Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338
(1973) and 425 (1978).
The Kingdom of Morocco, convinced of the virtues
of dialogue and concerted action among the parties to the
Arab Israeli conflict, was one of the first to recommend
and promote this approach as the ideal means for the
settlement of disputes. My country strongly believes that
the logic of war and violence does not lead to permanent
solutions. That is why we feel a great deal of satisfaction
today as we see the parties in the Middle East engaging
in a constructive dialogue to achieve an agreement that
would put paid to conflicts and tragedies and usher in a
new era of peace, cooperation and well-being in the
region’s history.
In order to encourage peace efforts and to make the
Arab world benefit from their dividends, Morocco will
host next month, in Casablanca, an Economic Conference
for the Middle East and North Africa. Highly placed
government officials, and businessmen as well as
financial and economic experts will participate in the
Conference. This gathering will aim at setting the rules
for boosting the economy and development in the two
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
regions, and at creating economic programmes based on
partnership for the benefit of the countries of the two
regions and their peoples.
Regarding the dispute between Iran and the United
Arab Emirates, we hope that the two countries, which are
members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference,
will resort to dialogue to resolve their dispute over the
future of the islands of Abu Moussa and the Greater and
the Lesser Tumbs. The historic and friendly relations
between the two peoples, which allowed them to coexist
under United Arab Emirates sovereignty on Abu Moussa
island, should enable them to return to normal relations.
Contemporary history has known few tragedies
comparable to the one being experienced by the people of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have been,
and still are,
subjected to all kinds of collective
punishments, massacres, "ethnic cleansing", displacement,
confiscation of property, destruction of places of worship
and demolition of cultural monuments. The inability of the
international community and of the United Nations in
particular to put an end to these outrageous criminal acts
and their inability to uphold the principles of international
law, which is violated daily by Serbian practices,
is
intolerable and unacceptable.
Our Organization will celebrate next year its fiftieth
anniversary. The period that has elapsed since its inception
has known many activities and accomplishments but also
some
its
accomplishments, one should underline its sustained action
to liberate peoples from the colonial yoke and to assist
them in obtaining their political independence, as well as
setbacks.
regards
failures
and
As
10th meeting
29 September 1994
its activities aiming at the settlement of many conflicts by
peaceful means and the maintenance of international
peace and security through,
inter alia, peace-keeping
operations. Its specialized institutions and agencies have
also made considerable contributions through their great
efforts in social, health and cultural matters.
However, our Organization has been unable to
accomplish some tasks entrusted to it by the Charter.
I
refer in particular to economic and development issues.
No large-scale action has been taken to help developing
countries in particular achieve economic development,
despite the efforts and the many meetings devoted to this
question.
This fiftieth anniversary will
take place in an
international environment that is totally different from the
one that
Our
Organization must adapt to this change by exploring the
prospects of the twenty-first century, of which we are on
the threshold.
followed the Second World War.
In short,
To this end, several ideas have been put forward
with the aim of strengthening our Organization, reforming
its structures and affording it the means whereby it could
meet the new and increasing demands made upon it in
the aim is to enable the
many areas.
Organization to satisfy the current needs of
the
international community. The Secretary-General’s report
"An Agenda for Peace" appeared at the right moment to
show us the appropriate means by which the organs of the
United Nations might serve international peace and
security.
also introduced new ideas
concerning preventive diplomacy with the aim of
preventing the eruption of new conflicts and dealt with
the issues of building and maintaining peace, as well as
many other issues, and put forth proposals which we are
sure will improve the functioning of our Organization.
The report
that
There is no doubt
the fiftieth anniversary
celebrations will be an opportunity for many world
leaders and other high officials that are rich in experience
to rethink the future of our Organization in order to
enable it to meet the highest aspirations of mankind in the
twenty-first century:
to live in peace and security, in
social justice and human dignity.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call upon the Minister for Foreign Relations of Panama,
His Excellency Mr. Gabriel Lewis Galindo.
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Mr. Lewis Galindo (Panama) (interpretation from
Spanish): First of all allow me to say how pleased we are
at your election as President of the General Assembly at its
Since you are such an eminent
forty-ninth session.
statesman, we are certain that
this session will be a
resounding success. We hail the work accomplished by
Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who presided
over
the General
Assembly. We are grateful to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
Secretary-General of the Organization, for the fine job he
is doing, reflecting his constant concern with helping to
build a more just and progressive world society on the basis
of the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter.
the recently concluded session of
This past May, the Panamanian people completed an
irreproachable electoral process. The results now make it
possible for us to undertake the democratic reconstruction
of the State, with broad-based and cooperative participation
by all of Panama’s various social groupings.
This has made it possible for us to develop promising
new relations of understanding and cooperation with the
Government of the United States, grounded in a common
resolve to fulfil on schedule the timetable established by the
Torrijos-Carter Treaties on the Panama Canal
and
Furthermore, we are seeking to
associated territories.
extend our relations, as partners and friends of the United
States, into fields that will facilitate the solution of regional
and world problems affecting the stability of areas of
common interest to both nations. With maturity, and an
intense sense of dignity and patriotism, the Government of
Panama is embarking on a new era in our relations with the
United States.
Thus these Treaties today are becoming once more for
our two nations what we intended them to be when they
the feasibility of a great Power
were signed 17 years ago:
and a small country working together, peacefully,
to
achieve mutually beneficial
that
previously gave rise to confrontation. Furthermore, this is
in keeping with the principles of international law and gives
us all new cause for hope concerning the new era the world
is now seeking to establish.
results on matters
Ms. Arystanbekova (Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
Pursuant to those Treaties, the Government headed by
Mr. Ernesto Pérez Balladares intends in a responsible
manner to put into effect the timetable of reversion to
Panama of all the lands, waters and installations that form
the Canal and its contiguous area. Similarly, we intend to
22
10th meeting
29 September 1994
the waterway and,
ensure full demilitarization of
consequently, we are planning as of now the prompt
conversion of the foreign military installations there into
industrial and trading posts of international interest, whose
operations will be carried out just a few scant yards from
the vessels that pass through day by day, heading towards
all points of the compass.
The decisions we have taken will ensure that this
strip of territory will become one of the most attractive
areas for investment in the Atlantic, the Americas, and the
Pacific Basin.
Despite Panama’s intense economic and cultural
energy, it is a small country. Hence developing this
project will require international cooperation. In the short
term,
intends to
coordinate this cooperation in order to take the best
possible advantage of a tremendous potential.
the new Panamanian Government
In this context, we shall convene in 1997 the World
to commemorate the
Congress on the Panama Canal
twentieth anniversary of the signing of the Torrijos-Carter
Treaties. This event will bring together the users of the
Canal and the potential users of the associated facilities -
shipbuilders, industrialists, financiers, technical experts,
planners and leaders of higher education - to consider the
scope and orchestration of the entire development project
for the Panama Canal and the Panamanian nation.
This Congress will also be an arena for the display
of
technology-, media- and communications-related
products, as well as for interoceanic and intercontinental
trade.
It will therefore be of particular importance in
gauging the scope of the new world trend which we now
call "globalization". For this reason, we intend to plan
this Congress with the cooperation of the United Nations
as well as that of the two countries which, in their time,
were engaged in the construction of the Canal - France
and the United States.
There is another facet to this situation, however. We
Panamanians have convincingly proved our ability to
efficiently administer and operate the existing Canal; we
shall demonstrate this once again at the World Congress.
Yet we wish to make further use of these skills, and this
desire forms the basis for the projects tied in with the
current, final phase of implementation of the Torrijos-
Carter Treaties: by this,
I mean the international
university conglomerate that we call the "Ciudad del
Saber", "the City of Knowledge". In this area, and with
the excellent infrastructure facilities that will soon revert
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to Panama, we can bring together, in the best possible
physical environment, faculties and departments of the
major universities interested in studying subjects related to
the next century and its prospects - subjects such as
communications and telecommunications, naval and air
transport, computer technology,
the
environment and sustainable development, as well as
economic and business relations between our Americas and
the Pacific basin.
international
trade,
Thus conceived, the City of Knowledge will replace
military bases and foreign soldiers with an international
conglomerate of universities and a great army of students
and teachers from all corners of the world. This will be the
best possible way to celebrate the end of the cold war and
the development of new world circumstances, while at the
same time making the new era accessible to many
thousands of our young people. We are certain that this
project will receive the necessary international cooperation
and the support of the United Nations system.
the Panama Canal
There is another issue of similar, worldwide interest
that deserves the attention of this forum. Although it is an
interoceanic passageway,
fed
exclusively by fresh water. For this reason, its existence,
the quality of its services and the possibility of expanding
them depend on the renewal of its forests and the attention
to the environment that is indispensable to feeding its basin,
guaranteeing the water supply and making it possible for
the Canal to operate.
is
This basin has suffered disturbing deterioration, which,
should it continue, could jeopardize the services provided
to the world by the Canal. Conscious of its responsibilities,
our country has begun a series of national and international
consultations with a view to devising a campaign that
would secure the technical and financial resources needed
to ensure the environmental conditions required for the
improvement and optimal use of the Canal. This campaign
international
could perhaps
cooperation in ensuring appropriate use of
resources
necessary to mankind.
symbol of
serve
as
a
Our country has recently rejoined the Rio Group - of
which we were one of the initial promoters - as a full
member. With respect to foreign policy, we fully concur
with the purposes, declarations and agreements adopted by
this group.
We Panamanians are sincerely resolved to expand our
cooperation with
political
neighbouring countries. To this end, we are pursuing the
economic
dialogue
and
10th meeting
29 September 1994
process of integration with the countries of Central
America in all ways that can be mutually beneficial.
Because of its history and traditions, as well as for
reasons of geographical proximity and economic affinity,
Panama will be promoting links and integration with its
South American neighbours, with which it shares the
ideals of Bolivar.
At the same time, the great trading opportunities
afforded us as a result of the reversion of the Panama
Canal and its adjacent areas make it incumbent on us to
strengthen our links with the countries of the Pacific
basin, and to work together on projects and activities of
mutual benefit.
For similar reasons, Panama, which already has a
special relationship with the United States - a relationship
that is taking on special significance today - intends to
seek membership in the North American Free Trade
Association, whose current members, Canada, the United
States and Mexico, are certain to play a significant role in
ensuring the best possible use of the Canal areas that will
revert to Panama.
In recent times, the international community has
noted symptoms of repeated crises in certain parts of the
Caribbean area.
Indeed, on certain specific conditions,
Panama has offered parts of its national territory to help
provide a temporary solution to the problem of the
Haitian and Cuban raft and boat people. This gesture has
been motivated solely by humanitarian considerations,
without political or diplomatic implications. We shall
continue to act in this manner, especially when it is useful
in providing a grace period during which a peaceful, and
agreed solution to the underlying causes of
these
problems may be found.
In the case of Haiti, my Government is particularly
gratified that an agreement was reached which allowed
for the landing of multinational forces in accordance with
the relevant Security Council resolution and without the
trauma of an invasion by force. We believe, none the
less, that Haiti’s problems will be solved only when all
aspects of the Security Council resolution are fully
implemented and,
in terms of socio-economic issues,
provided the international community helps eradicate the
causes of the poverty and backwardness which persist
there.
With respect to the situation in the fraternal Republic
the causes underlying the
of Cuba, we believe that
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
For
this
reason, my
conflict must be addressed.
Government favours reforms which, through the exercise of
self-determination, would guarantee the establishment of a
multi-party democracy there. Furthermore, my Government
is in favour of lifting the economic embargo that is such a
burden on that country. Only by acting simultaneously on
both fronts will it be possible to overcome this crisis. We
are fully ready to assist the fraternal Caribbean nation of
Cuba.
With the conclusion of the cold war, the world is
focusing most of its attention on other problems, new and
old, which now make up the world agenda - problems such
as the current
restructuring of systems of economic
relations and international politics.
in the handling of
It must be stressed that
the
phenomena known as "globalization", it is vital to establish
a new order which will take into account the realities,
interests, sovereign rights, and just aspirations of the small
countries and the developing nations in general. Any
development which, out of
indifference,
inattention, or the like, fails to meet this requirement, will
inevitably condemn us to a world riddled with yet further
imbalance, marginalization and instability.
selfishness,
Mankind’s hopes for the twenty-first century will be
realized only if together we are able to build a much fairer,
more equitable and more balanced future. This applies to
all countries, be they rich or poor, weak or strong.
it
that
Specifically, such a future requires that we embark
immediately on a vigorous programme of common and
coordinated actions
to eradicate mankind’s greatest
problem: poverty. Panama declares again today, before the
Assembly,
is willing to join the international
programmes to combat poverty and promote solidarity and
social equity, as well as those aimed at promoting a better
quality of life for the sectors that are most deprived and
least fairly treated. In particular, Panama will commit itself
to efforts to improve the social situation of the family and
of women and children.
In respect of this universal aspiration, women in
Panama have already attained positions of
relative
importance in both political and professional arenas.
Today, for the first time in the history of our Republic, the
deserving President of our legislative organ is a woman
who is a popular leader, while in our last elections another
prominent
the
presidency of the Republic of Panama, and she now leads
the major opposition party. We are also proud to see
female politician was a candidate for
24
10th meeting
29 September 1994
Panamanian professional women serving in the Cabinet of
Mr. Ernesto Pérez Balladares and as judges on our
Supreme Court of Justice.
In short, women in Panama
play a leading and powerful role in all aspects of our
political and private life, and they are often at
the
forefront of our technical, scientific and professional
development.
For this reason we shall continue to
support actions that make it possible for women to
achieve full and effective equality of
rights and
opportunities in an increasingly competitive world.
On another question, my country has decided to
tackle firmly and unequivocally the problems of drug-
trafficking, money-laundering and terrorism. We are
currently devising a strategy to combat these terrible evils
that imperil the very existence of our nations. We favour
the development of joint, coordinated action on the
international level. The community of nations faces a
great challenge in these grave problems, and we fervently
appeal
to the Governments and the peoples of Latin
America to create a powerful organization to combat
them.
In another area, Panama is particularly attentive to
the discussions aimed at defining a new role for the
United Nations and the corresponding structural reforms
this world Organization requires. With regard specifically
to the structure of the United Nations, Panama believes it
is necessary to increase the representativity of its most
important decision-making bodies.
In particular, my
the Security Council must be
country believes that
enlarged.
Panama wishes to reiterate that, whatever
approach is taken, Latin America’s participation in that
body should be increased and Latin American countries
should be given consideration as possible permanent
members.
I am pleased to state that
the new democratic
Government of Panama fully accepts the commitment to
bolster and enhance its presence in international agencies,
where it is a Latin American and Caribbean voice that
remains
the
developing countries. This decision is reflected in the
speech delivered by Ernesto Pérez Balladares when he
was sworn in as my country’s President. He said:
to the rightful aspirations of
faithful
"This is the new face that Panama is showing to its
friends abroad. We are no longer at the stage of
seeking solidarity on the Canal Treaty in order to
regain the benefits of our geographic position. Now
we want to begin our participation in the new world
that is challenging us all and to make known the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
potentialities of our geographic position, our desire to
take advantage of all opportunities properly, fairly and
respectfully, in the pursuit of an aggressive foreign
policy free of complexes and capable of helping us
surmount the challenges of the next century. We are
friends to all. We are foes of none."
10th meeting
29 September 1994
We look with optimism on the development of
mankind and, in particular, that of my country. We will
pass the baton to our young people on our country’s path
of progress, peace and justice.
Finally, on this occasion I also take pleasure in
wishing you, Mr. President, every success in your task of
leading the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
25
