United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
7th Meeting
Tuesday, 27 September 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.7
Official Records
President: Mr. Essy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
Address by Mr. Guntis Ulmanis, President of
Republic of Latvia
the
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Latvia.
Mr. Guntis Ulmanis, President of the Republic of
Latvia, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of
the
Republic of Latvia, His Excellency Mr. Guntis Ulmanis,
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Ulmanis (spoke in Latvian; English text
furnished by the delegation): Allow me to congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at its forty-ninth session and to wish you every
success in leading this august body. May this session be
constructive and productive for you and all delegations.
New geopolitical, economic and technological realities
have appeared at the close of the twentieth century. The
destructive cold war has come to an end and its symbol -
the Berlin Wall - has collapsed.
The insuppressible
long-held yearnings of many peoples for freedom and
independence led in the end to the disintegration of even
clearly
the
seemingly indestructible Soviet
empire,
reaffirming the lasting strength and integrity of the
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations -
peace, equality and justice. That is why this Organization
has always played and will continue to play a role in
furthering the progress of nations, as evidenced by its vast
undertakings in the maintenance of international peace
and security, as well as its efforts to increase the
well-being of society and every individual.
Two years ago, the Secretary-General in his report
"An Agenda for Peace", comprehensively analysed
aspects related to the maintenance of peace and security.
This report led to a broad debate on concepts such as
preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping, peacemaking and
post-conflict peace-building. Preventive diplomacy by the
United Nations and other organizations undoubtedly
furthered the resolution of a very difficult issue for Latvia
and all of Europe - the withdrawal of foreign military
forces from the territories of the Baltic States.
With satisfaction I should like to report
to the
General Assembly that, on the whole, General Assembly
consensus resolutions 47/21 of 25 November 1992 and
48/18 of 15 November 1993, entitled "Complete
withdrawal of foreign military forces from the territories
of the Baltic States", have been implemented. The last
Russian military units departed Latvia and Estonia at the
end of August. Thus, the Second World War has ended
for the Baltic States. Our bilateral negotiations with the
Russian Federation, which lasted for more than two years,
culminated with the signing on 30 April 1994 of
agreements the ratification of which has been included in
the agenda of the Parliament of Latvia.
94-86427 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
I can state with full conviction that the international
calls for the withdrawal of Russian troops, made by the
United Nations and the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), amongst others, were
pivotal to the successful resolution of this long drawn-out
matter.
We believe that this approach may be useful as an
example for the resolution of other global issues and we are
prepared to share our experience with others.
The United Nations and the CSCE will continue to
have an important role in the implementation of the
agreements. According to the bilateral agreement between
Latvia and Russia on the Skrunda radar facility, any attempt
to settle disputes or differences of opinion connected with
the agreement by means of military threats or by the use of
armed force shall be considered a threat to international
peace and security and shall be brought before the United
Nations Security Council. For its part, representatives of
the CSCE will observe the implementation of
the
agreements and the fulfilment of the respective parties’
obligations.
However, we have yet to exhaust the opportunities for
preventive diplomacy in the Baltic region. Baltic regional
security continues to be a pressing issue. On his visit to
Latvia last summer, Mr. William Clinton, President of the
United States of America, stressed that the sovereign and
independent Baltic States must not be part of any sphere of
influence.
It must be noted that President Clinton played
a vital role in disentangling problems which had developed
during negotiations with the Russian Federation on the
withdrawal of its troops from Estonia and Latvia.
I should like to remind the international community
that the Russian radar facility will remain in Skrunda for
five and a half years, and nuclear reactors will remain in
Paldiski, Estonia. Heavy Russian military transit takes
place through Lithuania to Kaliningrad, where a high
military concentration is maintained. On the whole, these
are risk factors which potentially threaten the Baltic States
and, in fact, the entire Baltic Sea region. In many respects,
Baltic security is a guarantee for peace and stability in
Europe. The Baltic States are already considering the
possible solutions to this important question, and I hope
that the Member States will devote their full attention and
interest to these ends.
A significant dialogue between our two countries has
concluded with the completion of Russian troop withdrawal
from Latvia. Thanks to the support of many countries and
2
7th meeting
27 September 1994
international organizations, Latvia today is free from
foreign military presence. Nevertheless, without
the
foresight and the civility displayed by both parties, we
could not stand here today and speak of social harmony
and tolerance in Latvia, nor could we say that both Latvia
and the Russian Federation have one less problem to
address. Last spring, when I met with President Yeltsin
in Moscow, I gained the conviction that in solving our
problem he was guided by good will.
In 1995, Europe and the world will celebrate the
fiftieth anniversary of the Allied victory over nazism.
Latvians, too, fought against Hitler’s occupying forces in
the belief that an Allied victory would be followed by the
restoration of Latvian independence. However, whilst
many nations breathed freely again after the end of the
Nazi occupation, the Baltic States were engulfed for the
second time by the totalitarian Soviet empire. As other
nations celebrated the defeat of nazism, Latvia was
subjected to the deportation of hundreds of thousands of
innocent persons and the systematic destruction of the
Latvian State and national identity. Latvia and its people
are the victims of both regimes - nazism and communism.
Justice would prevail if the new democratic Russia,
which played a decisive role in the destruction of the
"Evil Empire", were to engage with Latvia in the
appraisal of the actions taken by the Soviet Union against
Latvia in 1940.
truthful bilateral
documents would preclude any petty psychological
feelings of revenge and would provide amends to the
victims of the totalitarian regime in both countries. These
"truth" documents would foster even greater harmony
between the various nationalities in Latvia and, we
believe, lift some of Russia’s unenviable inherited burden.
The signing of
Such cases already exist. The documents signed by
the Presidents of Russia and several Central and Eastern
European States have marked an end to the legacy of the
past, which had also been a burden to Russian society.
the
areas
of
We believe that it is impossible to fully comprehend
the consequences of the Soviet occupation without an
objective analysis of the events of 1939 and 1940. These
consequences have been and continue to be felt in Latvia
in
social
development. No other country lost nearly 40 per cent of
its native population during the Second World War; in no
other post-war European country has the native population
become a minority in seven of its largest cities, including
the capital; and no other country has experienced
population transfers and mass deportations on such a
economic
political,
and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
scale. The Latvian language, too, was under threat of
extinction, despite the fact that it had survived for 4,000
years, partly in the form of a unique collection of more
than one million folk songs. We wish to protect Latvia’s
historical and cultural heritage, because Latvians can
preserve their national identity only in this small land on
the shores of the Baltic Sea. Latvians never have and never
will ask for any other land.
I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the
necessity for regional cooperation. History has repeatedly
shown that geographically and historically close States have
forged the deepest
relations,
thereby enriching and
furthering mutual development.
Following the restoration of independence, the Baltic
Parliamentary Assembly was formed, and this month work
was begun by the Baltic Council of Ministers, which
coordinates our policies in foreign affairs, trade, legislation
In other words, a balanced and active
and other matters.
Baltic union has been created. At
the same time, an
evolutionary process towards an expanded European Union
with a dynamic Nordic-Baltic dimension is taking place.
The model for regional cooperation in Northern Europe
aspired to by Latvia is "three plus five" - three Baltic States
and five Nordic States.
Recognizing the important role played by the United
Nations in international peace-keeping, Latvia, together with
its neighbours, Estonia and Lithuania, has established the
Baltic Battalion, which in the future may participate in the
peace-keeping operations of the Security Council. The
Nordic States, the United Kingdom and the United States
have greatly contributed to the establishment of the Baltic
Battalion. We believe that the three Baltic States will
thereby further the aims shared by the Member States of
the largest and most influential of international bodies - the
United Nations.
During the cold war the Baltic Sea was a boundary.
Nowadays the Baltic Sea unites rather than divides States.
Five years ago the "Baltic Way" - a human chain reaching
from Tallinn through Riga to Vilnius - symbolized the
shared road towards independence and democracy. Today
this road has also regained its historical and economic
significance in our region. At the turn of the century the
Baltic Way will already be an established part of the global
information highway.
I wish to reaffirm that Latvia will do its utmost to
foster peaceful cooperation and the spirit of understanding,
mutual trust and tolerance on the shores of the Baltic Sea.
7th meeting
27 September 1994
peace
and
and
security
International
good-
neighbourly relations between States are inextricably
linked to economic and social development. The end of
the cold war has created new opportunities to devote
greater attention to these issues.
Last spring the
Secretary-General
issued a report (A/48/935) entitled
"An Agenda for Development". Latvia welcomes this
initiative, which marks a historic turning point in the
work of the United Nations. From being an international
forum primarily serving the interests of individual States,
the United Nations is becoming a representative and
defender of the needs of humanity. Economic and social
development increases the security of every inhabitant of
our planet.
We believe that
the United Nations and each
Member State should recognize the need not only for a
coalition for democracy, but also for a fight against
organized crime and the trafficking of nuclear materials
and narcotics. Without effective solutions to these
problems, the security of each inhabitant of our planet
and the development of every country and society are
endangered.
I invite the United Nations to consider
organizing a high-level meeting for the solving of those
problems.
Many components of the United Nations system,
primarily the Development Programme, are concerned
with the promotion of economic progress. Therefore,
within the framework of the aims of the proposed Agenda
for Development, one of the challenges is to simplify,
renew and integrate the United Nations system. Latvia is
among those countries whose economic, governmental
and social structures are undergoing a period of transition.
Effective United Nations assistance to these countries
would speed this process, allowing them to become donor
countries sooner.
is very broad.
the foundation of
The concept of development
It
justice and
includes social and economic progress;
democracy, as
society; and the
protection of human rights and the environment. Even if
the threat of global nuclear war has subsided, the prospect
of environmental catastrophe remains. I therefore restate
Latvia’s proposal, first made at the 1992 Rio de Janeiro
Earth Summit, to host in Latvia before the end of this
century a world summit at which participating States
would commit
themselves to diverting all resources
gained from disarmament towards long-term development,
especially for the protection of the environment and
reversal of ecological damage caused by military activity.
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
7th meeting
27 September 1994
This conference could take place in Jurmala, on the shores
of the Baltic Sea.
and share its knowledge and experience with all interested
parties.
Latvia attaches great
importance to international
conferences organized by the United Nations. As a
member of the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee,
Latvia has become actively involved in the preparation for
the World Social Summit. Furthermore, Latvia is one of
the few States whose head of delegation is also a Vice-
President of the Conference.
The issue of
Each global conference is an opportunity for every
participating State to review and compare the sum of its
experience.
implementing the adopted
resolutions at both the national and international levels is
yet to be fully addressed.
I would like to inform the
Assembly of the extent of Latvia’s adherence to the
recommendations adopted at
the World Conference on
Human Rights. In its Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action the Conference invited States to establish and
strengthen national institutions for the protection of human
rights. The Conference recommended that each State
consider the desirability of drawing up a national action
plan identifying steps whereby that State would improve the
promotion and protection of human rights.
to
its
and
readiness
implement
Latvia demonstrated its commitment to United Nations
principles
the
recommendations of the Conference by establishing in
March 1994 the post of State Minister for Human Rights,
as well as forming a Government Working Group on the
Protection of the Rights of Individuals, allocating the
necessary resources towards these ends. We believe that
the United Nations should devote a greater percentage of its
regular budget to the promotion and protection of human
rights.
We support
the proposal made to the General
Assembly by Mr. Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian
Federation, that the principles of the Declaration on the
Rights of Persons Belonging to National, Ethnic,
Religious and Linguistic Minorities be embodied in the
legislation of all Member States.
the World
Conference on Human Rights Latvia called for the
establishment
implementation
mechanisms for the rights of minorities and foreigners.
standards
and
At
of
Those activities in the sphere of human rights are
grounded in history. Prior to the Second World War, as
a member of the League of Nations, Latvia fostered
harmonious inter-ethnic relations. We are now trying to
renew and cultivate this great tradition. Immediately after
the restoration of its independence Latvia declared its
accession to all the principal international human rights
instruments. As I have already mentioned, a major effort
is being made in the establishment of a national
programme for the promotion and protection of the
in order
human rights of
the individual
that every
rights and an equal
individual be guaranteed equal
opportunity to defend these rights.
I believe that the
concept of equal opportunity not only characterizes the
fundamental
is also a
prerequisite for development.
the individual, but
rights of
the CSCE and other
Latvia has always been open to cooperation with the
United Nations,
international
organizations. Latvia reaffirmed this when it passed its
Citizenship Law.
it
followed the recommendations of the CSCE and the
Council of Europe, and the passing of the law has been
evaluated positively by these organizations.
In promulgating this legislation,
In response to a request by the Working Group, a
high-level international mission organized by the United
Nations Development Programme visited Latvia in July this
year.
The mission, which included representatives of
several international organizations, including CSCE and the
Council of Europe, consulted Latvia on the development of
a national programme for the protection and promotion of
human rights. At Latvia’s invitation, the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights will visit Latvia in
October this year.
I am proud that Latvia is one of the first countries to
have demonstrated an awareness of its responsibility by
establishing a national programme for the protection and
promotion of human rights. Latvia is prepared to discuss
The need for rationalizing and revitalizing the work
of the United Nations is becoming ever more apparent.
Latvia is actively participating in the search for optimal
solutions. Latvia supports the enlargement of the Security
Council, perceiving this as a fair opportunity for small
nations to increase their role in important international
decision-making. Latvia also supports the improvement
of cooperation and coordination between the United
Nations and other international organizations, including
the CSCE,
the European Union and the Council of
Europe.
We also welcome and support the action taken by
the Secretary-General to introduce a new, effective system
4
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
of accountability and responsibility, and, pursuant to the
United States initiative, to establish the Office of Internal
Oversight Services.
Latvia supports especially the initiative to reform the
calculation of United Nations assessments, based strictly on
the principle of "capacity to pay". This would be a step
towards improving the dire financial situation of
the
Organization and would pave the way for a fair solution to
the issue of the assessments of Latvia and many other
States.
sector, Latvia
is
endeavouring to fulfil
Although the inescapable difficulties associated with
a transition period can still be felt in our economy and
social
its
international obligations and commitments. However,
contrary to standard United Nations practice, the current
assessment of Latvia has been calculated without taking
into account its actual capacity to pay. Instead, the data of
a non-existent country - the former Soviet Union - has been
used to determine Latvia’s assessment.
Latvia has
consistently and unwaveringly stated that it was forcibly
incorporated into the former Soviet Union and therefore is
not, and cannot ever be, its successor, with all the rights
and obligations that this would entail. This was also stated
in a letter to the Secretary-General in 1992.
Latvia expects that the General Assembly will address
this issue in the course of this session on the basis of the
principle of sovereign equality.
We consider that the same importance should be
accorded to the United Nations principle of universality.
Next year,
the Riga Dom Boys Choir will sing at
the world will celebrate the fiftieth
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. Latvia,
too, has begun preparations for this great anniversary. We
hope that
the
celebration concert to be held here in New York. This
would be deeply symbolic, since future generations will
shape the fate of nations. In many ways their fate will be
decided by the heritage we leave to our children. We must
do our utmost to draw closer to the age when nations will
not fight against nations, but all will join forces in the
battle against darkness. This sentiment, which has been
drawn deep from the well of our national wisdom, seems to
embody the essence of the United Nations now and in the
future.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
7th meeting
27 September 1994
President of the Republic of Latvia for the statement he
has just made.
Mr. Guntis Ulmanis, President of the Republic of
Latvia, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Alija Izetbegovic´, President of the
Presidency of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of
the Presidency of
and
Herzegovina.
the Republic of Bosnia
Mr. Alija Izetbegovic´, President of the Presidency of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted
into the General Assembly Hall.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the
Presidency of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
His Excellency Mr. Alija Izetbegovic´, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
President Izetbegovic´: Allow me, at the outset, to
commend Mr. Samuel Insanally for the able manner in
which he conducted the work of the forty-eighth session
of the General Assembly.
I would also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your
I
election as President of this, the forty-ninth session.
wish you success in pursuing this very important task.
I thank you for giving me this opportunity to speak
on behalf of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina at
this distinguished gathering.
I come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, a far-away
country that has currently been the subject of many
discussions.
Unfortunately, I have to begin my statement by
repeating facts that, for most of you, may be or should be
well known.
At
the time - some three years ago - when
Yugoslavia experienced its dissolution, we were doing our
best to carry out the separation in a peaceful fashion and
without any violence. For reasons already known, our
initiatives did not bear fruit.
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
seceded,
it.
and Croatia
When Slovenia
and the
dissolution of Yugoslavia had become inevitable, we
organized a referendum in order to decide, in a democratic
manner, the fate of Bosnia. By a two-thirds majority -
exactly 64.4 per cent of the body of registered voters,
citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, opted for the country’s
independence in the referendum of 1 March 1992.
International recognition of our country followed soon
thereafter, and so did the aggression against
The
decision on its recognition was made on 5 April 1992 and
was announced the following day, 6 April 1992. The
Serbian and Montenegrin aggression against Bosnia and
Herzegovina began on 5 April 1992, the very day when the
decision on recognition of the country was adopted.
The aggression has continued to this day with more or,
at times, less intensity, and without any prospect of its
coming to an end in the near future.
The war that was forced upon Bosnia and Herzegovina
and its peoples - and that has now entered its thirty-first month -
is one of the bloodiest wars in the history of mankind. At
the very beginning, it was not a war but rather an attack by
a well-armed and equipped army, the former Yugoslav
army, against defenceless citizens.
The results of this uneven struggle are as follows:
70 per cent of our country came under occupation in the
first months of the war; more than 200,000 civilians have
been killed; over 1 million - or one fourth - of our
inhabitants have been expelled from their homes; hundreds
of cities and villages have been destroyed and burned. This
cannot be described as a classic example of warfare
between two armies. This has been a war of an army
against civilians,
to date,
unprecedented destruction of cultural and religious objects.
followed by genocide and,
The world has not responded in an appropriate manner
to such barbarity.
Whether it was because of the brutality of the attack,
or because it was morally and psychologically unprepared,
or perhaps because of its entanglement in its conflicting
interests, the world seemed confused and hesitant.
When the news and pictures of new concentration
camps in the heart of Europe came out, the public was
astonished or shocked, but
those
responsible kept silent. Tens of thousands have perished in
those camps and many thousands have disappeared without
a trace. The more brutal an attack, the more hesitant the
The free world neither defended nor
world became.
the most part
for
6
7th meeting
27 September 1994
supported freedom. Our people, facing the threat of
extermination and a clearly pronounced death sentence,
decided to defend itself.
But then it encountered a new absurdity. It found its
hands tied.
In short, before the war broke out against
Bosnia and Herzegovina the United Nations imposed a
notorious resolution that banned any import of weapons
into the territory of former Yugoslavia.
Everything
the war began, the aggressor and the victim
changed:
were clearly discernable, but
the arms embargo has
remained in place as if nothing had happened in the
interim.
Justice was turned into injustice because the
aggressor had weapons - weapons
that had been
stockpiled over the course of 40 years - while the victim
was unarmed and its hands were kept tied.
The resolution on the arms embargo became its own
contradiction.
in
weaponry, it has prolonged the war and turned the peace
negotiations into diktat by the better-armed aggressor.
By maintaining the
imbalance
We said to the world, "You do not have to come to
defend us, but do at least untie our hands and allow us to
defend ourselves. While they kill our children, rape our
women and destroy all our relics, do recognize our right
to self-defence."
So far, however, the arms embargo has remained in
place. With only guns and rifles in their hands, our
defenders have faced artillery and tanks. We have lost
many people, and reports indicate that more than 90 per
cent of them have been killed by grenades and artillery
shells. Our cities and villages have been left at the mercy
of the powerful military technology in the hands of the
murderers.
In the capital city of Sarajevo alone, more
than 10,000 people have been killed and more than
50,000 wounded.
Not a single family is without
casualties, either killed or wounded.
To all this, the world has sent us one message:
negotiate.
In the belief that the only right path was to
continue to defend our land and that in this just struggle
the peace-loving and freedom-loving peoples of the world
would support us, we refused for a very long time to
negotiate with war criminals.
Finally, faced with the unbearable plight of our
people and the world’s indifference, without any choice
we accepted negotiations. It turned out that the aggressor
had only been using negotiations as a way to bargain for
time and to cover up its continuation of the aggression.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In March 1993, after long and painful negotiations and with
many concessions from our side, we signed the so-called
Vance-Owen plan. The aggressor rejected it.
The next bloody round in the war ensued,
to be
followed by another round of negotiations that resulted, on
5 July 1994, in a peace plan drawn up by the Contact
Group consisting of five great Powers: the United States of
America, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and the
Russian Federation. Again, we chose peace and the
attackers, once again, opted for a continuation of the war.
We accepted the unjust peace offer in order to halt the
war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We did so in the hope
that the injustice of the peace plan could still be corrected
in the years of peace. Knowing the Bosnian soul, we
believed - and we still believe - that peace can save - but
that war will destroy - all that we call Bosnia.
What we call "Bosnia" is not merely a small piece of
For many of us, Bosnia and
land in the Balkans.
it is an idea; it is a
Herzegovina is not only a homeland:
religions, different
belief
that peoples of different
nationalities and different cultural
traditions can live
together. Were this dream to be forever buried, were this
idea of tolerance among the peoples of the area to be
irretrievably lost, the guilt would lie not only with those
who have been relentlessly killing Bosnia with their mortars
for over 30 months now but also with many of the
powerful elsewhere in the world who could have helped yet
have chosen to do otherwise.
I did not leave by
Two days ago, I left Sarajevo.
plane because the airport was closed.
I had to take land
routes through woods that are constantly exposed to fire
and where many people are killed daily. For days there is
no electricity, water and gas in the city. The capital is
completely blocked and is virtually dying.
Yesterday, after I had arrived at United Nations
Headquarters, I received a letter from Srebrenica, a small
town on the river Drina. The letter was supposed to be a
report, but it was also a cry from a real human hell.
I
could not find the strength to read it a second time.
Over
three months ago "ethnic cleansing" was
reignited, and there is now a new wave. Thousands of
civilians whose only fault is that they are not Serbs have
been expelled from their homes in Banja Luka, Bijeljina,
Janja and other towns under the control of Karadzic’s army.
Once again, nothing has been done. The world seems to
have grown gradually accustomed to unpunished violations
7th meeting
27 September 1994
of the basic norms of international law. This is a sorry
situation, and one that concerns every man and every
woman in the world, no matter how near or far from
Bosnia they may be.
For a very long time I rejected - indeed, I still
reject - any so-called conspiracy theory, the theory that all
that has happened to Bosnia has happened because its
majority nation is Muslim and there are dark powers that
consciously impel the Serbs towards the extermination of
Bosnian Muslims.
Those who support this theory have their arguments,
and I believe they have been heard here before. They
maintain that overt aggression, followed by genocide,
concentration camps and other forms of the darkest
fascism, is at work in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that
the world must be blind not to see it. Is the world blind?
Does it consciously condone all these evils? It cannot be
blind, and there is thus only the other alternative. This is
the argument that has gained an increasing number of
supporters.
It will not be a good thing if the world’s
billion Muslims come to accept it.
The latest events surrounding the plan of the Contact
the so-called
Group have given the supporters of
conspiracy theory an additional argument, namely, that
Bosnia and Herzegovina has been offered a proposal
backed by five major Powers and,
therefore, by the
majority of the international community, and it has been
clearly stated that the side that rejected the plan would be
punished while the side that accepted it would be
protected. Yet the opposite has happened. The Serbs
rejected the plan, and they have been rewarded by the
suspension of sanctions. We have accepted the plan, and
we have been punished by a complete blockade of
Sarajevo. Both processes have occurred simultaneously,
in parallel.
Today,
the highest civilian and military United
Nations authorities are warning us:
If you demand and
succeed in achieving the lifting of the arms embargo, the
United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) will pull
out of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so
on.
I have certainly not undertaken this long and arduous
journey from Bosnia to America solely to convey facts
that may be known to the majority of those here. We in
Bosnia believe that, despite the hardships, good and
justice cannot be defeated. We do not abandon our faith
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
that the world can be better and that we should all work
and strive continually to make it better.
In this conviction, and despite all our disappointments
and frustrations, I have come to speak here before the
Assembly and to present some of our proposals. From the
General Assembly and the Security Council, we are asking
the following:
first, that all resolutions on Bosnia and
Herzegovina adopted by the Security Council and the
General Assembly be implemented; secondly, that measures
be taken effectively to monitor the border between Serbia
and Montenegro, on the one side, and Bosnia and
Herzegovina, on the other, so that any transport of troops,
weapons and military equipment across that border may be
prevented or detected in timely fashion; thirdly, that should
this transport occur, the decision on the suspension of some
of the sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro - Security
Council resolution 943 (1994) - be immediately revoked
and that
tightened sanction measures be imposed in
accordance with the plan of the Contact Group of July
there be no further easing of the
1994; fourthly,
sanctions towards Serbia and Montenegro until
they
recognize Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia within
internationally recognized borders; fifthly, that a resolution
be adopted, without delay, to strengthen the protection and
mandate the extension of the safe areas provided for in
Security Council resolutions 824 (1993) and 836 (1993),
and in accordance with provisions of Article 6 of the
Contact Group plan; and, sixthly, that decisions be taken to
ensure an immediate end to the strangulation of Sarajevo
and to prevent a recurrence of such a situation.
that
The last-mentioned of these measures should envisage,
as an integral element, the opening of the city along the
north communication route - road and highway - through
the creation of a demilitarized belt 2.5 kilometres wide on
both sides of the thoroughfares. In this demilitarized belt,
only United Nations troops and police might remain. The
potential use of force against the strangulation of Sarajevo
is envisaged under Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s decision of 9 February 1994.
Provided that the above conditions were fulfilled, and
on condition that UNPROFOR continued to carry out its
mission, the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina would be willing to accept a new, modified
formula to deal with the problem of the arms embargo.
Under this formula we would limit our demand for the
lifting of the arms embargo to the adoption of a formal
decision, and the application or consequences of that
decision would be deferred for six months.
In this case
and
UNPROFOR troops
in Bosnia
could
remain
8
7th meeting
27 September 1994
Herzegovina, the Contact Group would fulfil its promise,
and a clear message would be conveyed to Karadzic’s
Serbs.
I should like,
in conclusion,
to state our
two
commitments.
First, our irrevocable objective is a democratic
Bosnia and Herzegovina within internationally recognized
borders, and with full ethnic, religious and political rights
for all its citizens. In such a Bosnia and Herzegovina the
Serbs will have all rights, up to the highest level of
autonomy, but they cannot have a state within a state.
Secondly, we consider that, like all other nations, we
have an inalienable right to self-defence. Therefore, if
our compromise proposal on the arms embargo is rejected
for any reason, we shall ask our friends to secure the
immediate, and even unilateral, lifting of the embargo.
Unfortunately, I have to inform representatives that, just
today, I learned that this compromise proposal is meeting
resistance, and even rejection, from some Contact Group
countries.
Finally, I take this opportunity to express our sincere
gratitude to all friends of Bosnia and Herzegovina who
have supported its struggle for survival and freedom.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Presidency of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina for the important statement he has just made.
Mr. Alija Izetbegovic´, President of the Presidency of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted
from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President (interpretation from French): I call
on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Belgium, His Excellency Mr. Willy Claes.
Mr. Claes (Belgium) (interpretation from French):
It is with great pleasure that I join the previous speakers
in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of this Assembly. The great African country
that you represent, Côte d’Ivoire, has always played an
active and constructive role in our Organization. We are
delighted to have you presiding over our proceedings.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
7th meeting
27 September 1994
My German ministerial colleague, Mr. Klaus Kinkel,
spoke this morning on behalf of the European Union. The
views of my delegation are faithfully reflected in his
statement and, consequently, there is no need for me to
address the positions he has outlined.
The same will for dialogue is reflected in the
discussion of major issues that concern the future of our
Organization, such as reform of the Security Council.
Even if divergences of opinion remain on various points,
the sense of common interest prevails.
Five years ago the talk was of a new international
order. The events that shook Eastern Europe at that time
led us to believe that the old bipolar world had expired and
that another order was bound to take its place. For some,
the reaction to the aggression against Kuwait marked the
beginning of this new phase. Reality did not live up to our
hopes.
the
equilibrium based on a bipolar world did not have a
"natural successor" and that it is up to us to build a new
one, little by little, through trial and error.
Today we have come to understand that
Of course, a new equilibrium is emerging in several
parts of the world.
First, there is the highly symbolic case of the Middle
East. Even if implementation of the Washington and Cairo
agreements is proving as arduous as was expected, every
new stage constitutes an important step towards lasting
peace. The historic rapprochement between Israel and
Jordan strengthens this prospect.
Mr. Seniloli (Fiji), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The new South Africa,
is facing immense
challenges, but at the same time it has become a beacon of
hope for the entire African continent.
too,
The strengthening of democracy and the progress
made in regional integration in Latin America seem to us
yet another meaningful evolution. A number of countries
in this region have now found the way towards sustainable
economic development.
The same holds true for Asia, where, moreover, a
readiness for dialogue now exists. The regional Forum
launched by the Association of South-East Asian Nations
(ASEAN), contacts on the Korean peninsula and, at another
level, the dialogue between the two sides of the Formosa
Strait all contribute towards a new climate of confidence.
While preparing to welcome four new members, the
European Union has signed cooperation agreements with
the majority of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe
that might
full membership.
Simultaneously, new geostrategic ties are being forged with
Russia.
ultimately
lead
to
Belgium’s major concern remains the achievement
of a more representative Council without diminishing its
decision-making capacity. We prefer therefore to avoid
ambitious projects that would give privileged status to
several "regional Powers" according to imprecise criteria
but would not reinforce the Council’s ability to shoulder
its responsibilities.
Why not, as a first step, adapt
the Council’s
membership on the basis of unanimously agreed criteria?
The international community could, as a measure with
immediate advantageous effect, grant an additional
non-permanent
consider
themselves to be underrepresented and confer permanent
member status on those two economic Powers whose
positive contribution to world affairs has long been
recognized.
to the
regions
seat
that
These steps, however encouraging, do not by
themselves constitute a new international agreement.
Progress and the readiness for rapprochement are by no
means universal:
Central Africa and Bosnia and
Herzegovina are cases in point.
The situation in Rwanda is uppermost in our minds.
The threat it represents of destabilization in Burundi and
the neighbouring countries has become a constant cause
for worry in recent months. However deep the hatred
born of the recent or the distant past, reconciliation is the
only alternative. We appeal to the leaders and prominent
citizens of these countries to unite their efforts to broaden
the base of political power and to stand firm against
extremists. Only when these conditions are met can
emergency aid make way for durable reconstruction.
Naturally, my country will contribute to each stage of this
renewal.
The civil war in the former Yugoslavia has cast first
Europe and then the entire world into profound disarray.
Yet for more than three years now, we have been
working relentlessly to put an end to this tragedy. The
United Nations Protection Force has become one of the
largest peace-keeping missions ever set up by our
Organization. The United Nations and the European
Union have worked together tirelessly to find a negotiated
solution. The main Powers have now added their weight
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to these efforts. Let us hope that the latest attempt by the
European Union,
the United States and the Russian
Federation will finally succeed in halting the bloodshed.
From this rostrum I call upon the parties to seize this
opportunity: put an end to madness and let peace return.
I have just touched upon two cases of civil war where
racial hatred has led to particularly inhumane behaviour.
More than ever, we must remain unyielding when human
rights are systematically violated. We must aim to banish
every regime that
is based on practices of "ethnic
cleansing".
So that this lesson may never be forgotten, Belgium
favours
the establishment of an international penal
jurisdiction and expresses the wish that the international
community do whatever
it
In the meantime, we
operational as soon as possible.
believe that the Tribunal created to judge the war crimes
perpetrated in the former Yugoslavia will stand as a
valuable precedent, which we would like to see extended to
the crimes committed in Rwanda as soon as possible.
is necessary to render
Along the same lines, my Government welcomes the
appointment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights.
The operational initiatives launched by Mr. Ayala Lasso -
sending human rights monitors to Rwanda, for instance -
have received early and concrete support from Belgium,
among others.
I am convinced that Mr. Ayala Lasso’s
actions will strengthen the respect for human rights and
promote a successful dialogue among political leaders and
human rights activists in every part of the world. This
dialogue will take into account the differing approaches
inspired by various cultures and religions, but
in my
opinion, it would lose its meaning if it were to compromise
on the one essential point: the respect owed to the physical
and moral integrity of every human being.
For Belgium, the crisis in Rwanda has marked the
international agenda.
In the wake of the genocide, death
lashed out blindly at a population in exile, pushing back the
limits of horror already reached in Bosnia and Somalia.
My fellow citizens were deeply troubled by the ruin of so
many efforts of development,
the failure of so many
attempts at reconciliation. The savage killing of 10 Belgian
"blue helmets", who were among the 100 United Nations
peace-keepers slain since the beginning of
this year,
highlights the unmistakable fragility of peace-keeping
operations. I believe the best way to honour all those who
lost their lives is by reflecting in particular upon the limits
and possibilities of international action.
10
7th meeting
27 September 1994
First:
In this regard, the common experience in which
Belgium took part - in the former Yugoslavia, in Somalia
and in Rwanda - has enabled us, sometimes in tragic
circumstances, to make a number of observations for
future use. I intend to group them around four principles
that seem to me essential.
peace-keeping
operations cannot be improvised. Second: once decided,
they should be given the means to achieve their aims.
Third:
for these means to function fully, we should
ensure their operational and political coherence. And,
finally, as long as the security of the personnel involved
cannot be guaranteed, it will become increasingly difficult
to find troop contributors for peace-keeping missions,
which will thereby reduce them to a purely theoretical
instrument.
First, the principle of "non-improvisation" implies
two things.
The first is that the Organization must at all times be
able to mobilize the necessary means for a peace-keeping
operation and to this end rely on the solidarity of all its
members. This means that it is essential to reinforce the
military peace-keeping capacity of the Organization.
In
the absence of a United Nations multilateral force that can
be deployed quickly, generalized offers of stand-by troops
and equipment and standardization of equipment and
procedures are objectives we must pursue diligently. To
this end I have sent
the Secretary-General a list of
possible Belgian contributions which could be made
available for peace-keeping operations.
remains
The second implication is
that, even though
solidarity
conceiving and
implementing peace-keeping, this solidarity cannot be
blind and automatic. Each specific operation must be the
result of careful consideration.
the
basis
for
The launching of a new peace-keeping operation
should only be envisaged and seriously considered when
all other means of solving the crisis have been exhausted,
including at the regional level. Chapter VI, as well as
"An Agenda for Peace", offer a wide choice of
instruments for solving a crisis through negotiation,
arbitration,
that
peace-keeping operations are not a panacea do the
Organization a disservice and often unwittingly contribute
to making situations worse rather than solving them.
Those who forget
and so on.
Once it has been decided by the Security Council, a
peace-keeping operation becomes everybody’s business.
All Member States must contribute according to their
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
possibilities and as circumstances dictate. Of course,
Member States must retain the sovereign right to decide
whether or not to participate in a given peace-keeping
operation, but in so doing, they should look beyond the
criterion of national interest.
All States should cooperate actively with a view to the
success of the operation by facilitating its movements,
supplies, reinforcements and the prepositioning of reserve
troops. All States should use their diplomatic influence to
help the Secretary-General achieve the political objectives
of an operation. And, finally, all States must adhere to
their financial obligations with respect to an operation.
Secondly, a peace-keeping operation must be based on
the parties, appropriate flexibility and
the consent of
adequate information.
In this all-too-frequent case,
Every operation must be based on consensus among
the States legitimately involved. The conflicting parties
themselves must agree to the deployment and aims of the
operation, except in the case of an obvious humanitarian
catastrophe.
the Security
Council’s decision to act outside the framework of the
traditional mandate
three usual
conditions - in other words, agreement by the parties, the
political process and a cease-fire - must be taken with great
care. The Council must express this decision clearly in the
mandate and accept all its consequences.
and disregard the
An operation must at all
times have the strength
necessary to execute its mission safely. This rule is of
utmost importance.
It implies, to begin with, sufficient
manpower and flexible rules of engagement to respond to
the unexpected. It also implies adequate equipment to fulfil
the mandate and to react to emergencies. The deployment
of a military reserve in the vicinity has already proven its
usefulness, for example, in Somalia.
It is a precautionary
measure we should envisage more often in the future. As
a rule, a force subject to local provocation must always
have the choice between evacuating or remaining in place,
between retreat or riposte.
resistance
to discourage
But the use of force is not the first option to be
considered in order
to a
peace-keeping operation. Education and persuasion will do
miracles among populations that are often ill-informed or
even misguided about the objectives of a peace-keeping
operation. Experience has shown that
is absolutely
necessary to develop a coherent information strategy. Each
peace-keeping operation should be provided with an
information unit and a radio transmitter to broadcast its
it
7th meeting
27 September 1994
the ability to neutralize hostile
message. Moreover,
propaganda sources should be put to use each time this
propaganda threatens the safety of part of a population or
United Nations personnel.
The third consideration is that the cohesion of the
command and control structures and consultations on a
regular basis with troop-contributing countries are
conditions essential to the success of an operation.
The military and political control of an operation
rest with the United Nations or with a duly
must
mandated body. This principle has two consequences.
Any attempt by the Commander of the Force or of
a small contingent to report directly only to national
authorities will reduce the cohesion of the multilateral
operation. The flexibility required by a commander in the
field to deal with the unexpected, however, is a different
matter.
When an action is undertaken by a regional or
multilateral force it must be authorized by the Security
Council. However, this authorization should not reduce
the operational autonomy of the commanders of such an
operation. Those who take the risk must be in control.
Moreover,
each operation a
consultation
committee should be created in which troop contributors,
the members of the Security Council and the Secretariat
can meet at regular intervals. This committee will enable
the contributors better
in
managing the operation.
the Secretariat
for
to assist
It will also generate a real dialogue between
contributors and the members of the Council, each time
the latter prepare to take a decision which modifies the
basic conditions of the operation. Contributors often have
a better knowledge of the situation in the field and are
best placed to judge whether a new task is feasible or
acceptable. Without troop contributors the resolutions of
the Council would remain ineffectual.
As a fourth and last consideration, the security of the
blue helmets is as much a concern of the contributing
countries as of the Secretariat. The prosecution of those
who attack the peace-keeping forces must be efficiently
organized.
The responsibility of a Government for its contingent
does not stop with its dispatch to the field of operations.
The contributing country has the right to watch over the
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
7th meeting
27 September 1994
safety of its compatriots at all times. Ultimately, security
must be the decisive factor for a contributing country to
continue or suspend its participation in a peace-keeping
operation.
financial and material circumstances is nothing short of
miraculous and prompts us to pay tribute to all the people
who have been working tirelessly within the Secretariat as
well as in the field.
It seems normal, therefore, that a troop contributor
should be entitled to equip its contingent from the start with
sufficient defensive armament. Later, when unexpected
circumstances place the contingent in a situation of real
danger, the Security Council and the Secretary-General
must immediately adapt the mandate and, if necessary, the
rules of engagement to that situation.
It is a fundamental duty of the United Nations to
organize the international prosecution of those who attack
United Nations personnel. The impunity granted so far to
the perpetrators of such crimes gives rise to an uneasy
feeling and undermines the credibility of the United Nations
in the eyes of world opinion.
The authority of our
Organization over those whom it is trying to reconcile is
negatively affected by this, and the Governments that
contribute troops are increasingly worried. In our opinion,
it is essential to speed up the adoption of a convention on
the security of United Nations personnel, as well as of the
investigations and the effective prosecution of those who
attack our personnel.
I hope that these thoughts that I have shared with the
Assembly will contribute to improving the procedures and
reinforcing the means put into effect by our Organization to
face up to the new situations that it needs to tackle.
In
fact, these changes deserve to be formalized when any
revision of the Charter takes place. The functioning of the
peace-keeping operations would be greatly improved by
this.
Alexis de Tocqueville wrote:
"Amongst the laws that govern human societies, there
is one that seems clearer and more precise than all
others. If men are to remain civilized, or become so,
the art of association must grow and improve at the
same rate as the equality of their conditions".
Though this "art of association" affects civil societies in the
first place, it is also, and more than ever, a concern of our
society of Governments.
Launching peace-keeping
operations is without doubt a most generous expression of
this art of acting together.
In the meantime, the fact that we have been able to
multiply peace-keeping operations in difficult political,
12
The President:
I now call on the Deputy Prime
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan, Mr.
Yohei Kono.
Mr. Kono (Japan) (spoke in Japanese; English text
furnished by the delegation): Allow me to begin my
address by offering my congratulations to Mr. Amara
Essy on the assumption of his new office. I should also
like to express my respect for the excellent diplomatic
skills demonstrated by his predecessor, Ambassador
Insanally, during a period of momentous change.
I am
also pleased to convey my sincere congratulations to the
Republic of South Africa, which, having renounced
apartheid, was reinstated as a full Member of the United
Nations at the previous session of the General Assembly.
The United Nations is now expected to play a
greater role than ever before. Recalling the blessings
bestowed upon Japan by the international community at
the time of its admission into this Organization, I intend
to conduct a proactive foreign policy that will enable
Japan to contribute, on a level commensurate with its
political and economic status, to the future well-being of
humankind.
At the outset, I should like to discuss Japan’s basic
philosophy regarding its international contributions. Japan
is engaged in economic assistance and various other
efforts in order to eradicate poverty and achieve economic
development, as well as to prevent conflicts and remove
destabilizing factors.
Reflecting with remorse upon the Second World
War, Japan has never wavered from its commitment to
contribute to world peace and prosperity. Japan does not,
nor will it, resort to the use of force, prohibited by its
Constitution.
Japan will remain resolutely a nation of
peace. Neither possessing nuclear arms nor exporting
weapons, Japan continues to be actively engaged in
disarmament and non-proliferation efforts. In accordance
with what
I have just stated, Japan has dispatched
members of its Self-Defence Forces, as well as civilian
personnel, to several countries, including Cambodia and
Mozambique,
in response to requests by the United
Nations. Japan intends to continue to cooperate actively
in such United Nations peace-keeping operations.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
At the same time, Japan is determined to enhance its
contributions to efforts on global issues in economic and
social areas. These issues, whose importance is now
widely recognized, include development, the environment,
human rights, refugees, population, AIDS and narcotics.
Today, the first area on which the United Nations
should focus its efforts is the maintenance of international
peace and security; the second is the resolution of economic
and social problems. And if it is to carry out these two
very important tasks effectively, it must undertake a third:
the promotion of United Nations reform.
I should like on
this occasion to outline my views as to the kind of
contributions Japan wishes to make in these areas.
In the maintenance of international peace and security,
which is the first area of concern to the United Nations,
Japan places great
and
non-proliferation, diplomatic efforts for the resolution of
conflicts, and peace-keeping operations.
emphasis on disarmament
As the only country to have suffered a nuclear attack,
and adhering firmly to its three non-nuclear principles,
Japan strives to achieve the ultimate goal of eliminating all
nuclear weapons.
all
nuclear-weapon States to redouble their efforts to reduce
their nuclear arsenals.
the
indefinite extension of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty,
and calls on all States that have not yet acceded to the
Treaty to do so at the earliest opportunity.
Japan supports
Toward this
Further,
end,
it urges
At the same time, I would urge, in particular, all
nuclear-weapon States to engage more actively in the
negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty and to
strive to bring them to an early and successful conclusion.
I wish to propose that, once the negotiations on the treaty
are concluded, a ceremony for its signing by Heads of State
or Government be held in Japan, for example in the city of
Hiroshima, and that it be made a new starting-point for the
elimination of nuclear weapons once and for all.
In this connection, Japan strongly calls upon North
Korea to engage seriously in efforts to resolve the issue of
its development of nuclear weapons through international
dialogue, including its talks with the United States.
The unfettered transfer and excessive accumulation of
conventional weapons is another destabilizing factor in
many regions of the world today. In the civil wars we have
witnessed in certain regions of Africa and elsewhere, for
example, it has resulted in the escalation of combat and in
enormous loss of life. It is my belief that the international
7th meeting
27 September 1994
community must seriously consider concrete measures to
solve this problem.
In this regard,
the United Nations Register of
Conventional Arms, designed to improve the transparency
of arms transfers, has grown increasingly important as an
effective measure for building confidence at the global
level. More than 80 countries participate in the Register
at present, and we strongly hope that many more will
join. Japan will work together with other Member States
to amplify and strengthen the Register by, for example,
also including arms stockpiles in it.
The prevention and settlement of regional conflicts
requires a comprehensive approach which combines
diplomatic
peace-keeping
operations, humanitarian aid, assistance for building social
institutions,
such as
rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance.
and aid for peace-building,
efforts, United Nations
Convinced of the importance of taking measures
I am a strong
before conflicts become intractable,
advocate of
the vigorous promotion of preventive
diplomacy. From this viewpoint, I believe we should, in
cooperation with the countries concerned, actively
consider extending assistance for the stabilization of
social and political conditions in regions or countries
where there are elements of instability.
Further
improvement of
United Nations peace-keeping operations have
proved successful in Cambodia and many other regions,
and they are expected to play an increasingly important
role.
the effectiveness of
peace-keeping operations will require closer examination
of, inter alia, their mandates, duration, scale of activities
and cost, as well as full consideration of the safety of
personnel. Strengthening the financial base of United
Nations peace-keeping operations is an urgent task. It is
necessary, in particular, that Member States that are in
arrears pay their assessed contributions.
is also
imperative that ways be sought
to put peace-keeping
operations on a sounder financial basis.
It
Japan, for its part, will enhance its support for
democratization with a view to helping peace take root
after
It places particular
importance on assisting efforts to hold free and fair
elections.
the fighting has ceased.
Responding to the unspeakably tragic situation of the
Rwandan refugees, Japan has provided both financial
through the United
assistance and material support
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the United
Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda. The Government
of Japan has decided to dispatch more than 400 members
of its self-defence forces to the region to provide assistance
in such areas as medical treatment, water supply and air
transport.
already
commenced. Working together with the international
community - particularly with the countries of Africa -
Japan is determined to continue its efforts toward a solution
of the Rwandan issue.
activities have
Some of
these
With regard to the conflict in the former Yugoslavia,
Japan continues to support the efforts of the international
community to restore peace. It calls upon all the disputing
parties concerned to accept the peace plan for Bosnia and
Herzegovina devised by the Contact Group and to cooperate
with the activities of the United Nations there.
The second task of the United Nations is the solution
of problems in economic and social areas, including those
regarding development, the environment and human rights.
With the changing international circumstances, the
issue of development
is now re-emerging as a global
concern; a new strategy for development is thus called for.
It is from this viewpoint that Japan has been advocating a
development
comprehensive
approach, combining assistance, trade, investment, and the
transfer of technology, as well as a differentiated approach,
tailored to the needs of developing countries according to
their respective stages of development.
strategy that
entails
a
The International Conference on African Development,
held in Tokyo last year, proved to be a worthwhile forum
for the discussion of how such a development strategy
might be realized. In an effort to build upon the results of
that Conference, an Asia-Africa seminar will be convened
in Indonesia this December.
In today’s world, South-South cooperation, where
more advanced developing countries share their experience
and technology with other developing countries,
is of
increasing significance. Japan intends to suggest concrete
plans for the promotion of South-South cooperation around
the globe.
Moreover, as the world’s largest donor country, Japan
continues its efforts to expand its official development
assistance.
it gives full
consideration to such factors as trends in the recipient
country’s military expenditures and in its development and
production of weapons of mass destruction, as well as its
In extending such assistance,
14
7th meeting
27 September 1994
to promote democracy and to introduce a
efforts
market-oriented economy.
It is my hope that meaningful discussions of an
Agenda for Development will take place at the current
session of the General Assembly and that the points I
have just mentioned will be taken into account.
At this time of increasing global interdependence, all
humankind is confronted with new challenges, such as
environmental and population problems, which can be
overcome only through close cooperative efforts between
industrialized and developing countries.
Japan,
for
is
relevant
its part,
to transfer
technologies
actively engaged in
environmental- protection efforts. For example, it
is
working to strengthen the international framework for
such efforts,
to
developing countries, and to expand and strengthen its
official development assistance in environmental areas.
With regard to population and AIDS, in February of this
year Japan launched its Global Issues Initiative, under
which it is greatly expanding assistance to developing
countries to address these problems. At the International
Conference on Population and Development, recently
convened in Cairo, I stressed the importance of finding a
solution to issues relating to population.
Japan is profoundly aware that human-resources
development and the further advancement of the status of
women, achieved through international cooperation, have
important implications for social stability. We therefore
eagerly anticipate the successful outcome of the World
Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World
Conference on Women, which will be convened next
year. By the same token, Japan actively participates in
the Women-in-Development programmes and other social-
development activities administered by the various United
Nations agencies.
Economic development and human rights may be
likened to the front and rear wheels of a vehicle:
they
must work in tandem to advance the development of
democratic societies.
In order to encourage respect for
human rights as universal values and to improve
effectively the human rights situation in every country, it
is important to make continuous efforts to establish legal
systems and to raise awareness of human rights,
in
addition to promoting political, economic and social
stability. Toward this end, Japan will cooperate in every
way possible to assist the work of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
If it is to carry out effectively its two major tasks -
maintaining international peace and security and resolving
economic and social problems - the United Nations must
make a serious effort
to the new era by
undertaking structural reform as well as administrative and
budgetary reform.
to adapt
the present
As the United Nations seeks to strengthen its activities
through reform, the restructuring of the Security Council is
of particular importance.
Today the activities of the
Security Council span a wide range of issues relating to
world peace and stability. While the membership of the
United Nations has grown from 51 countries in 1945 to 184
countries at
the composition of the
Council, which was intended to reflect the world situation
as it existed when the United Nations was established, has
remained virtually unchanged.
In the interim, we have
witnessed the emergence of countries that are capable of
shouldering greater international responsibilities.
is
therefore necessary to restructure and strengthen the
Security Council, while ensuring its efficiency, so that it
may reflect world realities.
time,
It
In keeping with Japan’s basic philosophy regarding
international contributions, which I outlined earlier, I wish
to state that Japan is prepared, with the endorsement of
many countries,
to discharge its responsibilities as a
permanent member of the Security Council. It is my hope
that United Nations Member States will accelerate the
deliberations on this subject during the current session and
that an agreement will be reached on a reform plan in time
for the commemorative fiftieth session of the General
Assembly next year.
The Security Council is not the only organ requiring
reform. The General Assembly,
in which 184 States
participate, also needs to be reinvigorated, and it must
coordinate its activities more closely with those of other
United Nations agencies. Recently, efforts have begun to
fine-tune United Nations activities in economic and social
fields, such as development, the environment and human
rights, and to establish clear priorities among them.
In
addressing these issues, which have profound implications
for the future of humankind, it is necessary to continue to
work
organizational
strengthening of the Economic and Social Council. The
Trusteeship Council, by contrast, has completed its historic
mission, and it is my view that it would be appropriate, in
the context of the reform of the United Nations as a whole,
to consider its abolishment. Building on the creation of the
Office of Internal Oversight Services at the last session of
functional
towards
and
the
7th meeting
27 September 1994
the General Assembly, we must redouble our efforts to
promote administrative and budgetary reform.
The passage of a half century since the signing of
the United Nations Charter has rendered the so-called
"former enemy clauses" meaningless. Japan continues to
seek their deletion from the text of the Charter.
I have focused my remarks today on the three
challenges facing the United Nations: the maintenance of
international peace and security,
the resolution of
economic and social issues and the need for the reform of
the Organization.
If the United Nations pursues reform
to meet the changing needs of the times and supports and
expands cooperation among its Member States, I have
every confidence that it will enhance its legitimacy as a
universal organization and develop a capacity to respond
to new challenges even more effectively.
In closing, I would like to call upon all Member
States to cooperate to ensure that this will be remembered
as the historic session of the General Assembly that
ushered in a new era for the United Nations.
The President: The next speaker is the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Portugal, His Excellency Mr. José
Manuel Durão Barroso.
(spoke
(Portugal)
Mr. Durão Barroso
in
Portuguese; English text furnished by the delegation): It
is with pleasure that I warmly congratulate Mr. Amara
Essy on his election to the presidency of the General
Assembly at its forty-ninth session. In his election I see
a recognition of the role that Côte d’Ivoire, a friendly
African country, has played on the international scene as
well as an appreciation of his personal qualities and
experience.
A word of recognition is also in order for the
outgoing President, Ambassador Samuel Insanally, for his
dedicated and positive service during the last session of
the Assembly.
To
the
Secretary-General, Mr.
Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, I renew my homage for the secure and
committed manner in which he is carrying out his
mission. As he already knows, Portugal can be counted
on in the pursuit of
the objectives of peace and
development and in the consolidation of a substantial
reform of the United Nations system.
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
My German colleague has already addressed the
Assembly on behalf of the 12 member States of the
European Union, expressing positions to which Portugal
fully subscribes. Nevertheless, I would like to reflect on
certain issues which are of particular importance to my
country.
The end of the bipolar era has created, somewhat
perversely, greater unpredictability and uncertainty in the
system of collective security, which has most visibly led to
a rebirth of extreme nationalism and new focuses of
conflict.
In this perspective, I would like to underline the
importance we attach to cooperation between the United
Nations and regional organizations and mechanisms. Such
cooperation implements the concept of complementary
actions and allows for more agile solutions adapted to
concrete circumstances.
The road to stability and the progressive development
of a new concept of security also passes through the
stimulation of political institutions capable of guaranteeing
respect for universally recognized values. Similarly, greater
international control of the use of force will require not
only the best and most adequate means but also a
constantly renewed political legitimacy in order to wield
them.
In my view, this legitimacy is tied to the goal of
building an international society based on ideals which
promote peace, democracy and human rights.
We must also keep in mind the socio-economic
dimension of the issues that threaten international stability
and security. More than ever, we need an integrated
approach within which the preventive dimension is given
priority, both in its purely political and diplomatic aspect
and in its development-aid aspect.
In this context, we underline the importance of the
committed participation of all nations in an Agenda for
Development, as the Secretary-General has invited us to do.
Today more than ever, the portentous words of the Pope
ring true: "Development is the new name of peace."
In this regard, we need to rethink, not only the role of
development aid, but also the very concept of development.
It should become more comprehensive, including respect
for democratic values and human rights as well as social
and economic issues and other
issues related to the
preservation of
the
prevention of endemic diseases and the fight against the
traffic in drugs.
environment, demographics,
the
16
7th meeting
27 September 1994
Here we must also underline the importance we
attach to helping countries that are truly committed to
implementing social and politico-economic reforms
conducive to sustainable development. However, such a
process must be complemented by an increasingly liberal
international system and by a set of measures that seek to
reduce the burden of external debt and create the
conditions for a reactivation of private investment in their
economies.
In this context, I welcome the signing in Marrakesh
of the Uruguay Round agreements and the forthcoming
start-up of the World Trade Organization, which will
allow for freer trade, with the simultaneous strengthening
of rules and disciplines.
As a member of the European Union, Portugal
firmly defends the enlargement of the Union and the
strengthening of ties with other countries of Central and
Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean basin. For the
entire continent, the European Union is undoubtedly an
immense consolidating force of democratic ideals,
stability, prosperity and respect for human rights.
Other organizations, such as the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO), the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE),
the Western
European Union (WEU) and the Council of Europe
contribute
the
democratization of Eastern Europe has created the
possibility of future adhesions to the European Union, it
has also led to a new relationship as regards security on
the continent.
equally to the
If
same
ideals.
We understand the desire already expressed by many
countries of Central and Eastern Europe to join the
defence and security organizations, and we are ready to
consider, in due time, a gradual and balanced enlargement
of NATO to include those States that share with us the
same democratic values and respect for human rights and
the rule of law. The question of the enlargement of
NATO to the east cannot, however, overshadow the
essential transatlantic dimension which must remain the
cornerstone of European security. On the other hand, any
increase in the membership of NATO must not create
new divisions in Europe. Therefore, Portugal affirms that
all
the Partnership for Peace, a
mechanism aimed at uniting countries of the Eurasian
region in activities of military cooperation, must be
pursued.
the possibilities of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Last year, I stated here that Portugal considers the
for
nuclear Non-Proliferation
international
approach the 1995
Conference I should like to reiterate the intention of my
Government to support all efforts that will lead to the
unconditional and indefinite extension of that instrument.
fundamental
Treaty
security.
As we
While referring to security, I should like to welcome
and support the initiative announced here yesterday by
President Clinton to reach an agreement on reducing the
proliferation of anti-personnel mines. Such an initiative
could not be more timely and, for our part, I can announce
here that Portugal is in the process of preparing legislation
to outlaw the commercialization of those weapons and their
production.
In the context of Europe, I cannot avoid referring to
the situation in the former Yugoslavia and, in particular, to
the terrible conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Despite all
the efforts applied towards bringing an end to that situation,
war goes on with its tragic fare of death, destruction and
suffering.
The international community has demonstrated that it
possesses a common interest in the search for a political
solution to the conflict. We must, however, recognize that
this progress is insufficient and that, without real political
will shown by all parties directly involved, a stable and
long-lasting solution will never be found.
Portugal has actively participated in the efforts of the
international community with both men and matériel, and
will continue to remain on the ground for as long as it is
useful and necessary. We are, in fact, reinforcing the
Portuguese contingent in the area within the activities of the
Western European Union (WEU).
Portugal has defended the idea that
Sub-Saharan Africa, to which my country is linked by
particularly strong cultural and historical ties, continues to
be the region of the planet with the most worrying levels of
development.
the
international community should grant Africa first priority,
commensurate with the unparalleled magnitude of the
problems that need to be overcome. But firstly, Africans
themselves must prove that underdevelopment
is not
inevitable. And the greatest contribution that they can
make in this direction is a determined commitment
to
search for peaceful solutions to both existing and potential
conflicts, and a continued deepening of the process of
political and social democratization on the continent, as
well as the adoption of indispensable economic reforms.
7th meeting
27 September 1994
The first free and democratic elections in South
Africa and the investiture of Nelson Mandela as its Head
of State, as well as the formation of a Government of
national unity, represent historic achievements not only
because they have left apartheid behind but also because
they have proved the viability of finding in Africa
peaceful solutions to complex situations. Portugal, which
actively participated in all efforts to support the process
of democratic transition in that country, warmly salutes
the new South Africa, a country which is host to an
important Portuguese community. We believe that the
human, economic and technological potential of that
country can undoubtedly constitute an important factor for
economic recovery in all of southern Africa.
In Mozambique also there are signs that the hopes of
its people with regard to the peace process will not be
disappointed. The completion of the cantonment and
demobilization processes, the formation, despite some
delays, of the new armed forces and the peaceful manner
in which the electoral campaign has been conducted are
all crucial achievements to be recognized, and foretell the
coming elections of 27 and 28 October 1994 as being a
crucial moment for the future of Mozambique.
We appeal to the main Mozambican political forces
to find the forms of dialogue and understanding
conducive to guaranteeing a true national reconciliation
with full respect for democratic principles.
Portugal was an observer at the negotiations and is
represented in all the commissions created by the peace
accord, playing a major role in the formation of the new
army, as well as participating significantly in the United
Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ).
Portugal will remain committed to following this
process closely in the context of the accords and we
consider it important that the international community
support Mozambique not only during this particular phase
but also in what we hope will be the following stage of
national reconstruction and reconciliation.
In southern Africa, one of the longest, and surely
deadliest, conflicts the world has ever known rages on.
Angola continues to be the stage for a war that has
already claimed hundreds of
innocent
victims.
thousands of
Portugal, as a member of the troika of observer
it can in actively
countries, will continue to do all
supporting the United Nations mediation in the person of
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, whose
efforts I take this opportunity to salute, in the search for a
definitive solution to the Angolan conflict.
The international community cannot and must not
forget the origins of the current conflict, which frustrated
the hopes of the Angolan people created after the Bicesse
accords and the elections of September 1992. Beyond
attributing blame, it is now more important not to give up
the efforts to bring this terrible conflict to an end.
The Lusaka negotiations, which seek to promote -
within the context of respect for the peace accords and
relevant resolutions of the Security Council - a genuine
reconciliation in Angola, have reached a crucial stage.
reconciliation constitutes an important
The complete acceptance by the Angolan Government
and UNITA of the set of proposals of the mediation on
national
step.
UNAVEM II must be given the necessary means to
complete its mission. For this to happen, appropriate forces
must be placed on the ground immediately following the
initialling of the accords and the correct dimensions of that
peace-keeping operation must be defined.
In any case, peace will not be possible unless there is
a genuine will on the part of the Angolans themselves.
I appeal here to the Angolan Government and UNITA
to do all in their power so that this opportunity is not lost.
I also appeal
to the international community to
redouble its commitment and support.
Despite the continuation of the conflict in Angola, the
historical changes under way in southern Africa offer
possibilities which must be consolidated and developed.
Portugal has from the very beginning supported the
project for a dialogue between the European Union and that
region of Africa, an idea that has just been expressed in the
recent Berlin Conference between the European Union and
the Southern African Development Community (SADC).
As was stated in the Berlin Declaration, the aim of this
dialogue is, inter alia, the promotion and development of
trade, investment and cooperation, in order to stimulate a
balanced development of that region which may, in turn,
provide an engine for progress in the rest of the continent.
The dramatic situation in Rwanda shows how
important the role of the Organization of African Unity is
in the prevention of similar situations, namely through the
18
7th meeting
27 September 1994
the Cairo Summit.
implementation of its mechanism for the prevention,
management and resolution of conflicts created last year
on 29 July at
From the very
beginning, Portugal has supported the creation of this
mechanism and, in conjunction with African and other
like-minded countries, is prepared to participate actively
in the search for means that will permit the empowerment
of such an instrument.
I cannot end this reference to Africa without
welcoming the way in which the first democratic and free
elections were held in Guinea-Bissau and expressing
satisfaction at the peaceful and orderly climate that has
characterized the campaign for the elections in Sao Tome
and Principe, to be held in a few days.
One of the current priorities of our foreign policy is
the convergence of efforts with those countries which
share with us the Portuguese language. With them we are
building a community which I am sure will come to
represent a new and exemplary political reality.
cooperation
is
its
institutionalized
We are also seeking to deepen the political dialogue
and cooperation between Europe and Latin America.
in
That
own
mechanisms, among which I single out
the dialogue
between the European Union and the Rio Group as well
as the Ibero-American Summits. These in turn have
allowed open and profound discussions of political
questions of common interest to countries united by close
historical and cultural ties and by shared sensitivities.
This is what happened, once again, at the Summit in
Cartagena, Colombia.
I am glad to be able to acknowledge here the clear
evolution towards democracy and respect for human
rights that has occurred in all of Latin America and the
Caribbean. That very positive evolution contrasts even
more strongly with such shocking situations as that of
Haiti, a country where conditions are being created for
the re-establishment of democratic constitutional order
following the intervention of a multinational
force
authorized by the United Nations Security Council.
Portugal continues to devote special attention to the
evolution of the situation in North Africa. To that end,
we have advocated a rapprochement with the countries of
that area in accordance with the Lisbon Declaration of the
European Council, which, I recall, defined a new concept
for a political, economic, social and cultural relationship
between the European Union and the Maghreb.
Following the Corfu meeting of the European Council,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
importance to stability and
which attached particular
security in the Mediterranean, we reaffirm our dedication to
a dialogue and a deepening of ties with the countries of the
region. Nor can we defend any other approach when we
consider the geographical proximity and close historical ties
that unite Portugal and North Africa.
In fact, it is important that the countries of both sides
of the Mediterranean deepen their dialogue so that we can
avoid the spread of an idea which we reject - that of
conflict between civilizations. On the contrary, we should
value the concept that countries with different political
ideas and whose populations espouse diverse religions are
able to establish ties of trust and true cooperation.
It is my opinion that we have today well-founded
reasons to believe that a comprehensive peace in the Middle
East will be a reality in the not-too-distant future. The
accords already signed between Israel and the Palestinians
on the one hand and Israel and Jordan on the other testify
to their determination in seeking a comprehensive, just and
lasting peace.
The achievements already made will
certainly serve as a catalyst for new initiatives. From this
perspective, the decisions and resolutions of the United
Nations should reflect the positive developments already
registered.
It is also necessary that the international community,
and in particular the countries of the region, support the
efforts under way. We hope that progress in the peace
process,
in both its bilateral and multilateral aspects,
foreshadows the capacity to generate a new era of stability
and development in that part of the world.
the Portuguese.
Universalism has always marked the ideas and
behaviour of
In Asia Portugal has
centuries-old ties with a number of countries which we
wish to maintain and develop.
It is with great admiration
that we look upon the development of some areas of that
continent. We are certain that the countries of that region
will have ever-increasing importance in the determination
of the fate of our planet.
Portugal attaches the greatest importance to respect for
human rights, so much so that
this respect can be
considered to be a major pillar of its foreign policy. Our
action has as a fixed reference point the results of the
Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, which rejected
any regression or reduction of the established norms. We
support the work of the High Commissioner and the Centre
for Human Rights, both of which should be granted the
7th meeting
27 September 1994
necessary financial means for an efficient exercise of their
functions.
We defend with particular commitment the principle
of universality when applied to respect for human rights
and their indivisibility, and we oppose any attempt to
subordinate their strict observance to other objectives. On
this issue, we cannot and must not yield. We believe that
democracy, respect for human rights and development are
mutually reinforcing.
We
the
to
attach
greatest
importance
for Social Development
the
international conferences to be held in 1995:
the World
Summit
and the World
Conference on Women. We consider promising the
positive results recently achieved in Cairo by the
International Conference on Population and Development,
which we welcome.
In the context of human rights, among which this
Organization has always included with special distinction
the right to self-determination, I feel duty-bound to touch
upon a question to which the international community has
I am referring to the
been giving growing attention.
Non-Self-Governing Territory of East Timor.
I reaffirm
before this Assembly that Portugal has no specific
objective concerning the question of East Timor beyond
the defence of the rights of its people and the conclusion
of the process of decolonizing the Territory in accordance
with international
law and with full respect for the
legitimate rights of the Timorese people. For this reason,
we remain committed to talks that, under the auspices of
the Secretary-General, are being held with the Indonesian
Government with
just,
comprehensive and internationally acceptable solution.
aim of
finding
the
a
Undoubtedly, progress has been slow and we have
not advanced on the substance of the matter. But, as a
reading of the progress report of the Secretary-General
reveals - and I must express here a word of appreciation
to him - some steps have been taken, not only through the
so-called confidence-building measures, but also with the
involvement of the Timorese themselves in the search for
a solution to a problem in which they are the principal
interested party.
East Timor has recently ceased to be an almost
forgotten Territory. We sincerely hope that the growing
attention that has been granted it will contribute
decisively to an improvement in the concrete situation of
its people and to the adoption of a more coherent attitude
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
in the recognition and defence of their legitimate and
inalienable rights.
On 16 November the Convention on the Law of the
Sea will come into force, culminating a long and important
process which will open new and determinant channels of
action and cooperation. The importance of this area will
clearly justify the General Assembly’s adopting by
consensus the draft resolution of the Economic and Social
Council on the proclamation of 1998 as the international
year of the oceans. We are confident that its proclamation
will contribute in an effective manner to a wider debate and
a greater enlightenment of world public opinion on the
importance of the problems which we face in this area, thus
enabling the adoption of solutions that will permit their
resolution at a global level. Portugal actively participates
in this debate, seeking with the holding of Lisbon
Expo/98 - the last great exposition of the twentieth century,
the subject-matter of which is directly related to this area -
to provide an important instrument for the achievement of
the goals we have set.
In conclusion, I should like to reflect upon the
institutional reforms that are so necessary for adapting the
Organization to the new international context, its challenges
and the greater possibilities of global cooperation. These
reforms, which we believe to be essential and urgent,
should be carried out with transparency and on a consensual
basis. They must be realistic and be aimed at increasing
efficiency.
Although we are still at a preliminary stage, we
consider it useful to state here the aim of our thinking on
this matter. First of all, we believe that it is necessary to
reinforce the efficiency and responsibility of the Security
Council. We maintain that a third category of members
should not be created beyond those of permanent and
non-permanent members. A pragmatic and reasonable
solution to ensure greater representation on the Council
would be to increase the number of non-permanent
members by one for each region. We are also of the
opinion that the number of permanent members should be
increased, but such an increase should not be achieved at
the expense of the number of non-permanent members.We
encourage regional agreements which, through increased
rotation, will permit greater representation on the Council.
It is crucial that permanent members of the Council should
have the ability and the political will to assume fully the
responsibilities that come with that status as regards the
maintenance of international peace and security.
20
7th meeting
27 September 1994
in
regard
to
greater
responsibilities
Some States have declared themselves ready to
the
assume
achievement of the objectives of the Charter.
The
Portuguese Government declares - here today - its support
for the inclusion of Germany and Japan as permanent
members of the Security Council. Both the unified
Germany, a country that provided a notable incentive for
the construction of the European Union, and Japan, a
great Power of the Asia-Pacific region, are in a position
to make an effective contribution towards increasing the
weight and the efficiency of the Security Council.
It
would however be difficult to comprehend if an increase
in the number of the permanent members did not also
include the southern hemisphere of our planet.
In this
context, and among the eligible countries, we point
naturally to Brazil, a founding Member of the United
Nations, the largest country in Latin America and a State
that has unequivocally abided by the principles of the
Charter.
Portugal is a candidate for a seat on the Security
Council for the biennium which begins in 1997. Our
candidature reflects a position of profound commitment to
the main objectives of the United Nations as set out in the
Charter.
It reflects also our desire to contribute fully to
the maintenance of international peace and security.
Thus, Portugal reaffirms its commitment with regard
to the objectives of the United Nations, which my country
has supported with increasing responsibility as an active
participant in the different areas of the Organization and,
particularly,
in the United Nations peace-keeping
operations.
We are approaching the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations Charter. Portugal will seek to emphasize
this commemoration and to ensure that its significance is
understood by the public at large and, in particular, by
young people.
In this celebration, we wish to contribute to
renewing our ideals and sparking people’s conscience in
order to promote increased participation in the objectives
established by the Charter of the United Nations.
In short,
this means the creation of a greater
sensitivity to the irreplaceable role of the United Nations
in the resolution of the major issues faced by humanity at
the turn of the century.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The President:
I now call on the Minister of State,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Senegal and for Senegalese
Living Abroad.
Mr. Niasse (Senegal) (interpretation from French):
The international community is meeting once again,
assembling the great diversity of the nations which are its
members, to consider the state of the world and to chart the
paths of progress for the 12 months that lie ahead.
We give thanks to God for having inspired the
delegations here present in their choice of His Excellency
Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the sisterly
and friendly Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, as President of the
Assembly at this session. His election is both an honour to
him personally and a tribute to his country inasmuch as the
world recognizes and acknowledges the great dedication of
Côte
and
understanding among people.
It does so thanks to the
vision of the late President Houphouët-Boigny, which
continues to be carried on by his illustrious successor,
President Henri Konan Bédié.
everything
affecting
peace
d’Ivoire
to
d’Ivoire.
The personal joy and pride which I feel concerning
him as our friend and brother is shared by my entire
delegation as well as in Senegal which, since time
immemorial, has had numerous ties of friendship and
cooperation with Côte
the
acknowledgement of his merits by the international
community was received and hailed in Senegal with the
same intensity as in Côte d’Ivoire. The President can count
on the support of the delegation of Senegal to contribute to
the success of his mission.
the
congratulations we extend to him today is equalled by the
pride which we feel at seeing him preside over the forty-
ninth session of the General Assembly.
The warmth of
Hence,
We pay a tribute to his predecessor, the Permanent
Representative of Guyana, Ambassador Insanally, for the
skill and authority with which he guided the work of the
Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
I should like also to repeat our gratitude to our
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the
energy and dedication which he continues to devote to his
outstanding mission at the head of our Organization, a
mission which he is carrying out with the same efficiency
in an ever more difficult global context.
for
Finally, allow me to thank delegations for
the
unanimous decision to elect the Permanent Representative
of Senegal to the United Nations, Mr. Kéba Birane Cissé,
7th meeting
27 September 1994
one of our most outstanding diplomats, as Chairman of
the Third Committee.
In so doing this mission is
entrusted to Senegal, whose dedication to human rights
and to the other areas falling within the competence of
this important Committee, is known to all. Mr. Cissé and
all of us intend to dedicate ourselves fully, together with
the other countries represented here, to ensure that the
work of the Third Committee is crowned with success.
ignore,
If there are years which the history of the world
cannot
the twelve-month period that has just
elapsed is doubtless among them. It has been extremely
rich in events of great political significance characterized
by the positive developments of the situation in South
Africa which saw the end of apartheid and which, only a
few months ago, saw the advent of a democratic Power.
It was also a period marked by the political and
psychological upheavals that have taken place in Arab-
Israeli relations.
In this context, we are gratified to see
South Africa now occupying its rightful place in the
family of nations.
just causes -
The truth always wins in the end. It is in the name
inevitable reality - which is the token of the
of that
ultimate objective of
the chronic
problem of the Middle East - at the heart of which is the
question of Palestine - has, since the Declaration of
Principles of 13 September 1993 in Washington, seen
developments marked by the continued collapse of
important panels of that psychological wall that has so
long divided Arabs and Israelis.
that
Thus, in the region which was the cradle of the
sublime spiritual messages of the religions of the Book,
such developments now justify hope - the hope of finally
seeing the creation of a space for lasting coexistence
between Israelis and Palestinians, between Israel and the
Arab countries, with genuine respect for the inalienable
rights of the peoples and States of the entire region.
They justify the hope of seeing the establishment,
between those States and peoples, of cooperation at all
possible levels, to manage, together, their vital support
systems.
It is only fitting that in mentioning those hopes we
pay a tribute to all
those involved in this positive
development whose efforts have made possible the
opening of this new window of opportunity on the
conflict in the Middle East, especially the Palestinian and
Israeli leaders who, thanks to their political courage and
sense of history, finally agreed to set out on this path
towards a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In again expressing to His Excellency President Yasser
Arafat Senegal’s support and admiration for the courage
and political farsightedness which led him to keep a firm
grip on that olive branch of which he spoke here in 1974,
I should like on behalf of Senegal to formulate the hope
that as he takes the additional steps necessary to reach an
overall solution to the Israeli-Arab conflict all the other
aspects of this matter will be dealt with in accordance with
the positive trend of present developments, and that a
settlement will be reached in keeping with the relevant
resolutions of the Security Council.
We also wish wholeheartedly to extend these
congratulations and expressions of encouragement to the
Israeli Prime Minister, His Excellency Mr. Yitzak Rabin,
and to his Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Shimon Peres,
for their sustained efforts to achieve a settlement of the
Middle East crisis. Such efforts must be pursued, stepped
up and encouraged.
However, the past year, although marked by such
positive and historic events, was not free from reasons for
concern and even, at times, despair.
Indeed, despite our
constantly renewed efforts, a number of conflicts persist
and are even sometimes becoming mired down in scenes of
horror we had hoped never against to witness.
From Angola to Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Liberia
to Somalia, and recently in Rwanda, we have received the
echoes and images and witnessed the piercing horror of
persistent crisis situations that leave us no choice other than
to continue doggedly to strive for dialogue and concerted
action to find lasting solutions based on equity, based on
justice, based on law and based on the unshakeable will to
live finally in peace in a community made up of human
beings.
In the conflict situations on the African continent,
today, more than ever before, machinery for the prevention,
management and settlement of African conflicts must be
implemented through respect
the various peace
agreements that have been signed among factions that are,
sadly, continuing to kill each other; our continent of Africa
must be committed once and for all to the only battle worth
the candle, namely, the battle for democratic development
and the advancement of human rights.
for
7th meeting
27 September 1994
The question of Angola must be peacefully and
finally resolved in the spirit of the Lusaka negotiations,
under the aegis of the United Nations. After having
hailed the meritorious
efforts undertaken by the
authorities in Luanda, we must launch another strong and
concrete appeal to UNITA to allow peace finally to reign
in Angola.
In connection with the problems in Somalia and
Rwanda, I should like to recall certain specific facts
concerning the position that my country, Senegal, has
taken on these questions of such concern to everyone.
In Somalia,
the peace so long sought by the
international community can obviously come about only
through an overall political settlement that would deal
with all aspects of that fratricidal conflict. Moreover,
because he understood this at a very early stage, His
Excellency President Abdou Diouf - then the Chairman of
the OAU, and also in his capacity of President of the
Sixth Summit Meeting of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference - speaking from this rostrum in 1992, put
forward the idea of convening an international conference
devoted to Somalia. The General Assembly at that time
responded to the appeal by the Senegalese Head of State
by adopting a resolution to that effect that is still highly
relevant. Given the persistence of
the problem of
Somalia, which today seems more than ever likely to take
another tragic turn, it would appear that the time has
come to re-examine that initiative.
In Rwanda, a human tragedy on a virtually
unprecedented scale took place following the events of
last April.
In this connection, I should like to note that
our country has been actively involved in the search for
a solution to this conflict since 1992.
Indeed, President
Abdou Diouf, then the Chairman of the OAU, presided
over the lengthy negotiations that culminated in the
Arusha Agreements.
In addition, officers from the
Senegalese national army were part of the Group of
Neutral Military Observers of the OAU entrusted with
supervising the cease-fire, a group that was as we know
replaced in 1993, with the signature of the Arusha
Agreements, by the United Nations Assistance Mission
for Rwanda
has
participated and continues to participate.
in which Senegal
(UNAMIR),
The Organization of African Unity (OAU) has
dedicated itself to this task, and it has done so persistently
and courageously. Today, it needs the support of the whole
of the international community.
Thus, it was quite natural that on 22 June of this
year, faced with the inadmissible continuing massacre of
civilians, the Security Council adopted resolution 929
(1994), which established a multinational
force for
22
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
humanitarian purposes, and that Senegal decided to
participate in it.
With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, need we
recall that this is a United Nations Member State to whose
territorial
integrity and sovereignty the international
community is committed. This places full responsibility on
the community of nations, gathered together here, to settle
the conflict after identifying the aggressor.
However, it is as though the Bosnian Serbs had been
actually authorized to defy with impunity and in an ongoing
fashion the expressed will of the international community.
The attacks against the personnel of the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR), the repeated violations of
security zones,
the rejection of the latest peace plan
proposed by the Contact Group of five Western countries,
are all part of a pattern of confrontation with which the
international community must finally deal, firmly and with
determination.
In this connection, we believe that the adoption on 23
September 1994 of Security Council resolution 943 (1994),
which suspended the economic sanctions against the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), is not
only premature but untimely, given the deterioration in the
situation.
that
should be,
the sanctions
It is our opinion, one shared by the majority of States
here present,
if not
strengthened, at least maintained until favourable conditions
have been created - that is, the establishment of an effective
system of international monitoring of the border between
Serbia and Montenegro, on the one hand, and the territories
occupied by the Bosnian Serbs, on the other; the lifting of
the siege of Sarajevo;
the sincere commitment by the
Bosnian Serbs to cooperate in reaching a comprehensive
political settlement of the crisis;
the lifting, where the
Bosnian Government is concerned, of the arms embargo
imposed by Security Council resolution 713 (1991) in order
to restore to Bosnia and Herzegovina the means for its self-
defence as set forth in Article 51 of the United Nations
Charter.
It is also important that the international community
dedicate itself
to the reconstruction of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, a country that is today being battered and
devastated by blatant aggression.
In our view, those measures represent the minimum
we should expect from the international community in order
to give credibility to the peace process being pursued in
7th meeting
27 September 1994
Bosnia and Herzegovina. On this delicate issue, Senegal,
whose Head of State is also the current President of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference, will continue to
act within the framework of international law to ensure
that
finally reconciled among
themselves, may know lasting peace based on an equality
of rights and duties among its various components.
the Bosnian people,
Today,
The economic problems today are of such a
magnitude that a new concept of world security has been
generated.
the feeling of insecurity
emanates more often from the vicissitudes of daily life
than from any fear of global cataclysm. That is the
conclusion reached in this year’s report by the United
Nations Development Programme on human development.
indeed,
Job security, health security and environmental
security are the forms that the global problem of security
takes today.
This development naturally raises the
question of the definition of a new "social pact", which
must give further priority to human solidarity - solidarity
among the communities of men - and it demonstrates the
great importance that Senegal attaches to the Summit on
social development that is to be held in Copenhagen next
March. On that occasion we shall have to restructure our
thinking about development, and it will be necessary to
highlight better the human aspect of development based
on greater international solidarity.
It was in this spirit that, here on 30 September 1992,
Senegal’s Head of State proposed to the international
community the conclusion of a general agreement on
solidarity - a gentlemen’s agreement on solidarity.
It is
a positive thing that this proposal has been largely taken
on board in the United Nations Secretary-General’s
outline, Agenda for Development, which is designed to
promote a genuine culture of development that will take
into account all aspects of the human condition.
For the same reasons Senegal welcomes warmly the
reforms of United Nations bodies that are under way - in
particular, those bodies that are responsible for questions
of economic and social development.
We favour the formula "Trade, not aid", which has
often been used to indicate that global
trade is the
genuine driving force for economic progress - more so
It is beneficial that, along
than aid for development.
these lines, on 15 April
last,
in Marrakesh in the
Kingdom of Morocco, the representatives of 126 countries
signed the agreement
that created the World Trade
Organization (WTO).
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We hope that the birth of the WTO represents the
completion of the structure that was conceived half a
century ago in Bretton Woods as international trade has
been raised to the same status as monetary policy and
finance for development. Thus, the Marrakesh Final Act
opens the way for a new dynamic of concerted action, of
consultation and solidarity, that will finally allow for the
promotion of a more just and more balanced system
designed to govern international trade.
If it is to do so, its practical application will have to
involve integration of the specific needs and specific
problems of the group of developing countries - such as
greater justice in the definition and application of new
machinery designed to govern international trade; regional
economic integration; immigration policies; professional
training; job creation; and the transfer of technologies to
meet the needs and aspirations of the countries of the
South.
In this regard, I must mention an event of great
importance: the adoption, in Paris on 18 June 1994, of the
International Convention to Combat Desertification in
Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or
Desertification, Particularly in Africa. Many of us here
represent those countries.
This is the outcome, in terms of action, of one of the
major recommendations to emerge from the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development. As an
initiator of the Convention, our continent - Africa - cannot
but welcome the conclusion of this multilateral
legal
instrument, which recognizes the existence of such a
worrying environmental problem.
It is desirable that there should be available to this
Convention, as to others of the same type, sufficient
financial resources to enable it to halt and reverse the
process of desertification, which is a real scourge for the
African continent.
The changes of considerable scope that have taken
place on the world stage over the past few years confront
the United Nations with new challenges and new missions.
For example, how can the Organization deal with identity
claims, domestic difficulties and civil wars while respecting
the principle of the sovereignty of States, which is the
cornerstone of the San Francisco Charter?
7th meeting
27 September 1994
conflicts that prevail in the former Yugoslavia, Angola,
Somalia and Rwanda? What barriers can be erected
against terrorism and civil war in order to cope with the
fragmentation of State entities, which are factors for
peace?
In these difficult areas, as in others, our
Organization will have to demonstrate its ability to
engage in innovation and adaptation.
The establishment of an international Tribunal to
deal with war crimes in the former Yugoslavia; the plan
to set up an international criminal court; the deliberation,
begun last year, on reform of the Security Council and on
better implementation of Chapter VIII of the Charter -
these all demonstrate that
the United Nations has
committed itself firmly to that course.
As regards the Security Council in particular, the
is envisaged should be carried out with
reform that
concern simultaneously for efficiency in the functioning
of this body and for real representativeness in keeping
with the new realities of the world.
level
The changes that have taken place in the world
during the last few years have as their essence the
fundamental aspiration of peoples to freedom, justice and
development in a spirit of human solidarity.
If it is to
last, the wind of democratization that they have created at
the national
the
international level. Indeed, we must all ensure the equal
participation of all States in the establishment of new
norms that can give international
life a more solid
foundation and provide better security for all.
Such
security can be founded only on shared confidence in the
principles that govern our collective contribution to a
better future for the world - to the salvation of mankind.
requires parallel action at
Therefore, on the eve of the celebration of the
fiftieth anniversary of our Organization, let us, hand in
hand in a spirit of friendship and solidarity, behave in
such a way that the new era will shine with the radiance
of justice, peace and solidarity so that we may bequeath
to future generations a world of peace,
justice and
friendship.
The President:
I now call on the Deputy Prime
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of
New Zealand, His Excellency Mr. Donald Charles
McKinnon.
In what way can it - must it - react when individuals
and groups perpetrate all types of serious violations of
fundamental human rights, as happens in the case of the
Mr. McKinnon (New Zealand): I should like, first,
to congratulate Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his
the General
well-deserved election as President of
24
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Assembly at its forty-ninth session and to convey to him
our good wishes for every success in his work.
The general debate is our chance, as Members of the
United Nations, to undertake together an annual review of
the Organization’s work - its successes and its failures -
and to identify collectively the issues we want to focus on.
With the fiftieth anniversary next year, there is a pressing
need to do so. That will be the occasion to chart our new
priorities for the twenty-first century.
Our responses to some of today’s challenges and
tragedies
often
under-reported to woefully inadequate and, consequently,
defiantly reported.
from excellent
ranged
have
but
The peoples of the world want to believe in the United
If, however, within
Nations and what it should achieve.
some parts of the Organization we are bereft of purpose
and intentions this golden anniversary threatens to be less
joyous and more muted than many of us anticipated.
Prince Sisowath Sirirath (Cambodia), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
New Zealand has a strong vested interest in the United
Nations success, as do most small States.
The New
Zealand people have always believed in the United Nations,
in a collective approach to the resolution of global and
regional problems. This has been demonstrated by strong
support for the United Nations by successive Governments.
From our experience of - and I do not hesitate to say
this - a turbulent two years on the Security Council and as
a committed founder Member of the Organization, I would
like to take this opportunity to offer some observations
about the problems we see as players in the collective
decision-making process.
When New Zealand took part in the founding of the
United Nations we and many others saw our primary
purpose as providing for a system of collective security.
Until very recently that was little more than a vision. With
the end of the confrontation between two super-Power
blocs, the goal of "the organized common peace", of which
President Woodrow Wilson spoke so eloquently three
generations ago, presents itself. We must not let it slip
from our grasp this time. It will, however, take real effort
and real determination.
Collective security, or working together,
the
cornerstone of the security of small States. Today they are
is
7th meeting
27 September 1994
the overwhelming majority of the membership of this
Organization. New Zealanders recognize that peace is
indivisible, that remoteness is certainly no safeguard: a
problem in any part of the world can ripple to the Earth’s
farthest corners. While we are the country probably most
distant from the Balkans conflict, we have sent an
enhanced company of soldiers to help in efforts to ease
suffering and, I earnestly hope with the will of the parties
involved, one day bring peace throughout the former
Yugoslavia.
For the same reasons, our defence personnel can be
found engaged in peace-support operations in Africa, the
Middle East, Asia and most recently Haiti. And there are
New Zealand nurses, firefighters and aid workers spread
around the globe in support.
Against this backdrop, however, New Zealanders are
puzzled at times by the way in which the United Nations
carries out some of its important tasks. In Bosnia, despite
the employment of what is by any standards a large, well-
armed and well-trained force, people see on their
television screens nightly the frustration of the United
Nations Protection Force by small groups of irregulars, a
single policeman or even small groups of non-combatants.
In Haiti they witnessed a boat full of Blue Berets turned
away
thugs
of
unconvincingly called "attachés".
pistol-toting
group
small
by
a
And what can one say about the appalling tragedy in
Rwanda? How can so much hatred have been unleashed
so viciously, killing hundreds of thousands? What we
watched with horror on our
television screens was
destruction on a scale we thought only megaton bombs
were capable of. The systematic slaughter of men,
women and children simply because of their ethnic origin
leaves us all outraged.
There are no easy answers. But the first key to
unlocking the possibilities for a genuine collective
security must be the proper application of the United
Nations Charter. We have to decide at exactly what point
the United Nations
involved in the
peacemaking operation. Do we recognize a problem, and,
if we do, is the preventive diplomacy that we so firmly
believe in occurring?
should get
In my view, we have to follow the intention of the
Charter. First, at the outset of a crisis, or even the signs
of a crisis, we have to make more serious efforts through
that preventive diplomacy to resolve problems and
conflicts by negotiation. Efforts must be made at an early
25
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
stage to address the root causes of conflicts by the Security
Council’s exercising all its responsibilities under Chapter VI
of the Charter.
However, on some occasions, in these days of modern
media technology, we face the dilemma caused by the
divergence between what the public perceives as happening
and what is the reality. Extensive media coverage puts
pressure on for immediate response.
In the case of
Rwanda, that was appropriate. In other circumstances, the
media oversimplify and ignore the fact that conditions on
the ground are chaotic and United Nations resources are
over-stretched.
A second area where the Charter could be more
carefully applied is when disputes are first placed before
the Council.
I believe it should give affected States an
adequate hearing before addressing the problem behind
closed doors. Our experience on the Security Council
suggests the investment in openness that would be achieved
by developing a practice of collectively hearing directly
from the parties involved would be worthwhile, even if it
were done only informally.
In the same vein, the Charter specifically contemplates
troop-contributing
the involvement, without vote, of
countries in significant decisions. New Zealand has pressed
this issue for some time, but so far with limited success.
The time is coming, in fact, when the General Assembly
will have to address the question if the Security Council
does not respond adequately to the concerns that have been
raised.
Under the Charter, much is expected of the Council’s
permanent members. There is no doubt that they can and
do contribute greatly to the work of the United Nations.
Leadership and sacrifices by the large Powers were, for
example,
challenging
aggression against the small State of Kuwait three-and-a-
half years ago.
instrumental
successfully
in
I emphasize again, however, the importance of the
collective nature of decision-making in the Security
Council. Making distinctions between the views of the
"P5" and the rest is not really healthy. The Council is a
team of 15.
It must work together, and by that I mean
giving full weight to the views of all its members. The
strength of the Security Council is enhanced each year by
the vigorous enthusiasm brought by new members on 1
January,
testing what may have become an accepted
second-best.
26
7th meeting
27 September 1994
I would remind the Assembly that
the Charter
clearly envisages that the norm for operations to maintain
international peace and security will be United Nations
operations. National operations are not ruled out, of
course. I wish therefore to highlight and question recent
trends toward coalitions under national command, and the
implications for the collective security needs of small and
distant countries where no strategic interest is involved.
However, the Security Council will be judged on its
effectiveness.
Successes, hopefully, will outweigh
failures, but we all have an obligation to improve the
success rate. I am an enthusiastic supporter of improving
our success rate, but much of that will come down to the
way in which issues are managed. And it is that question
of the management of issues that I wish to address.
In our experience, the key is to use management
tools based on proven modern public- and private-sector
experience. This is very valuable. What are these tools?
And how do we apply them to the conduct of peace-
keeping operations?
system;
thirdly,
a
secondly,
sustainable
political
financial
accountability;
I would suggest that there are six critical elements:
a
first,
clear
transparent
objectives that incorporate regular reviews; fourthly, a
clear, unambiguous command and control structure;
fifthly, a credible legal regime that guarantees the security
of United Nations personnel; and, sixthly, the availability
of resources so that objectives can be met quickly and
efficiently.
Let me go back to that first point, a sustainable
financial system. There is no doubt that the Organization
is facing a financial crisis that cannot be ignored. We
have had serious problems with reserves and we have
significant debt to contributing countries.
The largest
contributor has indicated that it will unilaterally reduce its
share of funding from October next year. The situation
is not sustainable.
It requires urgent action.
Why do we have this crisis? There are some simple
answers. Some members cannot pay; others will not pay;
and some are arguing the legitimacy of their assessment.
The General Assembly, this body, must confront this
issue. The United Nations must stop extending credit to
non-payers.
There is enough evidence emerging to
suggest that there may be serious inequities in the present
system.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Some countries with extraordinarily strong growth
over the past 5 to 10 years appear in the revised scale
issued by the Committee on Contributions with a constant
or even reduced contribution level. That is not acceptable.
It must be remedied.
We do not want a hollow celebration on the fiftieth
anniversary with a
the
Organization. We must make a commitment to resolve this
crisis before the conclusion of the forty-ninth session.
cash crisis hanging over
The next point is the need for political accountability.
There is in my view a parallel priority to develop and
improve the Organization’s capacity for undertaking its
collective security responsibilities. To do that we need to
put in place more transparent procedures throughout the
Organization.
peace-keeping
operations is allocated to the Secretariat. This is necessary
and appropriate in the same way any Government delegates
responsibility for a complex operation to its public service.
The management
of
for
the management
However, and I speak as a politician and as a Minister
responsible
and oversight of
Government departments, the days are long gone when a
public service mandarin could run a department or major
operation without detailed political oversight. This is not
a promotion of micro-management, nor am I implying any
criticism of the Secretariat staff. But as any politician
holding executive office in today’s democracies knows, the
classic recipe for a failed project is for those who are
politically accountable to lose track of implementation or to
lose the game plan.
We saw that all
too clearly in the past year in
Somalia. Ironically, the Security Council had, in resolution
814 (1993), already foreseen the need in the case of the
United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) for a
detailed political accountability and provided for a
committee to follow the operation closely.
the
committee was never established.
But
New Zealand has proposed in the Security Council
that a committee or an ad hoc working group should be
established to fill this gap and enhance the accountability of
the Organization
responsible
representatives.
I certainly remain hopeful that progress
can be made in this area.
politically
to
its
The third point I draw to the attention of members is
the need for clear objectives with regular reviews. Clearer
mission objectives must be developed and kept under
review. I am delighted that some progress has in fact been
7th meeting
27 September 1994
made. The Council is now identifying more closely the
terms of mandates for United Nations operations, and it
is becoming usual to build a specific review cycle into its
mandates. But there are still two areas of weakness.
First, there is a great deal of mythology about and
very little sound analysis of the circumstances in which
force should be used by United Nations operations. Many
believe this is governed by the use or non-use of the
words "Chapter VII".
This could well be a false
conclusion. The rules of engagement rather than abstract
reference to the Charter are much more likely to
determine actual behaviour in the field.
I am not alone in believing that there is a need to
develop greater commonality in military doctrine for
United Nations peace-keeping operations.
is
especially relevant when so many peace-keeping
contributors are regularly placed side by side in the field.
It is, however, particularly urgent in the face of new-style
operations of the intra-country type where the use of force
by factions, not necessarily Governments, is the challenge
for this body to overcome.
This
It is clear that common principles are necessary to
guide peace-keepers on the appropriate use of force when
they take part in operations in pursuit of an agreed United
Nations strategic objective. As for the review, while
there are plenty of mid-term reviews there is, as yet, no
systematic process of review at the end of an operation.
The budget of every peace-keeping operation should
include provision, as a principal
the
preparation of a comprehensive review of the operation’s
achievements relative to the mandate set.
line item,
for
Such reviews should be separate from the financial
performance review and should address the substance of
the operation and seek to identify all relevant lessons for
the conduct of future operations.
I address now the question of command and control.
There is a weakness in the command and control
structures and they do need attention.
It is true the
personnel of national defence forces which contribute
forces to the United Nations legally remain in their
country’s national service. But as I see it, parallel to the
allocation of responsibility to the United Nations Force
Commander must be a recognition that
the national
command structure will not seek to direct their forces in
operational matters.
If the national command authority
has serious difficulties, then the appropriate course of
action in all cases - except an emergency - is for the issue
27
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to be resolved with United Nations Headquarters.
resolution is not possible the unit should be withdrawn.
If
I come to the question of the safety of peace-keeping
personnel. A major requirement for effective collective
security is that countries contributing troops and civilian
personnel should have confidence that their personnel in the
field will have the best possible support to ensure their
safety and security. That is an issue which, as many
members know, New Zealand has pursued relentlessly
during its time on the Council.
It bears on the level of
equipment with which the forces are outfitted and there is
plenty of room for improvement.
In addition,
the legal regime under which peace-
keeping operations are conducted needs to reflect
the
extraordinary personal risk which United Nations personnel
are undertaking on behalf of us all in carrying out collective
security operations.
It is right that such personnel should
be differentiated from soldiers in an armed conflict and that
there should be a higher standard of legal responsibility for
anybody who attacks them.
I urge all members of the
Assembly to support New Zealand’s initiative on this issue
currently in the Sixth Committee,
the necessary
flexibility be shown on outstanding issues and that we make
a really determined effort to complete work on the draft
convention this year.
that
The question of resources is always before us. In my
sixth point I would say that a critical tool for effective
collective security is a strategy for resource availability.
The situation we all saw recently in Rwanda is a classic
case. Human resources were available but they lacked
training and they lacked equipment. But there is also the
need for a capacity in all peace-keeping operations for a
forceful response in self-defence. There are important
lessons to be learned from the troop losses in Rwanda last
April and again I draw attention to the linkage between
mandates, rules of engagement, doctrine and planning.
The United Nations will have to go beyond the current
work being done on stand-by forces to address this
problem.
We believe that
there is a case for redirecting a
substantial portion of bilateral military assistance into forms
of training that would better assist defence forces with the
requirements of peace-keeping operations.
There is also a role for the United Nations maintaining
the physical equivalent of the peace-keeping reserve fund
that it is supposed to have on the financial side now. A
28
7th meeting
27 September 1994
quick start-up capability, with owned or leased equipment
immediately available to the United Nations, would have
made a significant difference in the Rwanda situation.
This is a practical and feasible step that can be taken to
ensure that future collective security can in fact rise to the
challenge.
I have spoken about the factors that need to be taken
I
into account in managing peace-keeping operations.
now wish to address the terms of their engagements.
The United Nations should not be expected to take
responsibility for a situation of up to 30 years because the
parties to a conflict are unable or unwilling to summon up
the necessary political will to reach a settlement. There
comes a point when the parties must take their fate in
their own hands rather than the Council avoiding the hard
decisions just by rolling over the mandates.
At the same time, a range of different considerations
should prevail when the United Nations reaches the end
of a successful peace-keeping process.
The United
Nations cannot simply walk away when a perceived end
point - such as an election - has been achieved, because
there may still be outstanding issues that need the
ongoing support of the operation, such as humanitarian
operations or local capability-building programmes to help
provide the required sound administration.
The United Nations deserves congratulations on its
achievements in Cambodia, for example, but the future
there is still not certain, and the United Nations must
maintain its responsibilities. Rehabilitation in that country
must continue.
of
a
Another
example
situation
in which
peacemaking and peace-building have to be seen as a
coherent whole is in the area of demining. This is a
critically important humanitarian function.
New
Zealand’s military forces have had a lot of experience in
helping the United Nations with demining in Afghanistan,
Cambodia and, most recently, Mozambique.
that
The
Security Council Mission
visited
Mozambique about two months ago reported its dismay
at the delays and at the state of the programme generally.
At
the request of the United Nations, New Zealand
stepped in early in August and began the rescue effort for
the programme. The wheel should not have had to be
reinvented.
It is a concern that lessons learned from
earlier operations such as Afghanistan and Cambodia do
not appear to be retained. Having seen firsthand the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
effects of mines in Cambodia, I do believe we should move
more
the present
performance.
expeditiously than the
speed of
New Zealand certainly looks forward to working with
other delegations to improve performance in this area, and
I would certainly add that my Government was most
interested in the comments President Clinton made here
yesterday about the proposal for the elimination of the
world’s 85 million anti-personnel land-mines. This is an
urgent task. No one who has seen firsthand the human cost
of mines can offer anything less than full cooperation to
this end.
Finally, when we look ahead to what would really
enhance proper use of the collective security powers, we
have to conclude that reform of the Security Council is a
major task waiting to be fulfilled. Many of the things I
have discussed today require reforms by the Security
Council, or at least in conjunction with it. But I cannot
escape the conclusion that even if all of these were
accomplished,
the Security
Council could still erode over a period of time. Ultimately
it could lose the credibility vital to the role it carries out.
legitimacy of
the political
the Council
Collective security requires
to be
genuinely representative of
the entire United Nations
membership. We have, of course, as many others have
done, followed the debate on Security Council reform in the
Open-ended Working Group set up last year. We hear the
case made for additional permanent members. We also
hear overwhelming support for expanding the number of
non-permanent members of the Council. There are shades
of difference on the numbers for the total membership, but
consensus does seem to be emerging around five or six new
members. We consider that a limited expansion of the
number of members, paying regard to an equitable
geographical participation, is still a priority for the health
of the Organization. It is time to do what is achievable and
what benefits most Members. Given the need for 122
ratifications, we are aware that even a simple expansion,
hopefully adopted next year, will take several years to come
into force.
It would not be unrealistic, therefore, for the
year 2000 to see the first meeting of the expanded Council.
There is no worth in being critical of some aspects of
the United Nations without believing, as I do, that the
problems can be cured. We, all 184 of us, are its doctors,
and we need to act quickly. We need to apportion our
costs fairly and systematically. We need to share peace-
keeping tasks, peace-keeping funding and peace-keeping
supplies. We need to accept the democratic decisions of
7th meeting
27 September 1994
this Organization. We also need to adjust to the more
complex and interrelated United Nations agendas of the
future.
I therefore leave with the Assembly New Zealand’s
assurance of a renewed commitment to this unique and
essential body and of our willingness to work in that
spirit to ensure the continued relevance of the United
Nations for the next half-century.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation
of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, His Excellency Mr.
Mohamed Salem Ould Lekhal.
Mr. Ould Lekhal (Mauritania) (interpretation from
Arabic): First of all, I should like to extend to you, Sir,
on behalf of my delegation, my warmest congratulations
on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the
forty-ninth session of the General Assembly.
We are convinced that your outstanding skills and
your vast experience will guarantee the success of this
session. Your country,
republic of Côte
d’Ivoire, has always played an effective and moderating
role in the search for peace in Africa and throughout the
world.
the sister
I should like also to express my most sincere
congratulations to your predecessor, Ambassador Samuel
Insanally of Guyana, for the competence and skill with
which he led the work of the previous session.
I should like also to express, on behalf of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, our admiration of and
support
the unremitting efforts of Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
aimed at enabling our Organization to achieve its goals.
for
faced with
community is
Our current session takes place at a time when the
international
numerous
challenges. These include a constant deterioration in the
terms of trade, the growing disparity between rich and
poor countries, and an increase in hotbeds of tension. In
addition, many people in the poor countries are being
crushed under a debt burden that is constantly getting
heavier, with, as a consequence, gloomy prospects for the
socio-economic development of the peoples of those
countries.
Instead of the hoped-for prosperity, what we are
witnessing today are bloody conflicts which are ravaging
29
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
entire countries with all their attendant miseries and forms
of destruction.
Such nefarious developments not only
undermine all the hard-won achievements of the people of
those countries, but also afflict them with new types of
suffering and make them lose any hope they may have had
in enjoying a life of dignity, stability and progress.
The international economic situation continues to be
cause for concern for a large number of developing
countries that
the negative impacts of structural
adjustment programmes, which focus on macroeconomic
equilibriums and display a marked degree of
such
indifference to the social cost of such adjustments.
feel
It should be emphasized that of the 55 countries which
have implemented those programmes during the 1980-1989
period, only 7 have been able to improve their economic
situation. During that same decade, a downward trend in
per capita income was noted in 29 countries, while in 13
other countries there has been a real deterioration of social
conditions.
These crisis elements have been compounded by
stagnation and the reduction in public development
assistance, despite the fact that the .7 per cent objective was
supposed to contribute to the creation of better conditions.
It is regrettable to note that the deterioration in the
economic situation is of such a nature that it may well have
a negative effect on the implementation of international
conventions and programmes, notably those which relate to
the environment, the programme of action for children, and
the programme of action for
the advancement and
protection of human rights. Furthermore such deterioration
will have an adverse effect on the chances for the success
of other ongoing negotiations which aim at
finding
solutions to problems that
threaten the prosperity of
humankind as a whole.
As a matter of fact,
the negative effects of the
economic crisis are too numerous to enumerate and
unfortunately, it is the most vulnerable sectors of society,
such as women, children and the poor that bear the full
brunt of the situation. If in our time unemployment and a
high crime rate are widespread phenomena, countries with
limited resources are apt to be more exposed to their effects
than others. The need to devise a preventive approach
which would make it possible to face up to these social ills
is thus becoming all the more urgent.
In this regard, we welcome the forthcoming World
Summit for Social Development, in Copenhagen, and hope
30
7th meeting
27 September 1994
in initiatives that will enable
the summit will result
developing countries to make significant advances in their
development.
It has become quite clear that development is the
real guarantor of world peace and that the miserable
living conditions of the overwhelming majority of the
inhabitants of our planet make it impossible to achieve
peace and stability in our world.
Thus we place a great deal of hope in the Secretary-
General’s proposed Agenda for Development. Such a
document would deserve our appreciation and should
obtain widespread support in order for it to become a true
tool
in promoting economic and social development
everywhere.
The fragility of the world economic situation should
not obscure the successes achieved in several areas of
international relations.
consultations which
In this context, we welcome the success of the
Secretary-General’s
at
resolving the problems posed to certain countries by
Chapter XI of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea, whose coming into force as of 16
November 1994, will mark the beginning of a decisive
phase in its evolution.
aimed
Our country considers that
the United Nations
Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks should lead to strict and global
resolutions that would put an end to the plundering of
fishing resources as well as to the anarchy that currently
prevails in the seas.
The Islamic Republic of Mauritania has, along with
countries threatened by the phenomenon of desertification,
made major efforts to conclude a world convention to
fight drought and desertification, especially in Africa.
While we welcome the positive outcome of
those
negotiations, we do express the hope that the convention
will be the start of positive action on the part of the
international community in favour of those countries
which have suffered the most.
All the results achieved thanks to the efforts of the
United Nations highlight the focal and vital role with
which our Organization is entrusted and attest
to its
universality.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
There is no doubt, however, that a reform of the
structures and procedures of the Organization is now
necessary. The decisions already taken to revitalize the
Economic and Social Council will be no more than a dead
letter so long as they are not accompanied by the allocation
of resources that would make it possible to implement the
development programmes.
We should always bear in mind the fact
that all
conflicts and all the resultant peace-keeping operations,
which mobilize such vast financial resources, have as their
main cause the deterioration of the economic and social
conditions of the countries concerned.
A rapid overview of our globe and the areas of tension
is enough to prove that underdevelopment and the problems
it causes only fuel such tensions.
Advances in the area of democracy and human rights
to be sure,
important achievements the
are,
international community has seen in recent times.
the most
While we commend the progress achieved in these two
areas, we must not lose sight of the fact that democracy
cannot be confined to the national frameworks of individual
States, but should embrace also international relations
among nations.
This is the reason why we support efforts to expand
representation within the Security Council by increasing its
membership. We hope that such reform will take place in
line with the tenets of democratic transparency.
Whatever the final formula adopted for the new
configuration of the Security Council might be, we believe
it will be necessary to respect the principle of the co-
equality of Member States, and the fact that, according to
Article 24 of the Charter, the Security Council acts on
behalf of those Member States, and must, therefore, reflect
the views and aspirations of the international community in
its entirety.
of
democratic
institutions
The democratic process which was launched in 1986
in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania through the
establishment
the
organization of presidential and parliamentary elections in
1992, has been consolidated further with the organization
of elections for municipal councils and for one third of the
senate seats. Those elections, which have elicited extensive
participation on the part of voters, have been covered
extensively by the independent national press, following
and
7th meeting
27 September 1994
electoral campaigns by several political parties which
represent various trends of opinion.
Thus the Mauritanian people are daily consolidating
the foundations of their young democracy, which in the
words of the President of the Republic, His Excellency
Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya, is the mainspring
"of all sovereignty and legality".
It
is in this democratic environment
the
Mauritanian people are waging a determined struggle
against
social
underdevelopment.
economic
various
aspects
of
that
and
We should highlight the important gains made by
our country through the implementation, in 1984, of a
series of economic reforms, as well as the political
stability, freedom, justice and equality now enjoyed by all
Mauritanian citizens.
We should also voice the pride of the Islamic
the few
Republic of Mauritania at being one of
developing countries where there have been no political
prisoners, and where freedom of the press, a multi-party
system, and freedom of
trade unions have become
realities similar to those which States that value the rule
of
the countries with longstanding
democratic traditions, pride themselves on.
such as
law,
The quest for peace will continue to be our main
concern so that we may rise to the challenges of the end
of this century. The end of the cold war has opened up
new vistas for the emergence of a better world where
justice and peace may prevail. Yet the increasing number
of hotbeds of tension which require the organization of
peace-keeping operations leads us to believe that a new
style of diplomacy is becoming a must if we are to
prevent the recurrence of human tragedies similar to those
which were witnessed in the past or those which we now
experience and are unable to stop or to resolve.
Our country hopes that
the recent developments
which have been taking place in the Middle East will
constitute the beginnings of a solution to the tragedy of
the Palestinian people and that, at last, they will be able
to exercise their
to establish an
independent State. We believe that the Declaration of
Principles of 13 September 1993, giving autonomy to
Gaza - which was followed up by the Cairo agreement of
4 May 1994 and most recently, on 25 July 1994, the
meeting between His Majesty King Hussein of Jordan and
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin - will usher in a
legitimate right
31
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
new era. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania hopes this
initial success will lead to a just, comprehensive and lasting
peace based on the implementation of Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973).
The United Nations should continue to support peace
efforts in the Middle East until such time as a final
settlement of the problems still pending in the region is
reached.
In this connection, we hope the commitment
undertaken by donors at their meeting on 1 October 1993
will be translated into concrete action that would revitalize
the economy of Palestine and help solve its economic and
social problems.
its total
In that sensitive region, the after-effects of the Gulf
war continue to make themselves felt.
The Islamic
Republic of Mauritania, which has always affirmed its
unswerving support for international legality, has made
clear
fraternal
Kuwait’s independence or territorial integrity or of the
rights of its citizens, just as it stands against anything that
might undermine Iraq’s unity or territorial integrity. The
time has come to put an end to the suffering of the Iraqi
people.
rejection of any violation of
In the same sensitive region, my country wishes to
renew its unflagging and total support for the recovery by
the fraternal State of the United Arab Emirates of its
legitimate rights over the islands of Lesser Tumb, Greater
Tumb and Abu Moussa.
With regard to the Arab Maghreb, we still hope the
United Nations will be able to eliminate the obstacles which
continue to impede the resolution to the Sahara problem.
My country will spare no effort in helping the Organization
in the implementation of resolutions relevant to this issue.
Our determination stems from our desire to reach a just and
lasting solution and to strengthen the process of building a
united Arab Maghreb.
We also hope the embargo imposed on the Libyan
people will be lifted. We are aware that the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya has shown tangible proof of its readiness to
cooperate with the United Nations and other groups and
that
the embargo is affecting the interests of all other
peoples in the Maghreb.
7th meeting
27 September 1994
million people in the space of a few weeks, is one of the
most horrible ordeals of our era.
In this connection, I
must commend the excellent organization of Operation
Turquoise, which has been led and meticulously executed
by France within the allotted time-frames. The operation
was a model of proper and disinterested humanitarian
intervention. My country took part
in that noble
humanitarian action that saved tens of thousands of
human lives and provided our Rwandan brethren with an
opportunity to work together to find a solution to their
problem. We hope such international efforts will enable
those brethren to heal their wounds and work towards the
establishment of national unity and the rebuilding of their
country.
Unfortunately, Rwanda is not
the only place in
is causing fratricidal
Africa where an armed conflict
In Somalia, Liberia and Angola, civil wars
strife.
continues to rage, despite the tireless efforts of the United
Nations and the Organization of African Unity to restore
peace and concord in place of hatred and war between
brothers. We hope the citizens of those countries will
heed the voice of reason and will agree to safeguard their
interests and the right of their peoples to enjoy peace and
security. This objective can be achieved only through
responsible and constructive dialogue. Experience has
shown that the language of arms cannot lead to valid
solutions.
In Mozambique we are following with special
interest the various steps expected to lead to the holding
of elections on the 27th and 28th of October 1994. We
hope those elections will embody the spirit of the peace
agreement concluded in October 1992 and that they will
be conducted under proper conditions of peace and
concord.
The human tragedies that have beset the African
continent should not blind us to the positive events that
have taken place, such as the triumph of democracy in
South Africa under the presidency of Nelson Mandela and
the settlement of the conflict between Libya and Chad.
We welcome the representatives of South Africa. Their
presence here among us, representing as it does the
culmination of a decades-long struggle by all African
peoples, is a source of pride and happiness.
With regard to Africa, I should like to express my
country’s satisfaction with the peace-keeping operations
approved by the United Nations with the aim of putting an
end to the bloody confrontations in parts of that continent.
The Rwandan tragedy, marked by the death of half a
On the European continent, which appears to all as
the most fertile ground for democracy and respect for
human rights, the outright aggression by the Serbs against
the Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a clear affront
to the human conscience. The efforts of the international
32
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
community over two long years have failed to put an end
to the Serbian aggression, which has clearly taken the form
of "ethnic cleansing" vis-à-vis the Muslims. No serious
military effort has been made yet to put an end to the
suffering of the inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
who continue to suffer under the embargo that denies them
the arms needed for self-defence.
Indeed, it is high time
the United Nations discharged its full responsibilities under
the Charter and used all necessary means, including armed
force, to put an end to that terrible tragedy in line with the
principles
the Organization’s
responsibility to maintain peace.
the Charter
and
of
In 1995 we will be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary
of our Organization. That commemoration should make it
possible for us to take stock of the progress made over half
a century and to devise better plans and programmes to
deal with future problems. Two other events of major
importance will take place in the same year and will have
to do with the search for solutions to major problems which
are still pending:
for Social
Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women
in Beijing. We hope the results of those two meetings will
coalesce with the outcome of the negotiations which aim at
reforming the Security Council so that the Organization will
be equipped with the necessary structures that would enable
it to deal with the challenges of the twenty-first century.
the World Summit
Today more than ever, the peoples of the world are
making the United Nations the repository of all their hopes,
and the Organization must ensure the maintenance of peace
and promote cooperation for development at one and the
same time. By so doing our Organization would crystallize
humanity’s aspirations to a world of peace and stability and
would then become a true crucible where all nations joined
their efforts to bring forth an era of freedom, democracy
and respect for human rights.
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lebanon, His
Excellency Mr. Fares Boueiz.
Mr. Boueiz (Lebanon) (interpretation from Arabic):
We are gathered here today,
in a new session of the
General Assembly, in a new year in the life of the United
Nations, one that will take us to the end of the first half
century of its existence, which we shall celebrate next year.
Half a century will have passed since the birth of a
great dream, a dream that humanity envisaged as an
endeavor
solidarity,
rapprochement, and dialogue amongst peoples of different
reconciliation,
peace,
for
7th meeting
27 September 1994
ethnic origins and cultures across continents, a dialogue
amongst nations, States, ideologies, religions, and creeds
of this world, with all its differences and singularities.
Through this great dream, humanity wanted to create
an arbiter, a referee on right, justice, and peace, and a
forum in which it could discuss its problems and seek
arbitration; in which it could find a way to defend rights
when rights are denied, to defend itself when injustice
prevails, and a champion that would stand by its side
when it is threatened.
Through this dream, mankind sought to put an end
to wars and armed conflicts, to protect the sovereignty of
nations, and to guarantee respect for their independence
and free choice.
Thus, the United Nations came into existence.
The United Nations was born; and along with it, a
great project emerged - one that was expected to
contribute to the solution of the world’s crises. Alongside
the Organization, its political, security, social, economic,
and cultural organs were set up. The peoples of the
world expected a lot from those organs, and treated them
accordingly, with a deference commensurate with their
standing.
The will of this prestigious world body, which
represents the position, the decision, and the will of the
world’s peoples, is more comprehensive than the will of
any individual State, no matter how great and powerful it
may be. The peoples of the world looked up to it and
accorded it the respect normally granted to the defenders
of right and justice. Right and justice supersede political
interests, no matter how strong they may be.
How far away are we today from this dream, from
this great endeavour, from all those intentions, slogans,
ambitions, aspirations, ideals and prospects?
Where is peace in the world, when battlefronts are
widespread? What have we done about the resolution of
conflicts while conflicts escalate? What about
the
elimination of violence which is still on the ascendance?
How far away are we today from protecting what is right;
from upholding the sovereignty of nations which is still
undermined; from respecting human rights and the rights
of peoples and States which are still being trampled?
What have we done about the resolutions adopted by
this very Organization, in this very General Assembly
33
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
What
the
about
resolutions
await
Hall?
implementation, and the many others that await adoption,
and are knocking about in the labyrinths of impotence and
deals? How far away are we today from the credibility and
authority of our resolutions, from the one single standard by
which we should judge things?
that
I beg your indulgence for daring to voice these
questionings.
I beg your indulgence, because they are
voiced by a State which is not privileged to be a member
of the club of powerful nations which dare to question the
United Nations.
I beg your indulgence, because those who need the
United Nations are not the powerful and the influential.
The United Nations was not created for them.
It was
created for the oppressed, for the unjustly treated, for those
who are not powerful by any means.
The small size of States and the humble size of their
populations have never been the true yardstick by which
their role and contribution should be measured. Many
nations have had a history larger than their geography, a
role larger than their size, and a contribution far greater
than the potential of others. Lebanon is one of those
States.
We have existed for thousands of years, ever since
humanity first organized itself into entities. We have had
our political, cultural, economic,
legal, and humanistic
structures ever since.
Mr. Lopes da Rosa (Guinea-Bissau), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Side by side with its Phoenician civilization, Lebanon
embraced Pharaonic, Mesopotamian, Persian, Greek,
Roman, Arab, and Western civilizations. Our foremost
contribution was to give mankind its first alphabet. We
have also enriched it with our legal, intellectual, cultural,
economic,
humanistic
contributions.
educational
scientific,
and
We were present when the United Nations was born.
We were also present when the International Court of
Justice issued its first opinion, and we contributed to its
making. We volunteered to work in all the United Nations
organs and programmes at all levels. We shouldered our
share of responsibility by hosting some of them, and by
offering them the best of our men and intellectuals.
34
7th meeting
27 September 1994
Social and cultural pluralism was our national
hallmark.
In our composition, we were able to develop
an abridged formula for multicultural nation States. The
principle of state-building in the post-First World War era
was based on nationalities and ethnic origins. But today
in the era of communications super-highways, in the era
of ever-increasing demographic mobility, we have come
to recognize that this principle, when put to the test, has
failed.
While attempts have been made through the years to
obliterate the distinctive identities of peoples living under
certain regimes - as in the case of the Soviet Union
during the Stalin era - those identities have resurfaced, as
have the problems which resulted from the attempt at
their suppression.
If Lebanon were an almost unique case in the past,
given the pluralistic features of its society, it is no longer
so today.
The Lebanese experience has become
commonplace, as we have come to witness through the
now commonplace demographic movement of populations
and the lowering of geopolitical barriers. While our
formula has been tested, many countries are still in the
experimental stage.
With the demise of the theory of nationalism, there
is need for a new system, one that allows for the
coexistence of different cultures and identities under the
roof of one homeland, as dictated by modern economic,
technological, and practical challenges and needs.
international
Lebanon, its land and its people have had to suffer
the ravages of regional and international conflicts, the
vagaries of hurricanes of
ideological
differences and their complications. But, as ever in our
history, we have been able to prove that we have the
ability to rise to the challenges that face us and that our
formula for coexistence is much stronger than some
people may have believed, merely because it is the only
feasible and practicable one.
When Lebanon was able to overcome the wars
waged by others on its soil, armed with the will of its
people and the support of its brethren and friends; when
Lebanon enhanced its internal security and stability,
reactivated its national dialogue and tore down the
barriers between its various factions and forces; and when
Lebanon started to rebuild its institutions, rehabilitate its
infrastructures and embark upon its political and
economic endeavours,
its
it proved once again that
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
7th meeting
27 September 1994
time-honoured existence could not be wiped out and that it
was too strong to be eliminated.
cannot be deemed faithful to the true mission of the
United Nations.
But Lebanon’s full sovereignty over all its territories
and its total independence will remain compromised so long
as major parts of its soil are not under its control and so
long as the State remains unable to extend its full
sovereignty over all
through its own
legitimate national forces.
its national soil
So long as Israel occupies Lebanon’s territories,
despite repeated United Nations resolutions and the will of
the international community; so long as Lebanese citizens
are still languishing in Israeli detention camps, ignored by
the international community and out of the reach of the
humanitarian organizations that are not allowed to visit
them; so long as this continues, the wounds will not heal
and the blood shall not be stanched.
So long as that occupation continues over more than
one eighth of our national territory; so long as Israeli raids
continue to sow the land daily with bombs, mines and
booby traps - killing mainly our innocent children; so long
as these criminal acts continue against a heroic people that
refuses to surrender, the cries of our women and children
will continue to haunt the world along with our cries of
anger, revolt and resistance.
Until now, the occupation has failed to contain this
anger, regardless of the means employed. Day after day,
the death toll rises, ours and theirs. Blood flows in
Southern Lebanon and in the Beka’a Valley.
No
technological invention, no matter how ingenious, and no
technique of war have been able to undermine our people’s
determination to regain its
freedom,
sovereignty and peace.
independence,
There are over 300 Lebanese men and women still
languishing in Israeli prisons. Some have died; others have
been disabled.
In their prison cells, they hear about a
theory called "human rights", one that tops the agendas of
our meetings and forums. Theorists are preoccupied over
the rights of flora, fauna and the environment while our
prisoners wonder to which class they belong and under
which category they are classified.
So long as the international community addresses the
world’s problems by using more than one standard; so long
as Security Council resolutions remain unimplemented; and
so long as Chapter VII of the Charter is applied selectively
to troublemakers who lack any kind of protection, we
We have waited so long for
the international
community to show some real interest. We have also
waited impatiently for the implementation of Security
Council resolution 425 (1978), only to see the Council
than
refrain from condemning the aggression rather
enforce its resolutions. When it does condemn,
the
condemnation applies equally to the aggressor and the
aggressed under the pretext of supporting the peace
process.
We were invited to the Madrid Peace Conference.
We were optimistic about the invitation, the content and
the sponsorship. The co-sponsors were super-Powers and
the Conference was to be convened on the basis of a just,
comprehensive and lasting peace, anchored in the
principle of "land for peace" and on the basis of Security
Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425
(1978) respectively. We accepted advice to join in that
mechanism. By accepting the invitation, we accepted the
content. We were expected to discuss mechanisms and
schedules.
Three years have passed since the convening of the
Madrid Conference. Months followed upon each other’s
heels in waiting,
for parliamentary
elections, for presidential elections, for the appropriate
moment on the local level and for circumstances aimed at
improving the position of one side while isolating or
cornering the other side.
time and again,
Three years have passed, and our tour of world
capitals is almost complete. From Madrid to Washington,
to Paris, to Oslo and to Moscow. We are still discussing
the basic principles which should have been settled the
very first moment the Conference was convened. The
principle of "land for peace" still awaits the definition of
the land concept. The principle of withdrawal is still
unclear, since in the way that it is proposed, it still means
occupation under different forms.
The principle of negotiating land for peace, which
presupposes equality in the negotiating positions,
is
preempted by pressuring the Arab negotiator so that he is
left with nothing to offer. Resistance must stop - so we
are told - without any guarantee of withdrawal or
liberation. The boycott must end, but no guarantees are
given for the recovery of the usurped rights. We must
enter
the multilateral negotiations without knowing
whether or not there will be peace and what the form and
35
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
content of that peace will be. We are asked to celebrate
and to shake hands without knowing what it is we are
celebrating. We are required to take into account the local
public opinion of others; we have to reassure that public
opinion of others as if we ourselves do not have a public
opinion to convince and as if we do not have our own
sceptics who question our opting for peace.
Yes, we the victims of aggression are required to give
security guarantees to the aggressor.
Those without
weapons are required to reassure those who possess nuclear,
chemical and bacteriological weapons. Yes, we entered the
negotiations for peace - an honourable peace, not a guilty
one; a balanced peace, not a lopsided one; a just peace, not
an unjust one; a comprehensive peace, not a partial one; a
genuine peace, not a festive one; an equitable peace, not a
biased one; a natural peace, not an artificial one; a
permanent peace, not a temporary one; a peace of the
people, not of regimes; a peace that makes us proud, not
ashamed; a peace of loyalty to, not betrayal of our martyrs.
We want a peace that allows for the return of
refugees, rather than consecrates their dispersion; a peace
that satisfies the revolutionary, instead of provoking him; a
peace from which we draw strength; a peace we can
protect; a peace that will, once and for all, relieve the world
of this burden, the burden of our region; a peace that will
put an end to exporting anger; a peace of prosperity,
development, and stability; a peace that will allow our
widows to cease their mourning.
Our era is one of
The days when the problems of peoples were confined
to their own countries are over. The days when geographic
and political boundaries were a barrier between peoples are
over.
interdependence and of
communication. It is an era of the lowering of all barriers.
No country is too remote. No matter how far removed
from the area of conflict, it will still be affected by that
conflict and by the demographic problems that do not
recognize boundaries or borders, unless such problems are
stemmed at the source.
We can always be subject to nuclear, chemical and
bacteriological pollution, since there are no boundaries in
the atmosphere. The environment can very well become
contaminated, because the mountains cannot stop the wind
from blowing, and nature cannot stop rivers from flowing.
We will all be affected, whenever and wherever a
disaster strikes. We are all concerned about the world’s
security,
needs,
requirements, markets and citizens, wherever they may be.
prosperity,
resources,
its
stability,
36
7th meeting
27 September 1994
The Middle East must not forever remain a fiery
volcano that threatens the peace of the world around it,
challenges international security, and destabilizes the
world economy.
It must not remain the source of the
world’s anger and resentment.
Let there be no more occupied territories, no more
acts of aggression, no more prisoners languishing in the
prisons. Let there be no more blood flowing through the
land of the prophets. Let no more darkness prevail in the
cradle of God’s religions.
This
enjoy more
region will not
favorable
opportunities than those that exist today. Time will not
be forever on the side of those who seek peace. Our
region must produce visionaries, as it has always done,
and not manipulators of peace.
Our congratulations to you, Sir, on the assumption
of the presidency of this session of the General Assembly
cannot come from the heart
in isolation of what we
expect from the United Nations during your presidency.
The efforts of the Secretary-General cannot be viewed or
appreciated outside the scope of our view of the United
Nations. May God guide you and illuminate your path in
the service of world peace to which Lebanon is dedicated
and for which it fights.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile, His
Excellency Mr. Jose Miguel Insulza.
Mr. Insulza (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
May I first congratulate you, Sir, on your election to
preside over our work.
I wish you every success in your presidency, and
assure you that you may rely on the full cooperation of
the delegation of Chile.
I wish also to greet the Secretary-General and to
assure him once again of our support in the performance
of his difficult task. When he visited Chile a few days
after the inauguration of President Eduardo Frei,
the
Secretary-General had an opportunity to appreciate our
readiness to cooperate in the activities of the United
Nations system, in the conviction that multilateral action
was essential to the strengthening of international peace
and security and to the improvement of
the living
conditions of men and women the world over.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The fall of the ideological barriers imposed by the
cold war gave rise to expectations of an era of peace and
global security. These expectations are strengthened by the
spread of democracy and the emergence of a new
awareness of the importance of human rights throughout the
world. At the same time, the processes of globalization and
economic interdependence are creating new opportunities
for progress and making the dissemination of technology
and knowledge more feasible.
Nevertheless, five years after the end of the cold war
we must acknowledge that the reality has fallen far short of
our dreams. The last decade of this century is one of
uncertainty and contradictions. Regrettably, along with the
signs of hope there has been a re-emergence of many
economic, political, ethnic, religious and cultural conflicts
and a tendency towards fragmentation and differentiation,
which pose new threats to the peace and new challenges for
the international order.
This process of transition has enhanced the role of the
United Nations as the guarantor of world peace and
security. It has compelled our Organization to assume new
responsibilities, both in negotiations for conflict prevention
and in operations for the maintenance or restoration of
peace.
Nevertheless, the immediate concern to maintain peace
and security should not prevent us from recognizing and
attacking the root causes of these conflicts.
Poverty,
inequality between individuals and between nations,
environmental deterioration, unemployment and ignorance,
over-population, disorganized migration, and discrimination
against women and young people are today as important
factors in creating conflict as is military proliferation or
ideological confrontation - if not more so. Tackling these
problems requires using the imagination, creativity and
solidarity of
the international community, as well as
resources as large as or even larger than those being spent
today on resolving conflicts that have already begun. The
security of human beings must be an international priority
along with widespread promotion of respect for human
rights.
7th meeting
27 September 1994
legislation on institutional changes is currently being
discussed in the National Congress. Nevertheless, we are
certain that, together with the other countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean, Chile will continue to
advance along the path of political stability, democratic
institutionality and respect for human rights.
these facts
the Government has
Our recent economic experience has been successful.
Since the return of democracy we have had an average
annual growth of more than 6.5 per cent with a very low
unemployment rate and controlled inflation. On the basis
of
formulated an
ambitious modernization strategy focusing on three main
areas:
of
infrastructure, and modernization of the State.
The
reforms in education seek to respond to the need for
effective and creative integration of young people into
society, and to meet the challenge of competitiveness.
The changes in the functioning of the State entail a
special concern for ethics and probity in the exercise of
power.
development
education
training,
and
Attainment of these priorities should enable us to
raise our productivity and increase our capacity to
compete in international markets in the context of a
growing open economy. We are concerned at
the
difficulty
nevertheless
experiencing in opening up their economies in sectors that
are vital to the equitable functioning of world trade. We
reject
on
protectionism by the powerful directed against those who
are prepared to accept competition.
system based
international
the major
countries
trade
are
an
economic
Nevertheless,
advances would lack
meaning if they did not lead to a substantial improvement
in the living conditions of the majority of Chileans. The
Government recognizes this and has made the elimination
of extreme poverty an essential priority of its programme.
Without equity, growth would lose its raison d’être and
stability would be threatened by the tensions arising out
of the privations experienced by large sectors of the
population. Economic growth and social justice constitute
two terms of a single equation.
In March of this year a new phase in the Chilean
democratic process began with the installation of the
Government of President Eduardo Frei. The continuity of
this process has made it possible to strengthen the stability
of democratic institutions and has increased respect for
human rights in the country. Of course, we do not claim
that our democracy is perfect; many aspects of it still
in mind draft
require further attention, and with that
Latin America and the Caribbean are our natural
frame of reference and external action as a region that
shares both political and security interests and major
economic interests.
The region has overcome the
political, institutional and economic crisis which afflicted
it in earlier decades. Most countries of the continent have
recently held elections, or will do so in the coming
months. The tranquillity, openness and participation that
37
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
today characterize these processes are convincing proof that
Latin America has embarked on a major process of
modernization and stability.
Along with this has come a major expansion of
cooperation and regional integration. Integration initiatives
and mechanisms of varying geographical coverage and
thematic scope have multiplied. Chile has participated in
these efforts, negotiating economic complementarity and
free-trade agreements with the majority of the countries in
the region. In the immediate future, Chile hopes to be able
to make a new contribution to the creation of a broad Latin
American economic area by achieving closer links with the
Common Market of the Southern Cone and by signing
complementarity agreements with Ecuador and Peru to add
to those already concluded with Mexico, Venezuela,
Argentina, Bolivia and Colombia.
We also view with enthusiasm the strengthening of our
links with the Central American and Caribbean countries
with which we have significantly expanded our political and
economic relations and cooperation.
We wish to promote a climate of peace, dialogue,
solidarity and mutual trust among the countries of the
region. We are sure that today this is more possible than
before, given the presence in the region of more democratic
regimes than it has ever had in its history.
In this context,
recently expanded to cover
the Rio Group has become a
significant regional political cooperation mechanism, and its
activity has
economic
coordination aspects. The strengthening of the Rio Group,
which emerged from our continent’s re-democratization and
resurgence, is a key to Latin American’s ability to speak
with a unified voice in the new international context. That
is how our main partners in the world, with whom we meet
periodically in discussion forums to which we are attaching
increasing importance, perceive it.
Our policy towards Latin America and the Caribbean
is fully compatible with closer integration into world
markets. Chile today is a country that is open to the world,
dependent for 40 per cent of its gross national product on
external transactions and seeking to strengthen its relations
with the dynamic centres of growth and technological
information. We define our policy as an open regionalism,
one which seeks regional integration not in order to close
its markets but in order to achieve greater integration into
the world economy.
38
7th meeting
27 September 1994
In this connection, our preference for multilateralism
is well known. We support all
the phases of the
extensive negotiations under the Uruguay Round of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and are
now in the process of ratifying the agreements reached
there.
Our attitude in this respect matches that of our main
partners in Latin America. During the eight years for
which the Uruguay Round lasted the countries of the
region unilaterally reduced their tariffs by an average of
more than 50 per cent and contributed by making
significant concessions, despite the fact that not all the
objectives they were seeking to negotiate were achieved.
Accordingly, we now have the right to call for the
results of the Round to be implemented and, once the
World Trade Organization has been established, for
progress to be made in discussion of the many problems
the Round left pending, especially in relation to
agriculture and services.
economy multilateralism is
Nevertheless, it is obvious that in the current phase
of
the world
being
accompanied by the negotiation of partial or regional
economic agreements which are progressively extending
over a large part of international trading activity. Hence
our interest in the integration progress in North America,
our search for sounder and more imaginative patterns of
economic relations with the European Union, our
imminent
the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council (APEC) and our constant readiness,
shared with our region, to move ahead with economic
cooperation with all regions of the world.
entry
into
Current
international circumstances have led to
to
progress in various areas which it
emphasize:
the defeat of racism and apartheid, progress
in disarmament, the solution of international conflicts,
cooperation and détente - all issues which have led to the
strengthening of the world Organization.
is important
Chile salutes the people and the Government of the
new South Africa in the person of President Nelson
Mandela and welcomes the success achieved by the
United Nations and by the South African people
themselves in building a democratic and just South Africa
which respects the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations.
We wish also to express our support for the peace
and negotiation process under way in Angola and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Mozambique. We urge the rebel forces in both countries
to negotiate seriously and in good faith to end this conflict,
in compliance with United Nations resolutions. In the case
of Angola, the date of 30 September set by the President of
the Security Council for the ending of the negotiations is
approaching, and it is accordingly essential to arrive at a
speedy solution on the basis of the "Acordos de Paz".
Let me also express our satisfaction at the progress
made through the agreements between Israel and the
Palestine Liberation Organization, which are overcoming
obstacles to the attainment of a lasting peace throughout the
Middle East. On behalf of my country, I wish to reiterate
our support for the negotiations under way between Israel
and Jordan, as well as those between Israel and Lebanon
and between Israel and Syria.
In contrast to these positive steps, we view with great
concern the tragedy in Rwanda, horrified at its magnitude
the inability of the international community to
and at
contain it.
Chile conducted a national campaign of
solidarity with the children of Rwanda which met with an
extremely good response in our country. The risk is that,
if efforts are not made to eliminate the deep-lying causes of
tragedies such as this, other similar sources of tension may
arise in other countries, testing the capacity of our system
to react.
Likewise, we cannot fail to express our most profound
concern at and most energetic rejection of the extremes to
which the fratricidal struggle in the former Yugoslavia has
been taken. We urge the warring parties to abandon the
use of force as a means of solving their disputes and to
submit
them to the internationally recognized peaceful
means of settlement.
of
the Governors
non-implementation
Chile is also profoundly concerned at the situation in
Haiti resulting from the protracted usurpation of power and
the
Island
agreements. The military occupation of a country is always
a regrettable occurrence that we should all like to avoid.
Nevertheless,
in this
instance such action was taken on the basis of a Security
Council resolution and in response to repeated failure to
comply with international commitments, failure for which
the Haitian military alone are responsible.
to recognize that
it
is important
We reiterate in this Assembly our support for the
measures taken by the United Nations and, in particular,
our
full acceptance of the resolution adopted by the
Security Council. The Government of Chile will fulfil its
commitments to participate in the reconstruction of Haiti,
7th meeting
27 September 1994
in the manner agreed upon with the democratic
Government of that country, as soon as institutional order
has been restored.
Chile has cooperated in peace-keeping operations,
and it has recently expressed its readiness to expand that
cooperation, in the profound conviction that improving the
capacity of the United Nations system in these efforts is
a priority task. The current bureaucratic mechanisms,
which place a very heavy burden on the countries
providing peace-keeping contingents, must be replaced by
others that will make it possible to provide the United
Nations with the best in human resources and equipment.
It
to reach agreement on a statute for
protection of United Nations personnel and to create an
international
financing of
peace-keeping operations.
fund to administer
is essential
the
The new impetus in international disarmament
negotiations, particularly with respect to a nuclear-test-ban
treaty, increases the need for a global, democratic and
participatory approach in this area. There is an urgent
need to increase the membership of the Conference on
Disarmament - the only major multilateral negotiating
forum on these topics
sufficiently
representative and enable it to respond appropriately to
the new challenges.
to make it
-
their
Chile considers that prohibiting the use of fissionable
materials for hostile purposes and universalizing security
guarantees for non-nuclear-weapon States would be
positive steps in the direction of nuclear disarmament.
Nevertheless,
success would depend on full
acceptance of inspection and verification procedures. In
step with progress in the substantive negotiations, a need
is making itself felt to extend and expand safeguards and
control regimes until
they become universal, without
thereby impeding the access of developing countries to
sources of science and technology.
The recent ratification of the Treaty of Tlatelolco by
Chile, Argentina and Brazil, as well as Cuba’s decision to
sign it, will enable Latin America to become a genuine
nuclear-weapon-free
together with the
manifest reduction in tension and armaments in the
region, constitutes an effective contribution by our region
to world peace.
zone. This,
In this context, we have indicated our interest in
becoming a member of the Security Council for the
period beginning 1996. We have done so convinced that
the
Chile can legitimately and adequately represent
39
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
7th meeting
27 September 1994
interests of Latin America and the Caribbean in that
important body.
security and coexistence in the emerging international
order.
We can and must make substantive progress in
designing better systems for preventing conflicts or taking
immediate action to restore peace.
But, unless we
simultaneously attack the enormous
inequalities and
privations that lie at the root of many conflicts we shall not
significantly reduce international tensions. The origins of
these tensions lie in the exclusion of major sectors of the
world’s population from the benefits of the new order, an
exclusion aggravated by population growth and by the
characteristics of the new world economy, for when factors
such as knowledge and technology come to outweigh
others, such as the availability of raw materials or low-cost
labour, the hopes of those who possess only an abundance
of the latter are increasingly disappointed, thus widening
and deepening the social gaps within and between
countries.
From a bitter past, Chile has learned the lesson of the
close relationship that exists between peace, democracy,
economic growth and social development. The central
objective of a security policy is the security of individuals
and of
The
accentuation of inequality or exclusion is not only ethically
unacceptable, but also politically dangerous. No new
international order will be stable or lasting if it is based on
the exclusion of the majority of those who comprise it.
the communities in which they live.
the international
We are convinced that the absence of democracy and
the lack of economic growth centred on the human being
are at
the root of
instability that
characterizes our era.
President Frei has spoken of a
"diplomacy for development", referring in these terms to
the necessity to adjust foreign policy to the objectives and
needs of each country and to the link that must necessarily
exist between our international action and our internal
objective of growth with equity. We therefore attach the
greatest importance to the Agenda for Development that is
under discussion in the United Nations.
This was the thinking behind the convening of the
World Summit
for Social Development, unanimously
approved by the General Assembly. The analysis by Heads
of State and Government in Copenhagen next March should
lead us to a new policy to combat poverty, promote
employment and accelerate social integration. In particular,
we believe that the social Summit should adopt a common
commitment to eradicate extreme poverty in the world
through a concrete and efficient plan of action. What is
decided there will be intimately linked to the conditions of
40
The social Summit,
together with the recent
Conference on Population and Development, held in
Cairo, the World Conference on Women, to be held in
Beijing in 1995, and the Secretary-General’s proposed
Agenda for Development, indicates the growing interest
that this Organization is taking in social issues.
issues.
In this context,
Chile intends to comply with the agreements reached
at the Rio de Janeiro Summit and to promote a new
policy on environmental
its
National Congress recently approved the Convention on
Biological Diversity, and our ratification has just been
In turn, we are
deposited with the United Nations.
convinced that environmental problems will
remain
unresolved, and may even become exacerbated, if the
necessary resources are not available to deal with them
through joint action by developed and developing
countries. This is becoming increasingly apparent in
some developing countries, where poverty is accelerating
environmental deterioration as a result of the excessive
and uncontrolled use of certain resources.
The dual task of maintaining peace and at the same
time creating conditions for the elimination of structural
sources of conflict
is an enormous challenge to this
Organization. Nevertheless, we are convinced that if we
do not take up the challenge we shall reach the beginning
of the next millennium without having laid the real
foundations for a new international order that will permit
the peaceful coexistence of mankind.
Taking up this challenge is not a task for the major
Powers alone, although their involvement is essential;
rather, it is a task for all nations capable of making a
contribution - especially the medium-sized countries,
which make up a large part of
the international
community.
Chile is prepared to be a part of this effort, as are,
we are sure, all the countries of Latin America. The
central role of this Organization must be strengthened and
supported in the crucial years that lie ahead, for this is the
only way to ensure that the settlement of conflicts does
not alter international legality, that arbitrary intervention
is prevented and that
the rights of the weakest are
respected.
The President (interpretation from French): The
Excellency Mr. Benjamin
is His
speaker
next
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Bounkoulou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and
Francophonie of the Congo.
Mr. Bounkoulou (Congo)
this forty-ninth session of
(interpretation from
French): At
the General
Assembly of the United Nations, the African continent has
every right to feel honoured in this great body. Through
the brilliant election of its President, our Assembly has paid
a tribute to the merits and the qualities of a great African
diplomat.
I would add that above and beyond the
recognition so richly deserved by his country, Côte
d’Ivoire, for its contribution to peace, we also find in his
election a posthumous tribute to its founder, President
Houphouët Boigny,
that unforgettable monument of
modern-day Africa. I would like to extend to our President
the warmest congratulations of the Congolese delegation
and to avail myself of this opportunity to pay a well-
deserved tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr.
Samuel Insanally, Ambassador of Guyana, who served as
President at
the forty-eighth session with such great
competence and skill.
My congratulations go also to our Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who since becoming the leader
of our Organization has endeavoured with such dedication
to bring our Member States closer to the purposes and
principles of the Charter. On behalf of the Congolese
people, I would like to reiterate to this humble servant of
mankind our most earnest encouragement as he discharges
his lofty responsibilities.
Many peace-keeping and goodwill missions of the
United Nations are currently to be found on African soil.
We welcome this necessary assistance, while we hope that
the peoples concerned will do even better in fostering
conditions for a return to peace.
Finally, how can one not feel overcome with joy at the
triumphant welcome given the return of the Republic of
South Africa to the commonwealth of free nations? This
return, which puts the finishing touches on the liberation of
the African continent from colonialism and racism, is surely
a source of legitimate satisfaction for the Members of the
United Nations who devoted so much energy and so many
resources in the battle of the South African people against
apartheid. To the delegation of that country that embodies
the hopes of an entire continent, I would like to extend a
warm, fraternal welcome.
At
the beginning of
this forty-ninth session the
Assembly faces a complicated situation that combines real
reasons for satisfaction with extremely worrisome issues.
7th meeting
27 September 1994
A marked trend towards dialogue and cooperation in
search of solutions to the problems that confront our
world encourages our desire for a new system of
international relations that would be more humane and
more just. The United Nations has to its credit many
achievements in the restoration and creation of peace.
Conflicts that have been solved or are in the process of
being solved give, little by little, faith and confidence in
the future, indeed I would say to life, to those peoples
who have been subjugated by despair,
if not by the
disturbing resurgence of civil wars, ethnic tensions and
religious crusades.
The abolition of apartheid in South Africa, which
seemed impossible yesterday, is a reality today, as if to
grant the wishes of the international community and to
reward the strictures of the United Nations, a peaceful
transition has given birth to a united, democratic and non-
racist South Africa.
A peaceful settlement to the question of the Aouzou
I
strip has rid Central Africa of a fratricidal conflict.
hope the example of Libya and Chad will inspire other
States as well.
Firmly and resolutely, the dynamic of peace begun
in the Middle East is growing stronger and is opening
prospects for cooperation to peoples long ruined by war
and yet fated by geography and history to live together.
This is why, in hailing the significant progress achieved
in this process, the Republic of the Congo hopes that we
will see rapid progress in the Arab-Israeli negotiations
with a view to the establishment of a thorough, just and
lasting peace in the Middle East.
far
But the hope offered by the progress that has been
achieved remains frustrated by the persistence of local
wars that continue their bloodshed in various parts of the
world. Political differences and ethnic, racial or religious
from enriching society, have elicited
diversity,
intolerance, hatred, violence and, worst of all,
the
destruction of what is most precious to us all: human
life. From Bosnia to Angola, the similarities are striking.
Of these crises that conceal several basic questions, we
see that a record number are in Africa: Angola, Somalia,
Liberia, Rwanda ...
The Republic of
the Congo remains greatly
concerned about the situation in its sister republic and
neighbour Angola. We deplore the continuation of this
fratricidal, murderous war, sustained by the intransigence
and rigidity of UNITA. The Congolese Government
41
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
supports all peace efforts undertaken by the international
community in the attempt to settle the conflict peacefully,
especially as part of the Lusaka negotiations: negotiations
in which Angola has made very constructive proposals that
show the determination of President Dos Santos and his
Government to find a solution that might take into account
all the political sensibilities of that country. My country
would like to reiterate its wish to see Angolans finally
reach understanding and reconciliation, so that they can
devote their energies to the rebuilding of their country, torn
apart by a war that has lasted far too long.
With regard to Liberia, we hope that the recent signing
in Ghana of the cease-fire agreement by the various
protagonists will lead to better prospects for that country.
The genocide we have seen in Rwanda, another sad
chapter in the history of mankind, is only the most extreme
and inhuman manifestation of the problems facing Africa
today.
refugees,
spiralling population growth - such is the widespread image
of contemporary Africa. This well-known, gloomy picture
no doubt stems from a habitual pessimism rather than from
a thorough study of reality.
Violence, poverty,
famine, disease,
The increase in the inequality between the richest and
the poorest countries has grown more complex with the
emergence of worldwide markets, trade, communications -
even, unfortunately, pollution. Africa, long relegated to the
background, seems to have combined all
the social
pathologies that inexorably strike ever-growing and ever-
poorer populations.
In our underdeveloped countries,
chronic indebtedness and the drop in the prices of our basic
commodities, compounded by the pernicious reduction in
public aid for development and investments that continue to
ignore our legislation, however attractive and liberal it may
be, are worsening the disappearance of sources of financing
and development.
Here growth is slow to appear, whereas early signs
already herald the beginnings of expansion in the world
economy. The unemployed population is increasing, and
workers are under a constant uncertainty. As if to complete
this picture, natural disasters - drought and desertification -
compete with epidemics such as AIDS and malaria.
Infections we thought to have eradicated are reappearing.
The President returned to the Chair.
In this context of a disastrous economy, a population
redressing the
explosion has eliminated any hope of
imbalance between an almost zero economic growth rate
42
7th meeting
27 September 1994
and a population growth rate that is out of control. This
situation has destroyed all our efforts at recovery.
Congo, for its part, has not escaped this common
destiny. The socio-political crisis which has shaken my
country to its very foundations and brought great grief to
many Congolese families has to a large extent torn the
social fabric and has completely ruined our economy.
This crisis has at least had the merit of destroying many
illusions.
We had thought - or pretended to think - that it was
enough simply to copy the old Western democracies and
hold free elections under international supervision to
ensure that democracy prospered, that it was unnecessary
to take local realities into account.
Surely the European Parliament
learned a bitter
lesson from its failure, because it said to the new
democracies that peoples and Governments should find
formulas which would enable them to create democratic,
lawful institutions based on their own history and cultural
identity.
culture,
How can we claim that in two years’ time we have
done away with the ills of 30 years of badly assimilated
Marxist-Leninist
culture which was
fundamentally hostile to pluralistic democracy and
fundamentally opposed to individual growth. And what
should we say of the harmful effects of so many years of
Marxist management of an economy that is today doomed
because of that failure?
a
Congo’s economy today is suffering from the
disastrous consequences of ill-advised economic policies,
which has given my country the honour of being placed
among the most indebted countries in the world.
In
addition to this economic bankruptcy we find the waste,
the ruin of our cultural and moral values, and a
breakdown of the innate genius of our people.
Insidious and pernicious, destitution and poverty
have crept into the private lives of men and women,
every day becoming more numerous, men and women
who to survive must hide behind the ultimate bulwark of
ethnicity, which has become a factor for segregation and
division.
Made idle and vulnerable, and subjected to chronic
unemployment, our youth are now indulging in the
illusion of drugs and the armed defence of dubious
causes.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Thus, we see the scope of the consequences of so
many harmful factors in a society where people have lost
all sense of perspective. Violence then becomes the outlet
for venting all sorts of political, economic and social
frustrations.
The outbreaks of violence in the Congo are the most
absurd manifestation of this. We must rely on our
traditional values to revive our dedication to dialogue and
peace and hence realize how vain such extreme behaviour
is - indeed, nothing more than human folly.
it
We have given new life to the democratic process; we
have started all over again. This is a process redirected
towards democratic transition, the first stage of power-
sharing;
is the result of a policy of administrative
decentralization, one of the foundations of the development
programme of President Pascal Lissouba. Today leaders of
the opposition are mayors of Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire -
the main cities in the country - and are thereby making
their contribution to the national recovery.
Congo’s experience highlights the challenges facing
the new democracies,
in particular young African
democracies, which in order to build one nation must
emerge from the condition of multi-ethnic States and one-
party or feudal systems and pass on to full democracy with
its corollary, a market economy.
In order to meet these challenges, Congo has opted for
is
the
a programme of economic and social recovery that
already under way.
relaunching of our country’s development.
The programme involves
Our bitter experience has led us to conclude that we
must give pride of place to the economy in order to
safeguard the young and fragile Congolese democracy and
give it a solid basis, especially taking into account the
crucial needs of our peoples, our own values and
geopolitical realities.
To fulfil this objective, the programme involves in its
initial phase a structural adjustment programme concluded
with the Bretton Woods institutions, a programme we are
determined to carry out successfully in spite of
the
enormous sacrifices this will entail for our people. This
must be done because we are determined to stimulate
development and to revive hope among our people. We are
banking on relaunching progress, but Congo cannot succeed
alone. Africa is our salvation.
7th meeting
27 September 1994
Indeed, it is in the integration and complementarity
of our economies that we should try to find solutions so
that we can emerge from the grave economic and social
crisis that has engulfed our countries, and especially
relaunch our growth and development. Let us hope that
the African States will be able to create the conditions for
this complementarity, especially through the use of
science and technology.
This initiative gives a good idea of the crucial
importance of the establishment of the African Economic
Community. But in order to succeed this endeavour
requires human as well as financial resources.
In this
connection, the international community is called upon to
give resolute help to our countries in their efforts to find
competent men
promote
development by their know-how,
in the appropriate
institutions.
and women who
can
Development and the effective use of human
resources are a decisive factor for the socio-economic
development of our African continent. That is why,
guided by this requirement of development, the Congolese
Government has established the Panafrican Institute of
Management and Innovation to train people in the
management of resources, including human resources.
For the initiator of this project, His Excellency
President Pascal Lissouba, development cannot be defined
solely in terms of growth; it must also be defined in terms
of the ability to master the art of management.
The second requirement of this endeavour is to fund
it.
In this connection, we are not relying only on
financial resources - that is, a massive influx of capital
into our poor economies. The economies would still have
to be able to digest such capital.
Above and beyond the generation of financial flows
to our countries, what Africa needs above all
is the
establishment of a financial instrument, whose machinery
would be brought into harmony with the other, existing
instruments of international cooperation. This financial
instrument, with the support of all the African countries,
would obtain appropriate support from the international
community, especially the Bretton Woods institutions.
Thus, the African Development Bank is in our view
the best institution to deal with the financial aspect and,
furthermore, to study a system for funding science and
technology for development. Today more than ever
43
7th meeting
27 September 1994
In drawing conclusions from these tragic events, the
11 States of Central Africa, brought
together in the
United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security
Questions in Central Africa, have decided to create from
among their respective armed forces a single peace-
keeping unit. This unit, once set up, will take part in
OAU and United Nations peace-keeping operations.
Today more than ever, in that part of Africa so sorely
tried by instability and civil war, this advisory committee
would appear to be a valuable instrument for preventing
crises and conflicts and seems deserving of the attention
and support of the international community. The recent
signing of a non-aggression pact among the States of the
subregion is a most concrete example of this.
This framework body for joint efforts for subregional
peace and security, which my country will host in March
and August 1995, will help, we are convinced, to prevent
crises and conflicts and thereby lay the foundations for
genuine peace and cooperation in Central Africa.
In an international context where we still see certain
conflicts, we must acknowledge once again the pre-
eminent role of the Security Council, which safeguards
international peace and security. The spectacular increase
in the membership of the United Nations as well as the
emergence of new political and economic forces the
world over require an expansion of this body on the basis
of equitable geographic representation.
In so doing, we
would only be abiding by the criterion of universality,
which has always guided our Organization and which
must be constantly adapted to newly emerging realities.
Our destinies are bound to become increasingly
intertwined, our horizons to broaden, and all this in a
spirit of diversity, complementarity and solidarity without
any will to power or domination. Increased developments
in science and technology will result in a globalization of
the challenges we must face.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
before, science and technology are part and parcel of
development; they are requirements of development.
The favourable developments in the world political
situation have given rise to the hope that a new era of
peace will give the United Nations the role that its founders
intended it to play.
Everything - or almost everything - would seem to
an outpouring of
augur well for a new world order:
freedom and democracy; a revival of
the universal
awareness of human rights; and the pre-eminence of the
United Nations in resolving issues linked to international
peace, development and security.
Unfortunately, the psychosis of nuclear apocalypse
characteristic of the cold war has given way to a violent,
deadly expression of freedom and of local wars in a large
number of developing countries, especially in Africa. We
have already stated that economic frustration is at the root
of these events. Therefore, peace and security in our States
and throughout the world require a solution to our people’s
economic and social problems as well as the transformation
of the world economic system with a view to establishing
a more just order.
It is only then that we can have a true
idea of the Agenda for Development and of its capability of
meeting the expectations and concerns of the developing
countries.
The vagaries of the Rwandan tragedy, especially at the
time when the critical decision was taken by the Security
Council to withdraw the United Nations Assistance Mission
for Rwanda (UNAMIR), should awaken the conscience of
people everywhere and make them pause and reflect. The
joint efforts of the United Nations and of the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) were crystal-clear. The continent-
wide
conflict-prevention,
-management and -resolution machinery, had committed
itself to continuing these efforts.
organization,
through
its
My country welcomes the return of United Nations
peace-keeping forces to Rwanda after a departure that had
left us with the bitter
the decision was
inappropriate.
feeling that
Congo, in spite of its internal difficulties, from the
very outset had felt concerned over the Rwandan tragedy.
In a manifestation of fraternal solidarity, my country has
taken part
the humanitarian and peace-keeping
operations in Rwanda, ranging from the OAU observer
mission, UNAMIR I and operation "Turquoise" to today’s
UNAMIR II.
in all
44
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
May we be able to make the best possible use of the
vast potential open to us, so that our long-suffering peoples
will finally see the dawning of the era of peace and
prosperity they so legitimately desire.
The meeting rose at 8.10 p.m.
7th meeting
27 September 1994
45
