United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
34th Meeting
Monday, 17 October 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.34
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 14 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Agency (A/49/297 and Corr.1)
Draft resolution (A/49/L.2)
Mr. Albin (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
My delegation has taken note of the report introduced by
Mr. Hans Blix, Director General of
the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), on the work done by the
Agency in the course of 1993. We are grateful for the
additional information he provided on the most important
developments since the issuance of the report. We are
grateful to him for a job well done.
My country has always supported the Agency’s work
in promoting the peaceful use of nuclear energy and to
fostering multilateral technical cooperation in this area. We
hail the valuable work being done in the area of nuclear
safety, the application of safeguards and verification - key
factors in preventing the spread of nuclear weapons.
safeguards and verification. International cooperation for
the peaceful use of nuclear energy and its technologies,
which we regard as a primary goal of the Agency, seems
now to be relegated to a secondary level. Striking a
better balance between these activities is essential,
especially in the light of the pressing needs of a large
number of developing countries in the fields of energy,
human health, the environment and agriculture, among
others.
as
the Treaty
known
The international non-proliferation regime was
without question strengthened by the full incorporation of
Argentina, Brazil and Chile into the Treaty for the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the
Caribbean,
of Tlatelolco.
Furthermore, the announcement by the Government of
Cuba of its intention to sign and ratify this instrument in
the near future will make it possible to quickly achieve
the goal shared by my country and others in the region:
making Latin America and the Caribbean the first region
in the world free of nuclear weapons. In this context, of
particular note is
the
quadripartite safeguards agreement concluded among
Argentina, Brazil, the Brazilian-Argentine Agency for
Accounting and Control of Nuclear Materials (ABACC)
and the IAEA.
the coming into force of
The report before us gives a detailed account of the
activities being carried out
in the various areas of its
mandate. We have noted, as in earlier years, that distinct
priority has apparently been given to the application of
This was no easy task, but
the hard work,
perseverance and conviction of the countries of the region
have brought us to the end of a process that some viewed
with sympathy and others with incredulity.
94-86690 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is Mexico’s wish to see all States Members of the
United Nations comply with the obligations inherent in the
United Nations Charter, the statutes of the IAEA and the
agreements deriving from it. Mexico’s commitment in this
respect is plain and simple:
to rid the Earth of the nuclear
threat. My delegation trusts that reason and dialogue will
prevail in solving differences of view in the area of security
and safeguards.
There is a pressing need to devise and implement new
measures to bolster the safeguards regime before the review
and extension Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). In order
to ensure applicability, this package of measures should
explicitly and clearly spell out
the financial and legal
implications needed to put it into practice. Here we need
to recall once again that for a strengthened safeguards
system to be truly effective, it must be binding, universally
accepted and non-discriminatory.
and
activities,
assistance
cooperation
At the same time, there is an urgent need to step up
in
technical
accordance with Article 2 of the Agency’s statute. To this
end, we must devise and put into operation a mechanism to
ensure that resources are available to finance these activities
on a continuing and stable basis. My Government
is
concerned about the meagre level of resources in the fund
for technical assistance and cooperation, hence our fervent
appeal to all countries to make their contributions as early
as possible.
Current international circumstances urgently require
that the normative bodies of the IAEA, in particular the
Board of Governors, be adapted. If the Board is to be truly
effective and representative, it must take into account and
reflect the level of development achieved by Member States
in the nuclear area as well as the increase in the
membership of the Agency as a result of world-wide
political changes and the emergence of new countries,
particularly in Eastern and Central Europe.
It also seems
essential
that greater transparency be achieved in the
process of appointing Member States to the Board.
We also consider it useful to realistically explore the
functions that the Agency might possibly perform in the
area of verification in the field of disarmament, in particular
in the context of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty
(TBT) and an agreement banning the production of fissile
materials for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive
deviscs.
2
34th meeting
17 October 1994
Mr. Starr (Australia):
I should like to express
appreciation to the Director General of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Mr. Hans Blix, for his
comprehensive and well-balanced report analysing the
operation of the Agency over the last year. The report
clearly demonstrates that the Agency has continued to
fulfil its responsibilities, as provided for in its statute and
in the resolutions of the General Conference and of the
Board of Governors.
As one of the founding members, Australia has long
been a strong and active supporter of the IAEA. The
Agency’s contributions to global security, through the
effective operation of a safeguards system, and to global
development through peaceful nuclear cooperation, are
substantial and valuable. These contributions deserve the
continuing support of the international community.
The Director General and the staff of the Secretariat
are to be commended for their efforts and personal
devotion to the tasks of adapting the Agency to the
fundamental changes and new challenges of our time.
These efforts are reflected in the achievements of the
Agency over the past year. First, there are the important
measures which have been taken to strengthen safeguards,
notably through the work of
two"
programme, which is examining ways of improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of the safeguards system.
the "93 plus
field of
technical
cooperation.
Secondly, important developments have taken place
in the
Australia
participated in the successful technical-cooperation policy
review seminar in Vienna in September, and the outcomes
of that seminar will have important implications for the
efficient use of
technical-cooperation
resources.
the Agency’s
Thirdly, and finally, there was the conclusion of the
Convention on Nuclear Safety, to which Australia has
become a signatory.
The Agency,
in our view, has also responded
commendably to new developments in the nuclear field.
In particular, we note the Agency’s role in strengthening
international cooperation against trafficking in nuclear
materials and its potential role in verifying new arms-
control arrangements, such as a cut-off
in nuclear
production.
The Australian Government regrets the decision of
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to withdraw
from the IAEA. We encourage the Democratic People’s
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Republic of Korea to reconsider that decision and urge it to
cooperate fully with the Agency. We strongly desire to see
this issue resolved soon and in such a way as to result in
the full implementation of safeguards and contribute to
peace and stability on the Korean peninsula.
Turning now to this year’s draft resolution, I note that
the text, which follows closely the resolution adopted last
year, is, in our view, balanced and reflects the views of the
Agency membership, as expressed in resolutions of the
General Conference.
the
negotiators of the draft resolution in Vienna have been
respected through the maintenance of language adopted by
the Board of Governors and the General Conference.
the efforts of
Importantly,
We have a common interest in seeing the maintenance
and strengthening of the IAEA and the protection and
development
the
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Australia’s co-
sponsorship of this resolution reflects our firm support for
this shared objective.
activities which
promote
its
of
Mr. Chong-Ha Yoo (Republic of Korea): On behalf
of the Government of the Republic of Korea, I would like
to express appreciation to Mr. Hans Blix, Director General
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), for
introducing so capably the IAEA annual report.
I would
also like to extend our support to him and his staff in the
secretariat for their dedicated efforts and achievements in
the IAEA’s various activities during the past 12 months.
The reinforcement of a global non-proliferation regime
continues to be an essential requirement not only for
ensuring stability in today’s world but also in shaping a
new world order built on peace and security. Over the past
several years, the international community has substantially
increased its awareness of the vital
importance of an
effective global nuclear non-proliferation regime, with the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT)
and IAEA safeguards at its core.
The recent increase in the number of parties to the
NPT to 165 States, including all nuclear-weapons States, is
a highly encouraging development. We also welcome the
initiatives taken by the African States for the establishment
of a nuclear-weapons-free zone in the region. We earnestly
hope that the international community can build upon these
positive
constructive
discussions which will lead to the indefinite extension of
the NPT beyond 1995.
developments
carry
and
out
34th meeting
17 October 1994
However, new problems have arisen which present
serious challenges to the NPT regime and its safeguards
system. The non-compliance of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea with the NPT safeguards obligations
and some incidents of illicit nuclear-material trafficking
in Europe are cases requiring the renewed efforts of the
international community towards the strengthening of the
NPT regime and its safeguards system.
Given the pivotal role of the IAEA safeguards
system in ensuring an effective NPT regime, my
delegation would like to reiterate its full support for the
safeguards activities of the Agency, particularly its efforts
to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of the
safeguards system and to enhance its responsiveness.
recommendations
In this connection, my delegation welcomes the
Agency secretariat’s initiative to develop "Programme
’93+2’, which provides for the assessment, development
and testing of
submitted by the
Standing Advisory Group on Safeguards Implementation
in 1993 and other potential measures for strengthening
and improving the existing safeguards system. While
recognizing that
considered in the
Programme are broad in scope and diverse in nature, we
sincerely hope that
the Agency secretariat’s concrete
proposals resulting from the Programme can be submitted
in the near future for in-depth consideration by the
international community.
the measures
My Government is deeply concerned about surplus
plutonium and highly enriched uranium and is alarmed by
recent press reports on illicit
trafficking in nuclear
materials. We strongly support the early establishment of
a regime on international storage and management of
surplus fissionable materials and encourage the Agency to
take a leading role in pursuit of this regime. We
welcome the initiatives taken by the European Union to
enable the IAEA to discuss this important issue.
The promotional activities of the Agency are also
important, as one of its main activities under its statute.
technical
assistance
particularly
and
transfer
We continue to support the strengthening of the
cooperation
Agency’s
of
nuclear
programmes,
In this regard, we
technology to developing countries.
would like to commend the IAEA’s increased efforts to
secure predictable and assured resources
these
programmes and to place special emphasis on the model
projects.
the
for
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
We deeply appreciate the Agency’s contributions in
the promotion of international cooperation in the field of
nuclear safety and radioactive-waste management. The
Convention on Nuclear Safety, which was recently signed
in Vienna, will open a new era of international cooperation
for the enhanced safety of nuclear-power plants, and my
Government is ready to make all possible contributions for
its full implementation.
Radioactive-waste management has emerged as one of
the most difficult and complex challenges in the peaceful
uses of nuclear energy. Despite proven technologies and
practices for safe management of radioactive waste, this
problem remains a politically sensitive issue, and more
efforts are therefore required to change public perception on
this matter.
In this regard, my delegation wishes to commend the
Agency’s initiatives to promote the Radioactive Waste
Safety Standards (RADWASS) programme. We note with
satisfaction that agreement has almost been reached on
safety fundamentals and is awaiting approval at
the
December meeting of the IAEA’s Board. My delegation is
pleased to recall
that during the thirty-eighth General
Conference of the IAEA a resolution on the RADWASS
programme was adopted, having been promoted by the
Korean delegation and fully endorsed by the Group of 77.
As a new contracting party to the 1972 London
Convention, the Republic of Korea sincerely hopes that the
unlawful practice of radioactive-waste dumping in the sea,
particularly in the East Sea in our area, will cease
henceforth. The secretariat of the IAEA is invited to
continue its valuable contribution in this respect.
A major challenge to the NPT regime and the IAEA
safeguards system is the nuclear issue relating to the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The suspicions
surrounding the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s
nuclear programme should be completely cleared up by
securing the past, present and future transparency of its
nuclear activities. For this reason, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea should fully cooperate with the IAEA in
the implementation of the safeguards agreement, which is
still in force.
I wish to take this opportunity to commend the
Director General and his staff, including the inspectors, for
their patience and impartial efforts to discharge their
responsibilities under exceptionally difficult circumstances.
4
34th meeting
17 October 1994
If the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea fulfils
its obligations in good faith, we will do all we can to
assist it in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Depending
on the resolution of the nuclear issue, the Republic of
Korea stands ready to make its technological and capital
resources available for the DPRK’s overall economic
development in a spirit of mutual prosperity.
firm commitment
In closing, my delegation would like to reiterate the
importance it attaches to the IAEA and express my
Government’s
to the Agency’s
objectives and our support for its essential role in the
promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and the
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. That is why my
delegation joined other delegations in co-sponsoring the
draft resolution contained in document A/49/L.2. My
delegation hopes that it will be adopted by consensus.
Mr. Dimitrov (Bulgaria): The Bulgarian delegation
joins other delegations in expressing appreciation to Mr.
Hans Blix and the staff of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) for the competence and efficiency
with which the important functions of the Agency are
carried out. We are grateful to the Director General for
the annual report and his comprehensive statement on the
work of the IAEA. At this juncture, I would also like to
express the satisfaction of the Government of Bulgaria
with the results of the Director General’s recent visit to
Bulgaria.
I would also like to express our satisfaction with the
fact that the IAEA is viewed as one of the most effective
United Nations agencies, as was reaffirmed by the
Geneva Group evaluation exercise earlier
this year.
During the reporting period the IAEA continued to play
a vital role in ensuring the peaceful use of nuclear energy
and securing the stable functioning of the nuclear non-
proliferation regime.
The efforts aimed at upholding and strengthening
this regime are central
to maintaining and further
enhancing international peace and security. The Treaty on
the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the
regime established by it are not only a fundamental
instrument to maintain international security, but also a
solid basis for a verifiable framework for peaceful
cooperation between States Parties.
As we prepare for the Treaty’s 1995 Review and
Extension Conference, it is appropriate to reiterate that
Bulgaria supports the achievement of its universality and
complete implementation, and advocates its indefinite and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
unconditional extension. We urge all States that have not
yet done so to accede to the Treaty and to conclude
full-scope safeguards agreements with the IAEA.
There
in the
can be
confidence
international
non-proliferation regime only when States are completely
transparent with regard to their nuclear activities. Full
cooperation with the IAEA, which administers the nuclear
non-proliferation system on behalf of the international
community, is essential. The right of the Agency to perform
special inspections where necessary must be upheld. As a
last resort, the backing of the Security Council may be
needed.
Recognizing the outstanding role of the Agency in the
implementation of the NPT, we are pleased to note that the
recent third session of the Preparatory Committee for the
1995 NPT Conference expressed high appreciation for
IAEA’s activities in preparing this important event.
The Republic of Bulgaria continues to attach great
importance to the interrelationship of the Agency’s main
activities - safeguards, safety and technology transfer.
Ensuring the safety of nuclear installations, managing
radioactive waste, promoting various applications of nuclear
technology and providing technical assistance - all these
activities depend on the confidence that nuclear energy and
technology are used exclusively for peaceful purposes.
Bulgaria supports the Agency’s programme for a
strengthened and more cost-effective safeguards system,
which, in our view, should be capable of providing reliable
assurances of the peaceful nature of the nuclear activities of
States, including the detection of undeclared materials. The
Agency’s role in this field is of increasing importance in
the context of recent developments regarding the nuclear
issue concerning the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea.
A new and potentially disquieting challenge to the
international community, as well as to the non-proliferation
regime, causing safety and environmental concerns, is the
illicit trafficking of nuclear materials. We believe that while
it is the responsibility of States to ensure adequate and
effective physical protection of nuclear material, the IAEA
can play a valuable role in facilitating international
cooperation, including the provision of technical assistance
to countries in the non-law-enforcement-related field, or by
establishing an international register of fissile materials.
Bulgaria views the IAEA as the principal international
forum for the exchange of safety-related information. We
34th meeting
17 October 1994
believe that nuclear safety worldwide would be enhanced
through combining national measures and international
cooperation in this area. Bulgaria participated actively in
legally binding
the elaboration of an international,
the
instrument based on fundamental principles for
regulation and management of
safety and for
the
operation of nuclear
It was on this
understanding that Bulgaria signed the Convention on
Nuclear Safety at
the General
Conference of the IAEA.
the last session of
installations.
on
the
of
safety
Radioactive waste is another topical issue for my
delegation. We support the elaboration of an international
convention
radioactive waste
management, once the ongoing process of formulating
waste management safety fundamentals has resulted in a
broad international
the
convention should be as wide as possible in scope,
including civil as well as military waste. The international
civil liability regime for nuclear damage is one of the
elements of
instruments
already elaborated or currently under elaboration by the
IAEA.
In our view,
the system of
international
agreement.
The prevention of nuclear accidents has to be a top
priority for individual States and for the international
community as a whole. It is also essential to establish a
generally acceptable, predictable and effective liability
regime with broad participation in order to provide
prompt and fair compensation for nuclear damage. The
delegation of Bulgaria would like to inform the Assembly
that by a law dated 27 July 1994 the National Assembly
of the Republic of Bulgaria has ratified the Vienna
Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage and
the Joint Protocol on the application of the Vienna
Convention and the Paris Convention. Under
a
supplementary provision of that law, Bulgaria will apply
the Vienna Convention as of the day of its ratification
before its formal entry into force.
Technology transfer, which is one of the IAEA’s
major activities, is of great interest to my country. The
numerous beneficiaries of
the technical cooperation
programs, Bulgaria among them, testify to the benefits of
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Nuclear power
remains the sole alternative for meeting Bulgaria’s needs
for electric power. Over the period from l974 to 1993 six
Kozloduy power units, designed and furnished by the
former USSR, were put
into operation consecutively.
Between 1991 to 1994 large-scale activities, aimed at
enhancing the safety of the four reactors of the older
model, have been carried out; the work includes a special
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
programme for reconstruction and upgrading of the reactors.
The programme elaborated under IAEA recommendations,
was partially funded by the Commission of the European
Union through urgent assistance under
the "PHARE"
Programme.
Thirty-seven Bulgarian companies and institutes and
more than 20 companies from the United States of
America,
the Russian Federation, Germany, France,
Belgium, Finland, Spain,
the Czech Republic and the
Slovak Republic participated in the implementation of the
programme. A consortium of
regulatory bodies and
independent expert organizations of member States of the
European Union has been set up to render technical and
expert assistance to the Bulgarian regulatory body in the
field of the safe use of nuclear energy and in licensing the
units after their restructuring and upgrading.
The Kozloduy nuclear-power plant is a successful
example of efficient
international cooperation aimed at
solving safety-related problems. The coordinating role of
the IAEA in this cooperation is of paramount importance
and we intend to develop nuclear power further while
strictly observing safety rules and in close cooperation with
the Agency.
34th meeting
17 October 1994
introductory
complemented by the very important
statement by Director General Hans Blix on the Agency’s
activities in 1993, offers a reassuring image of the
outstanding role played by the IAEA in the development
of international cooperation for the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy and in the strengthening of the nuclear
non-proliferation regime.
The Agency’s work and
initiatives, carefully pondered and developed, deserve full
recognition and support.
The Romanian Government is grateful to the Agency
and its member States possessing high technology in the
peaceful application of nuclear energy for the various
forms of assistance they have provided.
For our
programme on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy,
supported by such high-level technology as the Canadian
deuterium-uranium reactors,
transparent
international cooperation is essential. We give high
priority to the Agency’s activities in applying safeguards
to the peaceful uses of nuclear power.
Thus, my
Government subscribes to the guidelines of the Nuclear
Suppliers’ Group and to those relating to the transfer of
nuclear technologies and materials, including those with
a dual use.
perfectly
to the IAEA,
I should like to express the deep gratitude of the
the European
Bulgarian Government
Commission, other
institutions and the
Governments of friendly States for their help, which has
guaranteed the reliable and safe operation of our nuclear-
power-generating capacities.
international
In parallel with efforts aimed at further improving the
safety of our nuclear-power plants, we will continue to
broaden the application of nuclear methods in other areas,
such as agriculture and medicine. We will rely on the
assistance of the Agency in the implementation of specific
projects in these areas. For its part, Bulgaria will do its
best to contribute to the successful implementation of the
Agency’s programmes
and
cooperation.
assistance
technical
for
In conclusion, allow me once again to express the high
appreciation and unreserved support of
the Bulgarian
Government for the role and activities of the Agency in
promoting international cooperation in the use of nuclear
energy for peaceful purposes and in efficient control over
the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Mr. Chirila (Romania):
the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for 1993,
report of
The
6
to
on
are
the Treaty
now parties
The peaceful uses of nuclear energy continue to be
faced with serious challenges. Despite some discouraging
signs, positive trends towards the establishment of a
genuinely universal nuclear non-proliferation regime have
continued over the past two years. All nuclear-weapon
States
the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). South
Africa has abandoned its nuclear-weapons programme,
thus offering prospects for
the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone on the African continent. Latin
America is also emerging as a nuclear-weapon-free
continent. In view of the 1995 NPT review and extension
Conference,
these facts are very promising. May I
reiterate, in this context, that Romania is deeply interested
in and committed to achieving the universality of the NPT
and supports the unconditional and indefinite extension of
this Treaty. We urge all States that have not yet done so
to become parties to the NPT and to conclude full-scope
safeguards agreements with the IAEA.
The activities and decisions of the recent IAEA
General Conference offer a meaningful picture of the
responsibilities assumed and action taken by the Agency
for promoting the
in carrying out
non-proliferation regime.
resolutions and
decisions were adopted on such specific issues as
and improving the
strengthening the
its mandate
effectiveness
Important
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
efficiency of the safeguards system; the implementation of
the agreement between the Agency and the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea for
the application of
in connection with the Treaty on the
safeguards
Non-Proliferation
a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa; the implementation of
Security Council resolutions 687 (1991), 707 (1991) and
715 (1991) relating to Iraq; the application of Agency
safeguards in the Middle East; and measures against illicit
trafficking in nuclear material.
of Nuclear Weapons;
Romania is very appreciative of the work done so far
by the Agency and its recent additional steps towards a
strengthened and more cost-effective safeguards system.
The purpose of such an endeavour is clear:
to make the
safeguards system more capable of covering both declared
and undeclared activities,
thus providing sufficiently
convincing assurances for all States about the exclusively
peaceful nature of the nuclear programmes of other States.
An important additional serious challenge to the
international non-proliferation system is the illicit traffic in
nuclear material. Here, in our opinion, urgent domestic and
international action is necessary. We support the idea of
establishing an international register for fissile material. An
emerging IAEA task relevant to this context would be to
facilitate the exchange of safety-related information.
The outstanding role of
the Agency in the
implementation of basic provisions of the NPT were once
again acknowledged on the occasion of the third session of
the Preparatory Committee for
the 1995 review and
extension Conference, at which the Agency’s work in
preparing this important event was highly appreciated.
In a world which needs energy and is at the same time
concerned about the risks of environmental deterioration,
high priority must be given to nuclear safety and radiation
protection. The expanded nuclear-safety programme, which
was adopted after the Chernobyl accident, has had positive
effects.
We continue to be seriously concerned over the status
of certain old nuclear reactors situated in our region. The
IAEA has made remarkable efforts to assess and improve
their safety and we hope that these efforts will continue.
As for us,
the Romanian Government wishes to
reaffirm its determination to complete the Cernavoda
nuclear-power
complying with
international safety standards. Romania is already a party
to the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear
plant while
strictly
34th meeting
17 October 1994
Damage and the Joint Protocol relating to the application
of the Vienna and Paris Conventions. At the last session
of the IAEA General Conference, my country signed the
Convention on Nuclear Safety. We support the idea of a
special convention on the safety of radioactive waste.
Draft resolution A/49/L.2, sponsored by a large
number of delegations, including my own, reflects in an
adequate and balanced manner the state of affairs in such
a responsible and sensitive area as that of the IAEA
activities. Recent, and especially future, challenges for
the Agency and its member States are reflected in this
document. We hope that it will be adopted by consensus.
On behalf of
Mr. Adekanye (Nigeria):
the
delegation of Nigeria, I wish to thank the Director
General of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) for his introductory statement highlighting the
Agency’s achievements in the past year, as well as the
challenges
Those
achievements detailed in the annual report for 1993 reflect
the widespread support for the Agency’s programmes
among Member States. They reflect also the continuing
commitment of Mr. Hans Blix and his able staff to the
goals of the Agency, for which we are equally grateful.
in the coming years.
faces
it
techniques
the Agency’s
in areas as varied as
Nigeria has followed with keen interest the gradual
strengthening of
technical-cooperation
activities in pursuit of the original "Atoms for Peace"
vision which underlay its establishment. The Agency has
consolidated those activities through the application of
insect
molecular
eradication, potable-water development
and water-
resources management, and genetic improvement of food
crops. It has expanded the horizons of nuclear techniques
through food irradiation and is now in the process of
placing great emphasis on staple foods, as part of a joint
effort with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
to strengthen food security in developing countries,
including those in Africa. Its contributions in the areas of
medicine and industry have enhanced the development of
indigenous capabilities in applied radiation biology and
radiotherapy
and
technological content of industry in recipient countries.
Trainees in the Agency’s Seibersdorf laboratory have
become counterparts in technical-cooperation projects.
strengthened
scientific
and
the
It is reassuring to observe that, in response to the
requests of Member States,
the
Agency’s technical-assistance programme is now based on
their national development priorities and is in consonance
sustainable development and
with the demands of
the formulation of
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
environmental protection. The technical-cooperation model
project concept, warmly embraced by Member States,
symbolizes the new orientation that should ensure more
tangible benefits from nuclear techniques for developing
countries. The fact that these efforts to implement technical
assistance projects are being pursued in close collaboration
with other agencies, including the Food and Agriculture
Organization and the World Health Organization (WHO),
is a source of great satisfaction, as is the attempt to address
the specific needs of vulnerable groups in the area of
human health and nutrition. They merit great support.
The expansion of the Agency’s desirable role would
be hampered without adequate resources. The case for
more secure and assured funding for those activities has
never been in doubt. A growing awareness of the need in
the post-cold-war era to shift
the focus away from
proliferation to peaceful uses of nuclear energy calls for the
political will to place those activities on a firmer footing.
In urging Member States to cooperate in identifying more
meaningful ways of funding technical-cooperation activities,
we wish to join the appeal for more pledges to the
Technical Assistance and Cooperation Fund and for
payments to be made in full and in a timely manner.
Permit me, in this connection, to place on record our
appreciation to a number of Africa’s development partners
that have continued to fund projects identified under the
African Regional Cooperation Agreement for Research,
Development and Training Related to Nuclear Science and
Technology (AFRA).
The increased participation, as
observers, of some important donor countries in the last
AFRA meeting, in Rabat, Morocco, last April, gives us
hope that more States members of the Agency will join us
in the fulfilment of AFRA’s objectives.
As a State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), my country highly values the
Agency’s safeguards role in sustaining trust and confidence
in the non-proliferation regime. That is why we have
provided unflinching support to the Agency in its efforts to
ensure that non-proliferation undertakings made by NPT
States parties under safeguards agreements are complied
with. We are pleased to note that in the course of the year,
except for one instance, safeguards agreements in force in
116 Member States, of which 100 are States parties to the
NPT, performed satisfactorily. We
commend the
professionalism with which the Agency’s inspectors carried
out these tasks, and hereby reiterate our conviction that
clear and unambiguous support for the Agency’s safeguards
system and the fulfilment of commitments thereunder
8
34th meeting
17 October 1994
remain essential
stability.
in strengthening regional peace and
impose additional
Inevitably, the increased membership of the Agency,
the process of disarmament, and regional non-proliferation
needs will
responsibilities on the
safeguards system. We are encouraged to note that, in
anticipation of this development, new approaches are
already being considered by the Board of Governors.
Also, proposals under a new programme - "Programme
‘93+2’" - which is the result of a recommendation of the
Director General’s Standing Advisory Group
on
Safeguards Implementation (SAGSI), are now undergoing
trial
Focusing on the
efficiency and effectiveness of safeguards practices, those
proposals, when
strengthen
transparency and openness.
tests in selected countries.
implemented, would
on our
abiding commitment
Nigeria’s active participation in the regional efforts
to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Africa is
predicated
to non-
proliferation in our region and in the world at large. We
note with satisfaction that after a number of productive
sessions by the United Nations/Organization of African
Unity Group of Experts, a draft African nuclear-weapon-
free-zone treaty is in the process of being finalized. The
verification role envisaged for the Agency in the draft
treaty reflects confidence in its safeguards system, as well
as our appreciation of
the benefits that an assured
peaceful use of nuclear energy would bring for our
development. Similar verification functions would be
assigned
proposed
comprehensive test-ban treaty as well as the cut-off
convention called for by the Assembly in its resolution
last year. The Agency’s proven expertise, accumulated
over the years, will serve us all well in confronting those
challenges.
the Agency
to
under
the
nuclear
industry
A safe, well-regulated
is
indispensable for the security and well-being of peoples
of all States. Nigeria has therefore welcomed well-
conceived measures by Member States to strengthen
nuclear safety world-wide. The unanimous adoption of
the Convention on Nuclear Safety at a diplomatic
conference in Vienna last June represents one such
initiative, and my country was one of the first signatories
of that Convention in the course of the thirty-eighth
session of
the IAEA General Conference. As an
incentive Convention, it appears to have modest goals.
However, the international community can, and indeed
must, build upon this achievement and complete the
negotiation of a nuclear liability convention which will
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
establish a new international liability regime. That would
increase public confidence in the nuclear industry.
As one of the countries which have subscribed to the
code of practice on the international movement of
radioactive waste, my country appreciates ongoing efforts
to evaluate the health and environmental risks posed by the
dumping of high-level radioactive wastes in the Arctic
Ocean. The Agency’s programme of strengthening waste
management practices within national boundaries should be
complemented at the international level by cooperation to
frustrate continuing attempts by unscrupulous merchants of
death to dump radioactive wastes and toxic substances in
the high seas. Closely related is the urgent need to
confront
the new trend in the trafficking of nuclear
materials. We are encouraged that at the last General
Conference member States identified some measures to be
taken to combat this phenomenon. It is our hope that this
common resolve will enable us to find a long-term solution
to the problem of nuclear waste, for which the time is
indeed ripe.
The Agency needs to adapt its principal policy-making
organs to the demands of our times. Conceived at the
height of the cold war,
the provisions of its Statute
governing representation on the Board of Governors need
urgent revision to reflect new and important developments
and the expansion in the membership of the Agency. We
urge member States not to allow current divergences of
approach to the subject to detract from the merit of a
solution that will make the Agency inclusive as well as
address the deserved case of the African region.
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran):
The
delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran notes with
satisfaction the annual report of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) for 1993, which summarizes the
significant achievements of the Agency during the year in
question. We thank Mr. Blix, the Director General of the
IAEA, for his thorough and informative statement featuring
the progress as well as the challenges in the activities of the
Agency during the year. Director General Blix and the
IAEA secretariat are to be commended for the commitment
and
their
responsibilities.
dedication with which
they
carry
out
34th meeting
17 October 1994
payments in a timely manner. At the same time, we
believe that in view of the present budgetary constraints
the key objective should be cost-effectiveness.
Another issue in the activities of the Agency during
this period has been the development of a strengthened
safeguards regime.
Iran, as an original signatory of the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), has always adhered to
the Agency’s safeguards and will continue to support their
effectiveness. Our Government has pursued an open and
transparent policy in this respect, and, based on this
policy, took the initiative to invite the Agency twice to
visit the nuclear facilities in Iran and to verify their
peaceful utilization. Subsequently IAEA missions visited
Iran in February 1992 and November 1993, and
verifications were established to the satisfaction of the
Agency.
We commend the efforts of the Agency in enhancing
nuclear safety and radiation protection, particularly in the
countries of the former USSR. In this regard, a matter of
great concern for Middle Eastern countries is the
continued operation of the unsafeguarded, antiquated and
entirely non-peaceful Dimona nuclear reactor in Israel.
We call upon the international community, and the IAEA
in particular,
to address this problem urgently and
effectively.
It should be recalled that it was only South Africa’s
accession to the NPT and the IAEA safeguards regime
which made the African nuclear-weapon-free zone a
reality. A parallel exists in the case of the Middle East.
As long as Israel, with the full support of certain Powers,
refuses to accede to the NPT and the IAEA safeguards
regime,
the Middle East nuclear-weapon-free zone
remains a distant goal. In this respect, the decision of the
thirty-eighth session of the General Conference of the
IAEA to restore technical assistance to Israel is nothing
but a reward to a nuclear proliferator and tacit approval
Iran, as a
of that regime’s access to nuclear weapons.
country that
the
establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the
Middle East, continues to support that initiative and is
prepared to consider any constructive idea for
its
realization under United Nations auspices.
in 1974 initiated the proposal
for
We have given serious consideration to the Agency’s
report for 1993.
It is very unfortunate that the Agency
continues to operate under financial constraints which in
turn have had adverse effects on some of its important
programmes. We urge member States to take their
financial obligations more seriously and to make their
The Islamic Republic of
Iran attaches great
importance to international cooperation in the peaceful
application of nuclear energy and has pursued with great
interest the Agency’s promotional role in this field. My
delegation appreciates the useful technical cooperation the
Agency extends to member States in the peaceful uses of
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
nuclear energy in the field of agriculture, industry and
medicine.
However, exceptional cases of the violation of IAEA
safeguards in the recent past have provided an excuse for
certain nuclear-weapon States and some other industrialized
countries to undermine the statutory tasks and obligations
of the Agency and to infringe more than before upon the
inalienable rights of the parties to the NPT, including the
Islamic Republic of Iran, whose modest peaceful nuclear
activities have always been approved by the Agency.
The 1995 NPT review and extension Conference
provides a good opportunity to address the violations of the
provisions of the Treaty by a number of nuclear-weapon
States and other industrialized countries. We hope that the
IAEA and the United Nations Secretariat, based on the
decision of the Preparatory Committee for the 1995 review
and extension Conference, will prepare comprehensive
documents on the implementation of the provisions of the
preambular and operative parts of the NPT.
In conclusion, allow me once again to extend our
appreciation of and support for the IAEA in its efforts to
promote international cooperation in the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy and the non-proliferation of nuclear
weapons.
Mr. Hou Zhitong
(China)(interpretation
from
Chinese): The Chinese delegation has listened attentively
to the statement made by Mr. Hans Blix, Director General
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and
has taken note of the Agency’s annual report.
in
some
success
promoting
In the past year the IAEA has done useful work and
achieved
international
cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and in
preventing nuclear proliferation. The Chinese delegation
wishes to express its appreciation for the contributions
made by the States members of the IAEA and to its
Director General, Mr. Blix, and the Agency’s secretariat.
The international community welcomes the conclusion
of the International Convention on Nuclear Safety.
It is
hoped that the Convention will play an important role in
maintaining the safety of nuclear facilities and promote
international cooperation in nuclear safety and radiological
protection.
We are also pleased to note that with the support of
Member States the financial situation of the IAEA has
taken a favourable turn as the result of the overall increases
10
34th meeting
17 October 1994
of resources allocated in particular to technical assistance
and cooperation. This is undoubtedly conducive to the
economic and social development of developing Member
States.
It is also heartening to note that an increasing
number of Member States are turning to the IAEA for
help in formulating their energy and nuclear-power plans
and in conducting feasibility studies.
Meanwhile, it is commendable that the IAEA has
provided assistance in the area of nuclear safety to some
countries in Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of
Independent States, with tangible results.
In order to
increase the effectiveness of the safeguards system the
IAEA secretariat
is now devoting its efforts to the
developments and experiments of the "93+2" programme.
It
that programme will achieve its
intended effects.
is our hope that
it
is
to
this,
obvious
Notwithstanding
the
international community that the imbalance between the
promotional and regulatory functions of the IAEA still
exists and that many of the legitimate aspirations and
demands of the many developing Member States have
failed to receive adequate attention.
The Chinese
delegation hopes that
the IAEA will conduct more
consultations with those countries and work out with them
a development strategy for technical assistance and ways
and means to achieve cooperation in order to facilitate
effective international cooperation in the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy.
China has always stood for a complete ban on and
total destruction of nuclear weapons and an early
realization of a nuclear-weapon-free world. China, as a
contracting party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and a State member of the
IAEA, has made positive contributions to the prevention
of nuclear proliferation and the promotion of international
cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The
Chinese Government maintains that all nuclear-weapon
States should unconditionally declare their intention not
to be the first
to use nuclear weapons and should
immediately negotiate and conclude a treaty to that effect
and that all nuclear-weapon States should undertake not
to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-
nuclear-weapon States and nuclear-weapon-free zones.
The Chinese Government also supports the adoption of a
convention on a complete ban on all nuclear weapons,
under which all nuclear-weapon States will commit
themselves to the total destruction of
their nuclear
weapons.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is China’s consistent position that, in addition to
efforts to prevent nuclear proliferation and promote nuclear
disarmament, efforts should also be made actively to
enhance international cooperation in the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy. China is in favour of strengthening the
safeguards system by improving its effectiveness and
efficiency. However, the related measures should be fair,
objective, reasonable, transparent, practical and in strict
compliance with
relevant
international legal instruments so as to ensure that the
sovereignty of States is respected and their rights and
obligations balanced.
IAEA Statutes
the
and
The Chinese Government has always attached great
importance to its cooperation with the Agency. In addition
to paying its contributions in due time, China has also made
donations. In order to support the Agency in its technical
assistance to and cooperation with developing countries, the
Chinese Government has decided to donate an additional
sum of $1 million to the Agency.
The firm policy of the Chinese Government is to
promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and to make
nuclear energy better serve China’s economic and social
development and benefit
the Chinese people. China’s
industry has entered a new stage of
nuclear-power
development. The Qinshan 300-megawatt nuclear-power
station had started operation, and the second phase of that
project is under full construction. Guangdong’s Daya Bay
nuclear-power station has also started commercial operation.
It is estimated that by the year 2000 China will have
developed several more nuclear-power stations with a total
generating capacity of 8,000 to 10,000 megawatts.
In its
development of its nuclear-power industry, China will
continue to take an active part
in mutually beneficial
international cooperation.
Peace and development are the common goals of the
people of all countries in the world. In this connection the
international community has great expectations of the
Agency. China is prepared to work with other countries for
the smooth performance of
important
missions and to make new contributions to peace and
development.
the Agency’s
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): The fundamental resolution of the nuclear issue on
the Korean peninsula is of great importance in defusing the
tensions and establishing a lasting peace on the Korean
peninsula.
34th meeting
17 October 1994
The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is a
political and military issue to be resolved bilaterally by
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the
United States of America, in view of the background of
its origin, its nature and its substance.
It is from this point of view that the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea has maintained its consistent
position that the nuclear issue should be resolved through
dialogue and negotiations between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States.
As is already known,
the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea declared its withdrawal from the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT) in accordance with the relevant paragraph of the
Treaty by exercising its sovereignty. However, we
suspended its implementation when the United States
requested us to do so during the first round of the talks
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and
the United States. This has accordingly placed our
country in a special status.
Since we have stated the background details on
several occasions in the past, I wish to avoid further
elaboration of this issue.
We have made sincere, good-faith efforts to resolve
the nuclear issue with magnanimity, even under our
special status. We made arrangements for a sufficient
number of inspections by the IEAE necessary for the
continuation of the safeguards and even permitted, last
May, additional
inspections commensurate with our
special status.
However, some elements of the IAEA abused our
good faith and our magnanimity, thus displaying ever-
greater partiality and placed more pressure upon us,
thereby creating difficulties and complications in the
resolution of the issue. Worse still, they forced us to
open military sites, insisting upon a "special inspection",
and went as far as to enforce the adoption of the
resolution on sanctions against our country at the meeting
last June of the IAEA’s Board of Governors, despite
opposition from many countries.
Such attempts led us to conclude that the pressure
against our country would continue to increase and that
our peaceful nuclear activities would be impeded if we
continued to remain tied to the partial framework of the
IAEA.
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The forcible adoption of the unreasonable "resolution
on sanctions" against our country constitutes a gross
infringement of
the dignity and sovereignty of our
Republic, which holds independence as dear as life itself.
Our people will not tolerate any humiliation at the expense
of national sovereignty and dignity. Therefore, on June 13
of this year, we took the step of withdrawing from the
IAEA.
Even after withdrawing from the IAEA, we have
maintained our consistent stand that a negotiated solution
should be sought to the nuclear issue through talks between
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United
States of America, not through confrontation, in response to
the desires and expectations of the peace-loving peoples of
the world.
Comrade Kim Il Sung, the great leader of our people,
in his meeting with Mr. Jimmy Carter, former President of
the United States, when he visited our country in June this
year, said that confidence-building between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of
America had been vital to the resolution of the nuclear
issue. In addition, he put forward an important proposal for
bridging the impasse between the two countries and
fundamentally resolving the nuclear issue.
Accordingly, we allowed Agency inspectors to remain
and to continue
the
continuation of the safeguards. The Director General of the
Agency referred to this in his report to the September
meeting of the Board of Governors of the IAEA.
inspections necessary for
the
34th meeting
17 October 1994
to trade and investment, as a move towards
normalization of political and economic relations.
full
Our willingness
to freeze graphite-moderated
reactors is an expression of our firm pledge to resolve the
nuclear issue and a demonstration of the transparency and
credibility of our denuclearization policy, which is aimed
at the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
After the announcement of the agreed statement, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United
States held expert-level talks in Pyongyang and Berlin,
respectively, in early September and are continuing their
ongoing negotiations, thus moving towards the actual
implementation of the agreed statement.
The world has now recognized that the talks and
negotiations between the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the United States are the only means of
resolving the nuclear issue, and it welcomed the agreed
statement between the two countries, looking forward to
fruitful results in the process of the talks and negotiations.
We have no doubt that, if the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States implement the
agreed statement in good faith, this will build confidence
between the two countries and eventually lead to the
effective resolution of
issue and other
outstanding issues,
to be followed by an easing of
tensions on the Korean peninsula and by epoch-making
progress in ensuring peace and security in Asia and the
rest of the world.
the nuclear
resolving the nuclear
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the
United States reached an agreement on the clear and final
objectives of
issue and other
outstanding issues at the third round of the talks held
between the two countries held in Geneva on 12 August
1994. One of the important points of the agreement is that
we
our
graphite-moderated reactors
the foundation of our
independent nuclear-power industry - and that the United
States committed itself to arranging to provide appropriate
light-water reactors and commensurate compensation for the
loss of energy sources resulting from the freeze on our
recent graphite-moderated reactors.
our willingness
expressed
to
freeze
-
The United States also expressed its willingness to
discontinue its nuclear threats and hostile acts against our
country, and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
and the United States agreed to establish diplomatic
representation in each other’s capitals and to reduce barriers
12
adoption of
and forced the
Some circles, however,
that still retain outdated
concepts and the mentality of
the cold war, have
attempted to renew the pressure against us. They placed
the so-called nuclear issue - unreasonably - on the agenda
of the thirty-eighth General Conference of the IAEA, held
last September,
the
"resolution" despite opposition from many countries.
Furthermore, we find it annoying that they are trying to
adopt a resolution on the "nuclear issue", clamouring
about
the "transparency of past nuclear activities", a
"return to the NPT" and a "special inspection", even at
this meeting to consider the report of the International
Atomic Energy Agency. Such acts will only help create
obstacles in the ongoing talks between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States and
aggravate the tensions on the Korean peninsula. This
"nuclear issue" of ours, in view of its character, is not an
issue to be considered at the United Nations.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The United Nations should question the partiality of
the IAEA and its application of a double standard that
compelled the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to
pull out of the NPT and even to withdraw from the
Agency, if it wishes to discuss the nuclear issue on the
Korean peninsula. This notwithstanding, any attempt to
adopt a resolution in this United Nations forum, while
disregarding our sincere efforts, would be a totally
unreasonable act, detrimental to the principles and purposes
of the Charter of the United Nations.
Therefore, we strongly denounce the adoption of a
resolution as an insidious political offensive aimed at
increasing international pressure against us.
It is being
claimed that the attempts to adopt a resolution at this
session, followed by the thirty-eighth General Conference
of the IAEA, are a reflection of the will of the international
community. However, this is nothing but a pretext to cover
up, in the name of the international community, the political
purposes of a few countries.
Such unreasonable acts on the part of some countries
are designed to trample the sovereignty of other countries
and nations, and are based on the idea of maximizing their
interests. Therefore, the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea will never recognize such acts as the will of the
international community.
34th meeting
17 October 1994
Having reiterated our position, we express our
expectation that representatives hoping for a negotiated
and peaceful solution to the nuclear issue on the Korean
peninsula will give our position their full support.
I should like to make a few remarks on the
statements made by the representatives of the German,
Hungarian and other delegations.
The whole process of talks and negotiations between
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the
United States clearly indicates that the nuclear issue on
the Korean peninsula can be resolved only through
dialogue and negotiation and that any pressure put on one
party to the dialogue could create difficulties and
complications in the proceedings - even return the nuclear
issue to the original state of confrontation. It should be
clearly understood that ordinary military sites cannot be
the object of special inspection and that any attempt at
such inspection would constitute a flagrant violation of
the sovereignty and supreme interests of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.
Furthermore, we have never accepted, and will never
accept, the right to special inspection of military sites in
the future. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
will never sell off its interests under pressure.
We hold that this sacred forum, where peace-loving,
independent and sovereign States come together to discuss
the ways and means of accomplishing a noble desire of
humankind, should not be used as a political tool by some
countries bent on dominating and stifling small and weak
countries. Anyone who has a sincere desire to see the
nuclear issue resolved should not resort to pressure but
should encourage the talks between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of
America and implementation of the agreed statement by
those two countries.
Anyone who is really interested in finding a solution
to the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and to the
question of the maintenance of peace and security in Asia
and the rest of the world should not support blindly the
power politics of the big countries. Rather, they should
take a fair stand that is conducive to resolution of the
issue, encourage the parties concerned to achieve
agreement at the earliest possible moment and refrain
from any attempt to introduce obstacles to the process of
the ongoing talks between the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States of America.
The adoption of a resolution against the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea at this meeting will only create
complications and difficulties in the process of the bilateral
talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
and the United States of America and, furthermore, bring
the nuclear issue back to the original state of confrontation.
Therefore we demand that the paragraphs in draft resolution
A/49/L.2 that could be an obstacle to these talks be deleted
and be replaced with paragraphs welcoming the agreed
statement between the two countries and encouraging its
full implementation.
I should like to make a few points in response to the
statement made by the representative of Japan.
It
is well known that Japan is one of the few
countries that are expediting their nuclear programmes
even since the end of the cold war. The world is now
seriously concerned about
the stockpiling of a large
quantity of plutonium by Japan. According to data
released by the Japanese Science and Technology Agency,
it has already stockpiled 1.6 tonnes of plutonium at home
and 2.9 tonnes abroad and by the year 2010 will possess
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
50 tonnes - a quantity large enough to make more than
6,200 nuclear bombs.
The annual capacity of Japan’s reprocessing plant is
800 tonnes - the largest in the world. By the end of the
present century Japan will rank third in the world - after the
United States and France - in reprocessing capacity. It is an
open secret that Japan has already developed not only an
electronic detonating device and other components for the
manufacture of nuclear bombs
associated
technology but also the means of long-range nuclear
delivery, which could be used as intercontinental ballistic
missiles.
and for
Japan’s undisguised ambition in the field of nuclear
armaments is more clearly revealed in an official document
that was submitted to the International Court of Justice. In
this document the Japanese Government overtly asserts that
the use of nuclear weapons does not
contravene
international law. This means that Japan would not hesitate
to inflict a nuclear holocaust on humankind.
All these facts indicate that Japan’s progress in the
field of nuclear armaments has reached a dangerous pace.
Japan’s acceleration in this field is creating an obstacle to
the process of denuclearizing the Korean peninsula, and it
poses a grave threat not only to regional peace and security
but also to the international non-proliferation system.
is the view not
For those reasons it
just of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea but of the world
that Japan is not entitled to talk about other countries’
activities in the nuclear field. Japan’s forcing of the issue
in respect of the nuclear issue concerning our country is a
clumsy and desperate attempt to direct the world’s attention
away from its nuclear-armaments programme to other
issues. Therefore my delegation strongly urges Japan to
make public and to abandon its nuclear-armaments scheme
and to invite the International Atomic Energy Agency to
inspect its undeclared nuclear activities, instead of trying to
meddle in other issues.
I am compelled to refer to the statement on the
nuclear issue made by the representative of South Korea.
Although the South Korean authorities have no power at all
with regard to resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean
peninsula, it is hopelessly in a hurry to meddle in that
process, not knowing where to sit and where to stand. The
South Korean authorities are clamouring for inter-Korean
dialogue to be held before the talks between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of
thermal power
America. The point
is being made that
14
34th meeting
17 October 1994
stations should be provided instead of light-water reactors,
and that clarification of past nuclear activities should be
a precondition to the provision of light-water reactors.
The aim is to block progress in the talks between the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United
States of America.
Recent activities of the South Korean authorities are
intended, by all means, to continue their development of
nuclear weapons while poking their noses into the talks
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and
the United States of America, with the sole aim of
obstructing them. It is an open secret that South Korea is
now developing nuclear weapons under the patronage of
the United States and some other Western countries.
South Korea has already stockpiled a great quantity of
plutonium, has concluded a contract on its importation
with the United Kingdom and France and - worse still -
has recently brought a heavy-water reactor into operation.
It should refrain from any attempt to block the talks
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and
the United Sates of America, even if it is not happy with
the ongoing process.
We believe that resolution of the nuclear issue on
the Korean Peninsula through the talks that are under
way, which are now going in the right direction, would be
beneficial to South Korea as well as to the entire Korean
people. It is from this point of view that I urge the South
Korean authorities
Joint
Declaration of
the Korean
peninsula, make known to the international community its
plan for the development of nuclear weapons, and accept
IAEA inspections.
the Denuclearization of
to implement
fully the
I also urge the South Korean authorities to act in the
interests of our nation, in a spirit of national independence
- discarding its dependence on foreign forces and on
confrontation between the North and the South of Korea.
The President (interpretation from French): A
number of representatives have asked to speak in exercise
of the right of reply. I remind members that, pursuant to
decision 34/401, statements in exercise of the right of
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention
and five minutes for the second, and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Takahashi (Japan): The arguments raised by
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea with regard
to Japan are totally groundless and cannot be regarded as
anything but vicious propaganda. Japan, which is poor in
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
energy resources, utilizes nuclear fuel that is extracted by
processing plutonium from spent fuel. By doing so, Japan
anticipates that it will be able to maintain a stable supply of
energy through nuclear-power generation.
remains
committed to handling the waste contained in spent fuel in
a safe and appropriate manner. Japan uses such materials
strictly for peaceful purposes and in accordance with the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT)
and with domestic laws and regulations.
It
The peaceful use of atomic energy in Japan is also
guaranteed and verified by the IAEA’s comprehensive
safeguards. Furthermore, Japan strictly upholds its three
non-nuclear principles of not possessing or producing
nuclear weapons or introducing them into its territory. That
Japan would develop and possess nuclear weapons is
inconceivable.
Again, we urge the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea to implement the full-scope safeguards agreement
immediately.
Mr. Chong-Ha Yoo (Republic of Korea):
I shall
confine my statement in exercise of the right of reply to
essential matters. Most of
the
representative of the DPRK made does not, in my view,
deserve a response.
I would like to say that the Republic
of Korea is supportive of the negotiations being carried out
in Geneva between the DPRK and the United States of
America.
the statement
that
34th meeting
17 October 1994
talks between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
and the United States of America and who are attempting
to poke their noses into those talks with a view to putting
the brakes on the talks by any means.
It is truly ironic that those who have yet to pay an
external debt equivalent to several tens of billions are
talking about assistance to other countries.
It would be
better for the South Korean authorities to refrain from
pouring cold water on the process of the talks between
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the
United States of America, but rather to open to the public
their secret nuclear programme and scrap it, and to take
an independent position not relying on outside forces.
Regarding the remarks by Japan, I urge the Japanese
delegation not to make poor excuses.
I urge Japan to
give up its wild ambition to become a nuclear Power and
a military Power.
Mr. Takahashi (Japan):
I would like to reiterate
my previous statement that the arguments raised by the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea with regard to
Japan are totally groundless and cannot be regarded as
It is futile for the
anything but vicious propaganda.
DPRK to attempt
the
international community about its nuclear activities. We
urge North Korea not
to waste time by engaging in
meaningless arguments and propaganda.
to allay the suspicions of
With regard to nuclear
these facilities and activities are under
facilities, materials and
activities in the Republic of Korea, we want to reiterate that
all
full-scope
inspection of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA)
in accordance with the safeguards agreement
concluded between the IAEA and the Republic of Korea;
therefore, complete transparency with regard to their
peaceful nature is guaranteed.
We should like to state again that the Government of
the Republic of Korea is fully committed to the South-
North Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula signed between the DPRK and the
Republic of Korea in 1991.
Mr. Kim Jae Hom (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): The South Korean authorities, who have no say at
all about foreign nuclear weapons deployed on their own
land, are now harping on the nuclear issue. This is nothing
but dishonest behaviour by those who feel frustration over
their poor position of being inched out of the way of the
Mr. Kim Jae Hom (Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea): Regarding the Japanese remarks, I once again
call upon Japan not
to make poor excuses in this
Assembly.
I urge Japan to give up its wild, big nuclear
schemes, and to give up its wild ambition to lecture other
Asian countries. Otherwise, Japan will not enjoy a place
in the international community.
The President (interpretation from French):
I
would like to inform members that action on the draft
resolution on agenda item 14 will be taken at
the
afternoon meeting on Wednesday, 19 October 1994.
Programme of work
The President (interpretation from French):
I
the General
would also like to inform members that
Assembly will
take up agenda item 152, entitled
"Observer status for the International Federation of Red
in the General
Cross and Red Crescent Societies
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Assembly," at the afternoon meeting on Wednesday, 19
October 1994.
Agenda item 151
Observer status for the South Pacific Forum in the
General Assembly
Draft resolution (A/49/L.1)
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on the representative of Australia to introduce draft
resolution A/49/L.1.
Mr. Butler (Australia): As this is the first occasion
on which I have come to the rostrum under your
presidency, Sir, may I renew the warm congratulations
expressed to you by my Foreign Minister, Senator Evans,
when he spoke in the Assembly on 3 October 1994.
In Australia’s capacity as Chair of the South Pacific
Forum for 1994-1995, it is my honour to introduce, on
behalf of the sponsors, the draft resolution contained in
document A/49/L.l of 11 October 1994, under which the
General Assembly would decide to invite the South Pacific
Forum to participate in the sessions and work of the
General Assembly in the capacity of observer.
The draft resolution has been sponsored on behalf of
the South Pacific Forum by the nine States members of the
Forum that are also Members of the United Nations -
namely Australia, the Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji,
Marshall
Islands, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and Western Samoa.
Those sponsors have been joined by 99 other Member
States as co-sponsors. The list of sponsors is contained in
document A/49/L.l; to the list should be added Brunei
Darussalam, Croatia, Gabon, Madagascar and Pakistan.
This makes a total of 113 Member States sponsoring the
draft resolution. On behalf of all the members of the South
Pacific Forum, I wish to thank the co-sponsors, which
represent all the regions of the world, for their strong and
positive support of the South Pacific Forum’s request for
observer status.
The South Pacific Forum, which first met in 1971, is
or
political grouping
the
It meets
self-governing States in the South Pacific.
annually, at Heads of Government
to develop
level,
collective responses on a wide range of regional issues,
including trade, economic development, civil aviation and
15 independent
the
of
16
34th meeting
17 October 1994
maritime issues, telecommunications, energy, and political
and security matters.
the South Pacific
Forum maintains a dialogue, following each Heads of
Government meeting, with a number of external
Governments and organizations.
In addition,
The South Pacific Forum is supported by the Forum
secretariat, which has its headquarters in Suva, Fiji, and
was first established as an international organization
pursuant to the 1973 Agreement establishing the South
Pacific Bureau for Economic Cooperation. The Forum
secretariat is headed by a secretary-general, and it is a
very great honour to have with us today the Honourable
Ieremia Tabai, the current Secretary-General, who has
come to New York for the consideration of the Forum’s
request for observer status.
The Forum is seeking observer status at the General
Assembly on terms similar to those that have been
prescribed in respect of other associations of States. The
decision taken by the South Pacific Forum at its meeting
in Brisbane, Australia,
this year to seek
observer status at
the General Assembly reflects the
commitment by the Governments of the States members
of
regional organization to develop a closer
relationship with the United Nations.
in August
this
Since its inception, the Forum has played a vital role
in promoting closer cooperation and consideration of a
range of issues of direct relevance to the South Pacific
region and beyond. The range of issues currently on the
Forum’s agenda - issues that are also on the global
agenda - are indicated in the communiqué that was
adopted by the Heads of State and Government following
the Brisbane meeting.
This communiqué has been
circulated as General Assembly document A/49/381.
The theme for the 1994 Forum was "Managing our
Resources". This encompassed consideration of
the
development of human resources in the region, managing
forestry resources and their exploitation, the development
land-use
of
concerns
sustainable
development, and the growth of tourism.
fisheries and their associated industries,
relationship
their
and
to
The Forum also focused on the need to adopt a
global perspective in regard to the development of
economic policies; the importance of environmental issues
in the Pacific region, such as climate change and sea level
effective
rise;
implementation
of
the
recommendations of the Programme of Action of the
conservation;
the
Pacific
biodiversity
in
and
region
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
34th meeting
17 October 1994
Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of
Small Island Developing States.
welcome the South Pacific Forum as a Permanent
Observer in the General Assembly.
the Forum was
An important outcome of
the
endorsement of the report of a ministerial working group on
the review of the Forum’s processes and procedures,
including the agreement that the Secretary-General of the
Forum should work more actively in developing relations
between the Forum and the United Nations, as well as with
the group of countries of the Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council and the Association of South-East
Asian Nations.
The communiqué reflects the recognition by the Heads
of State and Government of the member States that the
Forum must on the one hand adapt and diversify its
external relations in light of the far-reaching changes that
have occurred in the international environment, and on the
other realize the potential for greater cooperation with the
United Nations that the Forum can offer through attaining
observer status.
As a regional organization, the South Pacific Forum
wishes to strengthen its relationship with the United
Nations. It also attaches high importance to supporting the
special interests of the smaller island States. Observer status
for the South Pacific Forum will, in this regard, provide a
means of contributing to and cooperating with the United
Nations system for all the 15 members of the Forum.
I therefore request, on behalf of the 113 sponsors, that
the General Assembly adopt the draft resolution that would
grant observer status for the South Pacific Forum in the
General Assembly.
The President (interpretation from French): I should
like to inform the Assembly that Madagascar has joined the
list of sponsors of the draft resolution.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/49/L.1. May I take it that the Assembly
decides to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/49/L.1 was adopted (resolution
49/1).
The President (interpretation from French): I call on
the representative of Canada, who will speak on behalf of
the Group of Western European and Other States.
Ms. Fréchette (Canada): On behalf of the Group of
Western European and Other States, I would like to
In seeking this status for the Forum, its member
States and Governments have made clear their desire to
strengthen the Forum’s relationship with the United
Nations and to intensify cooperation in areas which are of
particular interest to the South Pacific region. Such an
area is that of the sustainable development of small island
States. It seems fitting that we should welcome the South
Pacific Forum as an Observer during a session which will
discuss an issue to which the Forum attaches such high
importance. We have no doubt that the South Pacific
Forum will make a valuable contribution to the work of
the Organization on this and other issues of mutual
interest.
On behalf of the Group of Western European and
Other States, I extend to the South Pacific Forum a most
cordial welcome. We look forward to fruitful and
effective cooperation with our new Permanent Observer.
The President:
I call on the representative of
Samoa, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Asian
States.
Mr. Slade (Samoa): Since this is the first time I
have spoken here, I want
to add the voice of my
delegation to the many tributes paid you, Sir, and the
admiration expressed upon your election as President of
the General Assembly.
It is a particular honour for Samoa, as Chairman of
the Group of Asian States for the month of October, to
extend
our warmest
congratulations to the South Pacific Forum upon its
admission to the General Assembly in the capacity of
Observer.
the Group
of
on
behalf
The resolution the Assembly has just adopted, which
enjoys the unanimous support of the States Members of
the United Nations, is the measure of the Assembly’s
esteem and respect. It is an acknowledgement, too, of the
response by the South Pacific Forum countries to the call
by the United Nations for a more active dialogue and
closer cooperation between the United Nations system and
regional organizations.
As a member of the South Pacific Forum, Samoa is
particularly pleased to note the strong support for the
resolution from the States members of our Asian Group,
many of which have worked closely with my delegation
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
and other States members of the South Pacific Forum, not
only here at the United Nations but also in many other
international forums and regional United Nations bodies in
the Asia and Pacific region.
Many of the Asian Group’s small developing States
are in the Pacific region or in close proximity to it. We see
status granted to the Forum today
in the observer
significant prospects for
the further strengthening of
regional contributions by small developing States towards
the processes of global consensus-building now taking place
on critical issues affecting the environment, population,
poverty, trade and other areas of our work. All these will
require effective and efficient coordination, such as between
the United Nations and the regional bodies.
By the outcome of a number of conferences - in Rio,
in other places and most recently in Barbados - the world
community has assigned tasks of magnitude and importance
to the regional intergovernmental organizations. It is right,
therefore, that on this occasion we acknowledge to the
Forum, as we do to other like organizations, the vital roles
they play in the implementation of global strategies to
combat global problems within the framework of the United
Nations system, now and beyond the turn of the century.
Within the Asia and Pacific region, the South Pacific
Forum and the States members of the Forum have worked
closely on issues of common concern with their Asian
members, within the context of the United Nations under
such regional bodies as
the Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) as well as
with economic groupings
the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC). The direct participation
and involvement of the Forum in the work of the General
Assembly will assuredly contribute to the success of these
common endeavours.
such as
Let me, on behalf of the Asian Group, congratulate the
South Pacific Forum again and to extend to the Secretary-
General of the Forum, His Excellency Mr. Ieremia Tabai,
a warm welcome and the good wishes of our membership.
The President:
I call on the representative of the
Czech Republic, who will speak on behalf of the Group of
Eastern European States.
Mr. Rovensky (Czech Republic): On behalf of the
Group of Eastern European States, allow me to congratulate
warmly the South Pacific Forum on the occasion of its
being granted observer status in the General Assembly. We
18
34th meeting
17 October 1994
welcome this decision, and we appreciate the fact that the
relevant resolution has been adopted without a vote.
We are sure that this is an expression of the belief
of the Member States that the South Pacific Forum’s
contribution to the General Assembly’s work will be
substantial and that it will benefit the overall effort of the
General Assembly to increase the effectiveness of its
work.
The Eastern European Group’s members, 10 of
which sponsored the resolution granting observer status to
the South Pacific forum, are looking forward to our future
cooperation with the Forum at the United Nations.
The President:
In accordance with the resolution
just adopted, I now call on the Secretary-General of the
South Pacific Forum, the Honourable Ieremia Tabai.
Mr. Tabai (South Pacific Forum):
It is a great
privilege to be here today to represent the South Pacific
Forum as it takes for the first time a seat as an observer
in the General Assembly. I must first express, on behalf
of the members of the Forum, our gratitude for the
honour the Assembly has extended to our organization
and to the South Pacific region in adopting the resolution
granting us observer status. This is indeed a historic
event for us, marking another milestone for our small
organization as it tries to expand its role in representing
the joint interests of its 15 members in the international
arena.
and
understanding that Members of the United Nations have
demonstrated in adopting this resolution.
support
We deeply appreciate
the
The United Nations is, of course, an Organization of
immense and growing importance to all members of the
international community. But it is, I think, of particular
importance to the smaller island States. Its existence and
programmes can help guarantee our peace and security
and promote our economic and social development in
ways which we are too small to manage entirely for
ourselves.
And most of the 15 members of the South Pacific
Forum are very small indeed. Although our countries
extend over a vast area of ocean, their total population is
only about 25 million. A number of our smaller members
have populations of only a few thousand. Despite these
limitations of size and resources, however, I think that the
Forum has established a solid track record in the nearly
quarter of a century of its existence of effective regional
cooperation. The Forum, as was mentioned earlier, was
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
set up in 1971 as a result of the desire of the independent
countries of the region to tackle common concerns from a
regional perspective and to enhance their collective regional
voice so as to give their views greater weight
in the
international community.
is now the pre-eminent
political grouping in our part of the world and has a formal
ministerial dialogue process annually with our major
international partners. Our acceptance as an observer into
the United Nations marks another and very important step
forward for the Forum’s international links.
It
Our desire to be part of the United Nations process
stems not only from the South Pacific Forum’s own
growing contribution in representing the region’s collective
concerns in a rapidly changing global environment, but also
from our support for the expanded and invigorated role
being played by the United Nations in the post-cold-war
world. We greatly welcome that, and in particular the
greater emphasis that is now being placed by the Secretary-
General on cooperation in the United Nations work
programme with regional organizations.
We do, of course, have much existing cooperation
with the United Nations specialized and regional agencies.
This is, and will remain, very valuable to our region, and
we will continue to try to strengthen these links. But we
are very interested also in the many new areas of work and
new developments in old areas where previously the
constraints of the cold war’s international framework had
prevented progress. We have noted and greatly welcomed,
for example, the Secretary-General’s Agenda for Peace.
The Forum has in particular a long-standing position of
vigorous support
for disarmament, especially nuclear
disarmament, and opposition to nuclear testing. Our region
has direct and recent experience of the hazards of such
testing.
We also welcomed the convening of the Conference
on Population and Development last month. Although our
populations in the South Pacific are in absolute terms small,
they are in a number of our countries growing at some of
the highest rates in the world. Population densities are
already very high in some of our atoll countries in
particular and are putting immense pressure on our fragile
marine and terrestrial ecosystems.
For this same reason, we have a deep interest in the
United Nations growing environmental programme. Forum
members have participated actively in the development of
the agenda stemming from the Rio Conference two years
ago and in the newly launched work of the Commission on
Sustainable Development. The Global Conference on the
34th meeting
17 October 1994
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States, held in Barbados earlier this year, was particularly
important in that regard.
Development and its sustainability are critical issues
for our region. From the earliest days of the South
Pacific Forum, the question of economic growth and how
island countries with limited
to achieve it
resources has been high on our agenda.
It is still the
most
important single problem for all of us and is
increasingly linked to sound environmental management
because of the fragility of the resource base in most of
our
for
Development is of vital interest to us.
The United Nations Agenda
in small
countries.
These are only a few examples of current areas of
the United Nations work which are of immense interest to
the South Pacific Forum and which have prompted us to
seek observer status. Nine of our members are Members
of the United Nations in their own right. They are active
participants in the work of the General Assembly and will
continue to be. Six members of the Forum, however, do
not belong to the United Nations. Observer status for the
South Pacific Forum will be particularly significant for
them in increasing their access to advice and information
from the United Nations system in these sorts of areas of
great importance to all countries of our region.
initial
The Forum hopes that taking up observer status in
the General Assembly is a useful
step in
responding to the Secretary-General’s
invitation to
regional organizations to consider ways and means to
improve coordination of effort with the United Nations.
We know it will require a real effort on our part to turn
this institutional mechanism into substantive cooperation
and consultation. I can assure the Assembly that, within
the constraints of the resources of a small organization,
the South Pacific Forum intends to play as active and
constructive a role as possible as an observer, in accord
with the strong support of all our members for the ideals
and objectives of the United Nations.
I thank the Assembly again most sincerely for
admitting the South Pacific Forum to observer status and
for allowing me to make this short statement.
The President (interpretation from French): May
I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 151?
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It was so decided.
Organization of work
The President (interpretation from French): I should
like to remind representatives of the need for punctuality,
as I intend to begin our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. and not
a minute later.
The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.
34th meeting
17 October 1994
20
