United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
26th Meeting
Tuesday, 11 October 1994, 10 a.m.
New York
A/49/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Tentative programme of work
The President (interpretation from French): I should
like to draw the attention of the General Assembly to
document A/INF/49/5/Add.1, which contains a tentative
programme of work and schedule of plenary meetings for
the months of October and November. The addendum
supersedes document A/INF/49/5. I should like to point out
that this schedule is being issued as early as possible in
order to assist delegations in planning their work. For its
part,
the
relevant documentation will be available to delegations
ahead of the discussion of any given agenda item.
the Secretariat will endeavour to ensure that
I should further point out that there are still a few
agenda items for which no date has been indicated. I will
announce the dates for the consideration of those agenda
items in due course and sufficiently in advance. I will also
keep the Assembly informed of any additions or changes.
The list of speakers for each of the items listed in
document A/INF/49/5/Add.1 is now open.
1 November,
on Tuesday,
Further, I should like to inform representatives that the
Pledging Conference for Development Activities will be
held
and Wednesday,
2 November, in the morning.
I should also like to inform
members that the announcement of voluntary contributions
to the 1995 programme of the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees will take place on Friday,
11 November, in the morning.
As I mentioned to the Assembly last week, I hope to
keep as close as possible to this schedule so that the
Assembly can discharge its responsibilities in an effective
fashion.
to those representatives
submitting draft resolutions to do so sufficiently in
advance of the dates fixed for consideration of items in
order to give members adequate time to examine them.
I therefore appeal
I should also like to remind representatives that
additional
time is needed for those draft resolutions
involving changes in the work programme or additional
expenditures, since these will require the preparation of a
statement of programme-budget
implications by the
Secretary-General. Furthermore, the Advisory Committee
on Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth
Committee will need adequate time to review the
programme-budget
resolution
before the latter can be acted on by the Assembly.
implications of a draft
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President (interpretation from French): I call
first on the Second Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs
of Uganda, His Excellency
Mr. Paul Ssemogerere.
Mr. Ssemogerere (Uganda): Permit me, Sir, on
behalf of the Uganda delegation, to congratulate you most
warmly on your well-deserved unanimous election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session.
Your election is a recognition by our
94-86606 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is,
Organization of your exemplary personal qualities.
indeed, a great honour to your country, Côte d’Ivoire, with
which Uganda enjoys warm fraternal relations.
I am
confident that, with your skills and experience, you will be
able to guide our deliberations to a successful conclusion.
I wish to pledge Uganda’s full support and cooperation to
you in your endeavours.
I also wish to pay special tribute to your predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the
able manner in which he steered the work of the forty-
eighth session of the General Assembly.
Our appreciation goes
to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his courageous and clear-
sighted leadership of the Organization.
At
the outset,
I wish to pay a special
let me say how warmly Uganda
welcomes the presence in our midst of a new South Africa,
born on the principles of equality, justice and democratic
governance.
tribute to His
Excellency President Nelson Mandela and other leaders of
the South African
to
Mr. de Klerk, for their vision and statesmanship, which
enabled the United Nations to achieve one of the key long-
sought objectives of Africa.
liberation movements,
and
Since the last session of the General Assembly, several
developments have taken place in the international arena;
some of these have offered hope and encouragement, while
others have led to frustration and despair.
In many
countries, peace, the rule of law and democratic governance
are being consolidated. However, in some others, such as
Angola, Somalia, Liberia and Bosnia and Herzegovina,
conflicts have caused untold suffering, loss of life and
destruction of property, and have contributed to the
staggering numbers of refugees and displaced persons, with
the attendant negative consequences.
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees estimates the number of
refugees and
displaced persons worldwide to be over 23 million and
26 million respectively. Africa is estimated to have over
32 per cent and Asia over 25 per cent of the total refugees.
Seven countries in Africa are among the top 10 countries of
origin of refugees. Most of these refugees and displaced
persons have fled as a consequence of conflicts, mainly
within nations, but to a lesser extent between nations. This
is a vivid, awesome picture for Africa in particular, and for
developing countries in general.
2
26th meeting
11 October 1994
Uganda welcomes the increasing priority attention
being given by the United Nations to the resolution of
conflicts in Africa and elsewhere, especially the emphasis
given by the Secretary-General in “An Agenda for Peace”
to preventive diplomacy and peacemaking. We agree
with his view that security, socio-economic well-being,
environmental sustainability and the protection of human
rights are closely interdependent and interlocked in a
mutually reinforcing manner. They should therefore be
addressed in tandem in order to avert conflicts and their
attendant negative effects, such as the outflow of political
and economic refugees, capital flight and brain drain.
We welcome the establishment of
the OAU
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution. Such a mechanism is useful for confidence-
building among rival parties and can facilitate peaceful
resolution of conflicts. Uganda is committed to making
the OAU Mechanism effective and usable. We urge the
United Nations and the international community to lend
it the requisite support.
The situation in Somalia remains tense and fragile
with serious negative implications for peace, national
reconciliation and orderly provision of humanitarian
assistance. Uganda supports the new emphasis by the
international community on seeking a political settlement
to the Somalia conflict. Uganda urges all Somali groups
and factions to put behind them fear and mistrust, and to
begin to implement all commitments they undertook in
the Nairobi Declaration on National Reconciliation in
order to pave the way for the implementation of the
Addis Ababa Agreements, including the establishment of
transitional administrative mechanisms. We commend the
United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM II) for
facilitating the flow of humanitarian assistance and we
urge continued international support to Somalia.
As regards Liberia, Uganda was encouraged by steps
taken to begin the implementation of
the Cotonou
Agreement, namely the establishment of the Liberia
National Transitional Government and the initiation of the
process of disarmament and demobilization of various
combatants. However, we are disappointed by the
increasingly tense military situation on the ground, both
within and between parties, which has brought the process
of disarmament and demobilization to a virtual standstill.
We urge all parties to show seriousness to the process of
peace and national reconciliation as this is vital for
continued international support and a continued presence.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
of
the
elections
scheduled
steps
Uganda welcomes
taken so far by the
Government of Mozambique and RENAMO to implement
the general peace agreement. We urge the parties to remain
the
committed to the peace agreement and to respect
outcome
and
28 October 1994. We commend the United Nations
Operation in Mozambique (UNOMOZ), which has helped
to engender confidence among the parties — vital for the
successful implementation of the peace agreement — and
we urge continued international assistance to Mozambique,
especially in the resettlement of refugees and displaced
persons.
for
27
The situation in Angola remains a matter of concern
to the international community despite ongoing Lusaka
negotiations between the Government of Angola and
UNITA. The people of Angola continue to suffer from
indiscriminate killings and destruction of property. My
delegation urges the parties concerned, especially UNITA,
to demonstrate flexibility, realism, political will, tolerance
and compromise, which are necessary for peace and
national reconciliation.
The civil war in southern Sudan has continued to
escalate, with an enormous loss of lives, destruction of
property and a large number of refugees and displaced
persons.
Uganda alone hosts an estimated 300,000
Sudanese refugees. We urge the parties to the conflict to
set
sights on the common good and mutual
accommodation in the ongoing regional efforts — in
particular, the Inter-Governmental Authority for Drought
and Development (IGADD) initiative — which are aimed
at finding a durable political settlement.
their
As regards Western Sahara, Uganda is concerned at
the slow progress towards the holding of a United Nations
supervised referendum on self-determination of the people
of that territory. We appeal to the parties to overcome their
differences and enable a just and impartial referendum to be
effected.
The systematic and widespread massacres of civilians
which took place in Rwanda were tragic and deplorable.
Uganda supports the setting up by the Secretary-General, on
29 July 1994, of an impartial commission of experts to
investigate violations of international humanitarian law and
acts of genocide committed in Rwanda with a view to
identifying persons responsible for those violations and
bringing them to justice. This should contribute to the
process of national reconciliation. We are encouraged by
the declaration of the Government in Rwanda that it will be
guided by the spirit of the Arusha Peace Agreement as a
26th meeting
11 October 1994
framework for peace and national reconciliation and for
its support for the regional initiatives on the problem of
for
Rwandese refugees.
Similarly, we also appeal
assistance to be extended to local populations
in
neighbouring countries that are hosting the refugees, in
order
to mitigate the adverse socio-economic and
environmental effects they are facing as a result of the
influx of refugees.
Uganda congratulates the Governments of South
Africa and Namibia for settling, through peaceful means,
their long-standing dispute over Walvis Bay and the
offshore islands.
Uganda notes the flexibility shown by the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya with regard to implementation of
Security Council resolution 731 (1992). We hope that this
will contribute to a peaceful resolution of the problem.
Uganda welcomes the initiation of Palestine self-rule
in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. We commend Chairman
Arafat and Prime Minister Rabin for
their political
steadfastness, which made this possible. We encourage
them to continue working together
to resolve all
outstanding issues for the full implementation of Security
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We
appeal
to the international community to provide
increased assistance to Palestine which is needed for
reconstruction and development.
We express our satisfaction over the signing by
Jordan and Israel of the Washington Declaration by which
the two countries mutually agreed to end the state of war
between them. This should go a long way in helping to
build confidence,
facilitating the normalization of
relations, concluding a formal peace treaty between the
two countries and between Israel and other countries in
the region.
Uganda supports efforts with a view to the peaceful
resolution of the problem in the Korean peninsula and
urges all parties to work together to create an atmosphere
that will help ease the tension and that is conducive to
negotiating a durable political settlement of the Korean
problem.
Uganda welcomes the developments in Haiti directed
towards
the return of President Aristide and the
restoration of a democratically elected Government in that
country.
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Uganda is deeply concerned over the continuing
genocide and "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We urge the United Nations and the international
community to act decisively and to take appropriate steps
to end hostilities in accordance with relevant resolutions of
the General Assembly and the Security Council, as well as
the peace plan of the Contact Group and to create an
environment conducive to a smooth and timely flow of
humanitarian assistance to the people affected.
and
urge
on Disarmament,
Uganda is encouraged by some positive developments
that have taken place in the area of disarmament. We note
the ongoing formal negotiations on a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty (CTBT), under the auspices of the
Conference
successful
completion of the CTBT prior to the convening of the
Review Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to be held early in 1995. As a
State Party to the NPT, and in the context of
the
preparatory process and review of the Treaty, Uganda will
seek the removal of all imbalances in the NPT and the
securing of adequate technical assistance for developing
countries in the peaceful application of nuclear technology.
We also note the progress that is being made to strengthen
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological)
and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction through
measures such as mandatory data exchanges and periodic
on-site visits. These measures are useful in engendering
confidence in compliance and in helping minimize
violations of the Convention. We are also encouraged by
the possibility of the entry into force in mid-1995 of the
1993 chemical weapons Convention.
The treaty on an African nuclear-free zone will be yet
another important landmark for peace in Africa. Uganda
urges its timely and successful conclusion.
It is imperative to consolidate achievements so far
recorded in the area of nuclear testing and non-proliferation
in order to lay firm ground on which to make progress in
other new and more challenging areas of disarmament.
Uganda is committed to the full respect and universal
enjoyment of human rights. We reaffirm our support for
the Declaration and Programme of Action on human rights,
and welcome the appointment of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights. For its part, Uganda has
established a human rights national focal point within the
Justice Department aimed at enhancing public awareness
and developing national capacity in the observance and
promotion of human rights in the country. My delegation
4
26th meeting
11 October 1994
wishes to pay special tribute to all countries that have
extended support to Uganda in this vital area of our
development, and we appeal for continued support.
is
to
Uganda
committed
democracy,
good
governance and the rule of law. A democratization
process in the country is well under way.
The
Constituent Assembly was
successfully elected on
28 March 1994. The Assembly is currently debating a
draft constitution, which is expected to be finalized and
promulgated by the end of 1994. That will be followed
by nationwide presidential and legislative elections in
early 1995.
Uganda is concerned about the current trends in the
global economy which continue to weigh unfavourably on
many developing countries, particularly in sub-Saharan
Africa. Excruciating external indebtedness remains a
major impediment to our development. Many of our
countries are spending large proportions of meagre export
earnings on debt-servicing alone. For instance, as of
30 June 1994 Uganda had a total external public sector
debt of $2.99 billion — over 80 per cent of estimated
gross domestic product for the 1993-1994 financial year.
Contractual debt-servicing was $185 million — almost
76 per cent of export earnings; while arrears to be cleared
were $222 million — or 91 per cent of export earnings.
The situation is compounded by the fact that 77 per cent
of the total stock of debt, which is the portion owed to
multilateral and bilateral institutions, is currently ineligible
for restructuring or reduction.
The problem of external
indebtedness is further
aggravated by unfavourable terms of trade, especially the
collapse of our export commodity prices, severely
contracted resource inflows and limited access
to
technology. In addition to these unfavourable conditions,
most of our countries are implementing stringent
economic
adverse
socio-economic implications
This
notwithstanding, some countries, including Uganda, are
registering positive economic growth and controlling
inflation.
their
for our people.
reforms, with
attendant
enhanced measures
For economic reforms to succeed in our countries,
all creditors, including multilateral institutions, should
adopt
beyond
debt-rescheduling in order to bring about a substantial
reduction in our total stock of debt. Such measures
should include substantial debt cancellation or conversion
into grants and/or other innovative schemes such as the
use of reserves, a new issue of special drawing rights and
that
go
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
26th meeting
11 October 1994
debt swaps. In this regard Uganda endorses the conclusion
of the recent Jakarta Non-Aligned Movement Ministerial
Meeting on “Debt and Development:
Sharing of
Experiences” and also endorses the recent proposal by the
British Chancellor of the Exchequer on measures to resolve
the debt problem of the poorest countries.
of African economies, with particular attention to be
given to the issue of the establishment of a diversification
fund for African commodities. Uganda attaches great
importance to the establishment of such a fund. We
appeal to our developed partners to be understanding and
flexible in the negotiations in order to enable the facility
to be put in place as soon as possible.
Equally,
in areas
investment
there is a need significantly to increase
resource in-flows to our countries — for example, through
increased levels of official development assistance; foreign
direct
such as manufacturing,
agricultural processing and tourism; and the provision of
remunerative commodity prices. Uganda, in the context of
the preparatory process and next year’s mid-term global
review of
the Least
Developed Countries, will also seek the adoption of similar
measures in favour of the least developed countries.
the Programme of Action for
As regards the Uruguay Round, Uganda urges that in
the implementation of the provisions of the Final Act
special offsetting measures be adopted to obviate adverse
effects that are likely to arise from the erosion of special
preferences currently enjoyed by some developing countries
under arrangements such as the Programme of Action for
the Least Developed Countries and Lomé IV. Further, the
way should be eased for more developing countries to gain
increased access to international markets for their products,
in order to augment their export earnings. We also urge
that the necessary assistance be provided to enhance our
capacity to produce value-added goods and services for
international markets.
The Secretary-General’s “Agenda for Development”,
which has been submitted to this session of the General
Assembly, provides a useful
framework for political
dialogue between the North and the South on practical
measures to make operational the international policies,
programmes and actions on development which have so far
been adopted by the international community. My
delegation supports this initiative. As we elaborate on the
Agenda, we should be guided by the overall objective of
effecting a substantial, rapid improvement in the quality of
life in developing countries, through the eradication of
poverty and the provision of basic needs, namely, nutrition,
shelter, health and education. Equally, we endorse the
proposal made by Brazil for the convening of a United
Nations conference on development some time in 1996.
Uganda welcomed the fact that the General Assembly,
in its resolution 48/214 on the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, agreed to
address the full range of issues related to the diversification
our
beyond
horizons
economic
The international economic system dictates that we
enlarge
national
boundaries in order to widen our markets. Uganda
welcomes the coming into force, of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) Abuja Treaty establishing the
African Economic Community, which provides a useful
framework for coordination of African development
efforts at the continental level.
In order to succeed,
efforts to be pursued at subregional levels should be well
coordinated and rationalized. Uganda is committed to full
implementation of the Treaty for the Common Market for
Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) and the Arusha
Treaty on revived East African cooperation. We appeal
to the international community to provide requisite
assistance to support our regional integration efforts in
order to strengthen or create infrastructures that facilitate
the movement of goods and services.
Uganda reaffirms its support for Agenda 21 and
other agreements on sustainable development adopted in
Rio de Janeiro. However, it is necessary that the Rio
political momentum be translated into practical measures
to implement all commitments agreed upon, especially
with regard to the provision of financial resources and the
transfer of technology to developing countries. For its
part, Uganda is committed to addressing all causes and
effects of environmental degradation, particularly poverty.
For instance, we are sparing no efforts in seeking ways
and means
in
hydroelectric power
energy, which are
environmentally sound and are economic alternatives to
wood fuels. This will help stem the current widespread
to the international
forest depletion. We appeal
community to support our efforts
in the area of
sustainable development.
to exploit our enormous potential
and solar
The most
important outcome of
the Cairo
Conference on population was the endorsement of the
view that the problem of population is not just a question
of numbers; rather, the critical issue is that of human
development and welfare. In this regard, the challenge is
to improve people's standard of living in such areas as the
provision of education and health, housing, transportation,
In
clean water and sanitation, and to eradicate poverty.
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
developing countries especially, population problems that
arise from irresponsible parenthood are ultimately a result
of socio-economic despair and ignorance, and these demand
our foremost attention.
As a follow-up to the 1990 Programme of Action on
children, Uganda has established the National Council for
Children to oversee national activities aimed at
their
protection, promotion and development.
integration, which we hope will
We support the convening of the Copenhagen World
Summit for Social Development in March 1995 to address
issues of poverty- eradication, productive employment and
social
lead to the
improvement of standards of living, especially in the most
impoverished countries. We also support the convening of
the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995
to devise measures for the enhancement of gender equality
and the empowerment of women. Uganda will continue to
participate actively in the preparatory processes of both
meetings.
in our view,
The reform of the Security Council, in our view,
should aim at achieving greater transparency in its methods
of work, making it more democratic in decision-making and
reflective of the increased United Nations membership in its
composition. We therefore support the proposal to expand
its membership. However,
its expansion
should increase the number of seats for developing
countries on an equitable regional basis,
the
increased membership of developing countries in the United
Nations and the fact that the agenda of the Security Council
is increasingly dominated by issues of concern and interest
to developing countries, such as conflict-resolution and
humanitarian emergencies.
As regards the Council's
decision-making
a
proportionate number of developing countries, including
African countries,
and
responsibilities similar to those currently exercised by
permanent members of the Security Council.
accorded rights
procedures,
to reflect
our
view is
that
should be
Our legacy to future generations is to put in place a
framework that can adequately and
firm institutional
equitably respond to the interests and concerns of all
mankind, rich and poor alike. This is the challenge that
faces our Organization as we enter the fiftieth anniversary
year of the United Nations.
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Myanmar, His
Excellency Mr. Ohn Gyaw.
6
26th meeting
11 October 1994
Mr. Gyaw (Myanmar): The delegation of Myanmar
would like to congratulate you most warmly, Sir, on your
election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-
ninth session and to assure you of our fullest cooperation
in the discharge of your
responsibilities. We are
confident that the wealth of experience and wisdom that
you bring with you will prove invaluable in guiding us
successfully through the present session.
We also wish to express our appreciation to the
outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Samuel Rudolph
Insanally, for his sagacious and outstanding stewardship
of the previous session of the General Assembly.
In South Africa, four decades of the despicable
system of apartheid have finally been laid to rest. The
election of President Nelson Mandela by the country's
first multiracial Parliament has given birth to a united,
democratic and non-racial South Africa. A nation that
has
so courageously overcome such adversity and
overwhelming pressure deserves our support and acclaim
as it faces its future with optimism. I am pleased to see
the delegation of South Africa rejoining us in this
Assembly.
Its presence here reflects the momentous
changes taking place in the world today. The concerted
effort to abolish apartheid in South Africa has finally
succeeded. We welcome our brothers from South Africa,
wish them every success in rebuilding their nation and
look forward to working closely with their Government
and people.
The importance of adhering to the five principles of
peace coexistence that form the basic tenets of Myanmar's
foreign policy bears reiteration. Myanmar, together with
the People's Republic of China and India, enunciated
those principles nearly five decades ago. These time-
tested principles have crystallized as the universally
accepted legal norms of inter-State relations.
In strict
observance of
these principles, Myanmar has never
allowed, and will never allow, its territory to be used as
a springboard for action or threats against another State.
By the same token, Myanmar expects that other nations
will likewise abide by these principles in their conduct of
policy towards Myanmar.
At this time of dramatic and profound changes, the
United Nations represents the best hope for mankind in
the maintenance of international peace and security and in
the promotion of international cooperation in other areas
of human endeavour. Whatever character and shape the
emerging new international order may eventually assume,
we have no doubt that the United Nations will constitute
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
a vital element in that new order and will continue to play
an increasingly important role in international relations. As
we approach the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations,
it is the appropriate time for us to rededicate ourselves to
the purposes and principles of the Charter and to redouble
our efforts to further strengthen the role of the world
Organization. In order to mark this auspicious anniversary
in a fitting manner, we have formed a high-level National
Committee
in my country to carry out necessary
preparatory work and to coordinate commemorative
activities at the national level.
Myanmar firmly believes that the United Nations plays
a pivotal role in promoting international cooperation for
development and for the maintenance of peace and security.
There is a close link between peace and development; it is
therefore the view of my delegation that the Agenda for
Peace and the Agenda for Development must go hand in
hand. Now that the cold war is over and the avenues for
peace and development are more pronounced, we would
like to call upon the international community to create a
favourable
sustainable
development.
environment
ensures
that
in armaments.
My delegation shares the view that at the present time
the search for security and peace in the world lies in
development, not
For most people
throughout
the world, and particularly in developing
countries, any feeling of insecurity arises more out of
anxieties about daily subsistence than out of the dread of a
cataclysmic global conflict. Underdevelopment creates
poverty, hunger, malnutrition, environmental degradation
and so on, collectively leading to civil strife, ethnic
conflicts and, eventually, the collapse of peace and security.
These problems may in some instances be confined within
national borders; however, some will definitely have
international
and
consequences.
ramifications
global
even
and
Both “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for
Development” are top-priority tasks facing the United
Nations, and they deserve equal attention and equal
allocation of resources. United Nations peace-keeping
missions are stretched out across the globe, and United
Nations agencies for development and humanitarian affairs
fan out over an even wider area. Myanmar shares the view
that economic and social developments are prerequisites for
lasting peace and security. We would therefore like to see
a strengthening of the Economic and Social Council in
tandem with the call for a restructuring of the Security
Council to respond adequately to the new challenges of
international peace and security that have emerged in the
26th meeting
11 October 1994
wake of the cold war. Fifty years ago, against a political
background that was very different from today's,
the
United Nations was born with the purposes of maintaining
international peace and security, promoting development
and safeguarding human rights. Now that the cold war is
over and the international community is free from the
super-Power rivalry that so crippled the United Nations in
the past, the Organization should be restructured to meet
the needs and challenges of the present-day world.
is
to
take
on
being
called
and some
Peace-keeping is an area in which the United
Nations
increasing
responsibilities. These operations constitute an important
instrument of the world Organization in the prevention
and containment of conflicts and in keeping peace where
Peace-keeping operations have a
it
is most needed.
mixed record of
successes
set-backs.
Experience and lessons from past operations should be
carefully reviewed and re-evaluated to ensure the more
effective and proper conduct of such operations.
It is
imperative that United Nations peace-keeping operations
be carried out only with the consent and willing
cooperation of the parties concerned and that all aspects
of such operations strictly conform to the principles and
purposes of the United Nations Charter. There is also a
need for such operations to be rationalized, streamlined
and made more cost effective.
last year.
In the field of disarmament we are encouraged by
the positive developments of
Intensive
negotiations are now under way in the Geneva-based
Conference on Disarmament to achieve a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty. The steadily increasing trust and
confidence between nuclear- and non-nuclear-weapon
States has provided an opportunity for the international
community to come to grips with the prevention of the
vertical and horizontal proliferation of nuclear weapons.
This opportunity should be seized by bringing the
negotiations on the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty
to a successful conclusion in the most expeditious way.
The United States has announced its decision to extend
the moratorium for one year until September 1995. We
believe that such a moratorium, if also observed by other
nuclear-weapon States, would create conditions conducive
to the ongoing process of negotiating a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty.
The review and extension Conference of the States
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) is less than a year away. We are of the
view that substantive progress in crucial areas, namely the
security
comprehensive
negative
test-ban
treaty,
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to a
successful outcome of
assurances for non-nuclear-weapon States and a ban on the
production of nuclear fissile material in all its aspects, will
contribute
review
Conference. A careful evaluation of the progress achieved
in these crucial areas should be made before taking a
decision at the review Conference on the further extension
of the Treaty. Myanmar looks forward to working and
cooperating with other delegations for
the successful
outcome of the 1995 review and extension Conference.
the
While I am on the subject of the NPT, may I take this
opportunity to inform the Assembly that, as a State Party to
the Treaty, the Myanmar Government has decided to sign
the International Atomic Energy Agency Safeguards
Agreement and Protocol. The signing of the Agreement
and Protocol will take place in the near future.
Myanmar is also actively taking part in the preparatory
process for the implementation of the chemical weapons
Convention since becoming an original signatory to it.
Like other signatories to the Convention, the ratification
process is currently under way in Myanmar.
The signature on 4 May 1994 of the agreement to
implement the Israel-Palestine Declaration of Principles
marks an important milestone towards a lasting peace in the
Middle East. The recent approval by the Israeli Cabinet of
the transfer of civilian powers to the Palestinians in the
areas of culture, youth and sports, international cooperation,
education, health, social welfare, tourism and finance is
another positive step that will further pave the way to self-
rule by the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. We
congratulate the parties concerned for their courage and
mutual accommodation. We are also heartened to note that
both Israel and Jordan are implementing the Washington
Declaration signed by both parties in July. It is hoped that
these initiatives,
in the context of both bilateral and
multilateral negotiations, will facilitate and brighten the
chances of lasting peace in the Middle East.
After years of recession and stagnation the world
economy has resumed a modest growth. However, the
recovery remains fragile and uneven, and it
is in the
interests of both developing and developed countries to
strive for accelerated growth and sustainable development.
While a number of developing countries have acted as the
main engines of world economic growth, most of them are
beset by a deteriorating economic and social situation.
Developed countries are also facing slow growth and high
unemployment.
In this era of growing globalization and
interdependence, concerted efforts by the world community
8
26th meeting
11 October 1994
are urgently needed to resolve the acute economic and
social problems.
timely
as most
for Development”,
We welcome the Secretary-General's report, “An
Agenda
and
appropriate. The report has highlighted economic growth
as a crucial dimension of development and has singled
out a supportive and favourable international economic
environment for sustained growth. We fully share the
view that the advancement of developing countries is
being hindered by such obstacles as external-debt
problems, declining external
resource flows, sharply
deteriorating terms of trade and mounting barriers to
market access. We hope that the programme of action on
the implementation of the agenda will be agreed upon at
this session.
Our aspirations for a new world economic order
which is equitable and non-discriminatory have not yet
been realized. The major challenges of these decades —
acceleration of development, alleviation of poverty,
narrowing the widening gap among countries — need to
be addressed on an urgent basis. We fully support the
call by the Group of 77, the Non-Aligned Movement and
the Assembly for the resumption of the stalled North-
South dialogue. A constructive dialogue based on
common interests and mutual benefits should enhance
international economic cooperation for development.
We also welcome the successful conclusion of the
Uruguay Round, although our aspirations were not fully
realized. We had hoped for an open, equitable and
transparent multilateral
trading system which would
benefit all countries. We are most concerned with new
forms of protectionism, particularly the attempts to
impose
that
discriminate against exports from developing countries.
These protectionist measures will adversely affect world
trade and growth.
environmental
conditions
social
and
We are heartened by the Communiqué issued
following the Naples Summit of the Group of Seven,
which states that
the Seven will continue efforts to
enhance development assistance, trade and investment in
developing countries. It states also that the Seven favour
a reduction in the stock of debt and an increase in
concessionality for
facing special
difficulties.
countries
those
My delegation notes with appreciation the report of
and role of
the Secretary-General on the
cooperatives in the light of new economic and social
status
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
trends and welcomes the recommendations contained
therein. Today, cooperative societies constitute significant
components of the economies of developed and developing
countries alike and play a crucial role in their economic
development.
In my country, we attach great importance to the
cooperative sector as one of the main pillars of our
economy and as an effective means of accelerating
socio-economic development. It is an important part of the
economic strategy of the Myanmar Government to promote
and expand the cooperative sector in our national economy.
As we shall next year be celebrating the centenary of the
establishment of the International Cooperative Alliance, it
is most fitting that the Assembly should proclaim the first
Saturday of July 1995 the International Day of Cooperatives
and that Member States should observe this day in future
years as an annual event.
The Earth Summit held in Rio two years ago firmly
placed environmental issues on the global agenda, and since
then hardly any international meeting has taken place
without calls for common action to save our planet. The
protection and promotion of the environment has emerged
as one of the most pressing issues facing the world. No
longer
is the natural world perceived as a vast and
inexhaustible frontier to be explored and exploited. Today
there is growing recognition that the environment is not to
be subjugated, but is to be treated with respect and care.
An increasing number of countries now recognize that
environmental issues warrant as much attention and effort
as issues such as disarmament, narcotics and human rights.
Myanmar is pleased to note that, in all of this, the
region of Asia and the Pacific has not been left behind. A
regional meeting to prepare for the 1995 report on the state
of the environment was held in Yangon in July this year.
This meeting provided senior Government officials with an
opportunity to discuss,
issues
related to the assessment of the state of the environment at
the national and regional levels.
in an integrated manner,
The region of Asia and the Pacific comprises a large
number of nations differing in size, resource endowment
and stage of economic development.
It is a region facing
all the conceivable environmental problems of the world -
deforestation, desertification, climate change, and so on.
While several countries of the region, particularly those in
South-East and North-East Asia, have registered remarkable
economic growth in the last few decades; others have yet
to achieve their objectives.
26th meeting
11 October 1994
In many of our countries the eradication of poverty
and greater equity in income distribution remain major
challenges. Poverty and environmental degradation are
closely related. Therefore, the alleviation of poverty is no
longer simply a moral issue; it is a practical imperative.
At the same time, achieving sustainable development will
require that all countries, particularly the developed
countries, change their consumption patterns.
In the past we have tended to focus more on
remedial measures than on the causes of environmental
degradation. But if we are to overcome the challenges
that we face we must deal with the underlying causes.
As in the case of health care, prevention is just as
important as, if not more important than, cure. We must
therefore formulate strategies that will set out to alleviate
poverty and provide the basic needs — food, water,
clothing, shelter, energy and health care — of our
peoples, while protecting the environment.
Aware of the fact that poverty is the fundamental
cause of environmental degradation, we in Myanmar are
concentrating on breaking the vicious circle of poverty
and environmental degradation. With a view to
remedying the situation,
launched in
1989 a programme for the development of border areas
and national races. This integrated approach is expected
to generate higher incomes and productivity by providing
employment opportunities and increased welfare.
the Government
The border areas, which are inhabited by the national
races, have lagged far behind in all aspects of
development, owing mainly to the difficult terrain and the
lack of an adequate infrastructure. However, the situation
is being improved rapidly. There is extensive building of
roads, bridges, schools, hospitals and reservoirs. The
Government’s support for the development of mini-plants
to generate hydroelectric power will
in the
provision of alternative sources of energy, which will
enable towns and villages to promote rural industries and,
at the same time, lessen their dependence on fuel wood.
result
This integrated rural-area-development programme
will not only have positive effects on the socio-economic
environment but also drastically reduce the area under
shifting cultivation. The result will be conservation and
the regeneration of
in the fragile
mountain ecosystem.
resources
forest
The sustainable management and conservation of
forests has long occupied a place of pride in Myanmar’s
environmental efforts. Sustainable production from forest
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
resources and the conservation of biodiversity are assured
by a forest working plan and a time-tested selective felling
system. About 50 per cent of Myanmar’s total land surface
is still covered by natural forests. Even though the forest
area is about 33 million hectares, the prescribed allowable
annual cut is less than 3 million cubic metres for teak and
other hardwoods. This volume of commercial extraction is
significantly less than the volume harvested by other
countries in the region.
The Government’s current development activities in
the forest sector include the special project for greening the
nine driest districts of the country; extension of the area
under
new
plantations; overall reforestation of the dry zone to provide
much-needed timber and fuel wood for rural communities;
and measures to improve the watersheds.
establishment
reserved
forests;
the
of
Myanmar attaches high importance to population
issues and recognizes the close link between population and
sustainable development. We participated in the Cairo
Conference, and we heartily welcome the adoption by
consensus of a non-binding 20-year Programme of Action.
Our population-policy focus is on voluntary birth-spacing
to promote the health of mother and child. The Myanmar
Maternal and Child Welfare Association — a non--
governmental organization — is actively carrying out its
assigned task in this field.
in this area is
Much has been accomplished by the United Nations in
the field of human rights. The Organization’s most recent
accomplishment
the appointment by
consensus, at the General Assembly’s last session, of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
The appointment of such an important personage by
consensus testifies to the fact that both the developed and
the developing countries attach importance to the promotion
and protection of human rights, in accordance with the
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. My
delegation wishes the High Commissioner every success in
carrying out his mandate.
that
the values
As a responsible Member of the United Nations and
as an unwavering advocate of
the
Organization represents, the Union of Myanmar has always
upheld and adhered to the basic norms of human rights, as
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As is confirmed
the principles of national
by the Bangkok Declaration,
sovereignty,
integrity and non-interference in
internal affairs should be respected by all nations, and
territorial
10
26th meeting
11 October 1994
attempts to use human rights to encroach on the
essentially domestic jurisdiction of States should be
avoided.
In saying this we do not mean that human rights
may be systematically violated behind the barrier of
non-interference. We wish to see human rights promoted
through cooperation and consensus-building, and not
through the imposition of values that we do not share.
We believe that, even as we seek universality of
human rights, we must never minimize or forget diversity
in historical, cultural and religious backgrounds. We are
also against double standards and the temptation to use
human rights as a means of achieving political ends.
The right to sufficient food, clothing and shelter, the
right to a decent quality of life and the right to live
peacefully and in security are often neglected in the
clamour for individual rights. At this delicate juncture in
our history, when Myanmar
in the midst of
transforming itself to a multi-party democracy with a
market economy, the interests of its 45 million people as
a whole must take precedence over the interests of any
individual. Confrontation and incitement to unrest and
instability have no place when the nation is in the process
of reconciliation and reconsolidation.
is
In keeping with the aspirations of all the national
races, Myanmar is also at present at the critical stage of
drafting a firm constitution. My Government would
certainly not like to see the present momentum of the
constitutional process and the efforts
for national
reconciliation impeded in any way, nor can it allow a
return to the chaos and anarchy of the incidents of 1988.
The Myanmar Government does not condone human
rights abuses. In fact, it is totally against them. We have
cooperated fully with the United Nations in every field
and, in this regard, with the Commission on Human
Rights by providing information in connection with
communications and queries concerning the situation in
Myanmar. Not only have we provided information sought
by the Commission, but we have also received the
Independent Experts and the Special Rapporteur appointed
by the Commission on Human Rights. The Special
Rapporteur, Mr. Yozo Yokota, was received in 1992 and
in 1993.
In deference to the United Nations and as a
gesture of our goodwill and cooperation, we will receive
him again this year.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
signed
(UNHCR)
for Refugees
The Memorandum of Understanding
between
Myanmar and the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner
on
5 November 1993, setting out UNHCR’s role in Myanmar’s
border development projects, is an illustration of our steady
cooperation with the United Nations and its subsidiary
It is normal that some issues should arise from
bodies.
time to time between neighbouring States.
In such cases,
we always seek peaceful solutions based on mutual
goodwill, respect and understanding. A case in point is the
matter of transport and movement of people between
Myanmar and Bangladesh across our common border.
Although some quarters tried to exaggerate the situation by
invoking potential
two
countries were able to resolve the situation in a spirit of
mutual
friendship and understanding resulting in the
repatriation so far of nearly 70,000 returnees to their
hearths and homes.
regional destabilization, our
At the initiative of the Secretary-General, Myanmar
decided to establish a dialogue with the United Nations to
exchange views on various issues of common concern.
I
should like briefly to apprise the Assembly of
the
developments leading to this decision.
During his visit
to Myanmar in March this year,
Under-Secretary-General Mr. Rafeeudin Ahmed, Executive
Secretary of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia
and the Pacific (ESCAP), delivered a letter and a verbal
message from the Secretary-General to Secretary I of the
State Law and Order Restoration Council. The Secretary-
General, in his letter, made constructive remarks in regard
to the measures taken by the Myanmar Government and
showed keen interest in the developments in Myanmar,
particularly the process of national reconciliation and steps
taken in drafting a firm constitution through the National
Convention. The Secretary-General also expressed his
desire to establish a dialogue with the Government of the
Union of Myanmar to exchange views on the various issues
with a view to considering how the United Nations could
the
assist
resolution
his
acknowledgment, informed the Secretary-General that a
communication would be made on this subject in the near
future.
in facilitating continued progress
Secretary
towards
in
issues.
I,
of
these
While attending the Ministerial Meeting of
the
Association of South-East Asian Nations in Bangkok, I
transmitted, through the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Thailand, on 21 July 1994, our initial response to the
Secretary-General. Further to this response, the Myanmar
Government informed the Executive Secretary of ESCAP
26th meeting
11 October 1994
that the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Myanmar had
been designated to initiate the dialogue proposed by the
Secretary-General at a mutually agreeable date and, in
this regard, sought his advice on the modalities of
carrying out such a dialogue more fruitfully. I am happy
to apprise the Assembly through you, Sir, that I had two
meetings earlier this month with Mr. Marrack Goulding,
Under-Secretary-General
the
United Nations, and that
the dialogue between the
Myanmar Government and the United Nations is now
well under way.
for Political Affairs of
concern in recent years.
The global spread of drug abuse has become a major
international
evil
consequences of illicit drugs transcend borders and the
threat of illicit drugs can be overcome only with effective
international cooperation. We share the view that
concerted action is needed at the national, subregional,
regional and global levels.
The
Myanmar has always treated anti-narcotics measures
as a national responsibility. At the national level, the
Government has adopted comprehensive plans for the
effective implementation of drug-suppression measures.
A new law against narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substances was enacted in 1993, encompassing effective
measures against the widening scope of the drug menace.
In our national strategies against drugs, a new approach
was launched in 1988, the key concept of which was to
alleviate the poverty of the peoples of the border areas by
providing them with a means of alternative income, while
at the same time working to raise their awareness of the
magnitude of human misery resulting from drugs. This
approach is being carried out as one of
the main
objectives of our master plan for the development of the
border areas and national races.
It is evident that the
most effective approach to the eradication of poppy
cultivation would be to implement a comprehensive
programme for the social and economic development of
the national races in the border areas. We have now
established a mechanism for coordinating action against
illicit drugs in all their aspects.
We have also been coordinating our national efforts
with those of our neighbours to ensure a maximum
impact in drug eradication in the region. The Myanmar
Government has signed agreements with the People’s
Republic of China and the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), as well as with
Thailand and the UNDCP. Bilateral narcotics-suppression
agreements have been signed with Laos and India, and we
aim to work out a similar agreement with Bangladesh. In
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
in New York, Myanmar,
the People’s
October 1993,
Republic of China, Laos, Thailand and the UNDCP signed
a Memorandum of Understanding which would further
harmonize collective activities aimed at reducing drug
trafficking and production, eliminating poppy cultivation
and reducing drug demand and consumption. There have
been two ministerial conferences at the subregional level in
which Myanmar has actively participated. Myanmar is a
State party to the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs and to the 1988 United Nations Convention against
Illicit Traffic
and Psychotropic
Substances. Moreover, on 7 June this year Myanmar
deposited the instrument of accession to the United Nations
Convention on Psychotropic Substances. We are also
carrying out a series of measures in implementation of the
recommendations contained in the Global Programme of
Action adopted at the seventeenth special session of the
General Assembly in February 1990.
in Narcotic Drugs
Members of the Myanmar security forces are engaged
in a relentless war against drug trafficking. They may not
be wearing blue helmets like the men and women from
different lands serving as guardians of peace under the
United Nations banner, but the cause for which hundreds of
them have sacrificed life and limb is no less internationalist
and no less worthy. There are those who express doubt
about our commitment to the eradication of narcotics, and
I would ask them:
“Which country in the world has
sacrificed the lives of over 190 soldiers, with an additional
350 wounded, in the combat against drug traffickers in a
matter of only four weeks?” With this serious dedication
and commitment in the fight against illicit drugs, we in
Myanmar are ready and willing to cooperate fully with all
our neighbours and the international community for
sustained efforts against this scourge.
Myanmar is a union of over 100 different national
races residing there. Unity among the different national
races is essential for the preservation of our independence
and sovereignty as well as for the economic and social
progress of our country. Since regaining independence in
1948, Myanmar unfortunately has had to face internal strife
started by various armed groups. Because of this, the
country has suffered immensely and lagged behind in
economic development in comparison with other nations of
the region.
In these dire circumstances, it is only natural
that the State Law and Order Restoration Council should
attach the utmost
importance to the preservation of
independence and the strengthening of unity and national
solidarity among all the national races of Myanmar. Since
it assumed the responsibilities of the State, the State Law
12
26th meeting
11 October 1994
and Order Restoration Council has given priority to the
achievement of national reconciliation.
Beginning in 1989,
less than one year after it
assumed responsibility, the Government made overtures
to the armed groups to return to the legal fold. Since
April 1992, the armed forces have suspended military
offensives against the armed groups in the interest of
national reconciliation. Over four decades of internal
strife has not benefited anyone, but has only caused death
and destruction and untold suffering for the people.
No one appreciates peace more than a soldier. It is
therefore most gratifying that a total of 12 groups having
trust in the sincerity of the Government’s offer have
returned to the legal fold and are working together with
the Government for the development of their regions.
These groups are also being provided with the opportunity
to participate in the national political process — the
National Convention — to shape the country’s future.
With the Shan State Nationalities Peoples’ Liberation
Organization, which returned to the legal fold on 9
October 1994, the armed groups in the reconciliation
process now number 13. They will be integrated in the
same manner as previous groups that are participating in
the National Convention.
To the remaining groups that have yet to return to
the legal fold, the Myanmar Government reiterates its call
not to miss this golden opportunity but to join hands in
building a peaceful, democratic and modern union. Guns
have fallen silent in the country as never before in the
history of modern Myanmar, and these groups should
look at the greater interest of the country and work for
the benefit of all the national races, in accordance with
the proclamations they themselves have been making for
so long.
At this juncture, let me turn to another aspect of the
Government’s objectives:
the drafting of a firm and
enduring constitution. Towards this end, a National
Convention has been meeting since the beginning of last
year to draft a new constitution. Consensus has already
been reached on the 15 chapter headings for the 104
fundamental principles of the State and for the chapters
on State, State structure and Head of State.
At the resumed session of the National Convention,
which commenced on 2 September 1994, the Chairman of
the National Convention Convening Work Committee
elucidated the points relative to the matter of self-
administered divisions or self-administered zones in the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Union, and to constituting the legislative, executive and
judicial branches for detailed discussions and deliberations
among the delegates. As for those who allege that the
process is moving too slowly, let me ask:
Is the world
today not full of examples where too much haste has led to
chaos and confusion, even to armed conflict and the
disintegration of nations?
At the same time, let me assure the Assembly that the
State Law and Order Restoration Council has no intention
of unnecessarily prolonging the process or causing delays.
However, a balance must be struck between the need to
reach consensus among the nearly 700 delegates on very
urgent and vital issues, such as the national races, and the
desire for the process to be completed in timely fashion.
Anyone following these deliberations closely will realize
that they lucidly give the lie to the allegations that the
deliberations in the National Convention were orchestrated
by the Government.
At
the same time, I wish to indicate to certain
observers that in our society reaching consensus is more
important than debating who is right or wrong or who won
the debate. We would like the constitution to reflect as
much as possible the wishes of the national races, while at
the same time we would be most happy if consensus on the
remaining chapters could be reached as soon as possible.
What
the
moment, is to ensure peace, stability, law and order while
striving for the economic development of the entire nation
so that the transition to democracy will be smooth and
tranquil.
the Government has done, and is doing at
Today the National Convention is in full session for
further discussions on the fundamental principles to be
enshrined in the new constitution. The very fact that the
new State structure will be a union system is a
manifestation of the consensus that has been reached by the
Convention. The new Union of Myanmar that is envisaged
by the National Convention will be a genuine multi-party,
democratic State in order to bring the nation modernity,
unity, stability, peace and harmony. The new constitution
will have safeguards to guarantee non-disintegration of the
Union, non-disintegration of national
solidarity and
perpetuation of sovereignty and territorial integrity.
As in the case of other modern Constitutions, the three
organs of government - the legislative, executive and
judicial — will be properly constituted and separated as
much as possible and will be able to exert reciprocal
control with checks and balances among themselves.
Among the fundamental principles already laid down,
26th meeting
11 October 1994
independent administration of justice in accordance with
the law, administration of justice in public except where
restricted by law, the right to defence and the right of
appeal will be guaranteed. Furthermore, there will be
constitutional remedies, and the Supreme Court will have
the power to issue writs.
Citizens will be able to enjoy the rule of law, which
is the fundamental
legal safeguard necessary for a
democratic State. Because of the separation of powers
envisaged in the new constitution, the judiciary will be
the ultimate guardian of fundamental rights. Freedom of
thought,
freedom of belief,
freedom of worship, freedom to seek a livelihood and
freedom of organization will be guaranteed. There will
be equality of status, equality of opportunity and equality
before the law.
freedom of expression,
The entire Myanmar nation is currently engaged in
our national endeavour to establish a truly democratic and
modern society in accordance with the aspirations of our
people. We the people of the Union of Myanmar are
doing our utmost to advance the ongoing political and
constitutional process and the current programme of
national economic development in the interest of all our
national brethren.
We have a popular saying in Myanmar:
“As we sow in our deeds, so shall we surely
reap in our future destiny.”
We are therefore fully confident that, with continued
dedication, determination and diligence in our national
endeavour, we will surely be able to successfully establish
a democratic society based on the universal values of
justice, liberty and equality.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Zambia, His
Excellency the Honourable Mr. Remmy Mushota.
Let me
have
spoken
before me
Mr. Mushota (Zambia):
join the
representatives who
in
congratulating you, Sir, on your unanimous election as
President of the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth
session. You represent a country, Côte d’Ivoire, which
has played and continues to play an active role in the
framework of the Organization of African Unity (OAU)
and in the United Nations. You bring to the presidency
vast experience in the area of international relations as
well as diplomatic skill and acumen, which puts you in
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the General
good stead to steer
Assembly to a successful conclusion. You can count on
my delegation’s unqualified support and cooperation.
the deliberations of
to
I also wish to express my delegation’s sincere
appreciation
predecessor, His Excellency
Ambassador Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who presided
over
the work of the forty-eighth session with great
distinction and rare personal attributes.
your
Mr. Blandino Canto (Dominican Republic), Vice-
President, took the Chair.
Our distinguished Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, has continued to provide outstanding
Zambia is
leadership in the discharge of his duties.
particularly grateful
for his
untiring efforts in pursuit of world peace and security,
development and international cooperation.
to the Secretary-General
In the view of Zambia,
The past year has been one of mixed blessings on the
international scene, a year of notable achievements and
failures.
the most positive
development of the year was the achievement of majority
rule in the Republic of South Africa. My delegation is
really delighted to see in our midst the delegation of a
democratic and non-racial South Africa, led by President
Nelson Mandela. President Mandela was the symbol of the
liberation struggle in South Africa and it
is therefore
befitting that he, an icon of the liberation struggle, should
become the first President of a new South Africa.
to the
is without
a doubt due
The return of South Africa to the family of the United
Nations
tenacity,
uncompromising commitment and dedication of our
brothers and sisters in South Africa who bore the brunt of
the evil system of apartheid. At the same time, it cannot be
denied that South Africa’s victory over apartheid and its
rejoining the United Nations is a concrete manifestation of
the seminal role played by this Organization.
In order to consolidate the democracy achieved in
South Africa and address the negative social and economic
legacy of apartheid, substantial international assistance is
imperative.
In this regard, Zambia endorses the appeal
made by President Nelson Mandela for international support
to South Africa to enable the effective implementation of
its reconstruction and development programme.
A democratic, peaceful and prosperous South Africa
will no doubt have a positive impact on southern Africa and
Indeed, South Africa’s
the African continent as a whole.
14
26th meeting
11 October 1994
It has,
the Southern African
contribution as a member of
Development Community has already begun to be felt and
appreciated.
together with Botswana and
Zimbabwe, also played a highly commendable role in the
peaceful
the constitutional problem in
Lesotho. We have every confidence, therefore, that South
Africa will contribute positively to the work of the United
Nations.
resolution of
Africa has had a few other bright spots. We are
delighted with the peaceful resolution of the territorial
dispute between Chad and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
The positive developments in Burundi towards a peaceful
resolution of the long-standing conflict are commendable.
However,
There is
therefore a need to sustain international engagement.
the situation remains volatile.
With regard to Angola, it is indeed gratifying that
the talks between the Government of Angola and National
Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA),
which have been taking place in Lusaka, Zambia, for the
past eleven months under the chairmanship of the United
Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative,
Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, have made tremendous
progress. We therefore look forward to a successful
conclusion of the talks by the end of October, culminating
in the signing of a peace agreement, by the middle of
November 1994, on the basis of the Bicesse Accords, and
the pertinent resolutions of the Security Council.
In this regard, we take this opportunity to commend
both the Angolan Government and the UNITA delegation
for their seriousness and commitment
to the task of
finding a peaceful solution to their country’s fratricidal
war. We also thank the observers to these talks, namely
the United States, the Russian Federation and Portugal.
Sustained international assistance to Angola will be
necessary in the post-agreement era and Zambia will
continue to assist the people of Angola during this period.
In Mozambique, we look forward to the holding of
the first multiparty elections, scheduled to take place on
27 and 28 October. We commend the Mozambican
Government and RENAMO for committing themselves to
the United Nations peace initiative and to the Rome
Agreement. We applaud the role that the United Nations
has played through its peace-keeping efforts and in
helping to prepare the people of Mozambique for the
forthcoming elections. As a gesture of solidarity with the
people of Mozambique, Zambia has made a modest
contribution to the United Nations peace-keeping
operation.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In Malawi, we welcome the recent peaceful and
democratic transition to a multiparty system of government.
We endorse the appeal made by President Bakili Muluzi for
international assistance to consolidate democracy and to
assist in the reconstruction of the country. My Government
also commends the technical and advisory services provided
by the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat of the
United Nations.
the
trend
positive
Zambia welcomes
towards
democratization on the African continent. Why should
Africa democratize? Africa should democratize because it
is our firm belief that democratic systems of government
promote good governance, transparency and accountability
in the administration of public affairs, independence of the
judiciary, and respect for human rights and the rule of law.
These qualities lay a firm basis for peace and stability and
are thus conducive to sustainable development. We would
therefore urge all of our development partners to take
account of all
in the
formulation of their development policies towards Africa.
They should also endeavour to explain to their taxpayers
the significance of these democratic changes and their
correlation to sustainable development. The electorates of
the North must be made to appreciate that it is in their
enlightened self-interest to support developing countries.
There is now much hope in Africa. Indeed, Africa, in the
long run, holds the promise of a positive and prosperous
future.
these positive developments
In the Middle East, we welcome the positive
developments in Palestine following the agreements and
declarations between the Palestine Liberation Organization
(PLO) and Israel, as well as between Jordan and Israel. It
is our sincere hope that progress can also be achieved in
the negotiations with the Syrian Arab Republic and
Lebanon.
International assistance is urgently required for
the reconstruction, rehabilitation and other essential needs
of the Palestinians.
their
Israel,
We commend the efforts deployed by the leadership
of
the PLO and of
tenacity and their
determination to work for peace. We also commend the
crucial catalytic roles played by the United States of
America and the Russian Federation as co-sponsors of the
talks. The Kingdom of Norway also deserves our gratitude
for its contribution to the peace talks. The sustained
support and commitment of the Arab League to the peace
process also merit special mention.
On the other hand, negative developments abound in
Africa and elsewhere on the international scene. These
26th meeting
11 October 1994
conflict situations continue to defy durable solutions
through dialogue, reconciliation and negotiation, in stark
contrast with the exemplary cases I have just cited.
Thus,
in our region,
the civil wars in Liberia,
Rwanda, Somalia and the Sudan torment us all because of
our aversion to fratricidal and ethnic violence and the
serious humanitarian crises they have engendered. In this
connection, Zambia also strongly condemns ethnic
violence wherever it occurs, including in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
We deplore the further deterioration of the situation
in Liberia. We regret
the lack of progress towards
disarmament, demobilization and general elections. We
appeal to all the parties to commit themselves to the
Cotonou and Akosombo Peace Agreements. We also
wish to stress the need to maintain the Military Observer
Group of the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOMOG) in Liberia and to provide it with the
requisite logistical support.
As for Rwanda, we and the entire world community
have been deeply shocked by the genocide and the most
dehumanizing spectre of violence in that country,
resulting in one of the worst humanitarian and refugee
crises in the history of mankind. Zambia has expressed
its strong condemnation of the genocide and mindless
violence in Rwanda. We strongly feel
those
responsible for the massacres must be brought to trial
through an international tribunal. Conditions of peace,
security, stability and confidence should be created in
Rwanda in order to facilitate the repatriation of refugees
from overburdened neighbouring countries. We hope that
the new Government will commit itself to carrying out its
declared intention to work for reconciliation, rehabilitation
and reconstruction in Rwanda. Substantial assistance for
humanitarian, rehabilitation and reconstruction purposes
is thus crucial. The neighbouring asylum countries also
need assistance.
that
The role and efforts of
the United Nations
Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) in creating
conditions of stability and security in the country are
crucial. We therefore deeply regret the delay in the
deployment of UNAMIR troops to the level of 5,500 in
accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions.
In this regard, African countries have been ready and
willing to send sufficient troops. However, the major
constraint has been inadequate logistical support.
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
As a token measure, Zambia has contributed a
peace-keeping contingent of civilian and military personnel
to the UNAMIR operation, thanks to the generous logistical
support, in materiel, from the Netherlands. Furthermore,
the Zambian Peace Corps, a non-governmental organization,
has organized activities
to purchase
medicines, food and other humanitarian requirements for
the displaced people in Rwanda.
to raise funds
We remain concerned by the continuing crisis in
Somalia and by the lack of progress. We note, however,
the genuine efforts being deployed to resolve the crisis.
Notwithstanding the difficulties, we strongly believe that
the continued presence of the United Nations in Somalia is
critical.
In Sudan,
the continuing civil war and factional
fighting in the south and the deteriorating human rights
situation nationwide are a cause of serious concern to us in
Zambia. We urge the parties to reach a negotiated
settlement.
As to Haiti, Zambia reaffirms its support for the
efforts of the Organization of American States and the
United Nations to restore democracy and respect for human
rights there,
in accordance with the relevant Security
Council resolutions.
With regard to Cuba, we reaffirm our belief that the
time has come for the economic, commercial and financial
embargo against Cuba to be lifted. We hope that our two
friends the United States and Cuba will resolve their
differences peacefully.
In this regard, we are encouraged
by the recent dialogue between the two countries.
Zambia attaches great
importance to the role of
regional organizations in addressing conflict situations. In
this respect we note with satisfaction the increasingly active
role played by the Organization of African Unity (OAU),
including at regional and subregional levels, to address the
root causes of conflicts and to prevent, manage and resolve
them.
In particular, in June of last year the OAU established
a mechanism for the prevention, management and resolution
of conflicts in order for Africa to deal effectively with
conflict situations on its own. For too long and too often,
Africa has relied on external assistance to resolve its
conflicts. The time has come for Africa to handle these
situations resolutely. Conflicts continue to sap Africa’s
energies, to waste its scarce resources and to retard its
development. They must be eliminated in order to create
16
26th meeting
11 October 1994
an environment conducive to economic and social
development.
Zambia therefore appeals
to the international
community to contribute generously to the OAU Fund
established to sustain the Mechanism for Conflict
Prevention, Management and Resolution.
International
support is critical to the effective implementation of this
important initiative.
It is warranted by the fact that the
United Nations, through the Security Council, exercises
primary responsibility for the maintenance of international
peace and security.
It is now evident that peace and development not
only are interrelated but are indivisible. This has been
brought into prominence by the comprehensive reports of
the Secretary-General entitled "Agenda for Peace" and
"Agenda for Development".
Indeed, in a number of
conflict situations poverty and deprivation have been the
underlying causes. There is, therefore, a compelling case
to bring development and related issues to the centre
stage of the United Nations, in order to promote the cause
of peace in its most comprehensive perspective.
We therefore welcome the Secretary-General’s
preliminary report on the "Agenda for Development". My
delegation fully supports the views of the Group of 77 on
this subject, as reflected in its Ministerial Declaration of
30 September 1994.
In particular, an Agenda for
Development must be action-oriented and focus on the
economic growth and development of the developing
countries, especially the least developed amongst them.
The Agenda for Development must strengthen the role of
the United Nations in the area of international economic
policy-making and coordination.
flows,
investment
Africa is in economic crisis.
It continues to face
grave economic difficulties. Africa therefore needs a
favourable international economic environment for the
promotion of
increased official
development assistance, technological transfer, improved
trade opportunities and better terms of trade. Africa
further needs a viable and comprehensive solution for its
huge debt burden. Such a debt strategy should include
debt cancellation.
In this regard, we fully support the
positions of the Group of 77 and the Non-Aligned
Movement.
Zambia welcomes the conclusion of the Uruguay
Round and the Agreement to establish the World Trade
Organization (WTO) with effect from January of next
the World Trade
year.
is our expectation that
It
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Organization will promote a non-discriminatory and
predictable trading system and protect
the rights and
interests of the developing countries.
In view of the increasing economic disparity between
the developed and the developing countries, the WTO will
not start on a level playing field.
In this connection, it is
the strong view of my delegation that the implementation
of the Uruguay Round must be monitored constantly to
ensure that
the interests of developing countries are
adequately protected. Compensation should be provided to
those developing countries that are facing difficulties,
particularly the least developed.
Let me now address Zambia’s economic and political
situation. On the economic front, we have followed,
resolutely, a credible macro-economic reform programme
whose main objective is to promote growth with stability
based on an equitable allocation of resources. The main
policy thrusts of the programme include strict control of the
money supply and credit, with the aim of keeping inflation
to minimal
liberalization of the economy with
greater reliance on market forces; and implementation of
the privatization programme,
through which previously
State-owned enterprises are to be turned into private
concerns in order to reduce direct Government participation
in the economy.
levels;
Although these measures are expected to yield positive
results in the long run, they have had some short-term
negative effects, such as a drastic reduction in employment
levels in the formal sector, a decline in income level, and
a marked increase in both the level and the intensity of
poverty, especially in the rural areas and among the
vulnerable segments of the population. To cushion the poor
from these adverse effects of economic adjustment, a social
safety net has been created to assist those who lose their
jobs or who are unable to meet their basic needs or obtain
social services.
It is going to be a long haul, but the
Zambian Government is determined to rise above these
challenges.
I should be remiss if I did not express gratitude to all
our development partners for the economic, financial and
technical support rendered to our country. The support
provided Zambia by our development partners will serve to
underpin our structural adjustment programme, to which our
Government remains committed. More importantly, such
assistance will help to consolidate our democratization
process, which we initiated in 1991 with the reintroduction
of plural politics. In this regard, my delegation is pleased
26th meeting
11 October 1994
to assure the international community that Zambia’s
democratization process remains firmly on course.
There is a strong connection between the plan of
action adopted at the Cairo Conference on Population, the
World Summit for Social Development, to be held in
Copenhagen early next year, and the World Conference
on Women, to be held in Beijing, next September. The
World Summit on Social Development will be an
opportunity for the international community to renew its
commitment and political will to effectively address a
number of social and economic problems.
The contribution made by women to development
efforts is very clear, although it is often underestimated.
We therefore look forward to Beijing’s programme of
action, which we trust will ensure the full and equal
participation of women at all levels of human activity.
With regard to the environment, the international
community is faced with the major challenge of giving
practical effect to the concept of sustainable development
To do this, effective
as reflected in Agenda 21.
international cooperation is vital.
In particular, practical
steps must be taken to provide access to appropriate
technologies and to mobilize new and additional financial
resources for the countries in need:
the developing
countries. My delegation therefore calls on the developed
countries to fulfil the solemn commitments undertaken at
the Rio Earth Summit. At the same time, the task at hand
is global and must thus be shared globally.
It involves
individuals,
non-governmental
organizations, Governments and financial institutions. In
the language of
the Earth Summit, "common but
differentiated responsibilities" (A/CONF.151/26 (Vol. I)
Principle 7) is now imperative.
community
groups,
integrating
Zambia attaches high priority to environmental
issues. As a reflection of our commitment, we have
formulated a National Environmental Action Plan aimed
at
our
socio-economic development plans. We have taken
deliberate measures to increase the level of public
awareness of environmental issues, particularly through
the active involvement of non-governmental organizations
and community groups.
environmental
concerns
into
is
of
rights
and
My Government
firmly committed to the
promotion
and
fundamental freedoms. We believe that it is the duty and
responsibility of all Governments to do so, regardless of
their political, economic or cultural systems.
protection
human
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In the aftermath of the Vienna World Conference on
Human Rights, we should work to implement its important
recommendations. Accordingly, my delegation will support
genuine efforts in this direction during the current session.
My delegation welcomes the establishment of the Office of
the High Commissioner
for Human Rights and the
appointment of Mr. José Ayala Lasso to this high office.
Mr. Lasso has already proven his suitability for
the
appointment, and we commend his important initiatives
concerning human rights situations in Africa and elsewhere.
My delegation also supports the strengthening of the United
Nations Centre for Human Rights in Geneva.
in Zambia,
My Government has also established a Human Rights
Commission, which is responsible for investigating alleged
human rights violations
including those
committed prior to the reintroduction of plural politics in
1991.
In the spirit of our policy of transparency, the
Government will publish the Commission’s findings in a
report to be made available to the general public. Zambia
is thus firmly committed to the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights and to other relevant international covenants
and instruments.
In the area of disarmament and arms control, my
delegation strongly supports efforts to accelerate the
elimination of nuclear weapons and to conclude a
comprehensive test-ban treaty. We also fully support the
review and extension of
the Non-Proliferation Treaty
(NPT), which is scheduled to take place next year.
However, we share the view that any extension of the NPT
should be linked to progress on nuclear disarmament and to
the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty.
Zambia welcomes the significant progress achieved in
the Geneva negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban treaty.
We further
the case for a convention on
conventional weapons and welcome the introduction of the
United Nations Register of Conventional Arms with a view
to promoting transparency and confidence-building.
support
Zambia welcomes the successful conclusion during the
the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, of
agreement relating to the implementation of part XI of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which
opened the way for
the
Convention and its provisions.
the universal acceptance of
Let me now turn to the United Nations itself. As we
meet
in this session on the threshold of
the fiftieth
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, we have
to recognize that the fundamental meaning of the United
18
26th meeting
11 October 1994
that
Nations Charter has remained unchanged; that the United
Nations has undergone periods of both triumph and
disillusionment;
the United Nations is still an
international organization for the people as well as of the
people and it is therefore supposed to be a democratic
institution. It is now time to reflect on a United Nations
that will serve mankind for another 50 years after 1995.
It will have to be a new United Nations, one which will
suit the exigencies of the twenty-first century. It will be
necessary to sharpen the mechanisms
that were
established to give effect to the declared principles and
purposes of the Charter. It is only by going through this
metamorphosis that our Organization will be able to adapt
to a changed and changing environment, to new demands,
new opportunities and new challenges.
In this connection, my delegation is of
the
considered view that expansion of the membership of the
Security Council is extremely important. Regions of the
world, such as Africa, that are not represented at the level
of permanent membership should be so represented.
It
will, therefore, be incumbent upon those regions to agree
on which country or countries should represent them as
permanent members.
Apart from dealing with the Security Council, we
must fashion the United Nations in such a way as to
accord a central role to issues of the development of the
developing countries. The Economic and Social Council
should therefore be attuned to meeting this challenge. We
would like to see a stronger Economic and Social Council
with a mandate adequate to coordinate the policies of all
development programmes and activities, as well as the
activities of
including the
Bretton Woods institutions, for the promotion of sustained
economic growth and development.
the specialized agencies,
to economic, environmental
We now live in a world in which there has been a
major recasting of international relations ranging from
political
to humanitarian
issues. In this new atmosphere, the United Nations is the
linchpin of our collective security, the repository of our
hope for progress and prosperity. In this atmosphere, the
United Nations has no greater contribution to make in the
service of its ideals than to help the world find its way
from the era of fear from which we are emerging into a
time of hope and progress for all mankind.
We wish this great creation more success for the
betterment of the entire world.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call
next on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Trinidad and
Tobago, His Excellency The Honourable Ralph Maraj.
Mr. Maraj (Trinidad and Tobago):
I should like to
offer congratulations and special greetings to Ambassador
Essy on his unanimous election to the presidency of the
General Assembly.
I am confident that under his able
leadership this session of the General Assembly is well
placed to address successfully the important issues on its
agenda.
Allow me to express appreciation to His Excellency
Mr. Samuel Insanally for his wise and effective guidance
during the session just concluded. He has indeed made an
outstanding contribution, of which our region is very proud.
We express our thanks to the Secretary-General for his
stewardship of the Organization during these trying times,
and we renew our pledge to give him our fullest support.
the
path
affairs.
along
We have
of
Trinidad and Tobago, like the rest of the world, is in
the process of making fundamental changes in the way we
already advanced
manage our
significantly
deregulation
and
liberalization brought upon us by the inexorable move
towards globalization and borderlessness,
and most
importantly by the absolute necessity to achieve greater
efficiency and higher sustainable levels of productivity.
Greater emphasis is being placed on the market paradigm
as the means to unleash the inner energies of our society
and to create the wealth needed for the improvement of the
lives of all our citizens.
But let me hasten to add that we are acutely aware of
the imbalances that could arise as a result of the purest play
of market forces, and we as a society consider it our
responsibility to ensure that distributive justice exists in our
system, sufficiently to guarantee the well-being of all of our
citizens, including those who are unable to compete and
who for one reason or another may have been pushed out
of the mainstream of national activity.
In other words,
whilst many things may be changing, there is one constant
in Trinidad and Tobago, and that is our preservation of a
humane and just society where all have the opportunity for
fulfilment.
Side by side with the globalization process, or maybe
as a byproduct of it,
is a resurgence of regionalism
throughout the world. In our own hemisphere this is very
pronounced, and the dream of a free trade area from Alaska
to Tierra del Fuego seems more realizable than ever before.
26th meeting
11 October 1994
We are pleased to see various subregional groupings
emerge and then develop relationships with one another.
Never before in the history of our hemisphere has the
integration process been so advanced. We have the North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Southern
Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), the Andean Pact,
the Central American Integration Movement, the Latin
American Economic System (SELA),
the Caribbean
Community (CARICOM) and the Rio Group, in addition
of course to the Organization of American States.
It is
significant that the cooperation which is flowering is not
only economic but also political; this augurs very well for
the development as well as for the security of the
hemisphere.
In addition to this multilateral coalescence, there is
a general strengthening of bilateral relationships. We in
CARICOM have been making strides towards overcoming
historical barriers and have been deepening our ties with
Latin America. My own country, having this year
established diplomatic relations with six countries of Latin
America, now has diplomatic relations with all
the
countries of the western hemisphere. Also, we joined 38
and
others,
non-independent
the
Association of Caribbean States, comprising countries of
the Caribbean littoral and bringing into being a market of
over 200 million people with a combined gross domestic
product of $500 billion.
including both independent
countries
establishing
Territories,
in
We do all this for the benefit of our people, realizing
that when we join forces we are stronger, we lay the
bedrock for a stable environment within the hemisphere,
and we create, among other things, megamarkets for our
products and generate the wealth through which we
improve the standard of living in our countries.
I have spoken about the possibilities for political
co-operation as a result of the integration processes taking
place in our region. May I mention an outstanding
current example. I refer of course to Haiti. At present in
Haiti, sanctioned by Security Council resolution 940
(1994),
is a multinational force comprised mainly of
troops from the region, with military contributions from
elsewhere. My Government welcomes the cooperation
extended by countries outside
region whose
farsightedness persuaded them to contribute to the
restoration process now taking place in Haiti.
the
In the changed circumstances of today’s world, there
is more than ever a need to cooperate for security
purposes and for the preservation of democracy, and this
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
of course requires the political will which has been
region in the Haitian situation.
demonstrated by our
Soldiers from Trinidad and Tobago are part of
the
multinational force at present in Haiti. We are pleased to
participate in the collective efforts to ensure stability and
the return of democracy and the democratically elected
President to that country. We believe that the Caribbean
has a special responsibility in relation to Haiti. We have
therefore been in the forefront of attempts to solve the
crisis, and we vow to remain with the problem until it is no
more with us.
Trinidad and Tobago joins the jubilation of
the
millions of proud Haitians at home and in the diaspora at
the welcome news of the resignation of General Raoul
Cedras and his Chief of Staff. Like others, we hope this
sends an unequivocal message to those elements in Haiti
that seek to continue to wage war and terror against a
people still yearning for a society of freedom, democracy
and justice - a society in which the collective talents and
resourcefulness of Haitians can be appropriately channelled
towards rebuilding their nation and fighting the enemies of
poverty and degradation.
Another area of Caribbean concern has to do with
Cuba. We welcome the commencement of dialogue
between Cuba and the United States of America on specific
issues. These talks should assist in laying a foundation for
the resolution of remaining difficulties and in achieving the
long-term objective of fully reintegrating Cuba into the
Western Hemisphere. We in the Caribbean are doing our
part towards the goal of Cuba’s reintegration. We have
established the Cuba-Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
Mixed Commission, and recently Cuba joined us as a
founding member of the Association of Caribbean States.
Trinidad and Tobago also welcomes the consolidation
of democracy in the Latin American and Caribbean region.
Peaceful elections continue to be conducted in these
countries, deepening the democratic process in the region.
We are pleased with the many positive developments
in our part of the world. There have also been positive
developments in former areas of conflict which seized the
attention of this body for many years, further illustrating
what can be achieved through partnership and political will.
The peaceful transition to democracy in South Africa a few
months ago stands out as a beacon of hope and signals that
no problem is insurmountable if there is concerted national
and international action. Trinidad and Tobago joins with
the international community in assuring South Africa of its
continued support in this crucial post-apartheid period. The
20
26th meeting
11 October 1994
Government of South Africa has announced its decision
to include among its priorities the continuation of
traditional
friendships and the promotion of new
partnerships. We look forward to the development of
strong bilateral
relations between South Africa and
ourselves, a process that is already under way.
the
extension
Trinidad and Tobago is also heartened by the
progress achieved so far
in the Middle East peace
process. We welcome the initiation of self-governing
arrangements in the Gaza Strip and Jericho - important
developments in this transition period - and look forward
to
self-governing
arrangements to encompass other occupied territories in
the implementation of the Declaration of Principles. The
international community’s support for development efforts
in the economic and social fields and the rebuilding of
infrastructure destroyed during the
long years of
occupation is critical to the Palestinian people at this time.
Palestinian
of
We are encouraged by the Washington Declaration
of 25 July 1994, issued by the Governments of Jordan
and Israel, which ended the state of war and paves the
way for normalization of relations and a formal peace
treaty. We also appreciate the efforts made by the Syrian
and Lebanese Governments in their commitment
to
advancing the peace process in the Middle East.
Whilst there is cause for satisfaction globally, we
continue to be traumatized by other events which have
already shattered the lives of millions of people, evoking
images more horrendous than those we have witnessed
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, a genocidal war
before.
rages on, having already brought
the evil of “ethnic
cleansing” into our modern vocabulary and consciousness.
We were first appalled and are now numbed by the horror
in Rwanda, where hundreds of thousands of lives have
been lost, creating hellish human suffering in that country.
Destruction, oppression and suffering continue in various
parts of the world, affecting hundreds of thousands of
lives in Somalia and elsewhere.
Nuclear proliferation makes us all very uneasy,
creating pictures of an abyss of unspeakable chaos into
which we can very easily slip. The ideological divide
may be behind us, but the threat of Armageddon still
hangs over humanity.
It has become a cliché of international helplessness
to say that the world community must act decisively and
expeditiously to do this or that to deal with many of the
problems that I have mentioned. The fact is that there is
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
a very long road ahead. To effect lasting solutions to the
crises that are upon us we must go back always to the
fundamentals and remember, for example, that development
and peace are inextricably linked.
If we are to get
anywhere near to solving some of our problems we must
deal with key issues such as good governance,
the
promotion of peace, the promotion of justice as a pillar of
society, sustainable environmental management and social
development.
is
to
in my mind that
beginning
There is no doubt
already
the world
community
grapple with
fundamentals. We are in the process of elaborating the
Agenda for Development as a necessary complement to the
“Agenda for Peace”.
International conferences of world
leaders, some held and others to come, all point the way to
a new partnership for development based on global
consensus and action.
regard,
In this
the World Summit
for Social
Development will be convened in March 1995 in Denmark
to address some of the serious ills afflicting many societies
by focusing on the key problems of poverty, unemployment
and social marginalization. The programme of action to be
adopted at
therefore include
specific provisions, including adequate financial resources
for implementation and follow-up by the international
community and, more specifically, by the United Nations
and its agencies and institutions.
the social Summit must
There can be no doubt that the quality of life in many
countries today as it relates to the individual is undergoing
a grave transformation.
The growing intolerance and
increasing senseless violence within the home and in
communities at large have led many to question the very
mores of the society in which we live. The situation is
further aggravated by the growth of organized transnational
crime, which in many countries exacerbates problems of
rampant vicious criminal activity, terrorism, drug abuse,
illegal drug trafficking and money laundering.
In this era of increasing globalization, no Government,
particularly Governments in the developing world, can
hope, on its own,
to address effectively these varied
problems. We therefore welcome the approval by the
International Law Commission earlier this year of a draft
statute for an international criminal court and we support
the convening of a diplomatic conference to conclude a
convention on the establishment of a permanent court.
Another
area being tackled by the
international community is the full participation of women
important
26th meeting
11 October 1994
in the process of development. The fact is, effective
international cooperation for development will remain
elusive,
in the absence of specific measures for an
adequate means of empowering all members of society to
participate fully in the political, economic and social life
of their respective societies.
It is widely acknowledged
that investment in women can have an enormous impact
on the advancement of society as a whole. However,
women from all parts of the globe continue to face
systematic discrimination in all fields of endeavour, while
also
the
consequences of economic recession, poverty, structural
adjustment policies and political strife.
disproportionate
bearing
burden
a
of
In acknowledging this, Trinidad and Tobago has put
in place constitutional guarantees
to ensure equal
treatment for all under the law, irrespective of gender,
creed or race. My Government holds steadfastly to the
position that women must be allowed equal opportunity
to participate fully in all spheres of life and at all levels
of society, particularly in decision-making positions.
Trinidad and Tobago is encouraged by efforts made
during the ongoing preparatory process for the Fourth
World Conference on Women to address these and other
crucial issues. Much work remains to be done in the
ensuing months. My Government will continue to work
closely with others in an effort to elaborate concrete
recommendations,
including specific attainable goals,
aimed at overcoming the numerous impediments to the
advancement of women.
life.
The population question also continues to be on the
international agenda.
It is recognized that population-
related goals and policies must be integral parts of
cultural, economic and social development aimed at
improving the quality of
the
International Conference on Population and Development,
which was convened in Cairo last September, quite
appropriately reviewed the impact of demographic factors
on development and emphasized the importance of the
entire spectrum of population policies to the development
process. We must now take concrete steps to uphold the
principles and implement
the Programme of Action
adopted by the Conference.
Consequently,
The crucial area of the environment is also being
discussed. Member States have taken initial steps at the
national and international levels, towards the elaboration
of a new development paradigm based on the integration
of environmental concerns in development activities. The
this process would lead to the
continuation of
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
implementation of the policies and decisions adopted at Rio
de Janeiro, thereby making possible the attainment of the
targets identified for our common good.
As a follow-up to the Rio de Janeiro Conference, the
Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of
Small
Island Developing States, which was held in
Barbados earlier this year, allowed island States and the rest
of the international community to explore a comprehensive
approach to sustainable development within the framework
of Agenda 21. For many island developing States which
have
international
programmes for development, the implementation of the
agreements adopted in Barbados will create the opportunity
to participate as contributors and beneficiaries in a truly
global effort. As Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island
States, Trinidad and Tobago reiterates its commitment to
playing a
the
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action.
active pursuit of
lead role
periphery
remained
in the
on
the
of
The preservation and sustainable management of the
resources in all global commons must be an important goal
of the Agenda for Development. But this goal must be
facilitated by the development of legal regimes to ensure
that we successfully carry out our duties as trustees of those
resources.
by the Preparatory Commission
In this context, Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the
imminent entry into force of the 1982 United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, having participated very
actively with other Member States in forging a new, more
universally accepted public order for the oceans. The spirit
of accommodation and consensus manifested in the work
achieved
the
International Seabed Authority and for the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea constitutes a solid and
valuable foundation for the launching of the International
Seabed Authority
on
16 November 1994. Trinidad and Tobago will continue to
participate constructively and in close cooperation with
other Member States in the decision-making process of the
Authority as well as in other institutions related to the 1982
Convention.
in Kingston,
Jamaica,
for
The coming into force of the Convention on the Law
of the Sea should provide an impetus to the United Nations
Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory
Fish Stocks, which is developing principles for the effective
management of one of the most important renewable food
resources. This objective can be attained only if there is a
confluence of political will to act decisively.
22
26th meeting
11 October 1994
Political will is also absolutely necessary if we are
to address adequately the various international economic
impediments to effective national efforts to promote social
progress and better standards of life. The major obstacles
include trade barriers, insufficient flows of international
financing, onerous external debt and the inadequate
transfer of technology to developing countries. They
serve to frustrate the ardent efforts made by Governments
to revitalize their economies.
Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the important step
taken earlier this year towards free and open trade, with
the successful conclusion of the Uruguay Round of trade
negotiations. We emphasize, however, that as we seek to
implement the trade liberalization measures under the
agreements arrived at, urgent attention must be given to
the persistent trend of economic growth accompanied by
increased poverty, unemployment and marginalization of
large sections of populations the world over.
It is clear from what I have said that it is only
through a multilateral approach that we will solve the
problems of the world. Clearly, the most appropriate
vehicle to accommodate this approach is the United
Nations. People are turning increasingly to the United
Nations not only for the realization of their aspirations for
peace
for
development with equity and social justice. Following the
dissipation of the distrust and hostility of the cold-war
era, the United Nations ought to be in a better position to
respond to these needs.
also in their quest
and security, but
On becoming a Member of the United Nations 32
years ago, Trinidad and Tobago undertook along with
other Member States to maintain international peace and
security and to promote the economic and social
advancement of all peoples. To this end we intend to
participate actively in current efforts to restructure the
United Nations to enable it to become more responsive to
the needs of Member States in this dynamic international
environment.
itself
As the United Nations is on the threshold of
celebrating its fiftieth anniversary, Trinidad and Tobago
is pleased to recommit
to the purposes and
principles enshrined in the Charter. As Members, we
need to redouble our efforts towards forging universal
peace and a new era of development, in which both
nations and individuals find security and fulfilment. I am
confident that inherent in the human condition is the
desire and the will to achieve these goals.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Address by Mr. Mikhail Chygir, Prime Minister of the
Republic of Belarus
The President (interpretation from Spanish): The
Assembly will now hear an address by the Prime Minister
of the Republic of Belarus.
Mr. Mikhail Chygir, Prime Minister of the Republic of
Belarus, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I have
great pleasure in welcoming the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Belarus, Mr. Mikhail Chygir, and inviting him
to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Chygir (Belarus) (interpretation from Russian):
Let me congratulate Mr. Amara Essy on his unanimous
election as President of the General Assembly at its forty-
ninth session. This is both a tribute to his country’s
contribution to the work of the Organization and an
acknowledgement
in
multilateral diplomacy.
achievements
of his
personal
Almost half a century ago,
the founding Member
States — and my country is one of them — set for the
United Nations a task of paramount importance:
to unite
our strength to maintain international peace and security
and to promote the economic and social development of all
nations.
It was necessary to create a mechanism for
coordinating states’ efforts that could offer mutually
acceptable solutions to international problems. Experience
has shown that the United Nations can play the part of such
a unique mechanism. Thanks to the great efforts of this
prestigious international Organization, we have managed to
avoid military flare-ups and conflicts in many parts of the
world.
The world has changed dramatically. The political,
ideological and military confrontation of two social systems
has become a thing of the past. The ice of the cold war
has melted away completely. These changes brought to the
world hopes for a better future but, unfortunately, have
failed to solve all international problems. Tragedies whose
underlying cause is ethnic, religious and national enmity are
being played out in Rwanda, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Nagorny Karabakh, Abkhazia and Tajikistan. Unsettled
bilateral relations between some States, including those
relating to the areas of human rights and protection of
national minorities, are also factors. And there is also
terrorism, drug-trafficking and uncontrolled arms exports,
including arms supplies into areas of conflict and hot spots
in countries where bloodshed continues.
26th meeting
11 October 1994
Under these circumstances, the role of the United
Nations as a universally recognized uniter of peoples
becomes much more significant. I am deeply convinced
that there will come a time when the collective reason of
the United Nations will have a much greater impact on
the processes taking place in the world. Our duty is to do
everything we can to achieve that. Here in the United
Nations, we have to find the answers to many questions
of concern to our countries.
For Belarus, this is especially important. For four
years now Belarus has been building a democratic,
independent and sovereign State. Our ideal is one of a
free citizen in a free country.
After decades of
totalitarianism and sham collectivism, we are gradually
giving back to our people freedom, which the great
humanist Leonardo da Vinci called the main gift of
nature.
One significant milestone in the life of Belarus was
the adoption of a new Constitution and — a historic first
for us — truly free and democratic presidential elections.
Henceforth Belarus has a President elected by the people,
Alaksandr Lukashenka, who has testified to his basic
commitment to progressive market reforms. Presidential
power and the trust of
the people guarantee that
democratic reforms in our country will be irreversible.
And today we also have regular elections to the Belarus
Parliament and for local authorities.
In foreign policy, the Republic of Belarus believes
in the principles of sovereign equality of states, non-use
of force or the threat of force, inviolability of borders,
peaceful
settlement of disputes, non-interference in
internal affairs and other universally recognized norms of
international law. Our Constitution contains a provision
that Belarus should be a neutral State and its territory a
nuclear-free zone. Our Republic is ready to cooperate
with the whole world and is seeking its rightful place in
Europe in the regional structures of collective security and
economic cooperation.
The President and the Government of the Republic
of Belarus believe that implementation of market reforms
will guarantee success in the democratic transformations
in our society. We have embarked on this path firmly
and irreversibly. The legal and organizational bases for
moving to the socially oriented market economy have
now been created in the Republic. Appropriate legislation
has been enacted. The ideas of having a state of law,
dividing power into different branches and improving the
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
system of executive authority are now being put
practice.
into
However, as in other countries of Central and Eastern
Europe, transition to a market economy is very difficult.
Our greatest difficulties occur in privatization, fighting
monopolies and stabilizing the monetary-financial system.
Moreover, we inherited from the past a national economic
structure in which an excessively large share was given to
the military-industrial complex.
Internal and external
national debt is also high, leading to budget deficits and
inflation.
The
situation is
aggravated by the
long-term
consequences of the accident at
the Chernobyl nuclear
power plant. The adverse effect of the unprecedented
radioactive contamination on people’s health is not
decreasing. On the contrary, it increases as this tragic day
recedes. On top of all of this, we had a drought this year
the likes of which our country had not seen for at least 100
years. Modest estimates put the overall damage from the
drought at more than $300 million.
Under these difficult circumstances, the Republic has
elaborated a programme of measures for pulling the
economy out of crisis. This programme will be the basis
for an agreement with the International Monetary Fund,
which we plan to sign sometime next month. Firmly
resolved to carry out wide-scale reforms, we intend to curb
inflation, reduce the budget deficit and reduce the deficit in
the balance of payments. Full liberalization of trade and
prices, speeding up privatization, should, we think, make it
possible to lessen the crisis in our economy. Relying on
our own forces, we nevertheless understand that without
support from the outside we cannot carry out our reforms
fully and in a reasonably short time.
The Republic of Belarus does not intend to withdraw
into its own problems. We are open to the concerns,
anxieties and problems of the whole world, and we wish to
make our own contribution to the activities of the world
community of nations. Not just rhetorically, but in reality,
Belarus was the first State in history voluntarily, without
reservations or conditions, to renounce the possession of
nuclear weapons. We support proposals on the indefinite
and
the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty.
unconditional
extension
of
In 1990, from this rostrum,
the delegation of the
Republic of Belarus put forward the idea of establishing a
nuclear-free belt from the Baltic to the Black Sea. Recent
steps taken by Belarus to withdraw nuclear weapons from
24
26th meeting
11 October 1994
its territory ahead of schedule make it possible to consider
a substantial part of this region as nuclear-free territory
already.
Belarus supports the efforts by Members of the
United Nations to speed up the negotiations on concluding
a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. We believe such
a treaty could be signed as early as next year. We also
support the proposal made here to elaborate a treaty on
nuclear security and strategic stability. And, of course,
we advocate multilateral discussion of issues relating to
regulating the international arms market and military
equipment.
I would like to stress that, despite our economic
crisis, our Republic is endeavouring to comply fully with
our obligations to reduce nuclear and conventional
weapons, even though this requires enormous additional
expenditures.
In this connection, we feel we can expect
the international community to support our actions.
The noble quest of peoples for peace following the
Second World War led to the establishment of the United
Nations. The people of Belarus paid a great price in
delivering of world from fascism. The deadly fires of
war scorched our land and touched literally every family
in it. The tragic price of freedom was the life of every
fourth citizen in my country. Not until 25 years after the
war did our population once again attain its pre-war level.
Thus, the General Assembly’s decision to make 1995 the
United Nations year of tolerance and to proclaim it the
world year of commemoration of victims of the Second
World War evokes a particularly profound response in
Belarus. The Belarus delegation also considers that next
year would be the appropriate time to delete from the
United Nations Charter the outdated concept of the
“enemy State”.
We must use the forthcoming United Nations golden
jubilee to seek new ways of improving our performance
in the changed world conditions. It is a truism that nature
cannot tolerate rigidity and that everything in nature is
constantly changing. That law is certainly applicable to
the United Nations.
If the Organization is to work
effectively,
its major organs must undergo profound
reform.
In the application of the principle of representation
of countries and regions in the Security Council, the
interests of all groups of States, including the Eastern
European Group, must be taken more fully into account.
Of course, no Security Council reform should detract
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
from its role as the body responsible for the maintenance of
international peace and security, so needed by all Member
States, and particularly the smaller States.
The Government of the Republic of Belarus has
reacted positively to the proposal to increase the number of
permanent members of the Security Council with the
addition of members selected from among the countries that
make an exceptional contribution to achieving the purposes
of the United Nations Charter.
realities,
including
We believe that greater account should be taken of
existing
problems
confronting countries whose economies are in transition and
the poorest countries, as well as of global problems of
population, unemployment and environmental deterioration
in all parts of the world.
the
complex
Political and economic dialogue between donor and
recipient countries must be given new content, going
beyond the traditional framework of relations between
them.
The Republic of Belarus hopes that the movement that
began in the Philippines at the International Conference of
New or Restored Democracies and developed further at
Managua will make it possible for countries in transition
and developing countries to unite and to develop a
coordinated approach within the framework of the United
Nations to consolidate democracy and create a free market.
Countries with economies in transition find themselves
at different stages on their road to democracy and a market
economy, and for that reason the success of reforms
depends to a large extent on support from the international
community. Hence, the Belarus delegation would propose
that in 1996, under the auspices of the United Nations, an
international conference on sustainable development
in
countries with economies in transition should be held. Co-
organizers of the conference might
include the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe, the European
Regional Bureau of
the United Nations Environment
Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and other interested institutions.
We also believe that the granting of most-favoured-
nation status, giving countries with economies in transition
broad access to international markets and integrating them
fully into the world economy, would be in the interests of
the international community as a whole.
26th meeting
11 October 1994
There is a growing need to broaden cooperation and
strengthen coordination between the United Nations, the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and other
regional organizations and arrangements.
In this
connection we welcome the granting of observer status in
the General Assembly to the Commonwealth of
Independent States. Belarus advocates a clearer definition
of areas of cooperation between the United Nations and
the CIS. Such cooperation could include joint efforts in
peacemaking, disarmament,
anti-
environment,
terrorism, drug control and industrial conversion.
the
We believe that peace-keeping operations should not
be allowed to overshadow the crucial problems of socio-
economic development. Administrative and financial
reform must become the most important aspect of United
Nations renewal. One way of achieving that would be
through a more rational distribution of the financial
burden between the United Nations and other international
institutions, including regional organizations. Another
way would be to reject existing approaches to calculating
the scale of assessments of Member States for the regular
budget of the United Nations and for peace-keeping
operations. It would be fairer to assess the contributions
of States primarily in light of their actual capacity to pay.
In conclusion, may I say that the general debate at
this session attests to the genuine interest of Member
States in achieving the full realization of the United
Nations potential as a truly effective international
organization, as a centre for harmonizing and coordinating
the activities of the nations of the world. The Republic
of Belarus fully shares that commitment and is ready to
cooperate with all countries of the world community to
achieve that goal, so that the end of this century may go
down in history as the time when the aspirations and
hopes of all mankind were finally met.
25
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The President (interpretation from Spanish): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I thank the Prime Minister
of the Republic of Belarus for the statement he has just
made.
Mr. Mikhail Chygir, Prime Minister of the Republic of
Belarus was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
26th meeting
11 October 1994
26
