United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
17th Meeting
Tuesday, 4 October 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.17
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Coté d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Address by Mr. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, President of the
Republic of Haiti
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Haiti.
Mr. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, President of the Republic
of Haiti, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of
the
Republic of Haiti, His Excellency Mr. Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Aristide (interpretation from French):
It
gives me great pleasure to greet all of you here, on behalf
of the Haitian people and, with a sense of joy, to address
the most heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Amara Essy,
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, on his election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session. Mr. President, as I wish you every measure of
success, I wish to make a point of assuring you of the
fullest cooperation of the delegation of Haiti.
To Ambassador Samuel
I address my
compliments for having so masterfully guided the work of
the Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
Insanally,
Our congratulations and appreciation also go to the
I thank
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
him with all my heart for the ties of solidarity he has
woven with the Haitian people.
To all my dear friends throughout the international
community, I address my heartfelt thanks for the support
they have given the Haitian people throughout these last
three years.
Allow me to address a word of special appreciation
to President Bill Clinton, to our special friends the United
States, Canada, France, Venezuela, Argentina and to all
the States, especially those of the Caribbean Community
and common market (CARICOM), that have contributed
to the implementation of Security Council resolution
940 (1994) and of the Governors Island Agreement. How
happy I am to salute all of you and to thank you
lavalassly.
In 11 days I shall be in Haiti - at last. Thanks to the
heroic courage of the Haitian people and thanks to your
solidarity, we will soon be back. Your eyes and our own
will
flowers of
democracy. In eleven days I shall invite you to celebrate
this festival of reconciliation, of democracy and of peace
at home, in Haiti.
the opening of
contemplate
the
Even now, with the peaceful
launching of the
operation "Uphold Democracy" on 19 September last, a
tropical smile has shed light upon the faces of those who
espouse and love peace. Together, President Clinton and
94-86534 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
17th meeting
4 October 1994
we have managed to open up a channel of hope after so
much suffering.
(spoke in Creole; interpretation from French text furnished
by the delegation)
My hat is off to the Haitian people.
Honour and respect to the 5,000 victims among us.
Father Jean-Marie Vincent died so that Haiti could
live.
Better late than never: "By following the river you
reach the sea", said Plautus as long ago as the second
century B.C.
To this end, despite the democratic
structures set up by Solon and Pittacus in the sixth
century B.C., it was necessary to wait for Ephialtes,
Cleisthenes and Pericles to achieve the democratization of
political life in Athens.
(spoke in Creole;
furnished by the delegation)
interpretation from French text
(spoke in French)
The resistance of the Haitian people has its roots in a
historical past where the beacon of liberty has shone day
and night. As he was being put on a ship for France,
Toussaint Louverture declared quite rightly,
"In overthrowing me, you have only cut down
Its roots will grow
the trunk of the tree of liberty.
back, for they are many and deep."
threshold of
the bicentennial of our
On the
independence,
these roots nourish us with the sap of
democracy. The Haitian people will never cease in its
struggle to guarantee its inalienable and imprescriptible
rights to life, liberty and happiness. We will never cease in
the struggle to establish a socially just, economically free
and politically independent Haitian nation.
Thus, the first black republic of the world, today torn
is
the
asunder by the coup d’état of 30 September 1991,
marching
establishment of a democratic society.
definitively
resolutely
and
towards
(spoke in Creole; interpretation from French text furnished
by the delegation)
Through diplomacy
We attain democracy.
(spoke in French)
Hope gives life.
(spoke in French)
We have no fear of the Haiti of the year 2004.
Despite the dreadful spectacle of the last three years,
we march towards the year 2004 with optimism. The
path that
leads there necessarily passes through the
historic crossroads where the elections of 16 December
1990 and our return to Haiti meet.
Eleven days from now I shall be there, thanks to the
determination of the Haitian people and to your solidarity.
This is a history worthy of attention, and there is no
history worthy of attention other than that of free peoples.
The history of peoples subjugated to despotism is no
more than a collection of anecdotes.
Eleven days from now we shall be there. A brilliant
light, that of reconciliation, will dazzle us. Between
violence and vengeance, reconciliation steps in. Between
impunity and iniquity, justice steps in.
In other words,
we the President of the Republic of Haiti clearly and
firmly say,
Yes to reconciliation!
No to violence!
No to vengeance!
No to impunity!
Yes to justice!
In the face of this grim tragedy that has meant three
years of suffering, thorns of pain pierce our hearts. None
the less, our people excels at colouring the landscape with
hope.
The brave live in hope
and the cowardly in fear.
(spoke in Creole;
furnished by the delegation)
interpretation from French text
We shall brew a coffee of reconciliation
through the filter of justice
so that no trace of violence, no vengeance
will be found.
2
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
(spoke in French)
With reconciliation, all hearts - rich and poor, civilian
and soldier - must be embraced by enthusiasm. With
reconciliation, our proud eyes must no longer be flooded
with tears.
You, parents and friends of our 5,000 victims,
you who endure this crushing yoke,
all of you, rich and poor, soldier and civilian:
soon a stream of light will flood
the deepest wells of your heart.
Surely it is the light of reconciliation.
Otherwise, how can we dispel the gloom of subhuman
abjectness? How can we pass from wretchedness to
poverty in dignity?
A study of the countries of the third world shows us
that 20 per cent of the population in developing countries
know hunger every day, 25 per cent are deprived of the
essential means of survival, 33 per cent languish in abject
poverty. The World Summit for Social Development, to be
held in Copenhagen in 1995, must offer new possibilities
for alleviating the distress of more than a billion human
beings preyed upon by hunger, disease
and utter
helplessness.
In Haiti in 1994, 750,000 children attend school; more
than 1,250,000 stay at home or work plots of land. Yet our
Constitution stipulates that education is a right of all
citizens.
In these
circumstances, 10 years from now we will have to attend to
3,000,000 school-aged children, which will mean increasing
the number of teachers from 35,000 to 100,000 and the
number of schools from 8,000 to 20,000.
It is a duty the State cannot shirk.
On our return we shall undertake a literacy campaign
making it possible to attain a significantly low rate of
illiteracy: 5 to 10 per cent. Reconciliation among all is of
course imperative. Everywhere and always, reconciliation
and peace are intertwined.
The dissolution of the Soviet bloc has favoured the
opening of a new era after decades of bipolarization. Yet
we have the responsibility of protecting peace within our
own States. Between 1989 and 1992 there were 82 armed
conflicts, only three of which were between States.
In our country,
institutionalized violence did not
unleash a civil war but, rather, a genocide. Even today,
despite the presence of the multinational force, acts of
17th meeting
4 October 1994
violence against our population continue. The disarming
of paramilitary groups, notably FRAPH and its attachés,
is indispensable if peace is to reign throughout our
country.
(spoke in English)
the Haitian people.
This operation is proceeding to the complete
satisfaction of
the
restoration of democracy will bring reconciliation for all,
peace to all of us and respect and justice to every single
citizen.
Obviously,
(spoke in Creole;
furnished by the delegation)
interpretation from French text
Lavalas brings a message of peace.
The guns must fall silent
if we are to have peace.
(spoke in French)
The professionalization of a 1,500-strong army and
the creation of a police force that is separate from the
army fall within this peace process.
Peace must be
protected and guaranteed for the sake of the happiness of
all Haitian men and women.
Article 265 of our Constitution stipulates:
"The
Armed Forces of Haiti are apolitical". Article 264 says:
"They are set up to guarantee the security and territorial
integrity of the Republic".
Article 269-1 says:
"The Police must ensure the maintenance of public
order and the protection of the lives and the property
of the citizenry".
It is time to create a stable environment that will
make national reconciliation possible in our land. We
shall no longer have an army of 7,000 absorbing 40 per
cent of the national budget. Globally speaking, military
expenditures have declined considerably over the last six
years, at an average rate of 3.6 per cent per annum.
Why,
then, do we have one soldier for every 1,000
Haitians and 1.8 physicians for every 10,000 inhabitants,
while the industrial countries average one physician for
every 400 inhabitants?
Once back home, we shall set
in motion our
programme to correct the current health situation where
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
there are 1,000 physicians for 7 million inhabitants, one
nurse for every 2,200 inhabitants, and one hospital bed for
every 1,300 inhabitants. Our goal is to care for 8 million
Haitians with 2,000 physicians and 8,000 nurses and to
increase the number of hospital beds to one for every 400
inhabitants by the year 2004. We will have to open a
health centre in every district; we shall then have 52. Each
municipal area will have its own dispensary. The measures
to be adopted will allow us to reduce the infant mortality
rate from 135 to 40 per 1,000. The average life expectancy
of our population will rise from 54 to 65 years.
Reconciliation and reconstruction are intimately
intertwined:
(spoke in Creole; interpretation from French text furnished
by the delegation)
We shall prepare the coffee of reconciliation in the
filter of justice so that we shall no longer find any trace of
violence or vengeance.
(spoke in French)
Above and beyond our national boundaries,
the
tragedies of Rwanda, Burundi and Bosnia-Herzegovina have
confronted us day after day. The suffering of one man is
the suffering of mankind.
Every person represents
humanity. Since the end of the Second World War, over
23 million people have been killed in armed conflict. How
can one remain indifferent when confronted by the tempests
of violence that have scourged so many countries with
which we enjoy fraternal ties, such as Liberia, Somalia,
Georgia, the Sudan and Armenia, to cite just a few?
Fortunately, certain conflicts have taken a turn towards
peace in the course of the last two years. We hail with
hope the peace between Israel and Palestine that has begun
to emerge in the Middle East, and we likewise salute South
Africa, where the first non-racial, free elections have been
held.
Neither racial barriers nor barriers of class must exist.
On the threshold of the year 2004, the Haitian diaspora -
our tenth Département, as it were - is our focus par
excellence for celebration of the reconciliation between
Haitians and Haiti.
(spoke in Creole; interpretation from French text furnished
by the delegation)
4
17th meeting
4 October 1994
Bravo for our tenth Département. Haiti
is the
Haitians’ greatest wealth. Haiti always will be our "chez
nous", our home. Come back home. We can make our
homeland as beautiful as a rainbow.
(spoke in French)
At the present time 17.4 per cent - 740 kilometres -
of our roads are paved; the remaining 2,960 kilometres
are mud roads. Ten years hence, a network of some
2,500 kilometres of paved roads will link all of our major
and secondary cities and towns. Some 3,000 kilometres
of local roads will be laid down.
In 1994, only 1.3 per cent of our forest cover
remains. At this rate there will be no forests in Haiti by
1998. With the major reforestation drive that we are
going to set up, over 6 million trees will be planted each
year. By the year 2004, one-third of our territory will be
reafforested.
It goes without saying that a climate of political
stability will allow us to promote economic growth.
In
1991, the economic policy and fiscal discipline adopted
by the Lavalas government brought in $500,200,000 in
customs revenue, domestic revenue and transfers from
public enterprises. It was a historic performance for our
country. By the year 2004, at a growth rate of 10 per
cent per annum, the same revenue would bring in $1.26
billion.
In monetary terms,
the results were just as
satisfactory: an increase in foreign exchange reserves of
$20 million dollars; a decrease in the devaluation of our
gourde, the national currency, from 58.8 to 47.6 per cent;
inflation reduced from 20 to 12 per cent.
But what remains of these achievements after three
years of plunder? The debt ceiling has been raised twice.
Inflation is estimated at 60 per cent. Our national
currency, the gourde, has been devalued by 300 per cent
relative to the dollar. Public finances are in bankruptcy
and the public treasury has recorded a $100 million loss
for the fiscal years 1992-1994.
This is why there is an absolute need for this
reconciliation between Haitians and Haiti, which is a sine
qua non for creating a modern State by rebuilding the
economy. We have to open up the economy to attract
foreign investment and to provide goods at better prices
to Haitian consumers. Synergistic relationships between
the private sector and the State are indispensable.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
At the level of developing countries, foreign debt has
multiplied fifteenfold in two decades. From $100 billion in
1970, it rose to $650 billion in 1980 and to more than $1.5
trillion in 1992. This debt is an enormous brake on the
development of third-world countries.
In 1992 these
countries had to shoulder debt servicing of $160 billion:
more than twice the amount of official development
assistance. However, one can see signs of a turn around.
In Haiti, back home, payments arrears rose to $42 million
in September 1993 and will surpass $81 million in
December of this year. After I return, $13 million will be
freed up as the government’s contribution to the reduction
of these arrears.
Setting up a State based on the rule of law also
implies reconciliation between Haitians and Haitians:
citizens of a country where every man and every woman is
a human being, equal before the law. The administration
of real
justice will free us from the vicious circle of
violence and vengeance. Today, the people of Haiti have
no access to a system of justice. For our 565 municipal
areas,
there are only 170 courts and 300 attorneys.
However, the rule of law remains an indispensable tool for
building the kind of world we aspire to by the year 2004.
Between now and then, each and every one of our
communal areas will have to get
its own court. The
number of attorneys will double to 600. A reformed
judicial system, backed by an independent, national, civilian
police force 10,000 strong, will restore confidence to our
citizens. Thus, the restoration of democracy will bring
about respect and justice for everyone.
In the year 2004, after 10 years of sound democratic
management, we shall have achieved a structured civil
society where the bread of tolerance will be shared among
political parties, the parliament, elected local officials, trade
unions, socio-professional organizations, women on the
farms, grassroots organizations, religious and ecclesiastical
groups and communities - Protestants, Catholics and
practitioners of voodoo alike
cooperatives, non-
governmental organizations, and so forth.
-
On the threshold of the third millennium, the principle
of "One man, one vote" can only accelerate the form and
movement of democracy globally. From one-half to three-
quarters of the world’s population lives under relatively
pluralistic and democratic systems of government. In 1993,
elections were organized in 45 different
countries,
sometimes for the very first time.
In Haiti in 2004, we shall already have held four
municipal elections, six legislative elections and three
17th meeting
4 October 1994
presidential ones. Public administration will already have
been strengthened by the modernization of ministries and
public institutions. Political life will be more active at the
local level because most of the major decisions will be
taken at the level of the 565 municipal areas and the 135
municipalities.
Mr. President, distinguished diplomats and dear
friends in the international community, thanks to your
support and the determination of the Haitian people, we
shall soon see that brighter tomorrow.
Created to spare the world from the scourge of a
new world war, the United Nations has, over the years,
seen its role expand and its responsibilities take on ever
increasing importance in a totally changed international
setting. As we gather here for this forty-ninth session, on
the eve of the commemoration of the United Nations
fiftieth anniversary, I would voice the hope that
the
Organization may always respond effectively to the new
challenges the world will proffer.
To the people of Haiti, the children of Haiti, the
source of our pride and our dignity, I say "To save our
beloved Haiti, let us all be united beneath that spreading
palm, topped with the crown of freedom, the shadow of
whose fronds protects those words inscribed in golden
letters:
’Unity is strength.’"
Our universe is expanding. The hundred billion
galaxies of which it is composed are speeding farther and
farther apart while we Haitians, men and women, are
moving closer and closer together. Our slogan is:
"Reconciliation of one and all and justice for all."
In its elliptical orbit around the Sun the Earth moves
at 30 kilometres a second. May the land of Haiti revolve
around the sun of justice at like speed.
We
are
all
of
reconciliation, setting forth together towards the year
2004, the bicentenary of our independence.
rendezvous
present
at
this
I say:
(spoke in Creole;
furnished by the delegation)
interpretation from French text
"Spread the word among you, without violence
Let us triumph through gentle
or vengeance.
democracy.
I count on you, and you can count on
me. For now, farewell - soon we will meet again.
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
"Alone, we are weak. Together, we are strong.
United we are Lavalas."
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Haiti for the statement he has
just made.
Mr. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, President of the Republic
of Haiti, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General Debate
Address by Mr. Carlos Alberto Wahnon de
Carvalho Veiga, Prime Minister and Minister of
Defence of the Republic of Cape Verde
17th meeting
4 October 1994
We should also like to express to the Secretary-
General our appreciation for the far-sightedness with
which he is performing the task of guiding the United
Nations in the new era into which it has entered.
In recent years there has been broad agreement that
the great events that have shaken the world, giving rise to
great hopes of human progress, have led to different and
in many respects contradictory changes and prospects, and
that there has been a delay in forging a genuine consensus
among nations.
Democracy as a way of life has been established in
a large number of countries in every geographical area
and is developing with obvious dynamism. We hope for
a kind of rebirth, inspired by an ever-greater participation
in the whole social fabric of national
In this
framework, the civic aspect is coming to the fore and
taking on increasing vigour.
life.
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will now hear an address by the Prime Minister
and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cape Verde.
Long deemed indispensable to economic progress,
private enterprise has seen its role considerably increased
in many developing countries.
Mr. Carlos Alberto Wahnon de Carvalho Veiga, Prime
Minister and Minister of Defence of the Republic of
Cape Verde, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President (interpretation from French):
I have
great pleasure in welcoming the Prime Minister and
Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cape Verde, His
Excellency Mr. Carlos Alberto Wahnon de Carvalho Veiga,
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
from French
text
by
furnished
Mr. Veiga (Cape Verde)
(spoke in Portuguese;
interpretation
the
delegation): Mr. President, we welcome with great
satisfaction your election to preside over the forty-ninth
session of the General Assembly in the certainty that your
qualities as an outstanding and experienced diplomat, in
addition to your well-known personal dedication, will
guarantee that our work is fruitful and effective. Through
you, your country and all of Africa will have the well-
deserved opportunity to contribute to the deliberations that
lie before us.
We should like to express our gratitude to your
predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, for the able manner and
constructive spirit
in which he guided the forty-eighth
session.
6
Unquestionably,
there is an increased general
awareness of the environment throughout the world, and
the idea that the value of the planet’s resources must
endure as a condition of our very survival is gradually
becoming a guide and a criterion for human activities.
International action to combat violations of human rights
in all forms and to encourage the exercise of those rights
has become a constant, despite the distance separating us
from the attainment of our desired objectives. The
rejection of the social inequality of women is gaining
ground, and we shall from now on be discussing the way
this is reflected in practice.
importance,
Those are the salient factors, in addition to others of
equal
that are among the positive trends
which are at our disposal and which must be developed
at all costs so that we can derive the full benefit of their
great potential.
However, in the two major areas that constitute
yardsticks for assessing mankind’s well-being - those of
peace and development - the present situation is far from
satisfactory.
Conflicts continue to proliferate, and
positive settlements have been achieved to very few of
them.
Situations of poverty have assumed vast
proportions and even critical levels in several regions,
particularly in Africa. The persistence of these evils in
the post-cold-war era reminds us that the community of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
nations still lacks a direction that might lead it towards the
fulfilment of its own concept of genuine community. There
has been a lack of vision to recognize the true scope of
collective interests and the political will and ability to
implement them. There has also been a lack of cooperation
and tolerance as independent values untouched by the
systematic quest for the upper hand.
Peace and development are closely linked. Moreover,
we are convinced that the most complex challenge concerns
development and that the most decisive influences on the
relationship arise from that challenge.
Indeed, collective
security hinges on shared progress - shared within a
framework that provides justice and equality.
It is a fact
that during periods of expanded economic growth the most
visible effects of imbalance have, for better or for worse,
been attenuated. However, the development to which we
aspire cannot be limited by narrow so-called realism.
Equality as an inherent element of progress cannot be
described as an ideal today.
It is, rather, a prerequisite.
The United Nations
shouldered a very specific
responsibility and role when, in its Charter, it solemnly
committed itself to working towards a better world. The
United Nations is a unique body and its indispensability in
serving the interests of all is becoming ever clearer today.
It is indeed in this universal forum that there is a need
jointly to establish guidelines for the entire world, that the
random developments we experience converge, and that
mechanisms and measures commensurate with today’s
issues are promoted.
In order to increase its ability to carry out its mission
in the present context, the United Nations has decided to
reform its structure to make it more effective and stronger
and to ensure greater participation: Under the dynamic and
tireless coordination of the Secretary-General, the process
is under way and we hope that at the present session of the
Assembly new and fruitful progress will be achieved
allowing the Organization further to promote economic and
social development, prevent conflicts and eliminate their
causes. In this regard, the Assembly will continue to make
use of the guidelines set down in its "Agenda for Peace"
and will have the opportunity to evaluate the report
containing the draft of an Agenda for Development.
The strengthening of the legitimacy and authority of
the United Nations will remain linked to an improvement
of its democratic representativeness and to better regional
balance, as well as to safeguarding the identity of all,
including that of smaller States. In this context, Africa has
recently formulated its current position on the reform of the
17th meeting
4 October 1994
Organization. This reform must provide genuine political
and operational consistency to all
the bodies and
structures of the system, within whose framework the
African continent must have an appropriately expanded
representation.
In the meantime, the question of the expansion of
the Security Council has been answered by some States
with expressions of their readiness to assume increased
responsibilities within it. As to the diversification of
regional representation, we note with satisfaction and
welcome with great
announced
candidacy of a Portuguese-speaking country, Brazil.
fellow-feeling the
the General Assembly, several
Since the opening last year of the forty-eighth
session of
important
political events have taken place in the world. We were
particularly struck by the magnificent example of maturity
and vision offered by the people of South Africa and its
leaders, particularly President Mandela. We wish to share
with them the pride of all Africa and the admiration of
the international community.
Unfortunately, the lessons to be derived from this
example have not yet been put into practice in some cases
in our region. Recent events in Rwanda, which have
brought such great pain to its people and especially its
children, are a tragedy which our conscience demands
never be repeated on our continent. Moreover, hostilities
continue that could and should have been over by now,
while opportunities for peace and reconciliation have been
missed again and again, in particular in Liberia. The
agreements already concluded among the Liberians must
now be implemented and an end must be put once and for
all
repercussions on
neighbouring countries and the West African region.
to armed clashes
and their
The conflict that has so long afflicted Angola has
passed through a stage of incredibly destructive, deadly
violence following the failure peacefully to implement the
results of the elections of September 1991, even though
those elections were supervised and declared free and fair
by the United Nations. We very much hope that the
present stage of negotiations between the Government of
Angola and UNITA will finally herald a cessation of
hostilities in the near future and the opening of an era of
peace, reconstruction and progress so long awaited by a
people with which Cape Verdeans feel such brotherly
solidarity.
The coming elections in Mozambique will doubtless
close an era in which national interests have prevailed,
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
but also in which the United Nations and the international
community have rendered praiseworthy assistance. We
wish Mozambique all success in these elections, during
which Cape Verde will be present as part of an observer
team from the United Nations Operation in Mozambique.
It
the parties continue rigourously to
observe the rules of the democratic game by unequivocally
accepting the outcome of the elections once these have been
declared free and fair by the international community.
is essential
that
We are gratified by the way in which the recent first
legislative and presidential elections in Guinea-Bissau took
place and by the peaceful respect shown for its results.
This attests to the sense of responsibility of the political
leaders of the country.
In Sao Tome and Principe, the established democratic
system was reaffirmed by the calm that prevailed during the
electoral process that was completed at the end of last
week.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
One of the major causes of the instability that
generates conflict is poverty, to which we referred earlier.
That in itself would be sufficient to lend urgency to the
eradication of poverty. However, the scope and nature of
the phenomenon require of us a reaction based on the
moral aspects of the heritage of mankind.
Today, it is understood that all peoples must live in
dignity; that is their basic human right, and we must
guarantee them the realization of that right. This need
must transcend the present stage of mere words, and a
programme must be implemented to transform the
situation. A particularly valuable contribution to this is in
the works:
the World Summit for Social Development,
for which preparations are now under way. Within this
framework,
there will be a need to analyse the
development of the human being in society, and not just
some reduced concept of
the social element as an
objective. We still have enough time, and it is our duty
to muster the necessary will to achieve the goals set for
this important Summit.
to
our
We
declare
support
also wish
and
encouragement for the continuation of the talks which are
taking place under the auspices of the Secretary-General
between Portugal, Indonesia and representatives of East
Timor. We hope that they are taking place on the basis of
forms of participation that respect the fundamental rights of
the citizens of East Timor.
The improvement of
As regards the maintenance of peace,
it must be
recognized that in recent times notable progress has been
made on the international level, in the United Nations in
particular.
this capability must
continue, and this will require even greater cooperation and
complementarity with the regional organizations. Africa is
showing what
it can do in this area, but obstacles to
maximizing this potential remain in the form of gaps that
must be filled through more consistent, predictable and
timely support by the United Nations and the partner
countries.
The prevention of conflicts remains, in any case, the
primary objective to be sought. The action to be taken to
this effect finds its reference points in the recommendations
in "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277). However,
the
ultimate success of prevention will continue to depend on
the longer-term task of eliminating the deeper causes of the
conflicts, which, of course, are many.
In addition, it will
be crucial
to tackle them simultaneously, not only to
produce synergy but also so that the relevant lessons can be
learned concerning these causes and the relations between
them.
8
it
that
The fact
individuals
for countless
is
impossible to benefit from contemporary parameters of
well-being has resulted in the major migrations of our era,
which reveal the critical imbalances which continue in
certain regions of the world. The solution can, clearly,
come only from development and from the rejection of
scenarios in which some parts of the world or groups of
people are excluded or marginalized.
In the meantime,
we emphasize the need to see implemented the
recommendations of the International Conference on
Population and Development
concerning refugees,
displaced persons and migrants, a timely instrument
which has been made available to us.
Within the framework of global development one of
the major questions that arises is that of Africa. This
question must continue to be given very high priority on
the international agenda and on the agenda of the United
Nations. The seriousness of the situation prevailing on
our continent, the longstanding nature of the problem and
the observation of indicators for future prospects deserve
to be met as a particularly complex challenge and should
never be considered as a pretext for showing lassitude or
indifference. The lack of progress in Africa would be a
set-back for all, not
just for the Africans. We are
convinced that this fact will become increasingly clear to
us.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
17th meeting
4 October 1994
In the 1990s in particular, Africa undertook, in rather
difficult conditions, reforms and economic adjustments as
well as political and managerial
transformations. The
African achievement certainly has not yet reached its
optimal goal, but it must be said that on many occasions it
was not adequately supported by external measures and
resources, which are, after all, indispensable complements.
Minister and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Cape
Verde for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Carlos Alberto Wahnon de Carvalho Veiga,
Prime Minister and Minister of Defence of
the
Republic of Cape Verde, was escorted from the
rostrum.
The African economic and political systems doubtless
still have a long way to go, and they must become more
effective and be based on the participation of all. African
regional cooperation must increase its pace and must obtain
increased benefits. However, the continent must be the
beneficiary of, inter alia, a major reduction in its debt
burden, the elimination of obstacles to its exports, vigorous
foreign investments and increasing international assistance
better adapted to national policies.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Uzbekistan, His
Excellency Mr. Abdulaziz Kamilov.
Mr. Kamilov (Uzbekistan)
(interpretation from
Russian): Allow me to join preceding speakers in
congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of
the current session of
the United Nations General
Assembly.
resources
to allow for
Referring again to the constraints that are affecting
Africa in particular, we reiterate the need to mobilize
adequate and sufficient
the
implementation of the International Convention to Combat
Desertification,
in particular concerning the Sudan and
Sahel
region and in cooperation with the Inter-State
Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel. For Cape
Verde, which is coordinating the activities of
this
Committee, it is particularly important that this event be
crowned with success.
Next year, as we approach the end of the twentieth
century, we shall be marking the fiftieth anniversary of our
Organization. There are numerous reasons to celebrate this
event, especially if we were to try to imagine what the
world would be like without the United Nations. My
country cannot forget
the role which the Organization
played in its political emancipation and in its development
efforts following that emancipation, nor do we forget that
it offers a forum in which small countries can have their
say and participate in the deliberations. We welcome in
this context the holding of the United Nations Conference
on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States, and we hope that the results of the Conference will
be fully implemented.
The time has come to consolidate the feeling of a
shared destiny among the diverse nations that are today
gathered together within the Organization. We must no
longer put off the task of setting out on those recharted
paths which our aspirations require.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime
I should also like to pay a tribute to His Excellency
Mr. Samuel Insanally for his successful leadership as
President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session.
Taking advantage of this opportunity, I should like
to express our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, and I should like to thank him for his
substantive contribution to enhancing the authority of the
United Nations and his efforts with a view to the
maintenance of peace in various regions of the planet.
For me, it is a great honour to address the Assembly
the
lofty rostrum on behalf of
today from this
Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Just
recently, Uzbekistan marked
third
anniversary of the proclamation of its independence.
During this time, our country has undertaken significant
efforts to strengthen the sovereignty of the States based
on the principles of democracy and to set up a free
market structure.
the
Profound economic and political transformations are
taking place in the Republic with a view to the formation
of a socially oriented market economy.
Today, a process of reform in Uzbekistan has
reached a new qualitative level. The Parliament and the
Government have adopted a number of significant and
fundamental laws and decrees which are now opening the
way to developing entrepreneurship and privatization.
New legislation guarantees the protection of private
legislative and economic
property.
A number of
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
for potential
foreign investors have been
incentives
provided, and an extremely favourable environment has
been created for their activities in the Republic’s markets.
limitations on the importation and
For example, all
exportation of
foreign investments have been lifted.
Customs duties for goods imported into Uzbekistan have
also been cancelled. Joint ventures are exempt from taxes
for five years.
The process of privatization of State property is under
way in the Republic. Commodity, currency and stock
exchanges, as well as real estate markets, are being set up.
recently
The most important process of introducing the national
currency was
in Uzbekistan.
Implementation of the measures jointly agreed upon with
the International Monetary Fund will make it possible to
have a firm fiscal policy and will strengthen the national
currency.
completed
Perhaps there is no country in the world that has
sufficient experience to extend ready advice on how to
change social and economic structures smoothly. The
complicated and very often controversial processes of the
transition to democracy and a market economy are being
carried out mainly on an empirical basis, and sometimes in
a highly contradictory situation.
An extremely complicated task for the people of
Uzbekistan is the perception of the basic principles of
democracy and the socially oriented market economy, while
at the same time preserving the development of its own rich
history and unique culture and traditions. This is assuming
today a decisive significance in the successful realization of
the task of renewing our society and in the construction of
an independent State.
The steps the Government of Uzbekistan has been
undertaking in order to reshape the political structure of the
State have one more important aspect. They are not a goal
in themselves; they are aimed at establishing conditions of
social justice. In fact, in many countries, social justice has
already long been recognized as a fundamental principle of
social life. In essence, if we look at the future in the long
term, without justice there cannot be any kind of stability,
peace or security. There cannot be any social development,
any freedom for the individual, human dignity or an
acceptable quality of life for all.
The Constitution of Uzbekistan grants to all citizens of
the Republic basic rights and freedoms and provides for
their equality before the law without distinction as to sex,
10
17th meeting
4 October 1994
race, nationality, language, religion, social standing, or
personal beliefs.
The number of political parties
and social
movements which are operating on the basis of the laws
and decrees that have been adopted and incorporated into
the political system is gradually increasing. They will be
taking part in the parliamentary elections which will be
held in Uzbekistan in December 1994 on a multi-party
basis.
Speaking about political processes, I should like to
touch upon the issue of human rights. First of all, allow
me to point out that the modern concept of the basic
rights and freedoms of individuals was formed mainly on
the basis of a Western system of values and elaborated
over a long period of time, under specific cultural and
social conditions, and developed as part and parcel of
economic growth and better standards of
living in
Western countries. This experience is hardly one that
could be mechanically transferred to other countries.
and historical
We do believe, however, that universally accepted
human rights concepts should be adapted to the national,
religious
characteristics of different
International practice has in many cases
countries.
demonstrated that unless society has reached a sufficient
level of maturity and sustains it, it will be compelled to
a certain extent to constrain the freedom of the individual
for the sake of the preservation of the constitutional order.
Today we live in a multidimensional world. Each
nation is eager to establish its own political, social and
cultural systems on the basis of respect for the national
sovereignty of other States and the principle of non-
interference in their internal affairs.
Therefore, we
consider the question of human rights in close connection
with that of the need to guarantee to the country stability
and peace as the primary conditions for democratic
development.
I hope that the recent seminar of the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) on general
issues, held in Tashkent,
the capital of Uzbekistan,
provided an opportunity to the international observers and
its participants to see the gradual evolution of our society
towards democracy. At the same time, the seminar has
deepened our knowledge on possible ways to make
progress in the field of human rights.
Unfortunately, the end of the confrontation between
two social and political systems, which reached its peak
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
in the military sphere, has not brought about universal
peace. The threat of global thermonuclear war has been
reduced. Yet the world has encountered the emergence of
several regional military conflicts.
In this regard, I would
like to make known Uzbekistan’s position on the situations
in Afghanistan and Tajikistan.
First of all, we consider that settlement of these
conflicts is solely the internal affair of Afghanistan and
Tajikistan. At the same time, one should keep in mind the
fact that these States are the geographical neighbours of
Uzbekistan and that
there is a potential danger of the
regional escalation of these conflicts. That is why we view
the situation in these countries with great concern and we
are interested in the earliest possible settlement of these
conflicts by political and diplomatic means.
I should particularly like to emphasize that today this
region is becoming a dangerous zone of open production of
and trade in drugs and weapons. These conflicts are
exacerbated by the fact that certain forces are secretly
seeking to maintain tension in order to strengthen and
expand their influence by making use of various religious
and nationalist
there are some
influential groups of drug and weapon dealers interested in
continuing the military confrontation for the sake of the
preservation of their illegal profits.
slogans. Moreover,
In general, crises of this nature have revealed the
inadequacy of the existing instruments to settle them
through traditional means, given the new security demands
of the post-cold-war era.
In this context, Uzbekistan welcomes any initiative by
individual countries or groups of countries, as well as by
the United Nations, aimed at settling the conflicts. The
new possibilities of the United Nations could expand the
spectrum of military-political measures for stabilizing
situations in such explosive regions, including within the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). At the same
time, taking into consideration the importance of ensuring
the sovereignty of countries that have recently achieved
independence and embarked on their own path of
development, we believe it would be expedient to have
recourse to such measures, with the agreement of
Governments interested in such United Nations assistance
or with the agreement of the parties to the dispute to a
mediating role by the United Nations.
For its part, Uzbekistan has been taking steps to
improve the situation in the region. At the forty-eighth
session of the General Assembly, President Karimov of
17th meeting
4 October 1994
Uzbekistan proposed the convening in Tashkent of a
standing seminar on security issues under the auspices of
the United Nations. Today, plans for this idea are
becoming clearer.
About 15 States have already
expressed their interest in participating in the seminar.
We hope that in the near future the first seminar of this
take place. We are ready to welcome its
kind will
participants
land of
Uzbekistan.
and peaceful
to the
ancient
Uzbekistan is also proposing for consideration at one
of the forthcoming meetings of the Security Council the
question of imposing an embargo on the sale of weapons
and ammunition in zones of regional conflict.
I should like to take this opportunity to note that
there are certain groups in some countries which are
intentionally spreading false information about ostensible
interference by Uzbekistan in the internal affairs of
Afghanistan by taking sides with one of the conflicting
parties. In fact, the only support Uzbekistan is rendering
to this neighbouring country is humanitarian aid for its
suffering people, as requested by the Government of
Afghanistan, as well as to Tajik refugees who fled to
Afghanistan. This assistance is extended through the
representation of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees in the City of Termez.
I should like to pay tribute to the active role the
United Nations and the CSCE are taking in this process
through their special envoys. We also highly appreciate
the productive activities of the regional representation of
the United Nations in Uzbekistan.
I should now like to touch upon one more problem
which is a threat for many countries - illegal drug-
trafficking.
In the Republic of Uzbekistan, on the basis
of the laws of Uzbekistan and according to Conventions
of the United Nations of 1961, 1971 and 1988, preventive
measures to cut off illegal activities related to the drug
trade are now being undertaken.
In general, narcotics come to Uzbekistan through
neighbouring countries, where, owing to unstable political
situations, control over the drugs business has been
weakened. Moreover, most of these narcotics are in
transit to European countries.
In 1993 more than 14 tons of narcotics, with a value
of more than $600 million, were seized from criminals in
Uzbekistan and were destroyed. The majority of these
were intended for sale in Russia and in European
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
countries. In this connection, we call for the imposition of
effective measures to prevent the illegal trafficking in drugs
and to coordinate international efforts. An example of the
successful cooperation between law-enforcement institutions
is the Agreement signed in 1992 by the Ministry of Internal
Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan and its counterparts
in Russia, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan,
Tajikistan, Belarus and Ukraine.
Since October 1993 the Republic has been maintaining
close cooperation with the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme.
the Deputy
Executive Director of this United Nations Programme,
Mr. Georgio Giacomelli, to Uzbekistan was an important
event in the development of cooperation on this issue. A
document defining a long-term programme of collaboration
against narcotics was signed during the course of that visit.
The visit of
I should like especially to draw attention to the
important role that regional representatives involved in the
United Nations Programme have been playing in the
coordination of international efforts to solve this global
problem. This process was begun in Tashkent at
the
invitation of the President of Uzbekistan.
We shall do our utmost to cooperate with all interested
countries and organizations to bring the narco-business to
an end.
issues. We are grateful
I must not miss this opportunity to refer briefly to
environmental
to the United
Nations and to the specialized agencies concerned with
environmental control and with the prevention of global
ecological disasters. We are ready to provide all possible
assistance in this noble task.
Central Asia, like many other regions of the world,
has experienced ecological disasters of global dimensions.
I refer, first and foremost, to the tragedy of the Aral Sea.
Over a period of several years the volume of water has
dropped more than three times, the area has diminished two
times; and the shoreline has receded 80 kilometres. Owing
to these factors the desert has eaten up more than 2 million
The dust-storm radius has
hectares of arable land.
increased
These
developments have had a negative effect on the sanitary
situation in the region. It is the opinion of United Nations
experts that, in terms of ecological and socio-economic
implications, the Aral Sea tragedy is one of the greatest
disasters of the twentieth century.
300 kilometres.
by more
than
12
17th meeting
4 October 1994
The death of the Aral Sea, which is possible, could
have unpredictable consequences for the whole world.
This is why we are appealing to the international
community to help to save the Aral Sea and the Aral
region.
One possible means of solving this global problem
is the creation of an international commission of experts
under the auspices of the United Nations, which would
initiate projects and make recommendations.
The
Government of Uzbekistan, for its part, would provide all
possible support for the activities of the commission.
The profound changes that have taken place in the
world over the past half century require adaptation to new
realities. There are now about 200 States, and the roles
of many countries have changed. Some now have the
right to be regarded as great Powers. Huge economic
unions are being formed by States. Regional and global
cooperation is an increasing trend. Because of the need
for effective management of the processes of economic
integration Governments are voluntarily transferring some
of their sovereign rights to newly created joint political
institutions. On the other hand, these trends underline the
fact that a State should be recognized as a sovereign
member of the world community so that such cooperation
may be possible.
The time is now ripe for the full realization of the
fundamental principles of the United Nations, which were
set down when the Organization was founded nearly 50
years ago. The United Nations procedures must be
rejected; these procedures came into being largely under
the influence of the spirit - which until recently had
prevailed within these walls - of the cumbersome, often
ineffective and over-bureaucratic confrontation between
the United States and the USSR.
The necessary reforms are already producing results.
I refer in particular to the recent decision to establish the
Office of Internal Oversight Services. As an Under-
Secretary-General, the head of this Office will be able to
initiate a more substantial discussion on the impending
phases of reform of the Organization.
There is no doubt that the evolution of the Security
Council is still the most important and most complicated
issue. How are we to reconcile the need to increase the
number of permanent members,
they are
representative of all the regions of the world, with the
need to make the Council more effective towards the
solution of urgent international problems?
so that
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
How can the desire to reduce the level of bureaucracy
in the United Nations be reconciled with the efforts to
increase the number of permanent members of the Security
Council? And will the exercise of the right of veto remain
predominant, or should consensus become the main means
of adopting decisions?
These and many other issues are multidimensional and
complex. They affect the interests of many countries,
which often have quite different points of view, both in
terms of the internal procedures of the United Nations and
in terms of the means of settling international problems. It
is obvious that this process will be difficult and time-
consuming. We have no doubt
the
question of increased membership of the Security Council
should be considered in the context of the principle of
rotation. Countries that now have the necessary capacity
and sense of responsibility in respect of the maintenance of
peace and security throughout the world, and at the same
time are representative of the various regions of the world,
should become additional permanent members of
the
Security Council.
that, ultimately,
Our country bases its foreign policy on the realities of
the contemporary world.
It aims for integration with the
world community through equal partnership with all other
countries. Of course, our current capabilities are limited,
for a number of understandable reasons. None the less, we
are ready to contribute whatever is necessary for the
resolution of global problems. We are eager to cooperate
with countries that are interested, and we are prepared to do
so both at the bilateral level and within the framework of
the United Nations. We believe that the greater the number
of parties involved in the discussion of
international
problems and of the question of increasing the effectiveness
of the international institutions, the more fruitful will be the
outcome. Harmonization of the rights of individuals,
nations and people, together with a common interest in
securing peace and development
in the world, should
become the main tool for resolving problems.
The President (interpretation from French):
I now
call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia, His
Royal Highness Prince Saud Al-Faisal.
Prince Saud Al-Faisal (Saudia Arabia) (interpretation
It is with pleasure that I begin this speech
from Arabic):
by conveying to you, Sir, our most sincere congratulations
on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session. Your election not only reflects
the trust placed in you personally but also bespeaks the
regard of the international community for your country,
17th meeting
4 October 1994
Côte d’Ivoire. We wish you success in the pursuit of
your mission.
I
take
this opportunity to congratulate your
predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally, on the effective
manner in which he conducted the affairs of the General
Assembly at its last session.
I also wish to note the sincere efforts by the
Secretary-General
the United Nations,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to consolidate peace and to
reduce the tensions that beset many parts of the world.
of
It is with great pleasure, Sir, that I convey to you the
best wishes of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques,
King Fahad bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, and his hope that at
this session the General Assembly will successfully deal
with international developments, benefitting from the
opportunities provided by the principles and other
foundations upon which contemporary international
relations rest.
The Government of the Custodian of the Two Holy
Mosques has always been willing to play a positive role
in the international arena, and to contribute to achieving
our common goals of security, stability and prosperity.
The principles and other foundations of our present
international order derive their legitimacy and strength
from the tenets of the United Nations Charter, which are
inherent in international legality. The most important of
these principles are:
respect for the sovereignty and
independence of nations; the inviolability of international
borders; the establishment of justice and equality between
nations; rejection of the use of force in the settlement of
conflicts; safeguarding human dignity; and ensuring
security and prosperity for all mankind. Based on its
adherence to Islamic shari’a,
the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia is committed to the principles of the United
Nations Charter, and has endeavoured throughout the
Organization’s history to implement those principles in
practice.
The Gulf Cooperation Council, whose current
session my country has the honour of chairing, bases
itself on the principles of the United Nations Charter. We
are convinced that the international community’s success
in serving the cause of international peace and security
will depend on the commitment by its members to the
United Nations Charter and on the strength of their
political will to apply the resolutions of international
legality.
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
17th meeting
4 October 1994
the
While
firm unified international
stand in
confronting Iraq’s aggression against the State of Kuwait in
1990 was vindicated when the aggression was reversed and
international legality was restored, the conflict in Bosnia
and Herzegovina remains unresolved.
Serb aggression
against the Bosnian people continues. This is because the
aggression has not been dealt with in accordance with the
United Nations Charter and the principles of international
It is incumbent upon this Organization, and in
legality.
particular
the Security Council,
to move swiftly and
effectively to demonstrate that aggression is bound to fail,
whether in Kuwait, in Bosnia or in any other part of the
world.
Even a cursory glance at the current international
situation would be sufficient to highlight the need for an
effective United Nations role and for implementation of the
Charter in order to deal with the chronic hotbeds of tension
that are widespread and that continue to threaten security
and stability in many parts of the world. This requires us
to strengthen further the role of the United Nations as an
effective vehicle for creating the proper conditions for
world peace and stability.
role played by the Secretary-General
We in the Gulf Cooperation Council recognize the
in
prominent
fashioning a new approach for the United Nations based on
the principles of the United Nations Charter and the norms
of international
legality. We welcomed the Secretary-
General’s proposals in his "An Agenda for Peace", and we
look forward to his agenda for development. The ideas
contained in those two reports are bound to make an
important contribution to the efforts of
the General
Assembly to enhance the role and effectiveness of the
United Nations. Success in achieving this aim will rely to
a great extent on the degree of support by Member States
for the principles and principles of the United Nations. The
most
the maintenance of
international peace and security; peacemaking through the
deterrence of aggression; the elimination of threats to the
security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations; and
the promotion of cooperation in the service of international
development.
important of
these are:
Under
the United Nations Charter,
the Security
Council,
the body most directly concerned with the
maintenance of international peace and security, has the
primary responsibility for dealing with international
problems. As we pursue reform of United Nations organs,
it
the Council be made more
capable and better equipped to carry out its mandate under
the Charter.
is therefore crucial
that
14
That
role
to
The Gulf Cooperation Council attaches great
importance to a number of regional and international
issues. We greatly appreciated the important role played
by the United Nations following the Iraqi aggression
against Kuwait.
clearly reflected the
international community’s expectations regarding the
responsibilities of the United Nations. It also highlighted
the ability of the Security Council to confront aggression
and reverse its effects. We hope that this solidarity will
help guarantee that no repetition of this aggression can
occur. This can be achieved only through complete and
total implementation of all Security Council resolutions
on the matter. The Iraqi Government continues to defy
international
deceive
international
limited
implementation of some of the requirements of Security
Council resolutions 661 (1990) and 687 (1991) pertaining
to the issue of weapons of mass destruction. The true
objective of these Iraqi efforts is to circumvent Security
Council
resolutions, which contain a number of
requirements accepted by the Iraqi Government and which
together form an interrelated legal structure.
In its last
review of the sanctions imposed on Iraq, the Security
Council decided to continue the application of those
sanctions; this demonstrates that the efforts of the Iraqi
Government to deceive the world community have not
borne fruit.
to
through
legality
public
opinion
attempt
and
the cease-fire agreements set out
Iraq has yet to meet the essence of its obligations,
which lies in full and irrevocable recognition of the State
of Kuwait and of its borders. To do this it must officially
accept Security Council resolution 833 (1993), which
demarcated the international borders between Kuwait and
Iraq and provided international guarantees for those
borders under
in
Security Council
resolution 687 (1991), which was
accepted by the Iraqi Government. And in view of the
fact that the Iraqi Government has repeatedly violated its
international and legal obligations, we feel it is necessary
to insist that Iraq’s recognition of Kuwait and its borders
should be irrevocably stated,
in conformity with the
constitutional measures applied in Iraq and based on the
international guarantees contained in the United Nations
Security Council resolution 833 (1993). Furthermore,
Iraq must comply with its commitment to release all
Kuwaiti and non-Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees. While
we welcome Iraq’s participation on the committee dealing
its
with prisoners
participation is
this
humanitarian issue and not merely a symbolic move to
appease international public opinion.
and detainees, we hope
a genuine
that
to settle
attempt
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The Government of Iraq is also expected to pay full
compensation for all the damage caused by its aggression.
It must refrain from committing or sponsoring any acts of
terrorism or subversion. All of the above requirements
represent a series of
legal
obligations, that must be complied with in their entirety.
interrelated international
The States of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC),
while reiterating their commitment to the unity, sovereignty
and territorial integrity of Iraq, wish to voice their concern
over the continuing suffering of the Iraqi people, the sole
responsibility for which lies with the Iraqi Government
which rejects
the implementation of United Nations
Security Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991)
which deal with the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people.
The GCC States have actively participated in the
Middle East peace process since its inception at the Madrid
Peace Conference.
The GCC States contributed to
advancing the bilateral talks between the Arab States and
Israel. They have also participated effectively in the
multilateral talks. The Arab delegations’ commitment to
and participation in this process gave a clear indication of
their
sincere intention to work towards a just and
comprehensive peace in the region. The multilateral talks
are an integral part of the peace process launched in Madrid
and complement the bilateral talks and not a substitute
thereto.
in Washington in 1993,
The signing of the Declaration of Principles between
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Israeli
Government
raised hopeful
expectations, since it represented the first step towards the
achievement of a just and permanent settlement of the
Palestinian problem. While the Gulf Cooperation Council
notes with satisfaction the concrete progress made on the
Palestinian-Israeli track and the important steps taken to
expand Palestinian self-rule and to transfer institutions to
the Palestinian National Authority,
it calls upon the
international
and in particular on the
co-sponsors of the peace process, the United States of
America and the Russian Federation, to ensure that Israel
places no more obstacles in the path of the Palestinian
National Authority as it assumes its responsibilities.
community,
While we welcome the progress achieved on the
Jordanian-Israeli track, we wish to voice our deep concern
over the lack of clear progress in the Syrian and Lebanese
tracks. The issue of the occupied Golan Heights is clear
and governed by the principles of respect for international
borders. Security is not attained by the occupation of
through the
another nation’s
territory by force, but
17th meeting
4 October 1994
establishment of peace, which can only be realized in this
situation by the total Israeli withdrawal from the occupied
Golan Heights. The Lebanese-Israeli track is governed by
United Nations Security Council resolution 425 (1978),
which clearly calls for the immediate and unconditional
withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Lebanese territory.
We
unconditional
implementation of the said resolution.
complete
and
call
for
the
The question of Al-Quds Al-Shareef is at the heart
of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and permanent peace cannot
be achieved in the Middle East without a just settlement
of this issue. The settlement must take into account the
resolutions of international
legality, and in particular
United Nations Security Council resolution 242 (1967),
which calls for Israeli withdrawal from all
territories
occupied in 1967, and United Nations Security Council
resolution 252 (1968)
regarding Al-Quds Al-Shareef.
Israel is thus required to refrain from taking any measures
that would demographically change the status of the city
of Al-Quds or prejudice future negotiations pertaining to
its final status. Any permanent and comprehensive
settlement must also address the issue of the return of
Palestinian refugees and the issue of settlements erected
by Israel
in the occupied territories in violation of
international law and the Geneva conventions.
Concrete progress on the various bilateral tracks on
the various aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict is bound to
lead inevitably to similar progress with regard to the
issues addressed in the multilateral
talks and lay the
groundwork for a just, comprehensive, and lasting peace
in the Middle East.
We in the GCC are convinced that the success of the
Palestinian National Authority in implementing the
Declaration of Principles depends on the support
it
receives from the Palestinian people, as well as on the
political and economic support
it receives from the
international community.
It was on the basis of this
conviction that
the GCC States participated in the
international donors conference held in Washington, D.C.
in October of 1993 and pledged substantial financial
assistance. The Gulf Cooperation Council States have
also contributed financially to the establishment of a
Palestinian police force and administration to enable it to
assume its duties. We have also announced, along with
our Arab brethren at the 102nd session of the League of
Arab States, our
full
the Palestinian
self-governing authority.
support
for
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In the context of their pursuit to help the Middle East
region enjoy its legitimate share of security, peace and
stability, the GCC States have focused great attention on
efforts to rid the region of all weapons of mass destruction,
whether nuclear, chemical or biological. To achieve this
objective, we call on all countries in the region, including
Israel, to refrain from producing, possessing or stockpiling
any such weapons.
The GCC States note with great concern the continued
occupation of the three United Arab Emirates islands - Abu
Moussa, the Greater and Lesser Tumbs - by the Islamic
Republic of Iran. The GCC States, motivated by a desire
to have the best possible ties with the Islamic Republic of
Iran, have repeatedly urged the Islamic Republic of Iran to
respond to the call of the United Arab Emirates to settle
this problem by peaceful means through serious bilateral
negotiations.
The Government of Iran, however, has not responded
to these calls so far. We therefore call for referring this
matter to the International Court of Justice, which is
responsible for settling disputes among nations.
In spite of
The current session of the General Assembly is taking
place at a time when the plight of the Bosnian people is
worsening as a result of the war of extermination and
ethnic cleansing waged by the Serbian forces with the
the
support of Serbia and Montenegro.
optimism generated by the Muslim-Croat agreement
to
establish a federation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and their
acceptance of the peace plan proposed by the international
Contact Group, and welcomed by all of us the Serbian
forces continue to challenge the international peace-keeping
forces of the United Nations, in total disregard of United
Nations resolutions.
In so doing, the Serbian forces have
been emboldened by the inability of the international
community, and in particular the States of the European
Community which have a special responsibility vis-à-vis
this tragedy, to implement the necessary sanctions and
impose the required punishment,
to stop the Serb
aggression. The Serb forces have rejected the proposed
peace plan and escalated their attacks against Bosnia and
Herzegovina, which makes it patently clear that
their
intention is to undermine all the peaceful efforts undertaken
by the United Nations.
We listened with keen interest
to the speech by
President Alija
a graphic
description of the dangerous situation in his country. In the
light of this we are concerned that the hasty adoption by the
United Nations Security Council of its resolution 943
Izetbegovic, which gave
16
17th meeting
4 October 1994
It
(1994), which provides for relaxing the United Nations
sanctions imposed on Serbia and Montenegro, could
preclude a just settlement and lead to rewarding the
aggression.
is incumbent upon the international
community, and the Security Council in particular, to take
the necessary action to remedy this tragic situation. This
action must include declaring the entirety of the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina a safe haven, and providing
for the deployment of international observers equipped
with a clear mandate, and sufficiently credible powers, in
these safe havens and along the borders of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. They should also include the recognition of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Serbia and
Montenegro before any consideration is given to the
gradual lifting of the sanctions imposed on them. United
Nations forces must also protect the areas of safe haven
and provide for their defence. The failure of the United
Nations to provide the required protection for
the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina makes it necessary
to lift the arms embargo so as to allow it to exercise its
legitimate right to self-defence as enshrined in Article 51
of the United Nations Charter.
In spite of all
Somalia continues to be in the grip of a situation of
instability and political chaos coupled with acts of
violence and bloodshed.
the efforts
deployed to extricate this nation from its plight, instability
and lack of security still plague this troubled land. The
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which has tried on a number
of occasions to contain the conflict in Somalia, to bring
about national reconciliation between the various factions
and which has provided humanitarian assistance and relief
to the fraternal Somali people, calls upon all factions to
listen to the voice of reason and logic, to put the interests
of the Somali people above all else and to work towards
national reconciliation.
The feelings of optimism and jubilation triggered by
the victory of the Mujahideen in Afghanistan and the
restoration of that country’s independence and identity are
now overshadowed by feelings of disappointment and
bitterness as a result of the continued infighting between
the various Mujahideen factions. The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia has endeavoured, under the direction and guidance
of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Fahd
bin Abdulaziz, to put an end to the fratricide among our
Afghani brethren. These efforts were crowned when all
factions were assembled in 1993 at the House of God in
Makkah, and an agreement was signed to restore unity,
security and stability to the nation of Afghanistan. We
continue to urge all factions of the Afghani Mujahideen
immediately to put an end to the infighting by complying
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
with the "Makkah Agreement" in letter and in spirit, so as
to move in the direction of reconstruction and development
and, thereby, to enable their nation to resume its proper
place in the international community.
The conflict over Jamu-Kashmir continues to cast its
shadow over relations between the two neighbours, India
and Pakistan, and represents one of
the elements of
instability in this part of the world. My Government
continues to watch with concern the bloodshed there. We
wish to voice the view that there is a need for a solution to
this chronic problem.
It has become clear that violence
against the Kashmiri people, and the use of military force
will achieve nothing but the further deterioration of the
situation in Kashmir.
It will also feed the flames of
instability in the region. A peaceful solution to this
problem lies in the implementation of the relevant United
Nations resolutions and in dialogue and understanding.
It
is in that way that an end may be put to yet another hotbed
of tension and instability in the world.
Among the other conflicts in Central Asia, the conflict
between two Member States of the United Nations, the
Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Armenia,
resulted at one stage in the occupation by Armenia of parts
of Azerbaijan. As this occupation constitutes a violation of
the principle of the inadmissability of the use of force in
the resolution of disputes, it is incumbent upon Armenian
forces to withdraw from Azerbaijani
territory and to
transfer this issue to the negotiating table for the purpose of
arriving at a peaceful and just settlement which would
safeguard the legitimate rights of the Azerbaijani people.
Such a review of the hotbeds of tension and crises in
our world must not cause us to lose sight of the important
and positive developments which the world witnessed over
the past decade and which should give us cause for hope in
a better future for mankind. We continue to have great
expectations as a result of the positive developments in the
aftermath of the cold war, and the emergence of solutions
to pressing problems in Cambodia, the Middle East and
Northern Ireland. The historic change in South Africa has
brought down the curtain on the system of apartheid and
brought forth a new South Africa based on justice and
equality. We welcome these positive developments which
are bound to contribute to the strengthening of
the
international tendency to move towards compliance with the
principles of international law, respect for the resolutions of
international legality, the renunciation of the use of force in
favour of dialogue as a means for resolving problems and
disputes.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
A general overview of international economic issues
and the role played by the United Nations to strengthen
international cooperation shows that the success of the
Organization in dealing with economic issues and
promoting international development, is also tied to the
commitment of
its Members to the United Nations
Charter.
the
of
The conclusion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral
trade negotiations is a commendable example of the
international community’s success in addressing a number
of sensitive issues with unprecedented results. We are
witnessing
the World Trade
Organization, which we hope will embody our vision of
an institutionalized global economic system.
The
Marakesh conference of the contracting parties to the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) has
succeeded in fulfilling the aims of the Bretton Woods
Conference.
emergence
While we appreciate this important development, we
must state our concerns over the increase in protectionism
and the resulting tensions between trading partners. This
development contradicts the premises of the Uruguay
Round regarding the importance of allowing market
forces to play their natural role in economic affairs in a
manner which allows nations to benefit from comparative
advantages and from the optimal utilization of resources.
This can only be achieved through serious international
efforts to ensure free trade. We also wish to state our
concern over the increase in protectionism in the guise of
protecting the environment, and in particular the increased
taxation on petroleum.
the highest
At this point, I wish to emphasize the importance the
Gulf Cooperation Council attaches to the protection of the
environment, which is reflected in the adoption by our
emerging industries of
standards of
environmental protection. We are concerned that
petroleum, which is our principal export commodity, is
already heavily burdened by taxation, and yet it is now
being targeted for further taxation while other, more
polluting fuels are receiving subsidies from Governments.
Coal is a case in point: according to studies published by
the Organization
and
Development and the International Energy Agency, coal
subsidies in industrial States amount to more than twice
the cost of comparable energy provided by imported
petroleum. Furthermore, according to the same sources,
tax reforms that take into consideration the carbon content
of fuel could produce more than double the reduction in
for Economic Cooperation
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
carbon dioxide emissions targeted by the proposed carbon
taxes without further taxation on petroleum.
We,
the member States of the Gulf Cooperation
Council, are convinced that imposing additional taxes on
petroleum will not contribute to the environment but will
instead distort international trade. This would adversely
affect not only the economies of oil-exporting nations, but
also those of oil-importing nations.
It would also
undermine the development efforts of developing countries.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its sister States in
the Gulf Cooperation Council have great respect for the
United Nations Charter, for international legality and for the
resolutions deriving therefrom. We have not, and will not,
hesitate to work towards strengthening the role of the
United Nations and enhancing its effectiveness to ensure
international peace and security and promote international
cooperation. We hope with all sincerity that all other
Member States will share this view when dealing with the
various issues before the Assembly at this session.
We are confident
the opportunity to achieve
success still remains before us and that what is required is
to heed the words of God Almighty:
that
"And say work; and soon Allah will observe your
work, and his messenger, and the believer".
The President (interpretation from French):
I call
next on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Paraguay, His
Excellency Mr. Luis Maria Ramirez Boettner.
Mr. Ramirez Boettner (Paraguay) (interpretation
I wish cordially to greet you, Mr. Amara
from Spanish):
Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, and to congratulate you on your
election to the presidency of the General Assembly.
I
pledge the fullest cooperation of the delegation of Paraguay.
Nor can I fail to echo the congratulations offered to
Ambassador Samuel Insanally on the way he guided the
work of the last session of the General Assembly.
It is my pleasure also to hail the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and convey to him well-
deserved congratulations on the excellent manner in which
he has carried out his tasks. On behalf of the Government
and the people of Paraguay, a founding Member of the
United Nations, I pledge to him our full support for the
Organization.
It is our hope that he will visit our country
as soon as he can; this would be further testament to our
support for the United Nations and to our expectations as
18
17th meeting
4 October 1994
to what the United Nations can do to assist Paraguay in
its current process of
That
democratization has been under way in Paraguay since
February 1989; it is now being consolidated under the
Administration of Mr. Juan Carlos Wasmosy, President of
the Republic.
full democratization.
In this Hall one year ago, the President of Paraguay
committed himself
to consolidating the democratic
process, with the support of
the vast majority of
Paraguayans from the different political parties and
organizations that demonstrate the pluralism of our
society, which is irrevocably determined to defend
freedom, democracy and respect
for human rights.
Today, the name of Paraguay does not appear in the
dossiers of human rights violations. Not a single United
Nations or other agency of the international community
has failed to note the undeniable progress in our country
in every area connected with dignifying the human
person, and the efforts we have made in the social sector.
Hence, as I pledge on behalf of my Government and
my entire society that we shall never, under any
circumstances, diverge from the democratic ideal, I cannot
fail to observe that problems remain in achieving a level
of development with social justice; we shall keep trying
to solve them resolutely, and in many cases with
international cooperation.
We shall not be satisfied until we secure for our
inhabitants - Paraguayans and foreigners whom we have
welcomed into our land - living standards considered
adequate according to United Nations indices. In view of
the magnitude of the task, we again stress that the burden
cannot be borne by one people alone. For us to be
competitive, conditions in the international system must
change: markets must be more open; credit must be more
readily available, and at
rates; and
technology must be more accessible. We therefore
believe in global solidarity, especially of the developed
nations.
interest
lower
The people of the developing countries cannot be
asked to make greater sacrifices than they are already
making unless they see a similar trend towards the
transformation of
If
democracy and freedom are to exist and endure, peoples
must enjoy development and better living conditions.
the international community.
I should like briefly to refer to our economic
recovery, which began in 1989 and has produced very
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
favourable results, even during a period of transition and
major structural changes.
Paraguay has been pursuing a policy of free trade and
floating exchange rates, coupled with total freedom of
movement for financial services and capital. The external
debt has been reduced to $1.26 billion, almost the same as
our current reserves of $1 billion. Paraguay offers a variety
of tax incentives to both its own and outside investors for
investment in production activities. These incentives place
our country among those offering the best and most
attractive terms in Latin America.
Our privatization policy, which started with money-
losing national industries, is already enshrined in our legal
code. Furthermore, we project a growth in gross domestic
product of 4.5 per cent this year.
Education and training are a major priority of our
Government, because it feels that accelerated development
depends on well-trained people.
As regards economic integration,
the Treaty of
Asunción was signed in the capital of Paraguay in 1991,
establishing the Common Market of the Southern Cone
(MERCOSUR). At the recent meeting of the Presidents of
the MERCOSUR countries, held in Buenos Aires on
5 August, they took a decisive step forward by agreeing by
consensus to establish a common external tariff.
In connection with this economic integration, we are
pleased to confirm that Paraguay firmly and enthusiastically
supports the negotiations on the entry into MERCOSUR of
the fraternal Republics of Bolivia and Chile. Paraguay has
suggested to its MERCOSUR partners the establishment of
essential supranational machinery, such as the office of
secretary-general and a court of justice. That would allow
us to hold joint negotiations with the European Union, as
has seemed feasible since its Council’s Corfu meeting, and
with the signatories of the North American Free Trade
Agreement.
The summit of American nations convened in Miami
by President Clinton will be an event of great significance
for relations in this hemisphere in our common search for
ever greater understanding among countries of
this
continent on political, economic and trade matters.
At the subregional level, only a few weeks ago we
were able to set in motion the first of 20 turbines of the
huge Yacyretá hydroelectric dam, built jointly by Paraguay
and Argentina.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
The Government of Paraguay has worked hard to
develop ties with the outside world in order to break out
of the isolation arising from its landlocked condition and,
until 1989,
its deliberate marginalization by an
authoritarian Government.
In bilateral terms, though it may seem redundant to
say this, it is appropriate to recall that Paraguay benefits
from a vast hydroelectric capacity already in place:
the
Itaipú station, shared with Brazil, with an output of 12.6
million kilowatts; and that at Yacyretá, shared with
Argentina, with an output of some 4 million kilowatts.
There is therefore no question but that Paraguay is now,
and will remain, an ideal place for major foreign and
domestic investment and for implementing a policy of
industrialization, based on our abundant, low-cost energy.
It must be remembered, however,
that Paraguay
suffers a structural limitation that would appear to limit
its development potential:
its lack of a seaboard. We
wish to turn this handicap, which has had a very negative
impact on Paraguay in the past, into an advantage. I refer
to the fact
the centre of
MERCOSUR, can act as a hinge or pivot par excellence,
together with Bolivia, between MERCOSUR and the
Andean Common Market.
that Paraguay, being at
At the regional, Latin American level, I wish to refer
first
to Paraguay’s involvement
in the Fourth Ibero-
American Summit of Heads of State and Government.
The presence of our entire Ibero-American community,
together with Spain and Portugal, strengthened us all,
because of the cultural, historical, political and other ties
that bind us closely. I should like to stress that Paraguay
regards this conference as an essential link in its ties with
the European Union and as a major forum with great
potential.
this year, again at
Another important event
the
regional level, was the Eighth Conference of Presidents
and Heads of Government of the Rio Group, which ended
a few weeks ago.
Paraguay fully endorsed the
Declaration of the Rio Group, particularly with regard to
the situations in Haiti and Cuba and the problem of drug-
trafficking.
Paraguay actively participated in producing the
declaration in regard to the fraternal Republic of Cuba,
which expresses the strong hope that it will introduce
significant political and economic reforms in accordance
with the people’s will, and stating that we respect the
self-determination of peoples and the principle of non-
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
intervention. Paraguay lent its fullest support to the Rio
Group’s decisions, including its declaration on lifting the
embargo against Cuba.
With regard to the new post of United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, Paraguay wishes to state
that his great efforts with regard to individual rights must
be complemented by the promotion of social and collective
human rights.
We have throughout fully endorsed the principle of the
peaceful resolution of international conflicts, including the
case of Haiti.
In this, Paraguay is strengthened by its
traditional commitment to peace.
In 1923 we contributed
to international law for the Americas with the Gondra
Treaty of conciliation and arbitration, which has become
one of the pillars of Latin America’s juridical system.
Along these lines of thought and practice, Paraguay
enthusiastically welcomes the recent progress in connection
with the United Nations Decade of International Law.
Paraguay supports the codification of this branch of law; it
will be one of the greatest achievements of the United
Nations.
In this connection, Paraguay has signed and
ratified the main agreements that constitute the legal
structure created through the United Nations.
is
and
keenly
Paraguay
following
promoting
mankind’s urgent demand for international cooperation for
development. For it is just as important to build peace
through development as to maintain it through law. Here
I want once more publicly to express our deep thanks to the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), whose
timely and effective work we have seen at first hand. We
also acknowledge the fundamental
the
development work of the World Bank, the Inter-American
Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
importance of
We hail the Secretary-General’s recent decision to
seek better coordination within the United Nations system
on technical cooperation and to make the Administrator of
UNDP fully responsible for coordination system wide,
including with the regional commissions and all other
programmes. From this decision the United Nations will
gain in efficiency and in the impact of its world-wide
activities.
Paraguay also backs the entire process for the Fourth
United Nations Development Decade and the opening of
negotiations on international economic cooperation for
development, which appears on the agenda of the General
Assembly.
20
17th meeting
4 October 1994
Yet, in a spirit of honour and fraternity, I wish to
repeat what I said here in New York at the June 1994
session of the Economic and Social Council - namely,
that:
that
"We feel
the distribution of funds for
United Nations programmes and projects world wide
is imbalanced; as Latin Americans, we believe that
the proportion allocated to our region, by UNDP for
example, is unfair: only 8.66 per cent is allocated
for programmes in Latin American countries, while
other regions are allocated 50.42 per cent and 40.67
per cent respectively".
UNDP contributes only 17 per cent
to Paraguay’s
programme; Paraguay pays the rest. But we appreciate
and wish to continue to count on UNDP’s support.
for
Summit
the World
Paraguay looks forward with keen interest and
to
Social
commitment
Development,
to be held at Copenhagen. We are
preparing to participate in that conference and have high
expectations about the positive results it can achieve. We
have promised that
the President of the Republic of
Paraguay will attend that great event. Paraguay is so
enthusiastic about the conference because the three basic
items on its agenda are very closely connected with
today’s social problems: social integration, particularly of
the most marginalized and disadvantaged groups; relief
and reduction of poverty; and an increase in productive
employment. As the draft agenda points out, all of this
must be in the context of a propitious economic
environment - and, we would add, with international
cooperation. Here, Paraguay cannot fail to note that a
characteristic of our times is economic growth without
job-creation, a situation that must be corrected, since one
of today’s problems is indeed unemployment.
Paraguay earnestly supports ongoing efforts, will
support future efforts, developed by the United Nations in
all areas of disarmament: nuclear, chemical and others.
The Assembly should know that in the area of social
development Paraguay
special
commission to prepare for the Fourth World Conference
on Women, to be held at Beijing. The commission brings
together State and private bodies, which are drafting a
final report on the situation of women in Paraguay.
established
has
a
As a full member of the General Agreement on
the
Tariffs and Trade (GATT), Paraguay hopes that
results of the Uruguay Round will have beneficial effects
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
for us. We are convinced that the Uruguay Round is the
beginning of a process of downscaling policies of subsidy
and protectionism. Paraguay confidently looks forward to
the
its
complementary
the World Trade
Organization.
follow-up to GATT and to the work of
successor
body,
Paraguay fully shares in the entire international
community’s anguish at drug trafficking, and at the evil
effects of that phenomenon. Notwithstanding our meagre
resources, we are doing whatever is necessary to root it out
wherever it is hiding, and to fight it head on. But, with the
strength derived from reason, Paraguay affirms that the
consumer countries, transit countries and producer countries
alike must undertake an equal commitment to adopting
vigorous measures. Unilateral efforts, however vigorous, to
combat drug production and trafficking can never be
successful without gradual shrinkage of the markets that
give rise to production and trafficking in the first place.
Linked with this universal scourge, which we condemn
with all our strength and conviction, is the phenomenon of
corruption, a human failing that is seen in varying degrees
in all four corners of the Earth. Corruption spreads its
tentacles as a reflection of a civilization that is prodigious
in economic, financial, scientific, technical and industrial
terms but is, we must admit, often found wanting in the
firm ethical underpinnings and the genuine human values
that strengthen and give vitality to a culture.
Paraguay is following with great attention all United
Nations efforts with respect to agenda item 142, "Measures
to eliminate international terrorism". Recent grave events
in certain parts of the world, indeed on our own continent,
clearly show that the international community needs a new
approach, through well-coordinated action, to overcoming
this serious problem, which, as we know, sometimes links
drug-trafficking mafias with terrorism.
On the question of equitable representation on and an
increase in the membership of
the Security Council,
Paraguay believes that in today’s changing world we must
attune the Organization to the requirements of the times and
current circumstances. Hence, my country believes it just
to democratize the representation of States on the Security
Council, and for the Council’s decision-making to be
transparent. The world situation has changed, and the
United Nations must adapt to those changes. We repeat
what we said at
the last meeting of the Rio Group -
namely, that
17th meeting
4 October 1994
"because of its legal tradition and its contribution to
the cause of peace,
the Latin American and
Caribbean region must be considered in any
expansion of the Security Council".
Paraguay also firmly supports parallel efforts to
revitalize the functioning of the General Assembly.
I want
to mention and to highlight our great
satisfaction at
sustained advance of
democracy in Latin America, and at the consolidation of
the various processes that are under way.
the obvious,
We should like to reaffirm that the United Nations
must continue to apply the principle of universality,
making room within its ranks for all peace-loving States
that meet the requirements as set forth in the Charter and
that are prepared to honour its principles and purposes.
We believe that the entry of the Republic of China as an
independent country should be considered, along with the
case of any other State that meets the conditions I have
just mentioned.
I should like officially to declare that, on the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations,
Paraguay pledges even now to have its President take part
personally in the session of the Assembly. The President
of our Republic will make the voice of my homeland
heard on that most welcome occasion.
Meanwhile, my country has established an ad hoc
commission on the commemoration of that major event.
The environment, the subject of the magnificent
1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, is a matter of the
greatest concern to Paraguay, which is prepared to
support any and all initiatives aimed at preserving the
environment through sustainable development, as well as
to enact any appropriate measures that do not undermine
economic growth.
By the same token, Paraguay declares its deep
concern at the situation affecting the Pilcomayo River,
which is an international waterway inasmuch as its source
is in Bolivia and it forms the border between Argentina
and Paraguay.
We are now facing a major environmental problem
since that international river springs from the mountains
and is now growing shallower in its course because of
sedimentation build-up. Moreover, the Pilcomayo, owing
to works undertaken on Argentine territory, has had some
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
70 per cent of its volume absorbed in the territory of our
neighbour. These facilities are doing a great deal of
damage to the Chaco region of Paraguay, especially to its
livestock and to the population.
Paraguay hopes that matters will return to normal, that
is, that the course of the Pilcomayo River will resume its
balance, irrigating both border areas in an equitable way.
We fully trust that we will manage to reach complete
agreement with the Republic of Argentina to restore this
balance at the earliest possible time.
To that end, we will have to go to the very source of
the Pilcomayo to seek a rational and comprehensive
solution which,
trilateral
agreement in the form of a law governing the confluence of
interests of Bolivia, Argentina and Paraguay in respect of
the river’s course.
inevitably, will
require
a
As Paraguay is a land-locked country,
it has an
especially keen interest in the Convention on the Law of
the Sea, which our country ratified as early as 1986. The
provisions of the Convention allow for the mitigation of
disadvantages for those States that have no direct access to
the sea and, for Paraguay, this will open up the possibility
of sharing in the wealth of the deep seabed, or "Zone",
which the Convention calls the common heritage of
mankind. We view with optimism the entry into force of
that Convention on 16 November this year.
In the same
context, Paraguay has signed the Agreement amending the
Convention.
All developing countries aspire to sharing in the
scientific and technological progress of the modern world.
It seems to me that, together with the other measures the
United Nations has already taken or is preparing to take,
serious thought should be given to creating a global fund
for scientific and technological development that would
deepen the relationship between the major research centres
in developed countries and the universities and research
centres in developing countries.
I should like to express Paraguay’s deep satisfaction
at the demise of the apartheid regime in the Republic of
South Africa and at the observance of human rights for all
the ethnic communities of the country. Paraguay has not
forgotten the sister nations in Africa, which are striving to
overcome immense difficulties in their quest for sustainable
development and which deserve wide international support.
Paraguay is similarly disposed towards the sister
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with which we enjoy
22
17th meeting
4 October 1994
fraternal ties. We wish its people peace and brotherhood,
and will strive to commit the United Nations towards that
end.
We are very pleased to congratulate the State of
Israel,
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the
Kingdom of Jordan on their having strengthened the
foundations of fraternal and constructive coexistence in
the region, initiated in the agreements between Israel and
Egypt. We trust
that, given the help of the United
Nations and of other major actors, the peace and security
process in that part of the world will make steady
progress, with the cooperation of other major countries in
the region itself.
I should like to voice a few thoughts with regard to
the recent Conference on Population and Development in
Cairo. Paraguay joined in the Conference Declaration
and Programme of Action, while clearly and explicitly
placing on record its demand for the defence of life and
agreeing, in broad terms, with consensual and voluntary
family planning. For that reason, Paraguay lodged two
reservations similar to those expressed by other countries
that share our view.
life.
As I bring my statement to a close, allow me to
voice a personal reflection that arises from my many
years in international
I have been active in
diplomacy since 1936. Apart from some time spent in
academia, I have served my country or the United
Nations. I lived through the beginning and the end of the
Second World War. My generation was indeed moved
when the United Nations Charter was signed. We were
filled with hope, and the world seemed to be on the right
path in reordering its affairs. We have travelled a long
way since then, but we remain all the more convinced of
the crucial need for this world Organization.
I have personally known each one of the Secretaries-
General of our Organization. I have worked closely with
a number of them and shared their problems, their fears
and their concerns as we struggled for a more just world.
It has been a privilege to be both a United Nations
official and a diplomat accredited to this Organization.
Now, in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I
feel I have been granted an opportunity to renew the
commitment of my nation and my own personal
commitment.
and
unadulterated support for the effort to keep the peace
through law and to build it through development.
commitment
is genuine
That
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The United Nations ideal today compels us to adopt a
new way of thinking and living. Indeed, we are not merely
representatives of sovereign States or members of a world
Organization. We are protagonists and agents who share
the same planet, which is in many respects both very
similar and very different.
We have to show greater solidarity and regain our
universal vision.
As human beings, we all have an interest in whatever
makes us more human, in all senses of the term. The vital
force that springs from this vision helps us in our mission
of saving our common home, the Earth.
Mankind and the Earth:
the key
motivation for our commitment and for our endeavours,
beneath the majestic gaze of the Creator.
therein lies
The President (interpretation from French):
I call
next on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Burkina Faso,
His Excellency Mr. Ablassé Ouédraogo.
Mr. Ouédraogo (Burkina Faso) (interpretation from
French): The honour and the duty of presiding over the
forty-ninth session of the General Assembly have been
entrusted to you, Mr. President, and, through you, to your
country, Côte d’Ivoire. Burkina Faso and all of Africa are
moved by this signal honour.
Beyond the legitimate pride experienced by my
delegation, I should like to reaffirm our full readiness to
assist you. Your wealth of diplomatic experience, together
with your professional and human qualities, will ensure the
success of our deliberations.
You have succeeded Ambassador Samuel Insanally of
Guyana, who, with discretion and professionalism,
determination and logical organization, guided a forty-
eighth session that was rich in ideas, initiatives and various
kinds of fruitful contacts. We thank him for this.
The
of
has
Secretary-General
Boutros-Ghali,
our Organization,
Mr. Boutros
and
courageously continued both in word and in deed to chart
a course designed to reaffirm the mission of
the
Organization and to participate in defining the present and
future spheres of action of the international community.
consistently
17th meeting
4 October 1994
than a decade ago to the daily, fluid and dangerous
uncertainties that surround us and sometimes overwhelm
us, and there is an urgent need to find, or to recover, a
reliable compass and collective will and solidarity.
However, we have been witnessing a disintegration
of the old order. We must indeed note that the post-cold-
war period has been characterized by the simultaneous
emergence of heated conflicts that pit nations against each
other or rend apart their integral elements. From Bosnia
and Herzegovina to Rwanda, the causes and means may
the immediate
differ more or
consequence is always identical:
the enormous suffering
of peoples.
less noticeably, but
During the forty-seventh session of our General
Assembly, Burkina Faso stated:
"In their millions, people are cast out into a life of
wandering; children are robbed of their childhood,
and of their adolescence too; a future without hope
is already the lot of a growing number of people
caught in the crossfire between one world that is
dying and another that
is being born." (Official
Records of
the General Assembly, Forty-seventh
Session, Plenary Meetings, 21st meeting, p. 86)
Africa continues to be shaken by upheavals and
crises of all sorts, and particular attention should be paid
to them.
efforts
aimed at
With regard to Angola, Burkina Faso welcomes the
present
implementing the Peace
Agreements and supports Security Council resolutions 864
(1993) and 932 (1994). We urge UNITA to negotiate
with greater firmness and thus allow the Lusaka meeting
to yield the hoped-for results for peace and the well-being
of the people of Angola as well as of the subregion.
As to Mozambique, it is our hope that the holding of
free and democratic elections this month will put an end
to so many years of confrontation and will further commit
this brotherly country to a course of reconstruction and
national reconciliation for development and peace.
We hope that a solution can be found in Western
Sahara within the framework of a referendum whose
terms of reference will be accepted by all.
Indeed, vision, courage and patience are virtues of
which our world is in dire need. We have moved from the
static certainties of the international environment of less
We welcome the fact that in Burundi progress is
being made in the process begun and supported both by
the United Nations and by the Organization of African
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the
Unity (OAU), and we hope that
President of the Republic on 30 September 1994 will make
possible positive developments in this situation very soon.
Burkina Faso, within the framework of the OAU, is making
its contribution to this process.
the election of
In Liberia, because of the lack of confidence among
the parties, neither the demobilization nor the disarmament
provided for in the Cotonou Agreement has fully taken
place. These measures had been advocated to bring about
an atmosphere propitious to the establishment of democratic
institutions. Burkina Faso continues to support the Cotonou
Agreement of 25 July 1993 as well as the Akossombo
agreement of 12 September last.
In Somalia, far from the cameras and the media, the
tragedy that was so widely reported by those media two
years ago continues. The same players are pursuing the
same conflict just as chaotically and relentlessly, without
any sign of the will to put an end to it through dialogue and
negotiation.
In Rwanda, the unspeakable tragedy that has combined
genocide with intransigence has showed the international
community its limits and the procrastination of which it has
been guilty. After having hastily decided on a withdrawal
during the first weeks of April 1994,
the international
community, responding to the clamorous indignation of
public opinion, was forced to review its position and find
a way to return to the scene of the tragedy and attempt to
limit its shameful and disastrous development. We should
like here to thank those who have wished to confine the
irreparable and immeasurable damage within the limits of
the restored human conscience. Without an active policy
of reconciliation and national reconstruction, it is difficult
to envisage a calm and stable future for that brotherly
country. In this task, which is enormous in all respects, the
Government of Rwanda will need all the assistance that can
possibly be given it in a clear-sighted, responsible and
committed manner. For its part, Burkina Faso, insofar as
it is able, will tirelessly continue to make its contribution to
Rwanda.
Annoyance, irritation and understandable fatigue now
hold sway in the Security Council in its consideration of the
questions of Liberia and Somalia;
is even
thinking about leaving those two brotherly countries to their
own devices. The reasoning put forward for this is that in
an environment marked by a plethora of requests for
material, financial and human resources, it is impossible to
continue to deal with protagonists who prefer war to the
indeed,
it
24
17th meeting
4 October 1994
loss of a power that has not yet truly even been achieved.
It is true that peace cannot be imposed anywhere.
Burkina Faso is aware of this and experiences it
every day as President Blaise Compaoré, putting these
convictions
in subregional
mediation and thus makes his contribution to the great
African plan for
the necessary and indispensable
integration of our continent.
into practice,
engages
Peace thus must be unremittingly pursued. And the
task of diplomats is to work to find acceptable and viable
terms.
Should we then leave all those areas of conflict to
their own devices? The answer to this question will tell
us more about all of us than about the protagonists of
those crises.
In Asia and Latin America, the conflict situations
with which our Organization is dealing are moving in a
direction which gives us reasonable hope to see a
settlement very soon. We encourage Kuwait and Iraq to
respect resolution 833 (1993) of the Security Council.
We
the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Republic
of Korea, as well as negotiations between the United
States of America and the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea on the nuclear issue.
encouraging dialogue
between
also
are
Burkina Faso has welcomed and hailed the signing
on 13 September 1993 of the historic agreement on the
Declaration of Principles between President Arafat and
Prime Minister Rabin, and also the signature on 4 May
1994 of the Agreement on Gaza and Jericho. Burkina
Faso urges that this policy be pursued.
The first democratic elections have taken place in
South Africa. The South African people now have
leaders that they have freely elected. We once again hail
the eminence of President Mandela, as well as the merits
of Vice-President De Klerk,
for having been able,
together with the people of South Africa, to lead South
Africa towards a democratic and non-racial society. Here
among us at last in the United Nations, South Africa will
be able to play and fully shoulder
its role in the
community of nations, thus strengthening that principle of
universality that we supported in a recent
initiative
concerning the Republic of China.
All of this indicates the extent to which political
upheavals affect, sometimes in an extraordinary fashion,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the lives of men, women and children on all continents.
However, to use an expression that was used four years ago
during the World Summit for Children, the world continues
inexorably to witness a "silent emergency" that is still going
on and is growing.
The global economy has experienced a recession that
has more brutally and heartlessly affected the developing
countries. This state of affairs has exacerbated situations of
injustice and flagrant inequality. The improvement of the
economic climate of the developing countries hinges on the
growth of financial investment flows, on the transfer of
technology, on the elimination of tariff and non-tariff
barriers, on just remuneration for commodities and raw
materials. This is not new, and it will be reiterated as long
as the developing countries do not have a greater say
concerning the processes and machinery for decision-
making relating to all these questions.
This is why an agenda for development is now urgent
and of the highest priority. This agenda should put forward
specific measures for implementation focused on growth
and development, and integrate the strategies and plans for
action negotiated and adopted during the United Nations
conferences. From Rio to Cairo, it has been possible to
obtain consensus, but what is still missing are the new and
additional resources with which to implement the decisions
taken. In this connection, we hope that the implementation
of the International Convention to Combat Desertification,
signed in Paris on 14 and 15 October 1994, will not also
suffer from this lack.
While the developing countries are fulfilling their
share of commitments, the developed countries are balking
at making their contributions. This is notably affecting the
concept and the implementation of global partnership,
which was so highly praised at
the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development.
We fear that, as regards the use made of their results,
these Conferences have only been understood in terms of
their theme, without taking account of development.
If
these comments are harsh, reality is even more so.
Problems build up while financial resources dry up.
The eradication of poverty, in such a context, will be
difficult to bring about and will have fewer chances for
success. The commitment undertaken by the developed
countries to allocate 0.7 per cent of their GNP to public
assistance for development has not always been respected,
except by a few of them.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
Africa, more than the other continents,
is in a
situation that is critical and recognized as such by the
United Nations. However, from the Programme of Action
of the United Nations for the Economic Recovery and
Development of Africa in 1986, to the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted in 1991,
nothing concrete has given concrete form to that
commitment by the international community.
Over the last ten years, the African debt has been
discussed ad infinitum, without, however, being reduced
or eliminated to an extent
likely to allow Africa to
relaunch its economy and structure its markets. Several
of our partners have made efforts, and we note the
decision of the Group of Seven in Naples to expand the
Trinidad Conditions to the performing African countries.
in a context where, as I said earlier,
If this is a step in the right direction, it is not
sufficient
the
deterioration of the terms of trade and the loss of
preferential markets are increasing the burden of the debt.
We therefore support the efforts of the Secretary-General
aimed at establishing a fund for diversification, and we
call upon the partners of Africa to play an active and
positive role in establishing this fund.
In April 1994,
the signing in Marrakesh of the
Agreements of the Uruguay Round opened a new chapter
in international trade relations, more or less establishing
the marginalization of Africa, which had already been
evident throughout the negotiations. We hope that the
recently created World Trade Organization will be able to
participate in the creation of a multilateral system of trade
based on applicable, non-discriminatory relations, and that
in particular it will take account of the interests of the
developing countries.
On the basis of a concern for independence and for
the integration of the global economy, access to resources,
markets and technology, preferential assistance and
compensation measures must be open to the developing
countries. The spirit of this new configuration should not
be motivated by charity but rather by the awareness that
certain measures must be taken to ensure that
the
development of the world in partnership and solidarity
takes place harmoniously. It is in the interest of all of us.
The
forthcoming World Summit
for Social
Development, therefore, should emphasize man’s needs
and put man at
the centre of development and of
international cooperation in drawing up the objectives and
specific commitments which we shall be undertaking. So
25
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
too, the World Conference on Women to be held in Beijing
will have to continue that work of intensification begun in
Cairo during the International Conference on Population
and Development: woman, the best agent for development.
For half a decade, the Member States of the United
Nations have been involved in a series of Conferences that
culminated in an acknowledgment of the following facts.
The right to development exists.
It must be reflected in
reality. It is part of human rights. Development is possible
only in peace, and peace itself can be maintained only
through development.
Democracy and development,
therefore, are linked.
One after the other,
the representatives who have
spoken have emphasized the role of the United Nations.
The Organization is
the most valuable multilateral
instrument available to nations. It is important that we give
it the means to fulfil our ambitions and our projects.
The times have compelled us to confine ourselves to
finding the answers that must be found for the urgent
situations threatening the lives of human beings. Peace-
keeping operations currently face unprecedented complexity
and difficulty. We salute and thank the 73 nations that are
offering their sons and their resources for the purpose of
extinguishing flames kindled throughout the world by man’s
intransigence and madness.
from the question of urgency,
If these are understood and dealt with,
Apart
there are
priorities.
the
emergency situations of tomorrow and beyond will be
eased, and we shall come closer to having a more stable,
less unjust and more harmonious world.
A review of the United Nations system - the role,
nature and place of the Security Council and of the General
Assembly - is one of the urgent priorities that must be
addressed if we are not to harm the future. It will become
ever more difficult to wish for democracy in the world if
democracy is avoided in the functioning and activity of the
United Nations.
this Organization.
A year from now we shall be celebrating the fiftieth
anniversary of
The profusion,
complexity and simultaneousness of problems relentlessly
assail societies and nature. Mankind will be able to face
these challenges and difficulties only by assuming and
accepting our complementarity and our interdependence. It
is that initiative and that momentum which will renew our
bond with the ideals proclaimed 49 years ago in a
26
17th meeting
4 October 1994
document signed in San Francisco, which we call the
Charter of the United Nations.
Let us, therefore, be an Organization of truly united
nations. This is possible only if there is a spirit of
justice, peace and solidarity.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Guinea, His
Excellency Mr. Kozo Zoumanigui.
(Guinea)
Mr. Zoumanigui
(interpretation from
It is a pleasure for me to speak for the first
French):
time in the General Assembly and to convey to its
members the warm greetings of the people and the
Government of the Republic of Guinea.
I should like to take this opportunity to convey to
you, Sir, heartfelt congratulations on your notable election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-
ninth session.
It is an honour to your country, Côte
d’Ivoire, and to us the citizens of Guinea it is a fitting
reflection of the trust that the international community
places in the continent of Africa.
I am convinced that
your wisdom and your qualities as an experienced and
competent diplomat will ensure the success of our work.
My delegation assures you of its full support.
I should also like to congratulate your predecessor,
Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, who conducted the
business of the forty-eighth session in such a masterly and
intelligent manner.
I want also to pay well-deserved tribute to the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the
tireless efforts he has made and the determination he has
shown since his election to achieve the noble objectives
assigned to the United Nations. His devotion to peace
and the promotion of international cooperation at a time
the
marked by many complex changes guarantees
Organization’s victory over
facing
humanity.
challenges
the
Mr. Eltinay (Sudan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
My Government welcomes South Africa’s long-
awaited return to this Organization following the
dismantling of apartheid and the holding of the first
multiracial, pluralist elections.
The forty-ninth session is being held at a time that
is very favourable for the strengthening of international
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
relations, thanks to more constructive dialogue. However,
a quick look at the international scene shows that we are
still far from the ideal of peace.
Indeed, as soon as the
bells of peace announced the end of the cold war the evil
spirits were awakened. Here and there warlords are stirring
up tension, bringing tragedy to innocent victims - in
particular, the elderly, women and children.
In Liberia, Rwanda, Somalia, Bosnia, Afghanistan and
Angola - to refer to just some countries - killing, rape and
destruction are going on. We are all concerned, yet we all
seem to be powerless.
It is regrettable that most of this tragedy is being
played out in Africa, a continent already sorely tried by
economic crises, natural disasters and forced migration.
My delegation believes that the international community as
a whole, and this Organization in particular, should act with
greater firmness and unity to put an end to this tragic
situation.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
important milestones in the recognition of the inalienable
rights of the Palestinian people, and they offer hope for
a lasting and comprehensive peace in that region.
By the same token,
the Government of Guinea
encourages the two Korean States to continue their effort
for the independent and peaceful reunification of their
common homeland.
the
negotiations between the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the United States will lead the two parties to
continue the dialogue to bring about a peaceful solution
to the nuclear problem on the Korean peninsula and to
improve relations between the two countries.
I have every hope that
The tragic events that have shaken the political life
of Haiti for three years now have captured the attention
of the international community. My Government hopes
that the efforts of the international community will make
it possible to put an end to that crisis and to alleviate the
suffering of the people of Haiti through the restoration of
democracy.
the
efforts of
For five years now, fratricidal conflicts have plunged
Liberia into chaos and desolation. This conflict’s damaging
for neighbouring States have become
consequences
unbearable.
Despite
the Economic
Community of West African States, the Organization of
African Unity and the international community to secure the
effective implementation of the many peace plans, the latest
of which is the Akosombo, Ghana, plan,
the crisis
continues. My Government makes an urgent appeal to the
international community to become more energetically
involved in the quest for a final solution to this conflict.
Other regions of the world too are experiencing the
same difficulties that
threaten international peace and
security. The Government of Guinea encourages the United
Nations to continue its efforts to restore peace, and urges
the parties to various conflicts to demonstrate wisdom by
choosing dialogue.
I am thinking in particular of the situations in the
Middle East and on the Korean peninsula. Once again,
only a proper political approach, taking account of the
specific values of the parties concerned and of the political
and material needs of the populations, will produce the
conditions for lasting peace.
I welcome the positive developments in the Middle
East, exemplified by the peace agreement signed in
Washington between Israel and the Palestine Liberation
Organization and also that signed between Israel and
Jordan. These agreements constitute in many respects
the
The remarkable progress made through the bilateral
and multilateral negotiations in the field of disarmament
and arms control clearly underscores the determination of
Member States to shield our planet from the spectre of
destruction. However, many perils still hamper our
efforts to bring about collective security, which would
related problems of development,
encompass
environment and human rights.
In certain sensitive
regions,
the trade in conventional weapons and their
frequent use in conflicts, along with the trade in nuclear
materials and the desire of some countries to possess
nuclear weapons,
our Organization’s
responsibilities
stringent verification
measures. Objectives in this field should include a
nuclear test ban and the promotion of the establishment of
denuclearized or nuclear-free zones in all parts of the
world.
add
and call
to
for
In this brief overview of some of the major issues in
the world, I wish to stress the importance of peace-
keeping operations.
I consider it useful to rethink the
problems of
such operations, whose motives and
procedures for implementation seem very often to involve
double standards. We believe that in order to give them
the desired legitimacy and effectiveness these operations
should be the subject of coordination and dialogue in
which all United Nations Member States take part, for
collective security is the business of all nations of the
world, be they large or small.
27
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
of
conflicts
Africa’s keen interest in the quest for ways and means
to guarantee peace, security and stability on our continent
is reflected in the mechanism for the prevention, settlement
and management
the
Organization of African Unity. This instrument is already
functioning; it deals with all forms of crisis that might
jeopardize African peoples’ efforts at economic, social and
cultural development. A peace fund has been set up to give
financial
to the actions undertaken by this
mechanism.
established
support
by
While appreciating the efforts of the United Nations in
the economic and social fields, we note with regret the
absence of any significant results in the implementation of
the measures adopted. Today we are concerned to see that
inequalities in international trade are worsening and that
debt-servicing, which is a burden on the meagre resources
obtained from structural adjustment, require bold action.
Furthermore, the debt burden neutralizes the mobilization
of funding for commodity exports, which are constantly
depreciating because of inequitable terms of trade.
In my delegation’s view, there can be no development
if there is not an increase in income from commodities,
whose prices, unfortunately, are not controlled by the
developing countries. The quest for prosperity could be a
danger, since it engenders a strong migratory flow from the
South to the North.
of
as
and
trade
in
such
illicit
drugs
social
problems,
Despite the socio-economic changes carried out in our
States to stimulate private initiative and cooperative
movements and to improve living conditions, the African
continent is still experiencing an unprecedented economic
To this precarious picture we must add the
crisis.
resurgence
juvenile
delinquency,
narcotics,
unemployment, the AIDS pandemic and the deleterious
effects of persistent drought and other natural disasters. In
this context, we support the recommendations and decisions
of the international Conference held in Tokyo on African
development.
Furthermore, my delegation urges the
international community to increase official development
assistance and requests the United Nations to give greater
support to the laudable efforts of the African countries in
their economic-recovery policies, in keeping with Article 55
of the Charter.
The concept of development cannot be limited to the
economic dimension alone.
It must necessarily take into
account social and cultural dimensions. As long as some
are afraid of the progress of others, the myth of Sisyphus
will prevail and part of our globe will be for ever harnessed
28
17th meeting
4 October 1994
to the yoke. Only dialogue, tolerance and the elimination
of poverty throughout the world will guarantee lasting
peace and strengthen the unity and stability of nations.
In this regard we should stress the relevance of the
Secretary-General’s Agenda
for Development.
Highlighting the many aspects of development and its
connection with peace,
international
security and human rights, it is a reference document in
our quest for solutions to the many economic difficulties
facing the developing countries. It has thus enriched our
discussion on sustainable development.
the environment,
The protection of basic human rights, the satisfaction
of mankind’s needs, and social justice are central to my
country’s concerns. My delegation welcomed the holding
in Cairo of the International Conference on Population
and Development, and we hope that the work of the
Fourth World Conference on Women,
to be held in
Beijing in 1995, and that of the World Summit for Social
Development, to be held in Copenhagen, will give in-
depth consideration to other complex aspects of this
important subject.
In my country, the Republic of Guinea, we have
undertaken an ambitious programme of political,
economic, cultural and social restructuring. The process
of establishing democratic and liberal institutions will be
totally completed during the last quarter of this year with
the holding of legislative elections.
In order to pay the
price of political and socio-economic liberalization, we
need,
financial assistance,
considerable support and understanding from the entire
international community.
in addition to substantial
Member States are preparing to commemorate the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This important
event will offer an opportunity for us all to recall the very
special circumstances that gave birth to our Organization
and to pay a well-deserved tribute to the work of the
founding fathers.
My country is making great efforts to prepare for
this great event, and to this end a national organizational
committee has been established.
The serious international problems to which I have
just
the
referred are a measure of
challenges facing mankind, as well as the responsibilities
of the United Nations. Our Organization has gained
undeniable prestige, because of its increased burdens in
managing world affairs. Nevertheless, in order to become
the gravity of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
17th meeting
4 October 1994
more effective, it needs to be restructured and revitalized.
This applies to the Security Council and the other main
bodies.
matter and join together to build a new era of peace and
justice, to which the peoples of the world have so long
aspired.
Reforms must be based on the principle of equality of
Member States, and must reflect a balance in the decision-
making process between the various bodies of the system.
That is what is needed for the United Nations to succeed in
its mission of maintaining international peace and security
and promoting a balanced world economy.
The embryonic new international order, freed of all
uncertainty and threats of instability, will emerge from such
a development.
The President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, His Excellency Mr. Somsavat
Lengsavad.
Mr. Lengsavad (Lao People’s Democratic Republic)
(spoke in Lao; interpretation from French text furnished by
the delegation): First, I am very pleased to convey to the
President my warmest congratulations on his election to
the forty-ninth session of
preside over
the General
Assembly.
His wide experience and knowledge of
international affairs, his well-known wisdom and patience
are guarantees of success in the many difficult tasks of this
session.
I should also like to take this opportunity to express
my appreciation to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-
General of our Organization, for the praiseworthy efforts he
has made in the service of world peace and development.
Aware how heavy is his burden in this complex, fast-
changing time, we wish him every possible success in the
discharge of his lofty duties.
The present session of the General Assembly is taking
place at a time when the world situation is still undergoing
very complex changes. While the end of the bipolar era
opened the door to dialogue and cooperation between
States, it did not usher in an era of peace, which the world
so badly needs if it is to construct a sound world economy.
In some regions of Europe, Africa and Asia, religious,
ethnic,
tragic
proportions, are still raging, thus making the international
situation unstable and fragile. It therefore seems clear that
it will be difficult to achieve a new world order in which
true peace prevails and in which peoples and nations, large
and small, powerful and weak, rich and poor, benefit. The
international community should give more thought to this
tribal and border conflicts, often of
In Europe, the situation in the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina is still tense. The risk of new military
clashes between the various parties remains.
It is our
view that
the parties to this painful conflict should
demonstrate wisdom and above all realism by concluding
a just and equitable political settlement as soon as
possible, and thus contribute to the restoration of peace in
that country and in the entire region.
In Africa, after so many years of efforts, both within
and outside the United Nations, the Republic of South
Africa is free at last. In a spirit of national reconciliation,
the parties concerned have managed to reach an
understanding and to cooperate in the building of a
united, non-racial and democratic South Africa. We
continue to believe that the people of South Africa, under
the wise leadership of President Nelson Mandela, will
prove equal to the task of overcoming the obstacles that
face them and begin the economic development of their
beloved land.
Still
in Africa,
in Rwanda, we have
seen
unprecedented bloodshed. The Government and people
of Laos strongly condemn the abominable carnage, which
has been described as genocide of an innocent population,
and we call upon the parties to the conflict to take the
necessary steps to prevent such unacceptable crimes from
ever happening again.
The world is following closely the disturbing
humanitarian situation in the Caribbean.
In our view,
there should be a political solution to this complex
situation, through sincere dialogue between the parties
directly concerned. The signing of the joint communiqué
of 9 September 1994 by the Republic of Cuba and the
United States of America to resolve the problem of the
exodus of Cubans -
the consequence of more than
30 years of externally imposed economic constraints - is
clear proof of this. That agreement, the fruit of long and
difficult negotiations between the two parties, constitutes
an important
their
differences, which should contribute to strengthening
peace, stability and cooperation in the region.
step in the settlement of
first
In Haiti, due to the animosities still keenly felt by
the partisans of
the military regime and President
Aristide’s sympathizers, the political situation continues
to be fragile and complex. We believe that, in the best
29
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
interests of the Haitian nation, it is time for the parties to
show great wisdom and begin the economic reconstruction
of their beloved land.
arrangements,
signed
in Washington
In the Middle East, the autonomous interim Palestinian
Authority, established in the Gaza Strip and the Jericho
region, pursuant to the Declaration of Principles on interim
autonomy
on
13 September 1993, marked a new phase in the search for
a just and lasting comprehensive settlement of the Arab-
Israeli conflict. We welcome this new, crucial step, and
hope that the parties to the conflict will do everything
possible to achieve a comprehensive settlement, just and
honourable for all, within the framework of Security
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and other
relevant United Nations resolutions.
In Western Asia, despite countless efforts exerted
towards a peaceful settlement of the conflict, Afghanistan
remains the theatre of a bloody civil war.
In conformity
with the recent statement of the President of the Security
Council on 11 August 1994, we address an appeal to the
parties concerned immediately to put an end to their
hostilities, achieve national reconciliation and begin the
difficult reconstruction of their ravaged homeland.
In the Korean peninsula, after months of uncertainty,
dialogue between the parties concerned has finally resumed.
We warmly encourage that dialogue and the Lao delegation
welcomes the conclusion of the Agreement signed in
Geneva on 12 August 1994 between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of
America. Because of its importance everything should be
done to ensure that
this sensitive region of the world
becomes a nuclear-weapon-free zone.
In the interests of
peace, stability and cooperation in that region as well as in
the world, it is essential that all the parties concerned show
understanding and mutual trust in order to find a peaceful
solution to the issues between them.
In South-East Asia a new era of cooperation in areas
of common interest between countries of the region has
grown ever stronger. The inauguration in April of the Lao-
Thai friendship bridge across the Mekong, built with
financial assistance and cooperation from the Government
and the people of Australia, is an especially salient event
for Laos, Thailand and Australia, as well as other countries
of the region, in our efforts further to strengthen regional
cooperation in different areas.
In addition, the Heads of
State or Government of our respective countries have
regularly been exchanging visits with a view to expanding
and deepening their friendship and cooperation in an
30
17th meeting
4 October 1994
field of cooperation.
The
extensive and fruitful
participation of my country, once again, in the ministerial
meeting of the countries of the Association of South-East
Asian Nations (ASEAN) in July in Bangkok, Thailand,
once again demonstrates our sincere desire to cooperate
in all possible areas with the countries of ASEAN, thus
responding to the desires and deep aspirations of the
peoples of the region and the world.
The present situation in the Kingdom of Cambodia
remains the subject of major world attention. As an
immediate neighbour,
the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, ardently wishes that the Cambodian people will
be able to live their lives in peace, in an atmosphere of
national reconciliation, and to work for the reconstruction
of their homeland, which will
thus contribute to the
strengthening of peace and cooperation in the region. To
that end we fully support the various measures that have
been taken by the Cambodian Government, under the
leadership of His Royal Highness Prince Norodom
Ranariddh, and His Excellency Mr. Hun Sen.
In Myanmar a new, important event has taken place.
Efforts towards national reconciliation and the start of
economic cooperation with the outside world have been
bearing their initial fruits, thus consolidating the stability
of the country.
the past
three years has been of
In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic we note,
fortunately, that on the whole our economic performance
has been good. On the average, annual economic growth
for
the order of
6 per cent to 7 per cent in real terms. The inflation rate
has not exceeded 10 per cent a year and exchange rates
generally remain stable. No less importantly, foreign
investment has considerably increased. At the present
time the Lao Government is exerting major efforts to
achieve the goals set in its socio-economic development
strategy from now to the year 2000.
of
That strategy presented to the fifth round-table
meeting organized expressly for
the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic in Geneva last June, under the
sponsorship
the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), was conceived as a realistic and
trustworthy document and has received broad support
from participants. On behalf of the Lao Government and
people I wish to take this opportunity to express our
sincere appreciation to the friendly countries, international
organizations and non-governmental organizations for the
assistance they have afforded us in the past in our efforts
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
towards national development and we hope to be able to
continue to benefit from that assistance in various fields.
The world economy, far from improving, still faces an
uncertain future. Marked by recession and imbalances, it
also suffers from grave structural problems. Developed
countries do not hesitate to take certain measures that run
counter to the legitimate interests of developing countries.
Because of the world economy’s interdependence it
is
important that developed countries undertake to cooperate
with the developing countries in order to restore the
economy and to promote development in the interests of all.
In that respect it is essential fully to honour commitments
undertaken in support of international cooperation as they
have been set forth in resolutions of the General Assembly,
in particular, the Declaration on International Economic
Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic
Growth and Development of the Developing Countries, the
International Development Strategy for the Fourth United
Nations Development Decade and the resolutions of the
conferences that have followed it.
in order
The question relating to drug abuse and illicit
trafficking remains an issue of world concern. Aware of
the disastrous consequences that can result from this, the
Lao Government has taken vigorous measures to encourage
the population gradually to give up the poppy crop and to
choose other substitute crops, created a special unit against
drug abuse, and established cooperation with neighbouring
countries
to make its contribution to the
international fight against this scourge. As part of these
efforts and with the assistance of the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme (UNIDCP) this year
we have developed a comprehensive programme for drug
control. That programme, the cost of which is $35 million,
consists
the
strengthening of drug control administration, reduction of
supply through eradication of the poppy crop, a strategy for
treatment and rehabilitation, and the establishment of a
special investigation unit. With assistance and cooperation
from the international community we hope to be able to
achieve the goal we pursue.
16 projects,
including
of
setting
up
The advancement and defence of human rights is an
important and sensitive question. Unanimously seen as
universal, these rights, often having historical, cultural and
religious implications, are inseparable and interdependent.
On that note we welcome the creation of the post of High
Commissioner for Human Rights and it is our hope that the
High Commissioner will effectively discharge the very
responsible functions that have been assigned to him.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
The world exists in an uncertain international
political environment. In that context the United Nations,
the only universal multilateral forum, should have a
crucial role to play. Strengthened by the purposes and
principles of its Charter, it is in a position to provide the
necessary framework for cooperation, dialogue among
States and the maintenance of international peace and
security.
the United Nations must
In order to carry out its noble task effectively in this
restructure and
new era,
democratize itself.
It is also most important that the
United Nations give top priority to a programme of action
on development that could serve as a framework for
promoting growth and economic development throughout
the world. We feel that, to be effective, any programme
of action on development must be action-oriented and
based on a spirit of true international cooperation and
interdependence; above all, it must take into account the
basic
interests of developing countries,
especially the least developed among them.
legitimate
The President (interpretation from Arabic): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Albania,
His Excellency Mr. Alfred Serreqi.
Mr. Serreqi (Albania): Allow me at the outset to
congratulate Mr. Essy on his election to the presidency of
the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session and to
wish him every success in discharging this noble duty.
A well-deserved word of appreciation is due to his
predecessor, Ambassador Insanally, for the remarkable
competence and skill he displayed as President at the last
session.
We
highly
esteem the
Secretary-General’s
unreserved commitment, at
the world
Organization, to make broad reforms in it and to increase
its effectiveness in all fields.
the head of
After the fall of the iron curtain in Europe, Albania
joined the family of democratic nations, leaving behind a
deep isolation and a totalitarian regime.
In two years,
thanks to the determination of the democratic Government
to carry out profound and urgent reforms, Albania has
taken important steps in all fields. State institutions have
been transformed, drawing upon the positive experience
of developed States. The former secret service was
dissolved and the army was placed under civilian control
and
the
requirements of a demilitarized, profoundly democratic
compliance with
reform in
underwent
31
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
a
supervises
constitutional
court which
society. Today, Albania boasts an independent judiciary
and
the
constitutional character of the laws passed by Parliament.
Currently in Albania, there are more than 30 registered
political
non-governmental
organizations,
and
newspapers, of which 90 per cent are privately owned. At
present, Albania’s religious communities practise their own
beliefs in exemplary harmony and tolerance, according to
the centuries-old traditions of my country.
than 320 magazines
and more
hundreds
parties,
of
and
shock therapy,
By promoting democracy and strengthening the
institutions of the rule of law, the democratic Government
seeks to guarantee the country’s internal social and political
stability. However, Albania continues to be the poorest
country of the European continent and faces a series of
economic difficulties. By firmly pursuing the economic
policy of
in cooperation with the
International Monetary Fund
international
community, the Government is implementing a series of
short- and medium-term programmes that have given a
great impetus to free individual initiative. In two years’
time, agriculture, land, apartments, transport, services, trade
and about 2,500 small and medium-sized enterprises have
been privatized. From 400 per cent, the inflation rate has
dropped to less than 30 per cent a year; the currency is
stable and practically convertible; and production is on the
rise. In 1993, Albania recorded growth rate of 11 per cent,
the highest
Foreign investments are also
increasing.
in Europe.
the
In the coming months we shall move ahead without
losing time. The nearest objectives in legislation are the
approval of the new penal code, the penal procedure code
and the constitution, which will meet most advanced
European standards. We will also try to increase
cooperation with various
international organizations,
particularly with the agencies of the United Nations system.
the European Union,
Albania attaches special importance to strengthening
friendly relations and cooperation with the international
community,
the United States of
America, the countries of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference and other friendly countries in the world.
Albania’s President Berisha is resolutely devoted to the
establishment and strengthening of these ties in order to do
away, once and for all, with the bitter consequences of the
severe 50-year isolation which our people suffered. We
want
to have friendly relations, especially with our
neighbours, and we are making efforts so that a climate of
good understanding and cooperation, based on mutual
respect and benefit in the spirit of the basic principles of
32
17th meeting
4 October 1994
the Helsinki Final Act, will prevail all around us. We
have established such relations with Italy and are on the
way to their further and all-round development.
We would also like to have on a consistent basis the
sort of good,
tension-free relations we are currently
enjoying with Greece, the only country of the Balkans
that is a member of the European Union. We regard
these relations, not merely as bilateral, but also as closely
linked to the prospect of the integration of Albania and
the Balkans into Europe. Advances are being made in the
relations of good-neighbourliness and broad cooperation
with Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania, on the basis of a
long historical tradition.
As regards the new Balkan State, our eastern
neighbour, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
we are resolutely committed to building relations of
exemplary neighbourliness with it and to helping that
country overcome its internal and external difficulties.
We are convinced that its integrity, its internal stability,
its recognition and its membership in all international
forums are of vital importance for peace, security and
stability in the region. Our indispensable good relations
with Macedonia are linked to and conditioned by the
presence of an Albanian population that ranks second in
size to Macedonians. We think that sound interethnic
understanding between Macedonians and Albanians,
established on the basis of the due recognition of the
Albanians’ human and national rights, is indispensable for
the domestic stability and prosperity of that Republic and
the entire region.
We would like to have peace, good-neighbourliness
and fruitful cooperation with Montenegro and Serbia, but
these relations will remain frozen and mortgaged to the
overall solution of the Yugoslav crisis, especially the
political settlement of the Kosovo issue. The Kosovo
issue is not merely and solely a question of respect for
the human rights of the two million Albanian people and
the recognition of a few rights in the areas of education
and culture. The question concerns recognition of the
political self-governing entity of the Albanians, for which
the population of Kosovo has cast its vote in a democratic
manner.
regional
cooperation
Belgrade should seriously consider this option. We
consider
an
indispensable condition for our integration into Europe.
We have been making continuous efforts to promote
understanding with our neighbours.
For the further
promotion of Albania’s democratic and economic changes
integration
and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
there is a need for security and confidence in the Balkans.
We hold that the developed countries could contribute with
a full strategy and programme in order to encourage the
radical democratic changes in the entire Balkan space, a
kind of Marshall Plan designed to promote peace,
democracy and modern civilization there, an economic-
political programme for the all-round rehabilitation of the
region.
in
of
terms
economic
National and ethnic problems left over from the past,
backwardness
social
development, and the new problems resulting from the
change of systems make it still possible for old political
mentalities to dominate the stage of inter-Balkan relations.
Those mentalities
are opposed to true democratic
developments, even in the countries which call themselves
ancient democracies.
and
of
the
the
borders
existing
As a Balkan country, Albania is concerned about the
war and the crises that have encompassed our peninsula.
We are convinced that at the foundation of the present-day
Balkan crisis lies the revival of aggressive nationalism,
which has unfurled the banner of territorial annexationist
claims. The end of the cold war has again brought onto the
scene the demons of old Balkan politics which seek a
redrawing
re-
dismemberment of some States to the benefit of others.
The Milosevic regime’s opposition, through a bloody war,
to the will of the peoples to break away from the former
Yugoslav Federation was
the first challenge to the
principles of the United Nations Charter and the Helsinki
Final Act, while the dismembering of Bosnia and
Herzegovina was the first act carried out in the name of
creating a hegemony-seeking Greater Serbia at the expense
of this former republic of the Federation, a Member of the
United Nations and of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
and
that
the nations
In today’s Balkans
consider
themselves more powerful and better armed are seeking to
extend their territories through force and war in order to
expand their power. Expansion and aggressiveness inspire
their policies towards their neighbours. National divisions,
interethnic hatred or religious diversity are encouraged and
artificially provoked, and they are converted into major
national and international policy issues in an attempt to
disguise historically unfounded territorial claims. At the
foundation of what politicians today call "ethnic conflicts"
in the Balkans
lie the aggressive nationalism of a
hegemony-seeking nation, racism and xenophobia, genocide
and massive "ethnic cleansing". That is why we have often
that would legalize the
insisted that any settlement
17th meeting
4 October 1994
accomplished fact of "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia would
create a dangerous precedent for new tragedies of this
kind, starting in the Balkan region.
Today, Serb and Greek nationalism are seriously
threatening the Balkans. Such elements consider that the
collapse of Communist dictatorships in the Balkans
created a vacuum to be exploited to achieve their
nationalist ambitions.
Hence, Serb nationalism launched an aggression in
the north and a war to realize a Greater Serbia by creating
a real holocaust at the end of this century against the
Bosnian people and by strengthening apartheid in Kosovo.
That nationalism is bogged down in grave crimes. In our
judgement, only the intransigence of the international
community and the refusal to recognize the violation of
the principles that all of us have accepted will compel the
Serbs in Belgrade, Pale and Knin to give up war as a
means of solving problems. The dismemberment of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the "ethnic cleansing" on its
territory are unacceptable. We have supported and still
support the request of that Republic for the lifting of the
arms embargo against it, an embargo which - there is no
doubt - has been an encouragement to the aggressor.
Similarly, we support
the recent Security Council
resolutions 941 (1994) and 942 (1994), which we believe
are steps in the right direction for putting an end to
hostilities in the region. However, we are opposed to
resolution 943 (1994), which is a concession to the
Milosevic regime and makes a settlement of the Yugoslav
crisis and the establishment of general peace in the
Balkans remote.
I would like to recall that the crisis in the former
Yugoslavia started in Kosovo and that it persists there,
alive and very dangerous. Sanctions against Belgrade
should not to be eased but should be further tightened and
truly implemented if we want the crisis hotbeds in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, in the occupied territories of Croatia,
Sandiak and Vojvodina, and especially in Kosovo to be
eliminated. The Albanian Government insists that the
lifting of sanctions against Serbia be conditioned on the
settlement of the Kosovo issue.
We should be realists.
It was not Milosevic’s
goodwill but the unanimous stand of the great Powers of
the Contact Group that recently made Belgrade announce
an interruption of its aid to Serbian aggression in Bosnia
and accept international monitoring of that act. On this
occasion we should stress that these decisions are positive
and welcome. They should be irreversible steps, for we
33
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
consider that the future of peace and stability in the Balkans
will also depend,
to a considerable extent, on a just
settlement of the Kosovo issue. Albanians in Kosovo have
been deprived of all rights.
Serb nationalism rejects
dialogue. It is brandishing weapons and engaging in threats
by the use of tanks; it is organizing police terror daily from
village to village, from one city quarter to another. We
have insisted and still insist on carrying out a dialogue
between Kosovo’s legitimate institutions and its leadership,
on the one hand, and Belgrade, on the other,
in the
presence of a third party, on the restoration of
the
democratic institutions that were abolished with the use of
tanks and on the definition of a status that should include
recognition of
to self-determination at an
opportune moment. This is the only way, in our view, to
reach an overall settlement of the Balkan crisis, which may
grow into conflicts far larger than previous ones unless it is
tackled with proper determination and responsibility.
the right
Greek nationalism, too, is another growing threat to
Albania and the Albanians. It is seeking, through a series
of manoeuvres, to block the reforms in Albania and to
destabilize it in an attempt to render the settlement of the
Albanian question more difficult and delay it. To facilitate
the position of its ally in the north, it is making territorial
claims against Albania.
Greek nationalism is dangerous not only on account of
its tradition but also because of the fact that it has the
privilege of being a somewhat forgotten nationalism. For,
since Greece is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) and of the European Union, there is
a tendency to ignore it. The truth is that Greece today, as
a member of NATO and the European Union, is subject to
a certain control by and dependence on those organizations,
and this is a positive thing. However, it is also true that
over the past two years Greek nationalism has blocked
action by those institutions several times because of the
consensus needed to take decisions.
Today, the establishment and progressive consolidation
of positions in Greek official circles is a bitter fact. The
power game that is taking place in Greece is undoubtedly
being played through the free vote, but, in distinction to all
the other countries of Western Europe, it is being played
with nationalist slogans. It is an undeniable fact that after
the game is played official Greece will emerge more
nationalistic than it was before.
It is precisely for these
reasons that Greece,
the birthplace of democracy, our
millenary neighbour, avoided and gave up the opportunity
to serve as a promoter of the integration of the Balkan
countries into Europe after the fall of the iron curtain. At
34
17th meeting
4 October 1994
the same time, through its official and unofficial policy it
became a true champion of Serb nationalism - not, of
course, for the sake of Serbia’s interests but for the sake
of interests and ambitions which it hopes to achieve by
remaking the Balkans.
It
We do not mean that Greece can be compared to
Serbia, for that would not be realistic. But what causes
great concern is the progressively official character Greek
nationalistic policy is assuming.
is the Greek
Government which has blocked the recognition of
Macedonia and has imposed a blockade on it, ignoring the
fact that its border is also the border of the European
Union. It is Greek state nationalism that blocks European
Union aid to the poorest European country, Albania,
rendering its economic growth more difficult.
The
Mitsotakis Government officially demanded the autonomy
of "northern Epirus", as they call the south of Albania;
the Papandreou Government declares
it has
incorporated the south of our country in Greek defence
planning. The official character the Greek Government
has given to its policy on "northern Epirus" poses a
serious threat to the Balkans.
that
through
radio
propaganda
Greek nationalism is trying to manipulate about
60,000 Greeks who live in the south of Albania -
according to the 1989 census, they comprise 1.85 per cent
of the country’s population - as a means to destabilize
Albania and to achieve its annexationist designs. For this
purpose, Greece is emitting organized, nationalistic and
fundamentalist
stations,
air-dropped leaflets and the distribution of materials
which claim the south of Albania and demand the
overthrow of the democratic Tirana Government. On 10
April 1994, an armed band was sent into Albania, where
it killed two Albanian army men; hundreds upon hundreds
of firearms have been smuggled into Greek minority
villages and young Greek minority people have been
recruited and sent
to attend Greek military schools
without the knowledge of the Albanian Government. The
recent verdict passed by an Albanian court on five
Albanian citizens of Greek origin on charges of collusion
with the Greek secret services, sending out military
intelligence, the distribution and illegal possession of arms
and so on, was exploited as an excuse to attack the
Albanian Government at all international institutions and
forums,
to block 35
million ecu in European Union aid to Albania, to expel in
retaliation 60,000 Albanian citizens who were legally
employed in Greece in a matter of a few weeks,
maltreating them, beating them up and killing six of them.
including this august Assembly,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
I am pleased to inform the Assembly that the Greek
minority of Albania did not let itself fall prey to such a
chauvinistic policy. The Greek minority expressed this
stand openly two weeks ago during Albanian President Sali
Berisha’s visit to Greek minority villages in the south of
Albania. All this has arisen because ethnic minorities in
Albania live in harmony with Albanians, and are not
maltreated by the Government. On the contrary, with the
establishment of the democratic regime, they are step by
step enjoying the most advanced standards as set forth in
United Nations instruments, the Copenhagen Document and
other international conventions on minorities. This has
been confirmed by dozens of foreign observers, ethnic
minority specialists, parliamentarians, representatives of
including the Conference on
international
Security and Cooperation in Europe
(CSCE) High
Commissioner for ethnic minorities, Mr. Max van der Stoel,
various non-governmental organizations, journalists and so
on.
institutions,
With the establishment of the democratic regime in
Albania, members of the Greek minority are represented in
or lead local organs of power; are represented in the
Albanian parliament in the ruling parties and the opposition
parties, and even in a separate party; they are present at all
levels of the administration as ministers, ambassadors,
members of the supreme court, and so on; they go to
Greece freely and with no obstacles from the Albanian
State; they learn or are taught in their mother tongue, and
a recent decision of the Albanian Government has created
more opportunities to extend this possibility; they have their
own schools at all levels, a separate branch in the Greek
language at the Gjirokastra University, their own mass
media, radio broadcasts and newspapers in the Greek
language,
cultural
organizations.
as well
political
and
as
their
The Albanian Government has openly declared that the
crisis in its relations with Greece will in no way affect the
harmonious relations between Albanians and members of
the Greek minority in Albania.
On the other hand, we call on the Greek Government
to apply the international conventions relating to ethnic
minorities.
It cannot shirk its responsibility with its
senseless denial of the presence of national minorities in
Greece. How could the Turkish, Macedonian and Albanian
minorities vanish in Greece at a stroke?
The Greek
Government should put an end to the suffocating climate
that prevents these minorities from asserting their own
national identity.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
forget
How could the Greek Government
the
1944-1945 massacre of
the Albanian population of
Chameria, when thousands upon thousands of people were
stabbed to death and killed with firearms by Greek
chauvinistic nationalists. And some of those who could
escape alive, old folk and children, were expelled to
Albania and Turkey,
tragedy of
divided families, whereas their land, homes and other
property were usurped by Greek colonists, who still
possess them today in contravention of international civil
law.
thus creating a real
We have always appreciated the importance of good
relations with Greece, free from any concern and tension,
for our development, peace and security. Because of the
reasons already mentioned, this has not always worked
out. We tried to overcome the present-day crisis in our
relations, provoked against our interest and will, through
dialogue either on a bilateral
through
international mediation. The Greek minority people in
Albania,
too, have publicly supported unconditional
dialogue between the two Governments. Unfortunately,
the Greek side has so far rejected a meeting of our two
countries’ Foreign Ministers, proposed by the Albanian
side, as well as the mediation of the United Nations
Secretary-General, the European Union presidency and
the United States Administration. On the contrary, they
are still bringing pressure to bear on the democratic
Albanian Government.
footing or
The Albanian Government will continue to make
every effort to be constructive and strive for peace in its
policy towards its Balkan neighbours, aware of the fact
that the Balkans is one of the hottest and most dangerous
spots in the world today, and therefore the attention of the
international community should not be distracted from it.
In conclusion, I should like to stress that we share
the view and join the efforts aimed at revising the Charter
and structure of the United Nations, especially as it
concerns such important organs as the Security Council,
which takes decisions on the maintenance of international
peace and security, in order to enhance their efficiency in
response to today’s challenges in a fast-changing world.
The crisis the world is currently experiencing urgently
raises
the need to achieve consensus on such a
restructuring of the Security Council, so as to make this
important decision-making body as representative and
democratic as possible and even more effective in the
adoption of decisions and their implementation.
I take
this opportunity to reiterate the candidature of my country
for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council from
35
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the Eastern European Group for the 1996-1997 term. We
think that giving this seat to Albania after 40 years of
membership in the United Nations would also be an
encouragement
the
responsibility incumbent upon them and commit themselves
to safeguarding peace, security and world order.
countries
assume
to
small
to
We look confidently to the further enhancement of
United Nations peace-keeping activities. To this end,
Albania maintains that the United Nations needs an efficient
mechanism to warn of conflicts in advance and to intervene
in time in order to prevent their outbreak. We would like
to stress the conclusion we have drawn from Bosnia’s
tragic experience. We seriously believe that the tragedy
could have been averted if there had been serious attention
by the United Nations when it recognized the secession and
independence of that Republic from the former Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia. The military intervention Serbia
perpetrated in order to halt more secessions from the
federation would have been avoided if the new Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina had been placed under the firm
protection of the United Nations.
It is never too late to draw lessons. We think that the
United Nations should set up a modern system of
trusteeship that could be set in motion whenever necessary
to prevent human catastrophes like that in Bosnia. Today,
this is dictated by the situation in Kosovo, which is very
close to posing a potential threat like that posed by Bosnia;
it is dictated also by the situations in Rwanda, Somalia,
Haiti and other places.
As we said last year, we are in favour of United
Nations intervention wherever there are clear signs, as
determined by early-warning monitoring, of a threat of
human catastrophe. As we all know, the consequences of
such catastrophes have negative effects on regional and
international peace and security. We hold that in such
cases there is no reason for the Security Council to hesitate
to take a decision on intervention without the prior consent
of the State or Government that is the cause of and is
responsible for the catastrophe. Otherwise, such human
catastrophes will never be prevented, and international
peace, security and stability will always be threatened.
What we demand is in full compliance with the universally
accepted idea, that it is easier to avoid a crisis or conflict
than to try to solve it after it has broken out.
The President (interpretation from Arabic): Before
calling on representatives who wish to speak in exercise of
the right of reply, let me remind members that statements
in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
36
17th meeting
4 October 1994
intervention and to five minutes for the
for the first
second, and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
Mr. Sreenivasan (India): The Foreign Minister of
Pakistan will not be surprised that his statement today has
forced a reply from India. For Pakistan, as would have
been obvious this morning, India is an obsession. For
India, Pakistan’s histrionics are merely an annoying
distraction. We do not want the General Assembly’s trust
to be abused by Pakistan as much as its patience has
been, and I want therefore to place some facts on record.
First, our offer of dialogue is open, and if Pakistan
responds, we will not need a third party either as broker
or facilitator or umpire. Pakistan has refused to talk and
is trying to create an impression that bilateralism has
never worked and that a threat
to regional peace is
imminent. This is not true. The Simla Agreement, which
has kept
the peace between us for 23 years, was
bilaterally negotiated. India continues to respect the letter
and spirit of the Simla Agreement. Our troops are in
peacetime locations. Bilaterally negotiated confidence-
building measures between India and Pakistan continue in
place, and neither country has had occasion in recent
months or weeks to complain about
their efficacy.
Nothing,
repeat nothing, has happened on the
international border or on the Line of Control in Jammu
and Kashmir of
this
mechanism or to give rise to any apprehension about a
threat to peace.
late to suggest a failure of
I
If a threat
to peace exists,
it exists because of
Pakistani activities and Pakistan’s belligerence, as clearly
manifested in the Foreign Minister’s speech, and because
of Pakistan’s adventurism. We have no intention of
crossing the Line of Control or the international border,
despite the grave provocations from across the border.
What are these provocations? The Pakistan Foreign
Minister said this morning that his country did not
support the terrorists militarily. The same Human Rights
Watch which he quoted so selectively to criticize both the
United States and India, has this to say in its report:
"The extreme gravity of the abuses committed
by militant groups in Punjab and Kashmir is in part
a direct consequence of the diffusion of advanced
light weapons and small arms, and the evident
failure of those assisting the militants to pressure
them to respect human rights. ... Pakistani support
for the militants - direct support in the form of arms
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
shipments and training ... - has greatly facilitated
abuses."
Pakistan will obviously not restrain the terrorists
because its Government has a systematic policy of abusing
human rights.
Through the constitutional and legal
framework of Pakistan, state policy legitimizes intolerance.
A constitutional and legal apartheid exists in Pakistan in
relation to religious minorities, and even with regard to
minority sects within the majority community. Several
hundred thousand Pakistani citizens have languished from
1972 in refugee camps in another country, because Pakistan
denies them the right of return to their own country. Nor
has the Pakistani Foreign Minister told us of another group
of his country’s citizens who refused to enroll as voters in
elections
they preferred to be
disenfranchised rather than accept a state-given label for
their faith. Nor would he care to inform us about the
contents of a fact sheet published by the Pakistan Human
Rights Council in Islamabad on 1 July this year about the
gross human rights violations in Pakistan since the present
Government came to power in October 1993.
last year because
What is true of the minorities, and particularly of
women, is also true of ethnic groups in different parts of
Pakistan. Pakistan is a society at war with itself.
The territorial ambitions of Pakistan in Kashmir are
overt and blatant. Every Pakistani leader since 1947 has
described the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir as an
integral part, sometimes as the jugular vein, of Pakistan.
This was true of Mohammad Ali Jinnah in 1947, and it is
true of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in 1994. Pakistan
deludes the world by talking about self-determination.
It
has incorporated without any legality that part of Jammu
and Kashmir known as the Northern Areas; another part of
the state illegally occupied by Pakistan is obliged by
Pakistani law to proclaim its integration with Pakistan. In
the Pakistani vocabulary, self-determination is apparently
synonymous with predetermination as ordained by Pakistan.
What Pakistan wants is to grab territory which legally and
constitutionally belongs to another country.
It is this expansionist and adventurist aim which has
led Pakistan, as acknowledged by a former chief of the
Pakistan Air Force last August, to start three wars against
India.
Its armies having been beaten, Pakistan is now
training and arming terrorists against India. This is amply
documented by independent sources and recognized by
most
frankly
acknowledged even by Pakistani officials and political
personalities. The Prime Minister of Pakistan immediately
responsible Governments,
and
is
17th meeting
4 October 1994
preceding Mrs. Bhutto stated very recently that Pakistani
Government agencies had endeavoured to finance these
clandestine operations by selling heroin and other narcotic
drugs;
this was reported in graphic detail by The
Washington Post on 12 September.
India is a peace-loving, democratic country. Jammu
and Kashmir is and shall remain an integral part of India.
The people of Jammu and Kashmir are citizens of India,
and they must be allowed to enjoy the same rights and
privileges as other citizens of the nation without the threat
of
They have repeatedly exercised their
franchise, and the current political process undertaken in
the state is aimed at enabling the people of Jammu and
Kashmir to participate in the electoral process again very
shortly to choose their own representatives.
the gun.
A redrawing of the constituencies and a revision of
electoral rolls are under way.
It is now time for those
who wish to do so to use their influence and good offices
to prevail upon Pakistan to terminate its support of those
who seek to disrupt democracy by violence and
intimidation.
We can sum up Pakistan’s record in terms of its own
First, Pakistan started all the three wars
admissions.
against India; secondly, Pakistan runs training camps for
militants and terrorists on its territory; thirdly, Pakistan
has used illegal trafficking in narcotics to finance arms
purchases and clandestine terrorist activities directed
fourthly, Pakistan practices
against other countries;
bigotry
systematically
discriminated against religious minorities; fifthly, Pakistan
has crushed the basic rights of its ethnic groups; and,
sixthly, contrary to the protestations of its leaders past
and present, Pakistan has made no effort to counter the
forces of irrationality, extremism and terrorism.
as State
policy
and
has
This is the perspective in which Pakistan’s words
and actions in relation to my country have to be judged.
This is the backdrop to the grim struggle in which the
Government and people of India have been forced to
engage to protect the territorial integrity of their country
and the human rights of their citizens threatened by
Pakistani-sponsored terrorists.
This struggle is not of India’s choosing.
It is and
will always remain our desire to live in peace and good-
neighbourly relations with Pakistan and to seek
cooperation for the benefit of the people of our two
countries. We in India close no doors. Our offer of talks
with Pakistan on all subjects at any time, in India or
37
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
17th meeting
4 October 1994
level, has remained
Pakistan, at official or ministerial
unanswered for many months. We now reiterate this offer
of talks. Let Pakistan answer it instead of seeking alibis.
this Hall. At any given moment, Indian armed forces are
being employed in the use of massive force to repress
people who have rebelled against the impositions of this
country.
the incessant
Pakistan believes that
repetition of
falsehoods will turn them into truth. We know that the
representative of Pakistan will again repeat his oft-repeated
arguments in his reply to this statement.
I assure the
Assembly that we have no intention of wasting its time any
more on a subject which is not relevant to it.
The President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now
call on the representative of Pakistan, who has asked to
speak in exercise of the right of reply. I ask him to comply
with the provisions of General Assembly decision 34/401.
Mr. Akram (Pakistan): My delegation is constrained
to respond to the string of falsehoods which have been
mouthed by my colleague from India.
He began his statement with the biggest falsehood,
which is that Kashmir is a part of India. This is a legal
fiction.
In all its resolutions on this subject the Security
Council has decided that the final disposition of Kashmir
shall be determined by its people through a United Nations-
supervised plebiscite. India has accepted this decision and
is bound to comply with it. The maps of the United
Nations all show Kashmir as disputed territory.
In
Kashmir, the oldest United Nations peace-keeping force is
deployed at present along the cease-fire line.
Above all, the people of Kashmir do not consider
themselves as part of India. On India’s independence day,
15 August, all the houses and huts of the Kashmiris flew
black flags of protest. The day before, on Pakistan’s
independence day, those same houses and huts flew the star
and crescent of Pakistan. The people of Kashmir have
spoken eloquently, as far as they can, to express their
wishes about which country they wish to belong to. The
Kashmiri people are part of Pakistan. They are being kept
apart from us by the bullets and bayonets of India’s
600,000-strong army in Kashmir.
This is the largest
occupation force in the world and in colonial history.
India says that it is a peace-loving country. This is
very strange to hear. Let India say this to the people of
Nepal, of Bhutan, of Sri Lanka, of Bangladesh, of Sind, or
of its own provinces of Punjab, Assam and Tripura, where
the Indian army has been involved in interventions time and
time again. This country, which professes the principles of
the peaceful Ahimsä of Mahatma Gandhi, has engaged in
the largest number of conflicts of any State represented in
38
India has spoken about terrorism. What about Indian
terrorism in Kashmir? What about an 11-year-old girl,
Fatima, who was sleeping with her mother when the
Indian forces entered and shot her? This is from a report
of 11 September 1994 - a few days ago - in the Toronto
Star. What about Mashrul Sultan, a chemistry-finals
student in Srinagar, who was pulled off a city bus and
shot, but miraculously lived? He said:
"I am not a
militant.
I just wanted to do my studies." These are
examples of countless and daily events in Kashmir today
-
the "largest
democracy in the world".
from the "peace-loving State",
this
Terrorism is the use of indiscriminate force against
innocent people. As my Minister has said, by that
yardstick alone India is the biggest terrorist State in the
world.
The representative of India has said that there is no
threat to peace and security in South Asia. This is very
encouraging for us to hear. On 15 August, the Prime
Minister of India threatened Pakistan in a speech. Indian
generals have time and time again stated that they would
teach Pakistan a lesson.
Indian statesmen have advocated the use of hot
pursuit across the Line of Control to strike at so-called
camps in Azad Kashmir. There are no camps. This is
India’s design to intimidate Pakistan. We will not be
intimidated by this kind of talk.
But let the representative of India not tell us that
there is no threat to peace. Almost all of the third largest
army in the world is deployed against Pakistan. This is
a threat to peace. They are violating the cease-fire every
day across the Line of Control. Our civilians are being
targeted every day.
If India wishes us to believe otherwise, let it accept
the United Nations Military Observer Group on its side of
the Line of Control.
India has said that
it wishes to have talks in
accordance with the Simla Agreement. Pakistan is also
committed to dialogue in order to promote peaceful
relations with India and to resolve the Kashmir dispute.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
But we have tried for 22 years to promote this dialogue
with India, and it has resulted in a dead end.
17th meeting
4 October 1994
India says it has not violated the Simla Agreement.
But let me ask my colleague from India: What about
Siachin? Did Indian forces not march into Siachin in
violation of the Simla Agreement? And are not these
forces still in the Siachin glacier, refusing to withdraw, in
contravention of the Simla Agreement?
India says it desires talks. India desires talks when
the General Assembly meets, when the Commission on
Human Rights meets, when it
the
international community will censure its violations of
human rights.
is afraid that
India cannot talk peace with Pakistan and make war
on the Kashmiri people. Let India stop making war on
the Kashmiri people. We shall be ready to sit at the table
with India on that day.
The meeting rose at 7.45 p.m.
39
