United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
9th Meeting
Wednesday, 28 September 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.9
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
The meeting was called to order at 3.40 p.m.
Address by Mr. Levon Ter-Petrossian, President of the
Republic of Armenia
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will first hear an address by the President of the
Republic of Armenia.
Mr. Levon Ter-Petrossian, President of the Republic
of Armenia, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of
the
Republic of Armenia, His Excellency Mr. Levon Ter-
Petrossian, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
appreciation
to
your
express my
(interpretation
President Ter-Petrossian
from
French): May I begin by warmly congratulating you, Sir,
on your election to the presidency of the forty-ninth session
of the United Nations General Assembly. I would also like
to
predecessor,
Ambassador Samuel Insanally, and to thank him for his
contribution to accomplishing the tasks of the last session.
to the
Further,
I wish to express our gratitude
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
for
the
vision with which he has guided the Organization and for
his
the maintenance of
international peace and security.
tireless
efforts
to ensure
The collapse of the old order and the emergence of
new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe and, soon
after, in the former Soviet Union have presented the
world with a major challenge. In a period of tremendous
change, many difficulties and conflicts have arisen. Some
of these difficulties come as immediate by-products of
rapid and haphazard transformations, while others are
surfacing for the first time after decades of inadequate
stop-gap measures. Further, if the reform programmes
have so far failed to yield all the benefits expected, this
is also due to an under-estimation of the differences in the
initial conditions of the countries in transition.
The pace and comprehensiveness of economic
reforms will vary from country to country. However, the
reform process will inevitably be lengthy, as it involves
wholesale changes in price mechanisms, in the concept of
property, in industrial structures and in legal, commercial
and financial institutions, as well as the creation of social
safety nets for the most vulnerable segments of the
population, whose situation will be worsened by the high
cost of the reforms.
As with all the former Soviet Republics, Armenia’s
economy has been badly strained by the changes which
followed the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the
difficult transition to a market economy.
It is further
crippled by its over-reliance on trade with the former
Soviet Republics; the blockade of transportation routes
imposed by neighbouring Azerbaijan; an embargo by
Turkey; and the damage inflicted by the disastrous
earthquake in 1988. Other external conditions, such as
94-86439 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the disruption of transport due to the difficulties faced by
Georgia, have exacerbated the situation, contributing to the
decline in Armenia’s industrial productivity. The legacy of
the Soviet period, with its inefficiencies and excessive
horizontal
integration, has worsened the effects of the
blockade.
Despite these difficulties, the Armenian Government
has begun implementing significant structural reforms to
create a healthy market economy, beginning with the
privatization process launched soon after the Armenian
National Movement came to power in 1990.
Indeed, the
commitment to transform the centrally planned economy
into a market economy stems from the philosophy of the
democratic movement in Armenia and is seen as an integral
part of the transition to a democratic State.
the press,
In turn, a free market economy will flourish in a stable
democracy, able to promote and underpin economic
development. Armenia today is a country with more than
30 registered political parties.
It has proclaimed freedom
freedom of conscience and freedom of
of
religion, and it has laws guaranteeing civil and political
rights. Three free elections have already been held in
Armenia: parliamentary and presidential elections and a
referendum on independence. The upcoming referendum
on the Constitution and the elections of the National
Assembly and the President of the Republic will reaffirm
the establishment of a democratic tradition.
less typical
Democracy is fundamental to the process of economic
transformation, which can be divided into three phases,
more or
for all countries in transition:
institutional reforms; long-term investments and changes of
technological structures; and integration into international
markets. It is imperative, however, to set priorities and to
identify the most pressing issues of the moment.
In my
opinion, Armenia is at the end of the first phase, which
includes the creation of a legal framework for economic
reform, within which private economic activity can take
place, a framework ensuring that contracts are enforced and
that private property is protected;
freeing of prices;
privatization; adoption of a national currency; financial and
budgetary stabilization; and improvement in the balance of
payments. We have already accomplished 80 per cent of
this phase.
Armenia has distinguished itself as the first among the
former Soviet Republics to privatize the ownership of
agricultural
The
privatization of small and medium businesses as well as
large enterprises is well under way. In late 1993, with the
production.
livestock
land
and
2
9th meeting
28 September 1994
collapse of the rouble zone, Armenia faced a monetary
crisis. The uncontrollable flow of old Soviet roubles into
Armenia and Armenia’s subsequent inability to control
monetary policy on its own territory forced the
Government in November 1993 prematurely to introduce
a national currency,
is
currently implementing a programme based on controlling
and lowering the inflation rate, enforcing a strict budget,
controlling fiscal expenditures and targeting assistance to
the most vulnerable groups.
The Government
the dram.
Basic reforms have been undertaken in the banking
sector, the first of which was to break down the mono-
bank system of central planning into a two-tiered system
comprising a central bank and a group of commercial
banks.
for
In Armenia, as in all the emerging democracies,
there is no historical precedent
the economic
transition. It requires lasting commitment and patience as
well as the substantial support of
the international
community. Of course neither short- and medium-term
adjustment programmes nor
long-term development
strategies can hope to succeed fully without sustained
growth in the world economy and favourable external
conditions.
We recognize that
there is no single model of
transition to be prescribed for all countries or, even more
narrowly, for all post-communist societies as a whole. To
ensure success for United Nations efforts in the countries
in transition the Organization must tailor its involvement
to each country’s resources and procedures, giving
priority to programmes rather than to projects. That
approach essentially boils down to the definition of key
objectives for each programme that will
the
priorities of the national Government and the organization
of assistance around the achievement of those goals,
which can be accomplished by strengthening the role of
the Resident Coordinator system.
reflect
It
as
an important
to "An Agenda for Peace".
Armenia appreciates the Secretary-General’s Agenda
and necessary
for Development
complement
is a
comprehensive and thoughtful reflection upon the various
dimensions of development and the role of the United
Nations in that connection. At the recently held world
gatherings on development there was broad agreement
that the Agenda should be sustained by an action-oriented
framework and practical proposals aimed at resolving
existing imbalances in the various development areas.
We look forward to the further elaboration of the Agenda
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
through a
for Development by the Secretary-General
number of concrete proposals with regard to the reform of
both the United Nations system and the intergovernmental
consultative machinery for development, as well as specific
recommendations for greater coordination within the United
Nations as a whole,
including the Bretton Woods
institutions and the proposed World Trade Organization.
Such an elaboration is needed if the Agenda is to lead to a
global partnership for development.
Armenia looks
forward to participating in and
contributing to the World Summit for Social Development
in Copenhagen. The World Summit, to be held in the
United Nations fiftieth anniversary year, is a landmark
event and will build upon the commitments of a series of
United Nations global gatherings, including the 1990 World
Summit for Children, the 1992 United Nations Conference
on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro and the
1994
and
Development in Cairo, and it will be followed by the
Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995.
These are all key events in the process of international
consensus-building.
International Conference
on Population
Development and human rights are interrelated and
mutually reinforcing. There can be no genuine long-term
development without respect for the full spectrum of the
rights of individuals. The Vienna Conference on Human
Rights held last year deepened the understanding of the
significance of human rights for stability, freedom, peace,
progress and justice. The establishment of the post of
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights was
vital to a more effective implementation of the principles of
human rights. Member States must continue to work to
increase the effectiveness of existing United Nations
human-rights mechanisms and to support
the High
Commissioner in the fulfilment of his mandate.
Armenia considers self-determination in its multitude
of manifestations to be an inalienable human right.
Armenia’s position on the Nagorny Karabakh conflict has
been clear and consistent from the start. Armenia has no
territorial claims against Azerbaijan.
is
between the people of Nagorny Karabakh, who are striving
for self-determination, and the Azerbaijani Government,
which is refusing to address the rights of the people of
Nagorny Karabakh. Armenia provides moral, diplomatic
and humanitarian assistance to the people of Nagorny
Karabakh, and it cannot accept a military solution which
can only mean the genocide or deportation of
the
population of Nagorny Karabakh.
The conflict
9th meeting
28 September 1994
While the Nagorny Karabakh conflict has gone
through periods of both intense fighting and relative calm
since I spoke here two years ago, there has never before
been a period in the five-year history of the conflict when
a cease-fire has taken hold for so long.
I am pleased to
inform the Assembly today that
the cease-fire of
12 May 1994, which was mediated by the Russian
Federation, is in general being maintained. But what is
more gratifying and encouraging is that, through direct
and immediate contacts between the parties to the
conflict, the de facto 12 May cease-fire was formalized
on 27 July 1994, and on 28 August 1994 the parties
reaffirmed their commitment to the cease-fire until such
time as a political document has been signed.
Armenia congratulates the main parties to the
conflict for their commitment to maintain the cease-fire
and to engage in direct dialogue. Armenia views this as
an important confidence-building measure, as a major step
towards the consolidation of the cease-fire and as a sign
of a strong commitment to the successful conclusion of
the current negotiations, which in turn will make possible
the solution of the problem at the Minsk Conference of
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Clearly, the conflict has entered a new phase, in
which the parties have demonstrated their desire for
peace.
Our new challenge, and the priority for Armenia, is
the consolidation of the cease-fire and the establishment
of peace. There is a historic opportunity today to end the
conflict. But the cause of peace requires the active,
unified support of
the international community to
consolidate the cease-fire. The cumulative impact of the
distrust of the past five years, on the one hand, and the
lack of international measures to support consolidation,
on the other hand, may increase the current uncertainty
and threaten the fragile cease-fire.
There is no doubt that, beyond the cessation of
hostilities, a lasting peace will mostly depend on the
ability of the main parties to the conflict and of the
international community to develop innovative and
internationally approved mechanisms for its establishment
and maintenance.
The primary concern for Armenia has been, and
remains, the security of the people of Nagorny Karabakh.
Both Armenia and Nagorny Karabakh have repeatedly
expressed their readiness to comply with the relevant
Security Council resolutions. A lasting peace can be
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
achieved only by ensuring the irreversibility of the peace
process through the deployment of international security
forces between Azerbaijan and Nagorny Karabakh until
such time as a negotiated solution to the problem of
Nagorny Karabakh has been reached, with the full
participation of Nagorny Karabakh at the CSCE Minsk
Conference.
Armenia considers
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is in
direct contradiction of the peacemaking efforts of the
that only the
United Nations.
unconditional and indefinite extension of
the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty will ensure that the Treaty serves
its purpose.
is encouraging that negotiations on a
comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty have made important
progress over the past year, and we hope that a text
satisfactory to all can be agreed on soon.
It
We support the integration of multilateral disarmament
with United Nations activities relat to preventive diplomacy,
peacemaking,
post-conflict
peace-building.
peace-keeping
and
The debate in the General Assembly Working Group
on the Question of Equitable Representation on and
Increase in the Membership of the Security Council has
been very useful. Virtually all States Members of the
United Nations favour an increase in the membership of the
Security Council to reflect the radical changes in the world
and the increase in the Organization’s overall membership.
However, an increase in membership should not diminish
the Council’s efficiency.
It is necessary here to note that
the Council has taken a number of constructive steps to
improve its transparency and its communication with
non-members. The Security Council should also be better
able to respond to emerging threats and disputes before
they escalate into armed conflict. With improved
coordination of United Nations organizations and agencies
devoted to economic and social progress, the Economic and
Social Council could better assist the Security Council and
advise it of potential emergencies arising out of economic
and social conditions. Therefore, Armenia fully supports
the call for restructuring of the Economic and Social
Council and for the possible establishment of an economic
security council.
Improving the administrative performance of
the
United Nations is another priority. Armenia welcomes the
current
the Organization’s
administrative and management structures and procedures
to meet
the demands now being made of the United
In particular, we supported the United States
Nations.
to streamline
initiatives
4
9th meeting
28 September 1994
initiative, and we are pleased that the General Assembly
has created the Office of Internal Oversight Services.
Let me return for a moment to the theme I began
with.
In this period of unprecedented change, many
hardships - both expected and unforeseen - have arisen.
The present era, full of challenge and hope, gives us new
faith in the United Nations as the best and most
appropriate forum for integrating all the interests of the
various peoples of the world, which are too fragmented
today. Universal harmony can be established only when
discords are peacefully resolved and full cooperation
between nations is achieved.
The United Nations,
strengthened by the noble principles and objectives
enshrined in its Charter, and facing new responsibilities
and tasks, can and must
lead the way to a better
organized and more harmonious world.
Let me conclude by wishing the General Assembly
every success in the demanding work it faces during this
session.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
President of the Republic of Armenia for the statement he
has just made.
Mr. Levon Ter-Petrossian, President of the Republic
of Armenia, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Franjo Tudjman, President of the
Republic of Croatia
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will now hear an address by Mr. Franjo
Tudjman, President of the Republic of Croatia.
President Franco Tudjman, President of
the
Republic of Croatia, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of the
Republic of Croatia, His Excellency Mr. Franjo Tudjman,
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Tudjman (Croatia) (spoke in Croatian;
is my
English text
particular privilege and pleasure to address the General
furnished by the delegation):
It
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Assembly of the United Nations at the beginning of its
forty-ninth session.
I believe we all agree that the appearance of any
statesman before the General Assembly is a great moment
for moral and political
reconsideration of one’s own
reflections and responsibilities towards the international
public. This applies equally to the representatives of the
esteemed founder States and to us who represent young
democracies. This is an opportunity to present our views
on the problems affecting our countries, but also on all
other issues of importance for the global Organization.
This is also an opportunity to compare, with the utmost
seriousness, the lofty ideals incorporated in the United
Nations Charter with the difficulties and intricacies of daily
achieving political agreement for their realization.
The noble fundamental principles of
the United
Nations governing the rights and obligations of individuals,
nations and States generally agree with the basic principles
underlying all world religions and philosophies, as well as
the fundamental laws of individual States. Yet we are still
painstakingly seeking a consensus on a new and just
international order that would unite and harmonize the lofty
goals of the United Nations Charter and the humanistic
Weltänschauung with the visions of the new global order
and with the specific ideals and interests of individual
States. Unfortunately, many countries, such as my own,
Croatia, which labours under difficulties owing to the
disintegration of one regional international order and the
establishment of another new order, are paying the highest
human, material and political price for the imperfection of
the world in which we live.
In addressing the General Assembly as Head of the
Croatian State and the highest representative of the Croatian
people, I can note with satisfaction that the international
position of Croatia has been strengthened and furthered in
spite of all
the problems affecting the actions of the
international community.
In only a few years since its
independence and international recognition, Croatia has
become a fully fledged and equal international citizen,
having reinforced its position in the
international
community and expanded its network of bilateral relations
agencies.
with almost
Moreover, Croatia has become a key factor
in the
establishment of the new regional order in South-eastern
Europe and a recognized and important partner of the
super-Powers and of the international community as a
whole in the resolution of the intricate crisis, currently the
most severe international crisis in this part of the world, in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
and international
all States
9th meeting
28 September 1994
and in international
The adverse experience of the Croatian people
throughout their history, and particularly over the past few
years of the renewal of Croatian statehood, has taught us
that no sublime principle recorded in the United Nations
Charter
automatically
attainable - even less is it guaranteed - if the people
concerned are not determined to attain it; if they are not
prepared to offer to make a high degree of sacrifice in the
achievement of their right to life and freedom; and if they
do not succeed, by virtue of their strength and decisions,
in bringing their national
interests into line with the
essential interests of the international community.
law is
-
the oldest European peoples
Despite the inalienable right of the Croatian people -
one of
to self--
determination and to the renewal of their own State,
despite the blatant barbaric aggression aimed at territorial
conquest, the genocidal expulsion of the population and
the destruction of the most precious cultural heritage of
the Croatian people, such as Vukovar and Dubrovnik, the
Croats would
to
to freedom and
self-determination,
independence, had they not been prepared to make human
and material sacrifices, had they not shown a firm
nation-building will, with which they have resolutely
asserted themselves as a member of the international
community, while manifesting their readiness to be a
constructive force in the development of
the new
international order to replace the unviable and failed old
system.
to their State,
never
have won
the
right
It is the duty of all of us - and especially of this, the
highest global authority - to take more determined and
more effective steps in the quest for means to break this
vicious circle of suffering by individuals and peoples
wrought by war. As the highest representatives of our
States and peoples, we are morally and politically obliged
to create an international order, with appropriate
mechanisms, capable of efficiently defending the rights of
each nation or group, and especially of small and young
States. What we need are such mechanisms of the
highest global Organization that can resolutely prevent or
punish any violation of the fundamental principles of
international law.
Obviously,
this also implies
safeguarding the
achievement of such rights and of generally accepted
principles in a democratic way, so that each and every
right does not have to be won the hardest way, with the
blood of innocent lives, because such a way burdens the
collective memory with covert hatreds, bias
and
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
vengefulness, stirring up new divisions and even more
destructive internal and regional crises.
This applies to crises in the areas of the former
Yugoslavia, just as it does to those in Rwanda, Somalia, the
Caucasus, the Middle East, South Asia, Africa or America.
It is precisely the crisis in the former Yugoslavia that has
shown the immense evil that can be done by petty political
exploitation of historical myths about collective guilt or
historical injustice, about a conspiracy of the whole world
against a single people, and by the emphasizing of the
messianic role of a people to justify their conquest-minded
policy, causing a great deal of harm not only to those
threatened by such imperialistic policies, but also to the
people themselves, who fall victim to their own fallacies
and motives, which are unacceptable and detrimental to the
international community.
After the collapse of the bloc division of the world
and the disintegration of many multinational States, we are
faced with the task of building a new international order.
All past experience suggests that the task is very difficult.
To be successful, we need first and foremost a mechanism
for diplomatic and
political negotiation, for building
confidence and for patiently overcoming real problems
stemming from objectively differing interests.
In cases
where political efforts are obviously futile,
the United
Nations must have a more efficient mechanism to achieve
and even impose solutions
serving the interests of
international peace and stability. However, for reasons of
realpolitik and of the balance of interests and forces, in
neither case should this contradict
the fundamental
principles of this Organization. It should be borne in mind
that the mechanism for establishing and defending the new
international order should not merely serve the coordination
of the interests of the super-Powers, but must reflect their
highest responsibility in dealing with regional crises, while
being designed and structured to strengthen the security and
progress of
the
international community, which account for the greater part
of mankind. The United Nations must be qualified to
guarantee, within the international order, equal conditions
in terms of freedom, progress and equality for all
the
members of the international community.
jeopardized members of
small or
9th meeting
28 September 1994
sovereign national States has mainly created positive
conditions for the new international order, although in
some cases, where nationalism has degenerated into
chauvinist-extremist trends, or even into conquest-minded
aggression, the effect has been negative. However, the
essential point of these historical vicissitudes is the
awareness of the fact that the endeavour of small peoples
to attain statehood - meaning their political, cultural and
economic identity and their personality within the
international order - has made the greatest contribution to
totalitarianism and to the
the collapse of communist
democratization
of many
full
democratization of international relations is not possible
without such democratization of internal political systems.
countries.
The
The security of new small States has become today
the key to stability in every region and it should provide
the groundwork for new collective security systems.
Only their complete security and equality can make them
equal factors of civilizational and functional integration in
specific areas and within the global order as a whole.
The peoples of small countries will eagerly accept
civilizational integration if it is not to the detriment of the
individual quality of their State, culture and economy.
Only such safeguarding of national individuality within
civilizational integration can produce sound foundations
for functional multilateralism in the new international
order. Otherwise, the myths and prejudices of the past
will continue to provide grounds for new conflicts and
even clashes between civilizations. The disturbing scale
which differences between civilizations can assume is
clearly manifested in the former Yugoslavia, where local
aggression threatens to expand even into a conflict
involving three civilizational religious blocs unless the
crisis, the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is resolutely
brought
to an end. Croatia has always supported a
political solution by accepting the normalization of
relations with all neighbours, even those of whose
aggression we were victims, in order not only to create,
on an equal
for a new
international order but also to bring about a productive
blending of the different civilizations facing one another
in this part of the world.
the prerequisites
footing,
The collapse of communism and of
the bipolar
division of the world has increased hopes for a world of
greater justice and security for all. However, we must be
aware of the fact that the collapse of the communist bloc
and of multinational States has
inevitably produced
temporarily destabilizing effects in the international order.
In this context, it should be noted that the proclamation of
In view of the current state of affairs worldwide, we
support a thorough organizational reform of the United
Nations in order to improve both its responsibility and its
efficiency in dealing with the pressing problems of
humankind.
Problems such as uneven development,
population growth, the ecological balance of the planet,
human and collective rights, functional global integration,
and particularly crisis points and military hot spots, call
6
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
a more
effective organization of
the highest
for
international agency. We need an Organization which
could have a more efficient bearing on establishing equal
standards and obligations for all countries, and which would
be entitled,
in crises or on key issues affecting the
development of humankind and life on our planet, "to
encroach", on behalf of
the global community, upon
internal affairs of States. The international community
should have, within the United Nations, multilateral
mechanisms capable of dealing more efficiently with
pressing crises, and developmental, environmental and
technological challenges now facing humankind.
In this context careful consideration is required of the
role of the General Assembly. Its activity must be credible,
but it nevertheless cannot assume the role of a global
parliament to the detriment of the sovereignty of Member
States. Experience suggests that a clearer division of
responsibility among the General Assembly, the Security
Council and the Economic and Social Council is required.
Regional conflicts have become the chief problem now
confronting the international community - not only because
of the threat posed to international peace but also because
they can cause terrible human disasters such as those in
Rwanda, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Somalia.
And, of course, they also block regional developmental
processes, and result
in scarcely reparable ecological
damage and destruction of the natural and cultural heritage
of entire areas.
Such a state of affairs requires first a reform of the
Security Council.
economic
and regional
The new global order can no longer be based only on
the coalition of the victors in the Second World War, or on
It must reflect new
the nuclear club of the great Powers.
democratic,
realities which
necessarily lead to permanent Security Council membership
and enhanced regional responsibility for countries such as
Germany or Japan, and also some regional representatives
of the so-called third world. On the other hand, the reform
of the Security Council ought to avoid solutions which
would, because of the increased number of members, make
decision-making more difficult and the Council inefficient.
The efficiency and credibility of the Security Council
should be substantially strengthened in order to resolve the
main problems related to international security, especially
in conflicts causing military conflagration, first of all by
reducing the gap between the content of the enacted
resolutions and the possibility of their enforcement. All
States of the world, and particularly the great Powers which
9th meeting
28 September 1994
have an enhanced responsibility within such a system,
should in good faith make adequate economic and
military instruments continuously available to the Security
Council so that its decisions can be implemented. The
peacemaking mediation of the global Organization must
evolve from a static freezing of the conflict and curbing
its expansion, into a mechanism capable of preventing the
development of the crisis in a timely manner and of
eliminating the consequences that are already present.
In some cases the very decisions of the Security
Council will suffice to stop and resolve the crisis, but
sometimes a demonstration of firmness will be required.
The international community must develop more
systematic mechanisms to punish those States that do not
accept or that violate Security Council decisions. The
enforcement of
international political or economic
isolation of the aggressor, with concurrent compensation
for neighbouring States which are indirect victims of such
isolation, should be made even more effective. Sanctions
are becoming an instrument used at an ever increasing
rate when there is no political consensus, or will to resort
to more energetic means, but they can produce the wanted
effect only if implemented consistently within the scope
of systematic pressure.
The democratization of the international order entails
a greater
focus on the protection of human rights,
including also punishment for violations of humanitarian
law and the law of war. Croatia has endorsed the
establishment of the War Crimes Tribunal in the area of
the former Yugoslavia. Croatia likewise supports the
establishment of a permanent
institution
which would deal with the most severe violations of
humanitarian law, whether in Rwanda, Somalia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Croatia or Haiti.
the
international community should also devise ways and
means to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes from those
aggressor countries which refuse to cooperate with the
Tribunal.
international
However,
Croatia proposes the provision of a permanent peace-
keeping task force for the intervention requirements of the
Security Council, involving special military units made
available, through agreement with a specific number of
countries for Security Council requirements. We believe
that this could forestall the flaring up of many regional
crises, or contribute to their rapid prevention.
Such
international forces should have a broader mandate in
terms of the use of force, not only for
their own
protection but also for the energetic implementation of all
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
9th meeting
28 September 1994
resolutions -
from humanitarian
Security Council
objectives to disarmament and demilitarization. The peace-
the national
keeping force should be set up so that
contingents within it
the
Security Council and not
the specific policies of their
countries.
the decisions of
implement
The proliferation of regional crises confronts the
United Nations with ever-increasing tasks which the
Security Council cannot fulfil successfully with its limited
resources. This suggests the need for the Security Council
to assign the implementation of its decisions to regional
organizations as well. This in turn requires the redefinition
and strengthening of the role of regional organizations
within the collective security system. Each crisis point
should be dealt with by appreciating all specific features
and by realistically evaluating the possible scope of regional
systems
in the implementation of Security Council
decisions.
The solutions at which we aim in the regional crisis
affecting the area of the former Yugoslavia, as well as
elsewhere, must proceed from the fundamental tenets of
international law in order to arrive at a just and lasting
solution which, in order to be acceptable, also implies
compromise in terms of detail, but not in terms of the
essential issues.
Croatia is very encouraged by the increasingly
successful peace developments in the Middle East, which
demonstrate the patience and wisdom of both the Israeli
and the Arab sides. We firmly believe that similar positive
endeavours are also possible in South-Eastern Europe and
the Balkans if they win the necessary united support and
determination of the great Powers.
Croatia welcomes the peaceful transfer of power to the
majority people in South Africa after decades of internal
and regional instability. South Africa is the best proof that
there is no alternative to the equality of all citizens of a
State.
We also welcome the involvement of the international
community in Rwanda, which, although it has not,
unfortunately, prevented a human disaster on a scale
beyond description, has at least stopped the spiral of death
and lawlessness. We continue to support the current efforts
to stabilize Rwanda and to prevent
the revival and
expansion of the conflict.
The agreement of the international community to
finally stop the agony of Haiti and establish a democratic
8
of
processes
successful
democratization
order there is also encouraging. We similarly welcome
the
and
stabilization throughout Latin and Central America. We
have been following attentively the development of
functional regional integration in North America, and the
stronger
in Europe, differences
notwithstanding, as well as the rapprochement between
the two largest countries in the European and Asian
regions: Russia and China. We also welcome the
constructive role of Japan in the Pacific area and the Far
East.
integration trends
Within the scope of such global developments, with
the major world Powers aiming not at
reciprocal
destruction but at positive competition and cooperation,
Croatia, as a small country, sees its place, first of all, in
West European civilization and in its economic and
security system in order to have a guarantee for its
independence, security and progress. Croatia sees its
welfare
full
membership in European integrative organizations.
Croatia is prepared to responsibly assume its share of the
burden in the development of the new international order
and to constitute a strong link in the integration chain of
a new Europe.
and stability in the
achievement of
In the very short time since it gained independence,
Croatia has become a mature and responsible member of
the international community.
It is already a pillar of
future
stability and cooperation in that part of
southwestern Europe which is linked to the traditionally
agitated Balkans. Croatia has in good faith accepted
international mediation and United Nations peace-keeping
forces in its territory in order to stop the war and reach a
political solution that will simultaneously safeguard its
territorial integrity and the rights of national minorities
the
within
well-intentioned
the
constitutional position of the Serbian ethnic community in
line with
international
conventions on the rights of national minorities, and has
incorporated them into its constitutional law.
accepted
concerning
Croatia
given
standards
has
it
borders.
advice
its
the
highest
of
Croatia has borne the heaviest brunt of the Bosnian
crisis and of the human catastrophe wrought by war in
that country. Croatia has provided a home or provisional
accommodation to hundreds of thousands of refugees
from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We sustained this effort
even during the Croatian-Muslim conflicts that occurred
as a result of Serbian aggression, as the victims of that
aggression sought space for their survival. We have
prompted proposals on a mutual agreement on a
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
federation between the Croats and the Muslims in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, and their confederal alliance with Croatia,
which eventually resulted in the signing of the Washington
Agreements. We have spared no effort to end the senseless
war and renew cooperation between the Muslims and the
Croats, who, owing to the indecision of the international
community, have been brought to the point of a desperate
fight for the remnants of Bosnian living space left after the
barbarous Serbian aggression.
In circumstances affected by its intricate ethnic and
historical heritage, Croatia has shown the highest degree of
cooperation in the search for a peaceful political solution to
the crisis in the area of the former Yugoslavia, believing,
in spite of all of its negative experiences, in the final
victory of the principles of international law and in the
necessity to normalize relations between the newly emerged
States.
However, this readiness to cooperate and this patience
have certain limits. Split into two parts by the occupation
of one-fourth of its territory, threatened continuously by
outlaw terrorism, burdened by the social pressure posed by
displaced persons and the war-exhausted economy, Croatia
cannot endlessly agree to fruitless compromise, because the
continuation of the crisis threatens the existence of the State
and the lives of its citizens, and prevents the reconstruction
of the economy destroyed by war. We believe that it
would also be in the interest of the international community
to give Croatia more determined and more consistent
assistance so that it can successfully play its constructive
part in the solution of the crisis.
Croatia already is, and wants to remain, a mainstay of
the new international order and a bridge of cooperation
between the newly emerged States on the basis of mutual
recognition. The indecision and aimless manoeuvring of
the international community in circumstances distinguished
by the presence of militancy in certain circles of the parties
in conflict threaten to push Croatia into a new military
conflict which could be even worse than the previous one
in terms of
The
international community should not leave Croatia without
a choice, in a position where it would be forced to resort on
its own to all means necessary to defend its sovereignty,
territorial integrity and the right of its citizens - displaced
persons - to return to the occupied areas.
scope, depth and consequences.
We have always been aware that no crisis, particularly
one as intricate as this, can be solved without consensus by
the
a division of
responsibility and an agreed approach of the great Powers.
community without
international
9th meeting
28 September 1994
Accordingly, we are the first, as with previous peace
endeavours, to welcome the efforts of the Contact Group
to find an acceptable solution.
Because of
this, and in view of
Croatia is prepared to continue its high degree of
cooperation and partnership with the
international
community if solutions for Bosnia and Herzegovina and
for the occupied Croatian areas are not sought at its
expense. Both crises - the one in Croatia and the other in
Bosnia and Herzegovina - have the same source: Serbian
aggression.
the
increasingly stronger cooperation between Croatia and
Bosnia and Herzegovina, a package solution should be
sought. Since the sanctions imposed by the international
community have forced Belgrade to accept the proposal
to end the war and the isolation of the Bosnian Serbs,
who oppose it, Belgrade should also be made to desist
from supporting the Croatian Serbs, who refuse to agree
to the reintegration of occupied Croatian areas and
brazenly oppose the implementation of all Security
Council resolutions.
In terms of its actual consequences, the 1991 arms
embargo was aimed first and foremost at the victims of
Serbian aggression. It was accepted at a time when those
who formulated global policy mistakenly deceived
themselves into thinking that
that policy could save
Yugoslavia, failing to see that the post-Tito crisis had
developed because of the attempt
to impose Serbian
hegemony over all non-Serbian peoples in that artificial
and Communist State formation. Our conditional restraint
with regard to the lifting of the embargo is motivated at
present
focused on
achieving, after all, a peaceful solution over the next few
weeks or months. Croatia does not want to be drawn into
a new war against its will, but it will be forced to accept
it,
in cooperation with the other victims of Serbian
aggression, if the international community fails to achieve
a peaceful solution that would not only put an end to the
war in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also bring about the
reintegration of occupied Croatian areas.
exclusively by an endeavour
Croatia welcomes Belgrade’s announced readiness to
isolate the Bosnian Serbs, with their suicidal war option,
but expects Belgrade to do the same with regard to the
insurgent Serbs in Croatia. Croatia demands that
the
lifting of sanctions against Serbia (Yugoslavia) be linked
also to the cessation of the occupation of Croatian areas,
that is, to their reintegration into Croatia’s constitutional
and legal system. Moreover, the lifting of sanctions can
be considered only after we have seen whether the
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
announced isolation is truly enforced and after this has been
verified by credible control mechanisms.
In order
to promote positive trends, we also
understand up to a point the partial symbolic suspension of
sanctions in order to encourage in Serbia those currently
expressing their commitment
to peace. Nevertheless,
Croatia will continue to insist that the lifting of certain
sanctions against Belgrade, particularly those related to its
being fully released from international economic and all
other isolation, be linked to the solution of the problem of
the occupied Croatian areas.
Croatia has shown a great deal of patience in its
dialogue with insurgent Serbs, but now, after three years of
occupation, it demands from the international community a
redefinition of the UNPROFOR mandate that will provide
for the implementation of Security Council resolutions 769
(1992) and 871 (1993), and force the Croatian Serbs to
accept gradual normalization and reintegration pursuant to
the adopted peace plan.
We realize that both sides, after any conflict, have to
invest much time and effort into restoring and strengthening
mutual confidence. We are also quite aware that no
long-term stability and progress is possible in Croatia
without guaranteed human and ethnic rights to the Serbian
and other minority groups. We have indeed guaranteed
such rights by a special constitutional law enacted three
years ago, but we urge the international community to
create conditions for the implementation of this law in
accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions.
We have also recently taken the decision to speed up the
establishment of the human rights tribunal, and are prepared
to accept
international supervision of compliance with
human and ethnic rights. However, the leaders of the
Serbian insurgents, and their patrons in Belgrade, should
forget
the
reintegration
on such
foundations, to their own benefit and to the benefit of the
entire community. We are prepared to accept gradual
reintegration through the opening of communications, the
return of populations, the reconstruction of destroyed towns
and villages, and provisions for social welfare and legal
protection. The democratic Government of Croatia is
prepared - while urging the resolution of the fundamental
political issue: the restoration of the sovereignty of the
Croatian State over occupied areas - to genuinely comply
with all guarantees related to the rights of the Serbian
ethnic community.
their idea of a Greater Serbia and accept
of occupied Croatian areas
10
9th meeting
28 September 1994
In keeping with its peaceful policy, Croatia is also
prepared to normalize relations between Belgrade and
Zagreb. To this end we shall accept any meeting leading
to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia by Belgrade,
within its internationally recognized borders, which would
make the message to the insurgent Serbs regarding the
necessity of gradual reintegration quite unambiguous.
For this reason we have also raised the problem
regarding the parts of the Republic of Croatia occupied by
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia before the General
Assembly, because there is indisputable evidence as to the
comprehensive integration - in military, judicial, customs
and monetary terms - of occupied Croatian areas into the
economic and legal system of Serbia, or the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia. We would like to thank the vast
majority of States in the General Assembly that have
already given us their support in this matter. If Belgrade
should express its readiness to recognize the Croatian
State in the meantime, and to genuinely support
reintegration and normalization, we would be pleased to
spare the General Assembly the task of dealing with this
problem any further.
We would also like to thank the General Assembly
for its support for the post-war rebuilding of Croatia, and
we expect members’ continued understanding in this
matter.
In particular, we would like to emphasize that any
normalization of
relations - diplomatic, political or
economic - on equal footing between the Republic of
Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will not
affect partnership and cooperation between the Croats and
the Muslims in the realization of
the Washington
Agreements on the Croat-Muslim Federation in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, and its confederation with Croatia.
No peace in the Balkans is possible without the
establishment of a balance of forces, nor does the future
of any people lie in endless reciprocal military exhaustion
or in blocking development throughout the region. We
therefore genuinely endorse
the normalization of
Croat-Serbian relations, but also the implementation of
the Washington Agreements, which are in our view not
only a tactical manoeuvre by the victims of Serbian
aggression but
creating the
preconditions for ensuring full equality to the Croats as a
numerically smaller constituent people in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. We see in this a pledge of future regional
stability and balance of forces. The confederal
link
between the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
also a development
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the Republic of Croatia provides the foundations for
sustaining the sound political and economic relations
suggested by history, the geographical link and geopolitical
realities. By agreeing to a confederal relationship, Croatia
is also prepared, with the assistance of primarily Western
countries,
to assume its share of the responsibility for
curbing the smoldering, extreme national and religious
trends on all sides, the spread of which could jeopardize
stability not only in this part of South-Eastern Europe but
also in the greater area.
9th meeting
28 September 1994
President of the Republic of Croatia for the important
statement he has just made.
Mr. Franjo Tudjman, President of the Republic of
Croatia, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Croatia also attaches importance to the strengthening
and realization of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and its confederation with Croatia, the progress of which
depends both on mutual relations and on the action taken
by the international community in the coming months, for
this establishes a political and economic bridge with the
Islamic world.
Along these lines we have already
established close cooperation with Islamic countries
fostering identical aspirations, such as Turkey, Jordan and
others.
Mr. Kingibe (Nigeria): On behalf of the Nigerian
delegation, I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election as President of the General Assembly at
its
forty-ninth session. Your election is a tribute not only to
you personally and to your great country, but to Africa as
a whole. As a representative of Côte d’Ivoire, a country
with which Nigeria enjoys excellent and brotherly
relations, you have our full confidence in your ability to
successfully discharge the responsibilities of your high
office.
Decisive weeks and months,
in which we must
struggle for a peaceful resolution to the grave crisis in the
area of the former Yugoslavia, lie ahead of us. Not only
the parties in conflict, but first and foremost the principal
actors of
the international community, bear a huge
responsibility at this moment. This involves not only the
decision on the fate of the United Nations Protection Force
mandate in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also whether the
Contact Group will
succeed in sustaining a united
operational basis for a solution or allow the situation to
founder into a new military nightmare. The efforts of the
international community focused on building a new
international order are now being put to the test, more
anywhere
strikingly
the
than
consequences of
the aggression against Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Croatia. We can ultimately resolve this
crisis if each of us assumes his share of the responsibility.
Hatred must give way to happy children’s faces in
reconstructed Croatian Vukovar, to the restored splendour
of medieval Dubrovnik, to peaceful coexistence in long--
suffering and destroyed Sarajevo and Mostar.
reversing
else,
on
In order to achieve this, we must overcome the
disastrous war and political crisis by joint efforts and by a
well-devised vision of a new international order in this part
of the world, in the interest of the entire global order and
of the United Nations.
The President (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
I wish to express our sincere appreciation to your
predecessor, Mr. Samuel Insanally of Guyana, for the
admirable and effective manner in which he conducted
the business of the forty-eighth session.
also
Let me
commend
esteemed
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the
purposeful manner in which he has discharged the duties
of his office.
our
My Government heartily welcomes South Africa
back to the General Assembly. For decades, the policy of
apartheid kept that great country from participating in the
work of the Assembly. Happily, apartheid has now been
consigned to history. We salute all those who identified
with, and contributed to, the long struggle to eradicate
apartheid and racism in South Africa. A special tribute
must be paid to our brothers and sisters in South Africa
who were the direct victims of that evil system and who
led the struggle for its eradication.
We commend the vision and statesmanship of
President Nelson Mandela for his effective leadership in
managing so skilfully the transition of a once-divided
society to a united, non-racial, democratic nation. We
commend the courage and the untiring efforts of his
Government and the entire people of South Africa to heal
the wounds of the past and launch their country on the
path of economic growth and prosperity on a foundation
of justice and equity for all its citizens. We are confident
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
9th meeting
28 September 1994
that the new South Africa will contribute positively to the
work of the United Nations.
Africa Peace Fund, established by the Organization of
African Unity.
In the last few years we have witnessed rapid and
profound changes on the international scene. Not only have
complex challenges arisen, but also new opportunities for
the United Nations to redouble its efforts and contributions
to the quest for peace and security and to build a world
characterized by cooperation
and an international
community nurtured by a common concern for humanity.
It is a matter of serious concern that the peaceful
world expected to be ushered in by the end of the cold war
has not materialized. The world continues to face some of
the worst forms of conflict and new threats to international
peace and security. Violent conflicts arising from resurgent
nationalism and religious intolerance between and within
States have proliferated. The unresolved situations in
Rwanda, Liberia, Somalia, Afghanistan, Cambodia, parts of
the former Yugoslavia and parts of the former Soviet Union
have caused wanton loss of life and destruction to property
and have given rise to humanitarian crises of immense
proportions. We must find early and lasting solutions to
these conflicts, as they constitute continuing threats to
regional stability and to world peace.
Against this backdrop, the United Nations, as the focal
point of international cooperation, should seek to redefine
its role and establish new structures and mechanisms that
can respond effectively to the challenges of crisis
management and conflict resolution. The United Nations
must retain its primary responsibility for taking the lead in
addressing these problems.
The Secretary-General’s
Agenda for Peace provides a novel and imaginative
framework towards this end.
this,
In the emerging world order Africa must not continue
to remain a continent beset with crises and dependent on
others for resolution of its internal conflicts. In realization
of
the Organization of African Unity (OAU)
established in 1993 a Central Mechanism for Conflict
Prevention, Resolution and Management. However, it is
evident that the OAU’s capacity to effectively mobilize the
required financial and logistic resources for this purpose is
severely limited. There is, therefore, a necessity for the
international community and the United Nations
to
encourage, through increased financial and logistic support,
Africa’s efforts at peaceful settlements of disputes through
regional and other arrangements, in accordance with the
United Nations Charter. We urge the international
community to contribute urgently and generously to the
12
resolution and crisis management.
The capacity of the United Nations to respond
promptly and effectively to the demands made on it for
peace-keeping operations depends on the willingness of
Member States to accept that there is a primary role for
the United Nations and that they be ready to contribute
the necessary resources to enable it to fulfil such a role.
Since our admission 34 years ago, Nigeria has been an
in global efforts at peace-keeping,
active participant
conflict
Our
experience over the years has convinced us that there is
a clear need to re-examine and reorient the peace-keeping
efforts of the United Nations. Since initiating in Liberia
the Economic Community of West African States Military
Observer Group (ECOMOG), a subregional peace-keeping
force, Nigeria has become Africa’s and,
the
indeed,
world’s
international
Even though one or two
peace-keeping operations.
to recognize its
Member States may choose not
contribution,
this
Organization will clearly show Nigeria’s significant
contribution to the shared responsibility of global peace-
keeping, with its attendant sacrifices, including loss of
Nigerian lives.
the disposal of
contributor
records
largest
troop
the
to
at
That
in various
theatres of conflict.
is why we are concerned at
the incessant
harassment, kidnapping and killing of peace-keeping
personnel
As an
encouragement to other countries to participate in these
costly and often dangerous operations, the United Nations
must develop a capacity of effective deterrence against
such attacks and adopt appropriate measures to provide
prompt and adequate compensation for the victims.
One of
the disturbing consequences of
the
proliferation of conflicts is the increasing incidence of
refugees and displaced persons. It is our firm conviction
that Governments must create structures and suitable
conditions which will enable peoples to live in a secure
and safe environment in full enjoyment of their human
rights and fundamental freedoms. Regrettably, Africa has
the largest number of refugees and displaced persons in
the world.
This imposes additional and enormous
financial, material and social burdens on the already
distressed economies of receiving States. We commend
the efforts of the international community in addressing
the
of
humanitarian assistance. We call on all Governments to
eradicate the root causes of the existence of refugees and
displaced persons and to create the appropriate conditions
provision
problems
through
refugee
the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
facilitating their voluntary return to their various
for
countries.
Despite the end of the cold war, nuclear weapons
continue to pose the greatest threat to international peace
and security. Consequently, the need to reduce substantially
and ultimately eliminate them must remain our primary
goal. Recent reports of a rising trend of trafficking in
nuclear materials represent a disturbing new dimension to
nuclear proliferation which must be checked as a matter of
urgency.
9th meeting
28 September 1994
remain.
The response of
Economic Recovery
the
commodity prices
international community has been feeble and rather
inadequate. The United Nations Programme of Action for
and Development
Africa’s
(UNPAAERD) did not achieve its desired objectives.
It
does not appear that
the New Agenda for Africa’s
Development in the 1990s will meet with much success
either.
It is therefore imperative that Africa should be
enabled to make a fresh start to address these problems
effectively through an imaginative solution to the debt
crisis and the diversification of its economies.
Next year’s review and extension conference of the
non-proliferation Treaty, which has so far served the
international community rather well, must be pursued with
vigour. The review and extension of the Treaty must be
consistent with objective reality and the basic expectations
of Member States.
For our part, we recognize the need for credible
macro-economic policies, as well as for fundamental
reforms of our political institutions and processes, and we
are taking measures in this regard. However, there is a
need to evolve new mechanisms and strategies for
international cooperation and partnership.
Questions of peace and security are inextricably linked
to issues of development. We therefore welcome the
presentation by the Secretary-General of "An Agenda for
Development" (A/48/935), which is a fitting complement to
his earlier proposals in "An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277).
In "An Agenda for Development", the Secretary-General
has identified five strands: peace as the foundation for
development; the economy as the engine of progress; the
environment as a basis for sustainability; justice as a pillar
of society; and democracy as good governance. Nigeria
welcomes these presentations because we believe that the
people must be at the centre of all governmental activity,
including the goals of development, peace and security.
Global efforts in addressing the crisis of development
have, over the years, reflected a dichotomy of perception
between the industrialized countries of the North and the
developing countries of the South. We must recognize that
development, like peace, is indivisible.
It is therefore of
vital importance that the North and the South should see
cooperation in development in terms of mutuality of interest
and partnership. The expectation that the end of the cold
war would make more resources available for development,
especially in developing countries, has regrettably remained
unfulfilled.
the international
community should initiate bold and imaginative measures
to bridge the widening gap between the rich and the poor
nations. Affluence in the midst of poverty provides neither
peace nor security either to the rich or to the poor.
In the circumstances,
Africa continues to face grave economic difficulties,
at the heart of which is the debt crisis. The perennial
problems of declining investment, capital flight and fall in
In the wake of the efforts made in structurally
reforming our economy and the democratizion of our
political institutions, Nigeria, like many other African
countries, has come to grips with certain realities, the
ramifications of which are usually misconstrued and need
to be fully understood.
Political pluralism, as a facet of democratization, is
so deeply ingrained in our national way of life that over
the years we have tried to evolve appropriate democratic
institutions and values arising from and responding to our
specific
and
aspirations. We remain committed to this process, which
is on course, despite its difficulties and challenges.
circumstances
experiences,
national
Too often the process of democratization in Nigeria
and, indeed, in several other parts of Africa, has not been
correctly presented to the international community.
Recent advances in information technology and our lack
of resources and capacity for information delivery have
hampered our ability to objectively project developments
occurring in our societies. For instance, in Nigeria, we
continue to make impressive progress in rebuilding
sustainable democratic structures and institutions. A
Constitutional Conference whose members were largely
elected and representing a wide spectrum of our society
and diverse interests, has been working assiduously to
create an environment conducive to mutual
trust,
confidence and common purpose among our people. The
objective of the Conference is to establish appropriate
modalities,
institutions and frameworks for a viable
democratic order, by laying down the ground rules for the
formation of political parties, and for conducting free and
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
at
all
elections
levels of government.
The
fair
Constitutional Conference will complete its work by
November 1994. Following the progress made so far,
political activities have already commenced and full-fledged
political party activities leading to general elections will
commence early in the new year.
The resolve and
commitment of the Nigerian people and Government to
democracy remain firm and unshakeable in the full
realization that the task of democratization is primarily our
responsibility and is for the good of our people.
its
inception as
an indispensable
The United Nations has no doubt distinguished itself
since
forum for
harmonizing the actions of nations. We are confident that
it will continue to serve in the years ahead as a platform for
galvanizing and channelling our collective efforts towards
lasting peace and justice. This is especially so if we look
inwards with a view to revitalizing and strengthening the
Organization itself. The Government of Nigeria endorses
the view of the Secretary-General in his report "An Agenda
for Peace" to the effect that to meet the challenges of a new
era,
the United Nations must reinforce its capacity to
respond as well as to reorient its approach to issues which
confront it. We subscribe to his recommendation that
Member States provide the necessary political commitment
and financial resources to enable the Organization to
expand, adapt and reinvigorate its work.
The reforms undertaken by our Organization so far
have been essentially piecemeal and incremental. We have
made it clear on several occasions that the time was ripe
for a fundamental restructuring of the United Nations
system. The present composition and the decision-making
process of the Security Council do not adequately reflect
current realities brought into sharp relief since the end of
the cold war. As an instrument for multilateral cooperation,
the United Nations must be transparent, efficient and
democratic.
in
its
structure,
composition
The Security Council, as the most important organ of
the United Nations, should embody the global quest for
democratization
and
decision-making processes. In this regard, Nigeria attaches
particular importance to the work of the Open-Ended
Working Group on the question of equitable representation
on and increase in the membership of the Security Council.
It is our expectation that the recommendations that will
emerge will make the United Nations more responsive to
the needs of the international community. We also expect
that the criteria for permanent membership of the Council
should include such considerations as population, capacity
to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and
14
9th meeting
28 September 1994
security, and a track record assessed over a period of time
in international peace-keeping and peacemaking efforts.
All permanent members should enjoy the same status and
privileges and assume the responsibilities incumbent on
membership. No less important is the imperative of
equitable geographical representation, which must include
permanent membership for Africa in the Security Council.
In this connection,
is appropriate that I reconfirm
Nigeria’s offer to serve the international community as a
permanent member of the Security Council.
it
In this last decade of the twentieth century, two
issues have preoccupied the United Nations:
the
promotion of peace and security and the intensification of
international cooperation for development. On both
issues, the United Nations has responded to our collective
aspirations with varying degrees of success. As we
approach the twenty-first century, we must dedicate
ourselves anew to the full realization of these core goals
and objectives of our Organization so that mankind can
enjoy peace, freedom and prosperity.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Ireland, His Excellency Mr. Dick
Spring.
Mr. Spring (Ireland):
I warmly congratulate you,
Sir, on your election to the presidency of the forty-ninth
session of the General Assembly. You take office at an
historic moment for the United Nations on the eve of its
fiftieth anniversary.
The past year has been one of progress and great
hope for many peoples and States represented in this
Assembly. In South Africa, the elections have given birth
to a democratic, non-racial society which offers a model
of tolerance and reconciliation for others on that tortured
continent.
In the Middle East, the establishment of a
Palestinian administration in Gaza and Jericho paves the
way for a comprehensive settlement
in a region that
several times in living memory has threatened global
confrontation.
In Germany and in the Baltic States, the
withdrawal of foreign troops marks the end of the
division of our continent and heralds a Europe free and at
peace. And on my own island - the island of Ireland -
the declaration by the Irish Republican Army (IRA) of a
complete cessation of military operations has opened the
prospect of a peaceful resolution which has not existed
for a generation.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to report
For many years it has been customary for Irish
Foreign Ministers
to this Assembly on
developments in relation to the conflict in Northern Ireland.
Too often they have spoken of killing and destruction, the
failure of political initiatives and controversies on human
rights.
the Northern Ireland conflict
belonged to the category of truly intractable problems
destined to outlive all change of circumstance and to defy
all attempts at a solution.
It seemed that
I begin my address this year on this question, because
my message is now one of hope. The past 12 months have
significantly enhanced the prospects for lasting peace and
stability on the island of Ireland. It is true that the edifice
of a solution still remains to be constructed, but I believe
very solid foundations have now been laid.
Mr. Abreu (Uruguay), Vice-President, took the Chair.
At the origin of the Northern Ireland conflict lies a
difference of view as to whether the partition of Ireland
earlier this century was or was not a denial of the right of
the Irish people to self-determination. This difference was
passionately and violently acted out by two communities in
Northern Ireland, who were and remain deeply polarized by
their division on fundamental constitutional issues. This
conflict has been costly for all the people of Northern
Ireland and for the British and Irish peoples generally. To
deal with it is one of the most urgent and important tasks
facing both Governments. Experience has shown that the
ability of the two Governments to do so will be directly
proportionate to the degree of agreement between us.
It is in the inherited gaps between our positions that
terrorism on both sides has taken root. For that reason,
cooperation and agreement between the two Governments
is vital for any solution. Last December, the Irish and
British Governments published a Joint Declaration which
significantly consolidated the common ground between us
and offered all the parties to the conflict a compelling
political alternative to the endless cycle of bloodshed and
retribution.
impediment,
In the Joint Declaration,
the British Government
recognizes that it is for the people of Ireland alone, by
agreement between the two parts respectively and without
external
of
self-determination on the basis of consent, freely and
concurrently given, North and South, to bring about a
united Ireland if that is their wish. The Irish Government
accepts that the right to self-determination of the people of
Ireland as a whole must be achieved and exercised with,
exercise
right
to
their
9th meeting
28 September 1994
and subject to, the agreement and consent of a majority
of the people of Northern Ireland.
The Declaration seeks to deal with the issue of
self-determination in a way which banishes the spectre of
coercion. Instead, political consent is now clearly set as
the necessary goal and touchstone for any stable
arrangement in Ireland, whatever the framework. The
Declaration makes clear that the British Government is
not the enemy of the Irish nationalist tradition and that
the Irish Government is not the enemy of the unionist
tradition. A crucial aspect of the Declaration is the
acknowledgement that future arrangements in Ireland are
for decision and agreement between the Irish people
themselves, North and South, and its formal commitment
that the role of the British Government will be to promote
such agreement.
in turn,
The Declaration thus marks a decisive break with
any notion which has had such dark resonances in Irish
history that arrangements in Ireland might be decided as
a function of British rights over Ireland. This opens the
a new and more developed
way,
acknowledgement by the nationalist
the
unquestionable rights of the unionist community, derived
from its position as a distinct tradition in Ireland. A
considerable section of the Joint Declaration is devoted to
this issue.
tradition of
for
At the end of August, following a protracted internal
debate, the IRA decided in favour of a complete cessation
of military operations. That decision has been confirmed
by other statements in the interval. Much more
important, it has been sustained on the ground. This is a
development of very great significance.
It is first and foremost welcome because it saves
lives. Secondly, it opens the prospect of comprehensive
negotiations, governed by democratic principles, taking
place against a background of peace and embracing the
entire spectrum of all those involved in the conflict. Such
negotiations have the greatest potential
for success.
Moreover, their outcome is likely to be more authoritative
than a less general agreement, which would have had to
be enforced against a background of continuing violence
and repression.
We still await the end of the campaign of violence
carried out by loyalist paramilitaries.
I remain hopeful
that they, in turn, will come to realize that their violence
is repugnant to their own community as well as to others,
and counterproductive to their cause. We hope that
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
responsible political leaders in the unionist community will
make their voices strongly heard on this issue, as many
have done already, and that a complete cessation of
violence will ensue on the loyalist side also.
We have now an unparalleled opportunity to create the
basis for lasting agreement among our different political
traditions in Ireland. We can do so, no longer prisoners of
the past, but rather learning form our past mistakes on all
sides.
Perhaps the greatest such mistake, shared at one time
as an unquestioned assumption on both sides, was that this
conflict, concentrated in the narrow ground of Northern
Ireland, could only end in victory and defeat for one
tradition or the other. Compromise was seen as the first
step on the road to defeat. We have all learned, through a
costly process of trial and error, that in the Northern Ireland
situation notions of victory and defeat are an illusion. Each
community had the critical mass to thwart the other, but
neither can prevail alone. General political consent is
therefore a simple practical necessity, as well as an ideal.
The
challenge now for
the British and Irish
Governments is to seize on the momentum for peace.
Together with all the political parties in Northern Ireland,
we need to build new structures, reflecting the lessons of
our experience and building on the principles of the Joint
Declaration.
Experience has taught us that a majority "winner-
takes-all" system is profoundly unsuited to a society such
as Northern Ireland, where divisions are predominantly
communal and unchanging - rather than social or economic,
and therefore changeable. Let us apply that lesson, making
agreement
all new
arrangements.
and consensus
the kernel
of
9th meeting
28 September 1994
The choice of sovereignty has hitherto been a kind
of symbolic shorthand for the victory or defeat of one
community or the other. Let us divorce this notion as far
as possible from all partisan or tribal connotations, and
agree that
the exercise of sovereignty, by whichever
Government, will at all times, now and in the future, be
qualified by scrupulously equal
treatment of the two
Northern communities and of their rights, identities and
allegiances.
New arrangements on these lines would, I believe,
divest the conflict over sovereignty of much of its current
confrontation and passion. Under new arrangements on
these
lines, buttressed and guaranteed by formal
agreement between the two Governments, conflict over
the choice of sovereignty might cease to become the
destabilizing issue it now is. Instead, it might be handled
under agreed political ground-rules, scrupulously even and
fair
to both aspirations, as a question of mutual
persuasion and comparative benefit. Northern Ireland
could become a place specially dedicated to the protection
of the rights of both communities. Then, for the first
time, both communities there could be truly themselves,
and perhaps find common purpose in many areas where
at present there is only division.
are
establishing
a Forum for Peace
The Irish Government will pursue progress towards
a lasting accommodation on a number of different levels.
We
and
Reconciliation, to enable all democratic parties in Ireland
that are so minded to make recommendations on ways in
which agreement and trust between the two traditions in
Ireland can be promoted and established. This will not be
a negotiating forum, although we are hopeful that its work
will contribute positively to the climate in which
negotiations
its
recommendations can be translated into practice.
that many
and
take
place,
of
Northern Ireland is characterized by a profound lack
of consensus on the constitutional issue of whether the
legitimate frame of reference is Northern Ireland or the
island as a whole. Let us anchor new arrangements in an
Agreement acknowledging and reconciling the validity of
both.
The political division of Ireland has inhibited many of
the constructive political, economic and social interactions
which can contribute to the welfare of both parts of the
island. Let us set that to rights in effective new structures
between North and South.
Simultaneously, the Irish and British Governments
are working on a joint framework document setting out
their own views on where a balanced accommodation of
the problem may be found.
It is our hope that this
document, which we will commend to the other parties,
but cannot of course impose on them, will give fresh
impetus to the process of comprehensive negotiation.
The developments I have outlined have forged a
unique opportunity to achieve a comprehensive, just and
peaceful resolution of the Northern Ireland problem. It is
vital that their potential should be realized through early
negotiations and agreement on new political structures.
A new beginning for all our relationships in Ireland is
16
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
9th meeting
28 September 1994
within our reach if we have the collective courage and
imagination to avail ourselves of the opportunity. The
desire for a lasting peace and a political accommodation
has never been stronger across the entire population of the
island.
The appalling escalation of terror and violence in
Rwanda demonstrates the truth of this. To the names that
have come to be associated in recent years with human
suffering - Sarajevo, Gorazde, Mogadishu, Baidoa - we
can now add Goma, Bukavu and Ngara.
If in many parts of the world the message is one of
hope, we know that in other places old enmities and ethnic
animosities have surfaced, with vicious and indeed deadly
consequences.
The conflicts in Somalia, in the former Yugoslavia, in
Rwanda; the gross abuses of human rights in Haiti and East
Timor; the suffering of millions who are denied their basic
rights to food, water or shelter; these remind us that we
cannot let up in the struggle to create a peaceful world and
to uphold human dignity.
A characteristic feature of many contemporary crises
is that they are essentially conflicts within States, rather
than between them.
And this, I believe, is the central question facing the
United Nations as it approaches its fiftieth anniversary: can
the United Nations, which was born out of the greatest
inter-State conflict the world has ever seen, and which is
designed specifically to prevent and resolve such conflicts -
can this Organization deal adequately with internal crises
and civil strife?
I know that there are some who argue that the United
Nations has no place in such matters, that many internal
conflicts are not amenable to outside intervention.
I can
understand such arguments and the cautious desire not to
get involved in other people’s internal quarrels.
But can we let a crisis such as that in the former
Yugoslavia escalate to the point where it threatens a wider
Balkan conflict?
Can we stand aside while millions are slaughtered by
their compatriots in Rwanda?
By what calculus do we divine that death in civil strife
counts less than death in inter-State warfare, that those
threatened by their own countrymen are less deserving of
our efforts than those who are threatened by their
neighbours?
I can find no moral justification for such distinctions.
The tragedy of Rwanda has gripped the hearts and
minds of the Irish people. Today there are over 100 Irish
aid workers in the area. More than 70 Irish public
servants and military personnel are working with the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR) and the aid agencies.
And our President, Mary Robinson, hopes shortly to
visit Rwanda to show solidarity with the people of that
troubled land and to emphasize the need for international
action.
In its response to the crises in Rwanda and Somalia,
the international community has shown a generous
willingness to help. Much human suffering has been
alleviated. But we have not come near to achieving
durable solutions. Nor are we any nearer to constructing
a system to prevent similar horrors in the future.
We must ask how the United Nations could have
played a more active mediating role in Rwanda.
Could it have prevented the outbreak of genocidal
warfare when political unrest rapidly deteriorated into
civil strife?
Could it have responded more coherently when
genocide was followed by a mass exodus?
How can it now assist
in the resolution of the
conflict?
I believe that unless we equip the United Nations to
deal with these kinds of problems - the most characteristic
and pressing of our time - the credibility and relevance of
our Organization will increasingly be called into question.
The roots of civil disorder and internal strife are
often complex and deep - deeper and more complex,
indeed,
than the causes of inter-State war. Recent
experience has shown that recourse to Chapter VII action
alone is inadequate and that outside involvement, unless
carefully prepared and sensitively executed, can add to,
rather than diminish,
learn the
lessons of this and realize that building a United Nations
the crisis. We must
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
9th meeting
28 September 1994
capable of meeting the challenges of the new era will
require coordinated action in many areas.
that recognizes that all Member States have the potential
to contribute to international peace and security.
I will mention seven points on which I believe there
should be priority action:
We must reform the Security Council to make it more
representative of the United Nations greatly expanded
membership and to reflect
the great changes in
international relations of the past 50 years.
We must develop the Organization’s capacity for early
warning and mediation and for timely intervention in
disputes before they escalate out of control.
We must enhance the United Nations peace-keeping
capabilities
and
responsive when crises erupt.
them more
to make
flexible
We must develop the United Nations operational
capacity in the area of human rights. In particular, we
need a more developed system of human rights
monitors.
We must act to establish a permanent international
criminal court. We must
intensify our efforts to
eliminate the root causes of many conflicts
-
inequality, social injustice, and poverty - by acting on
the Secretary-General’s agenda for development.
restrict
We must
the
instruments of war and oppression by adopting a code
of conduct for conventional arms transfers.
the international
flow of
There is now widespread agreement on the need for
the Security Council to be more representative and more
responsive to the needs of the general membership of the
United Nations.
I believe that early decisions to increase
the overall membership of the Council are needed, and that
an increase in the permanent membership should reflect the
changes in international life over the past 50 years.
Our discussions have shown that concrete decisions
will not be easy, but we must avoid getting bogged down
in narrow considerations of optimal numbers and the
competing claims of regional Powers. One way of handling
this would be to build into our decision a commitment to
review again the membership of the Security Council at a
specific date in the future. In this way we could work for
a result
that
acknowledges that these realities can change over time and
that reflects current geopolitical realities,
18
Measures already taken to improve transparency are
welcome, but more must be done to facilitate interaction
between
general
membership. And surely the time has also come when
we can delete from the Charter references to enemies that
no longer exist.
the Security Council
and
the
The terrible crises in Rwanda and Somalia have
shown that we need to look urgently and more closely at
the role and capacity of the United Nations in preventing
and defusing conflicts. And we need to consider ways of
strengthening the capability of regional organizations to
engage in conflict resolution. We must be prepared to
avail ourselves in full of the functions bestowed by the
Charter on the General Assembly, the Secretary-General
and the Economic and Social Council, as well as on the
Security Council.
We must ensure that information on economic and
social conditions likely to result in a threat to security or
stability is brought quickly to the attention of
the
Organization, and in particular to the Security Council.
We have the instrument for this in the Economic and
Social Council.
the
Secretary-General’s proposal that a reformed Economic
and Social Council provide reports to the Security
Council on those economic and social developments that
may threaten peace and security.
now act
should
We
on
Beyond this, we must strengthen the United Nations
capacity for mediation. The Security Council and the
General Assembly, despite their undoubted authority
under the Charter, are not always the most suitable
instruments for the direct mediation of conflict.
In
practice, the Secretary-General has on many occasions
appointed a representative to mediate in particular crises,
often with considerable success.
I believe that the time
has come to put these arrangements on a more organized
basis. This could be done by constituting a mediation
body to which the Security Council or the Assembly
could refer difficult issues. Acting in consultation with
the Secretary-General, this body would be distinct from
the International Court of Justice, in that it would have
the role of political mediation rather
than that of
pronouncing a verdict in terms of international law.
I
believe that such a body, drawing on the pool of
personnel skilled in mediation, backed by effective staff
and properly resourced, could rapidly acquire an expertise
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
and authority that would significantly enhance
peacemaking capabilities of the United Nations.
the
The United Nations is now conducting more peace-
keeping operations and has more personnel in the field than
at any time in its history. Ireland is participating in many
of these operations and devotes a significant proportion of
its defence forces, and of its defence expenditure, to United
Nations peace-keeping.
is one reason why my
Government is particularly concerned at the under-funding
of peace-keeping operations and at the failure of certain
Member States to pay their assessed contributions.
That
But there is a deeper and more important reason. The
Secretary-General has pointed to the difficulty in finding
personnel for the many new demands on United Nations
peace-keeping.
Recent experience has shown that a
Security Council mandate no longer ensures that an
operation will soon take place. I can think of nothing more
serious or more damaging than the failure of
the
Organization quickly to mount an operation at the outbreak
of a crisis. The crisis itself escalates out of control, the
credibility of the United Nations is called into question and
the authority of the Security Council is undermined.
We must act to ensure that operations are properly
resourced, that troop contributors can take decisions on
participation, secure in the knowledge that they will be
adequately funded, and that there is greater consultation
between the Council and troop contributions.
The cost of peacekeeping will always be less than the
cost of war. There could be no better way to mark the
fiftieth anniversary than to address once and for all this
most critical constraint on peacekeeping operations.
As our understanding of civil strife develops, we are
coming to see the vital role that action in the area of human
rights can play in helping to prevent and resolve conflict.
The value of integrating peace-keeping and human rights
has proved its worth in Cambodia, in El Salvador and
elsewhere, but our approach has been piecemeal and
tentative. Even in Rwanda we still await an adequate
deployment of human rights monitors. Resources will have
to be found for this activity. For its part, Ireland intends to
contribute to the voluntary fund for Rwanda established by
the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
There is a clear need to put in place an effective
system of monitoring and adjudicating human rights
violations. One important step would be to develop a
standing team of human rights monitors reporting to the
9th meeting
28 September 1994
High Commissioner for Human Rights. This would make
it easier to integrate human rights action into peace-
keeping operations, and the mandate for peace-keeping
operations could include a human rights dimension with
clearly established reporting and verification procedures.
In addition, we
should move now on the
establishment of a permanent international criminal court.
The United Nations must demonstrate that it has the will
to bring to justice those responsible for crimes against
summary executions,
humanity,
and
mutilation.
If we fail to do this, we will have failed to
learn the lessons of Yugoslavia and Rwanda, and we will,
of course, risk their repetition.
torture,
rape
Our efforts to deal with war and civil strife cannot
ignore what the "Agenda for Peace" has described as the
root causes of conflict: economic despair, social injustice
and political oppression. Maintaining the peace is
impossible
Conversely,
development is the most secure basis for peace.
unequal world.
an
in
It can be no coincidence that Rwanda and Somalia
are among the least developed countries of the world.
Thus, when the Secretary-General himself tells us that
development is in crisis, we are compelled to listen, and
we are compelled to agree with him that an alternative to
the United Nations in development simply does not exist.
The truth is that the agenda for development and the
"Agenda for Peace" are complementary.
They are
different sides of the same coin, and we must make
progress on both if we are to reach our common goals of
peace and prosperity.
What has been called a "culture of development"
must extend beyond the provision of financial assistance
to embrace economic progress, the environment, social
justice, democracy and good governance. At next year’s
World Social Summit and at the Conference on Women
we can build on the progress already made in the
Conferences on Environment and on Population.
The tragedy of war and civil strife underlines the
need to address more
seriously the question of
disarmament. The easy availability of arms contributes,
not just to the scale of the carnage and suffering in
conflict, but to the outbreak of conflict itself.
At the global level, the volume of trade in major
conventional weapons has declined in recent years. But
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
9th meeting
28 September 1994
in some regions large stockpiles have accumulated.
others the arms trade continues to grow.
In
We now have an opportunity such as has not existed
for a generation.
I urge all of us to grasp it.
There is a need for States to exercise greater
responsibility and restraint in their arms transfers. Already
the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms has led
to greater transparency. But I believe that we should now
go further. That is why Ireland has proposed that the
United Nations elaborate a code of conduct for conventional
arms transfers which would set out common principles to
be observed in this area.
It is my hope that the General
Assembly will now decide that work on such a code should
be put in hand.
The lives of millions of people have been put at risk
and large areas rendered unsafe as a result of
the
indiscriminate use of land-mines. Since last year many
Governments have introduced moratoriums on the export of
anti-personnel mines.
I welcome President Clinton’s call
for an agreement to reduce the number and availability of
these mines.
I welcome also the very considerable progress made
in the reduction of nuclear arsenals and towards a
comprehensive test-ban treaty.
The threat of nuclear
conflict between the major Powers no longer overshadows
our daily lives. But there is disturbing evidence that some
States still want to acquire a nuclear-weapon capability.
Their ability to do so is helped by the growth in the world’s
stocks of
fissile materials and in personnel with the
requisite technological skills.
Next year’s Conference to review and extend the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
provides an opportunity to address these issues.
Ireland
wants to see an indefinite extension of the Treaty. We
want to see the principles on which the Treaty is founded
maintained; the non-proliferation regime strengthened; all
States becoming members; and progress made towards the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons, as envisaged in
the Treaty.
The agenda for United Nations reform is formidable -
for the Organization itself and for the States that make up
this Assembly. But whatever the difficulties, reform is a
vital and urgent necessity.
I am convinced that unless we
act in a broad and imaginative way, bringing together the
political, peace-keeping, development and human-rights
instruments of the United Nations, we will prove inadequate
to the great contemporary challenges.
20
The President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Slovak
Republic, His Excellency Mr. Eduard Kukan.
Mr. Kukan (Slovakia): I should like to congratulate
Mr. Essy of Côte d’Ivoire on his election to the post of
President of the General Assembly of the United Nations
at its forty-ninth session. I wish him much success in this
highly responsible mission.
At the same time, I should like to thank Mr. Essy’s
predecessor as President, His Excellency Ambassador
Insanally, for his great personal contribution to the
success of the last session of the General Assembly.
I also avail myself of this opportunity to express
the work and effort of the
Excellency Mr. Boutros
deep appreciation of all
Secretary-General, His
Boutros-Ghali, as the head of the United Nations.
in international
Allow me to open my statement with a personal
remark. During the past few years we have witnessed
dynamic changes in world politics. The dynamism of
development
life is reflected in my
personal life. In the course of the past four years I have
represented two States as their Ambassador to the United
Nations. Today I am honoured and proud to represent
one of them - my native country, Slovakia - as its
Minister of Foreign Affairs. The fact that the Permanent
Representative to the United Nations was nominated as
the Minister of Foreign Affairs of his country is yet
another manifestation of the respect
the United
Nations enjoys in Slovakia.
that
The fact that my country, less than two years after
its admission to membership of the United Nations,
became a full-fledged component of the community of
nations is confirmation of the credibility of our foreign
policy, which is based on respect for international law and
for principles of democratic coexistence among nations.
It is also a result of the implementation of our foreign-
policy principles, which originate from the hierarchy of
values of Slovak society. These values are characterized
by respect for democracy, human rights and a free-market
economy.
It is evident that Slovakia, as a small country in the
geopolitically sensitive central European region, must
have a transparent and clearly defined orientation in its
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
foreign policy. We therefore aim our activities at European
integrationist trends and strive to join the stable, democratic
and prosperous countries. Joining the European Union and
participating actively in the elaboration of an efficient
model of European security are among the main priorities
of Slovak foreign policy.
Our international contacts are, of course, much wider
and are of a more multilateral character. We are interested
in the best possible relations with neighbouring countries.
I am glad to state that we have recently managed to fulfil
this aim successfully. We believe that subregional
arrangements, such as Visegrad 4 or the central European
initiative, also help to strengthen the stability of the whole
region. Close contacts with western European countries -
and these are being strengthened in respect of economic,
political and security matters - also contribute to the
fulfilment of this objective.
At
level,
the global
the priority of
the Slovak
Republic, which is part of the European region, is the
maintenance of solid transatlantic relations through the
development of intensive cooperation with the United States
of America and Canada, both bilaterally and multilaterally.
Further, we consider the development of cooperation with
our eastern neighbours - Ukraine, the Russian Federation
and other countries - as being especially important.
Regardless of the fact that Slovakia is a small central
European country, we strive to maintain and further develop
good relations and cooperation with the countries of Asia,
Africa, Latin America and the Pacific region.
Our tasks and goals are very demanding, and their
fulfilment depends on sufficient support from the public
and on the consensus of the major political parties.
I am
glad to state that in Slovakia there is wide public and
political agreement on the principal issues of our foreign
policy. This is a positive signal for foreign countries,
which can count on Slovakia as a reliable partner.
As I indicated at
the beginning of my statement,
today’s world is defined by dynamic changes that are due
to the growing multipolarity of international relations.
Many important events that occurred in the last year
advanced the international community towards achievement
of the goals of the United Nations - to guarantee the
peaceful coexistence of nations - but there have also been
events that cannot fill us with optimism.
One positive event has been the peace process in the
Middle East. Slovakia has supported this process from the
very beginning with the aim of reaching a comprehensive
9th meeting
28 September 1994
and final peaceful settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict.
The conclusion of agreements between the State of Israel
and the Palestine Liberation Organization on the provision
of limited autonomy in the zone of the Gaza Strip and
Jericho, and the Jordan-Israeli declaration on terminating
the state of war, as well as on measures to settle mutual
relations, justified once more the peace efforts of the
parties involved, as well as those of the international
community, which is convinced that peace can be restored
in this region.
We also welcome the democratization of South
African society demonstrated by the elections in April of
this year. Though South Africa is far from Slovakia, we
put
this
development. The visit of the President of the Slovak
Republic to South Africa for the inauguration of President
Mandela is evidence of this.
special emphasis on the continuation of
the world. We are deeply concerned over
On the other hand, even these positive examples will
not help us in successfully ending conflicts in other parts
of
the
continuing conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is
taking place some 300 kilometres from our borders.
Slovakia is among the countries that yearn for an end to
the continuing tragedy in that country. We wish to
underline the superiority of a political solution to a
military one, which by definition cannot eliminate the
antagonism between the opposing sides.
a
support
therefore
speedy signing of
The Slovak Republic, as a user of nuclear energy for
peaceful purposes, is a State without nuclear weapons.
We
the
comprehensive test-ban treaty. We wish to emphasize
that such a treaty should apply to all
tests without
exception and for an indefinite period, including tests for
peaceful purposes. Sustaining the moratorium on nuclear
tests by all members of the nuclear club is considered by
Slovakia to be the main precondition for concluding such
a treaty, and at the same time, it is a clear sign of the real
intentions of the nuclear club members.
We consider next year’s Review Conference of the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) to be closely linked to the
nuclear-test ban. The NPT has been playing an important
role in the history of humanity, and has managed to stop
the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We support
unequivocally the unconditional and indefinite extension
of the NPT.
The Slovak Republic
undertaken at
steps
the United Nations in the sphere of
appreciates
the
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
transparency in armaments, whether conventional or
chemical and biological. We welcome the first positive
universal step regarding conventional weapons:
the
establishment of the Register of Conventional Arms.
The verification level of the existing multilateral
treaties is in most cases either inadequate or incomplete.
Many of the multilateral treaties on arms control do not
contain verification clauses - and if they do contain such
clauses, they do not make full use of verification, as in the
case of the NPT.
I believe that the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling
and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction
will be a test case for a new type of multilateral treaty on
disarmament. The ratification of this agreement is among
the top priorities in the agenda of our Parliament.
I can assure the Assembly that Slovakia is fulfilling
the obligations
responsibly and in a timely manner
concerning confidence building,
security, control of
armaments and disarmament that have been undertaken at
universal and regional negotiating forums. We firmly
support all disarmament activities; hence we are well aware
of the important role of the Conference on Disarmament in
this field. I would like to confirm the permanent interest of
the Slovak Republic in resolving the issue of
its
membership
former
Czechoslovak federation was a founding member of the
Conference.
It is truly a paradox that a country in which
arms production decreased to 9 per cent of its 1989 level is
not yet a member of the Conference.
the Conference,
in
since
the
structures
We are aware of
the need to improve existing
organizational
and strengthen cooperation
between the United Nations and the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) as a regional
arrangement in the sense of Chapter VIII of the United
Nations Charter. The CSCE continues to adapt to the new
realities. Slovakia, however, is of the opinion that the basic
character of the CSCE should not change. It should remain
a wide political forum and its basic principle - the adoption
of decisions by consensus - should be maintained.
9th meeting
28 September 1994
massacres, is a clear example. The United Nations peace-
keeping operation on the territory of
the former
Yugoslavia has also encountered serious problems. The
Slovak Republic has a contingent of 600 soldiers in the
United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) -
members of
the engineering unit who among their
military tasks provide highly specialized expert work and
assistance in restoring that country, which has suffered so
Along with their efforts in the
much tribulation.
maintenance of peace,
they have undertaken the
dangerous task of removing mines from the country.
Slovakia strongly supports President Clinton’s appeal
in his statement before the General Assembly on Monday
for the conclusion of an agreement that would reduce the
number and availability of anti-personnel land-mines.
I
would like to mention that Slovakia, in accordance with
resolution 48/75 K, has already implemented, on 17 April
1994, a moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-
mines for an indefinite period.
In connection with United Nations efforts to resolve
several problems that have arisen in the field of peace-
keeping operations, the Slovak Republic welcomes the
decision to establish stand-by forces
that can be
dispatched on short notice and under the command of the
United Nations. We have declared our
in
contributing to these units with engineers of the Slovak
Army. Such units need highly specialized and thorough
preparation and training designed for specific purposes.
My country is in the process of building such a training
centre and has already used it to train more than 1,200
members of United Nations peace-keeping forces since
May of this year.
interest
Experience has shown that the traditional type of
peace-keeping operation is no longer sufficient.
If a
peace-keeping operation is to succeed it should contain a
humanitarian element. Slovakia is of the opinion that in
any operation under United Nations auspices and with
United Nations coordination it is necessary to respect the
principle of the priority of United Nations command.
Peace-keeping operations are currently at a level that
is perhaps the highest that the international community can
provide and sustain. They drain our financial resources,
while not even sparing human lives.
The original
enthusiasm for peace-keeping operations has gradually
cooled down with the knowledge that
there are many
obstacles that the United Nations cannot overcome. The
tragic situation in Rwanda, where even the presence of
United Nations forces could not avert a civil war and
In connection with the increased number of attacks
against United Nations personnel, the Slovak Republic
appreciates the Assembly’s decision at its forty-eighth
session to elaborate an international convention dealing
with the safety and security of United Nations and
associated personnel. The next step the United Nations
should consider is providing proper armament and other
matériel for members of peace-keeping missions so that
they might be able to react more appropriately to
22
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
changing conditions and if necessary be able to defend
themselves.
in this
The Slovak Republic respects human rights and
welcomes all international initiatives which could bring
results
sphere. We highly appreciate the
commencement of the activities of the High Commissioner
for Human Rights. We believe that this post will be an
active United Nations instrument to guarantee the protection
of human rights, especially where they are most flagrantly
violated. At the beginning of 1994 we opened the Slovak
National Centre for Human Rights in Bratislava.
In this
connection,
I wish to express our gratitude to the
Netherlands for its assistance in establishing this institution.
The gravity of the problem of refugees continues to
increase.
I express the hope that the United Nations will
not underestimate this problem and that the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees will no
longer have to fight financial problems in future.
The Slovak Republic supports the reform of the United
Nations. It considers the revitalization and restructuring of
the Security Council to be one of the crucial issues. We
hope that the solution adopted will increase the efficiency
of the Security Council and will contribute to the overall
strengthening of the United Nations. We are of the opinion
that new permanent members of the Security Council must
have a global responsibility and be able to meet the ensuing
financial obligations.
When the mandate of the Security Council is fulfilled
and sanctions are implemented, more attention should be
paid to possible adverse impacts on third countries. We are
convinced that effective mechanisms of assistance to
affected third countries should be seriously considered and
established as soon as possible.
Slovakia encounters many problems connected with
It is crucial to solve the
the transformation of society.
economic and social
issues of a transition process
unprecedented in scale and method. The United Nations,
with its organs
an
irreplaceable role in assisting their solution.
and specialized agencies, has
I should now like to give some facts on the economic
situation of the Slovak Republic. Now that the first, basic
steps of transformation have been taken, the main goal of
the Slovak economy is to create permanent macroeconomic
stability and conditions for substantial economic growth in
the years
to come. My country, with 5.3 million
inhabitants and with exports about 50 per cent of gross
9th meeting
28 September 1994
of
ownership
transformation
domestic product, can be considered a small, open
economy. The Slovak Government is concentrating on
speeding up those reforms which should result in the
quick
relations.
Considerable progress has been made in macroeconomic
stabilization in the first six months of 1994. Real gross
domestic product has increased by 4.4 per cent. The
State budget deficit represents only 3.8 per cent of gross
domestic product, and is considered a positive indicator.
Thanks to cooperation with, and assistance from, the
International Monetary Fund,
the foreign currency
reserves of the Central Bank have increased. These data
are considered to be the first sign of economic revival.
Economic cooperation and, within its framework,
international assistance are prerequisites
further
development of economies in transition. United Nations
organs and specialized agencies cooperate intensively with
my Government.
the
economic situation is substantially better than had been
anticipated, and the Slovak Republic has become an
accepted international partner in economic cooperation.
Thanks to this cooperation,
for
The Slovak Republic welcomes
the increased
attention by, and efforts of, the United Nations aimed at
bringing the issues of development and economic
cooperation to the foreground. We hope that the agenda
for development will initiate concrete steps in this sphere.
We particularly appreciate the efforts of the United
Nations in helping to resolve problems and difficulties
encountered
their
economies, and we are of the opinion that within the
United Nations framework there are more opportunities to
facilitate and speed up the integration of these economies
into the world economy.
transforming
countries
by
the
In the past decade the number of least developed
countries has increased horrendously. This results in an
urgent appeal
to all mankind, but especially the
industrially developed countries. However, at the same
time we cannot avoid the primary responsibility of the
least developed countries for their own destiny. The
Slovak Republic offers assistance, within its own means
and possibilities, especially through the participation of
for
Slovak experts
Slovakia is
example,
prepared to engage in organizational work for
the
International Year for the Eradication of Poverty, 1996.
in development programmes -
in education and health care.
I should also like to emphasize the importance of the
recently concluded International Conference on Population
it
and Development, held in Cairo.
The fact
that
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
succeeded in reaching an agreement and adopting the Final
Document is a signal that the international community is
aware of its responsibility for global issues of humanity,
and that international conferences and discussions are the
only right battlefield for the solution of problems, no matter
how sensitive and complicated they may be.
As can be seen from the facts I have set out, Slovakia,
as one of the youngest Members of the United Nations,
wishes not only to "take", but also intends to be actively
involved in United Nations programmes, and has the
capabilities. My country has much to offer developing
countries.
Slovak experts, with their know-how and
experience, are prepared actively to participate in United
Nations development programmes. Slovak products and
technologies tested under demanding conditions could
contribute
these development
In the sphere of the development of human
programmes.
resources, Slovakia, with a long tradition in this field, offers
a variety of courses at universities.
efficiency of
to the
My country has a difficult
task to carry out:
transformation of the economy. The United Nations also
that of adapting itself to the new
has a difficult task;
realities
activities
accordingly. I wish to assure the Assembly that the Slovak
Republic is prepared to do its utmost to carry out the first
task and to participate actively in the activities of the
United Nations.
adjusting
and
its
structure
and
I wish to conclude my statement by wishing much
success to this year’s session of the General Assembly.
The President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Estonia, His
Excellency Mr. Jüri Luik.
Mr. Lüik (Estonia):
I should like to congratulate
Mr. Essy on his election as President of this, the forty-
ninth, session of the General Assembly. The Estonian
people wish him all the best in this post.
Today is a day of national mourning in my country.
Late last night, amid stormy autumn winds, the passenger
and car ferry Estonia, sailing from Tallinn to Stockholm,
sank at high sea. Nearly 100 people have been saved, and
rescue efforts are continuing. But most of the over 850
people who were aboard the Estonia are presumed to be
dead. I should like to thank the President and all those who
have expressed their sorrow and sent condolences.
24
9th meeting
28 September 1994
In this painful loss, we can draw some solace from
the global teamwork we have seen in the rescue efforts.
Last night demonstrated beyond a doubt that the Baltic
Sea is a sea of cooperation. Swedish, Finnish, Danish
and Estonian rescue units worked together, and we had
offers of help from Russia, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) and countless others. On behalf of
my Government, I thank all of those who helped us with
the rescue effort. The spirit of international cooperation
sets a fine example for all of us here today.
Today my country comes before this forum for the
first time in half a century unfettered by the problem of
the presence of foreign troops on our soil. The role the
United Nations played in helping to remove the last
vestiges of the Second World War was not small.
It is
therefore a special privilege for me to speak here today.
It is also not insignificant that this new era in the
history of Estonia, Latvia and Germany coincides with the
upcoming fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the
United Nations. These two events would seem to call for
solemn reflection on the past or at
least a joyous
celebration of the moment. But most of all, this new era
requires new approaches. Post-war security - be the war
hot or cold - still hangs in a delicate balance. Because it
is up to all of us, collectively, to decide which way the
scales tip, I wish to focus on the future, on how we in
Estonia are approaching this new era, and on some of the
ideas enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations that
we believe deserve special attention in the next few years.
The withdrawal of
On 31 August, we marked the withdrawal of troops.
The celebrations and commemorations of this event
symbolized the end of one era and the beginning of
another.
the troops has had a
tremendous effect in bringing us closer to normalization
of relations with the Russian Federation, and we sincerely
hope that the problem of officers who were demobilized
on our territory against the spirit and the letter of the
troop-withdrawal
The troop
withdrawal was also a major step towards achieving
security in the Baltic region. But the problem of Baltic
security has not yet been solved - far from it.
treaty will be solved.
One dimension of moving towards bona fide security
undoubtedly lies in trying to improve relations with the
Russian Federation. The potential for good will is in the
air, and it is our duty, on both sides of the 1920 Tartu
Peace Treaty, to seize the moment and make that peace
again. We might call this policy towards Russia one of
positive engagement. This would involve, among other
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
qualities, mutual respect for sovereignty, mutual respect for
national security interests, mutual refraining from verbal
and other confrontation, and mutual respect for international
norms of behaviour, particularly in the area of human
rights.
We are willing to expend considerable energy to repair
a relationship that has been historically so complex. To do
so is not only in our own interest and in that of Russia, but
in the interest of regional, European and therefore global
security as well. I would emphasize, however, that in order
for this policy to be successful, it must be mutual.
If, on
the other hand, our efforts are not reciprocated, then we
must be prepared to expend our energy in different ways.
Lately, we have noted with great concern talk of
creating new spheres of influence. We hear continuing use
of the phrase "the near abroad". We observe similar
attitudes in discussions about the enlargement of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. We
are already well past
the initial stages of building a
European security structure. A viable framework, based on
shared values, that includes Central and East European
States is nearly in place. It is not only late but unacceptable
to ponder the plans of architects who speak of spheres of
influence and to consult contractors who wish to build on
sand or, worse, on a slippery slope.
There are some specific ways in which the United
Nations can take advantage of the historic opportunity it
faces to encourage principled behaviour. One of them is to
render peace-keeping more effective by strengthening
peace-keeping mechanisms, including the dissemination of
better and more timely information to all Member States in
order to garner the support necessary for any collective
action. Rather than abdicating responsibility, whether due
to benign neglect, expediency or funding problems, and
allowing large States to act unilaterally, it means holding all
States in all regions to the same standards. It goes without
in lending its name to any peacekeeping
saying that
operations,
the United Nations must
stand by the
fundamental principles of neutrality and multilateralism.
The United Nations should never become a mask behind
which one country tries to assert dominance over another
by means of peace-keeping.
Let me add that Estonia is actively developing its own
peace-keeping force, to be put, perhaps next year, at the
disposal of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Another area in which more effective mechanisms and
more stringent standards are needed is that of human rights,
9th meeting
28 September 1994
as reflected in the Vienna Declaration and plan of action
of last year.
I would stress the importance of the newly
established Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights taking on this task. We wish High Commissioner
Ayala Lasso success
important and
challenging endeavour.
in this most
We believe
the High Commissioner
can be
instrumental not only in improving the effectiveness of
the United Nations human rights mechanisms, but also in
holding this body to strict standards. We believe that all
States should be measured according to the same human
rights standards.
I could not agree more with the
observation made by Russian Federation President Boris
Yeltsin two days ago in this forum that
"neither a selective approach nor double standards
are permissible." (Official Records of the General
Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings,
5th meeting, p. 2)
Indeed, exceptions cannot be made on the basis of the
size of a nation,
its cultural heritage or the political
delicacy of the situation. The standards that are applied
to one country must be valid for all others - in other
words, there should be no elastic rulers.
In this regard, allow me to remind the Assembly of
an open letter - an appeal, really, to morality in foreign
policy - which was signed by a host of political
luminaries and published in September of last year in The
Wall Street Journal.
I quote from the letter, entitled
"What the West Must Do In Bosnia":
"Even if,
like Kuwait
in August 1990, all
Bosnia (and not just Sarajevo) were seized, it would
be essential for the democracies to make clear, as
they did in the case of Kuwait, that violent border
changes and ethnic cleansing will not stand.
If the
West does not make that clear, it will have nothing
persuasive to say ...".
Sadly, the message in that letter remains applicable
today.
If the world’s democracies, led by the United
Nations, do not speak out for morality in the area of
human rights, we will lose our ability to influence the
course of events. Democracies must be willing to stand
by the principles upon which our States and societies are
based.
sincere hope that non-selective
application of human rights standards will become the
rule, not the exception.
is our
It
25
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the composition of
A third way the United Nations can take advantage of
this moment is to consider the global changes that have
taken place since 1945. Then, in the immediate post-war
period,
the Security Council was
established by drawing a sharp distinction between the
victors and the vanquished. Times have changed. We
must now take into account the positive role that some
States in particular play in the international arena. And I
have in mind here Germany and Japan, States that have
more than demonstrated their commitment to democracy
during the last 50 years. Estonia strongly supports granting
Germany and Japan permanent-member status in the
Security Council as a recognition of their accomplishments
and an acknowledgement of their stabilizing role in world
affairs.
I would turn now briefly to Estonia’s vision of its
future role in the United Nations. Now that the issues
which had hitherto demanded our intense attention have
been more or less solved, we are freer to devote more
energy to wider issues that affect all of us. I am speaking
here of global phenomena such as terrorism, organized
crime, drug trafficking and smuggling of
radioactive
materials as well as health and social
issues and
environmental problems. These are issues that know no
borders, and dealing with them requires a collective effort
on our part.
On this, the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, we face an enormous challenge. The war
- I mean the Second World War - is finally over. But the
real battle - to safeguard human and civil rights for all
persons, to strengthen security for all States, to preserve a
continent undivided - this battle has only just begun. With
intelligence, perseverance, goodwill, and a little luck, the
nations gathered here can unite in the battle to make the
next 50 years more constructive than the last.
Mr. Araníbar Quiroga (Bolivia) (interpretation from
I am honoured to convey the greetings of
Spanish):
President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada and of the people of
Bolivia to the Heads of State and Government in attendance
at this the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly; to
the Foreign Ministers;
to the President of the General
Assembly, Mr. Amara Essy, and to his predecessor,
Ambassador Samuel Insanally, as well as to our dear friend
Vice-President Sergio Abreu; to Secretary-General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali; and to the whole of
the international
community, so worthily represented here.
As the highest forum of the peoples of the Earth, this
noble Assembly constitutes the ideal setting to reflect on
and debate the issues of our day.
26
9th meeting
28 September 1994
Bolivia is striving to enter the twenty-first century
while bringing about substantial changes based on the
principles of the United Nations Charter.
instrument
During its first year in office, the Government of
President Sánchez de Lozada devoted its efforts to
carrying through the reforms needed to make the State an
effective
society’s democratic
development, centred on the well-being of our people.
Thus, our reforms have been based on the concept of
comprehensive development, combining human and
economic development, social equity, and sustainable
development.
for our
Now that Bolivia has thus completed the reform of
its political constitution, it is putting into effect changes
that will enable it to consolidate democracy and economic
development, in conditions of fairness and social justice.
My country has embarked on a dynamic policy of
participation by the people, a process of educational
reform, and a recasting of
the shareholding and
productive structures of public enterprises through an
innovative concept of capitalization.
During the second phase of its programme,
the
Bolivian Government is planning to implement new legal
provisions to increase investment and production in order
to provide more and better job opportunities, and to find
concrete solutions to the problems of poverty and the
marginalization of broad sectors of society.
It is in this
connection, in the context of our Government’s policy,
that
the people is of particular
significance.
the participation of
On the subject of sustainable development, my
country has proposed the holding of a meeting of
Presidents of
that meeting is now
scheduled for 1996 in Bolivia.
the hemisphere;
The future of our peoples and their material and
spiritual well-being can only be the work of their own
hands, as they are both the subjects and the objects of
development. It is therefore most encouraging that - not
only within our country but within the United Nations
system as well - there is a conviction that a central role
falls to organized participation, both individual and
collective, as an essential factor for change in a creative
and positive direction.
Mechanisms for popular participation will make it
possible to imbue the liberty, independence, sovereignty
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
and progress of nations with vitality and social content. It
is a matter of appraising the role of all social sectors:
workers and entrepreneurs, women, indigenous and rural
communities, the marginalized, the young, the elderly, the
disabled and all those who have the right and duty to
contribute to building a better future.
It is with that conviction that the Bolivian Government
has contributed actively to the preparatory work for the
forthcoming World Summit for Social Development, to be
held in Copenhagen in 1995, and the Fourth World
Conference on Women, in Beijing the same year.
of Latin American
grass-roots
In that same spirit, the International Decade of the
World’s Indigenous People will be inaugurated at
this
session of the General Assembly. My country is confident
that the observance of this Decade will be not merely
symbolic, but essentially a practical and concrete endeavour
in its objectives and its scope. To that end, the meeting of
and Caribbean
representatives
Governments,
and
international agencies, held in the Bolivian city of
Cochabamba last June, framed a series of recommendations
to be included in the strategy of the Decade. Those
recommendations have also been brought to the attention of
Governments and the United Nations system. We hope to
receive a prompt and positive response so that
the
legitimate claims of indigenous peoples will not be lost in
the labyrinths of international bureaucracy or the oblivion
of another 500 years of solitude.
organizations
peasant
Resolving age-old problems surely calls for a great
capacity to understand the values, customs and ways of life
of other cultures. Bolivia hopes that
the International
Decade of the World’s Indigenous People will provide an
opportunity for
the international community to fully
understand the topic of the coca leaf, a form of vegetation
traditionally grown in Andean regions. The cultural and
medicinal uses of the coca leaf need to be re-evaluated in
order to distinguish it clearly from the social problems
brought about by the abuse of one of its derivatives in the
developed countries, which creates a growing demand
associated with an international cycle of crime.
Let me take this opportunity to declare formally, once
again, that the Government and the people of Bolivia are
earnestly and firmly committed to international efforts to
find the best-suited mechanisms to guarantee the success of
the policies delineated within the framework of the changes
recommended in General Assembly resolution 48/12,
adopted at the last session.
9th meeting
28 September 1994
Less than two weeks ago, on an initiative of
President Sánchez de Lozada, the most representative
organizations of Bolivian society, together with the armed
forces and the police, took a historic step when they
debated the problems of the coca leaf in a framework of
pluralistic participation and cooperation.
The main
conclusions of that meeting, which I take the liberty of
summarizing to this great forum of nations, stressed the
urgency of combating drug trafficking through a world-
wide strategy of shared responsibility; the need to adopt
as a primary goal
the dire poverty
affecting over two-thirds of Bolivia’s population; and
support
the comprehensive
development of coca-producing areas.
initiatives aimed at
the fight against
for
Bolivia is grateful for the international community’s
willingness to draw a perfectly clear distinction between
the positive aspects of the native coca leaf and the grave
harm done by dint of the external demand for cocaine.
We trust that this positive attitude will make it possible in
the near future to address this problem without prejudice.
But
the international agenda at
the end of the
century encompasses other equally complex issues that
have recently been brought to light by the end of the cold
war, although their roots can be traced back to centuries
of accumulated injustice.
The Republic of South Africa has given the world
invaluable lessons in its struggle against apartheid and for
democracy. My country is joyful at the outcome of that
process and, on behalf of Bolivia, I welcome President
Nelson Mandela to the General Assembly.
Deeply moved as well by news of the tragedies in
Rwanda and in other regions of the world, Bolivia
expresses its solidarity with peoples which,
through
violence and catastrophe, are showing us what we sow
when problems are not
resolved in timely fashion,
problems such as hunger, poverty, mass migration, the
various forms of injustice inherited from colonial times
and the plundering and lawless acts carried out even
today by Powers large and small against other States.
Bolivia welcomes the advances achieved through
dialogue in the Middle East, and we trust that in the
future dialogue will become the principal instrument in
dealing successfully with international disputes and
conflicts. The Bolivian people hopes for a just and
lasting peace between Israel, Palestine and the Arab
peoples. May the deliberations of the General Assembly
contribute to consolidating that process.
27
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The situations in the former Yugoslavia and in other
areas are a direct consequence of actions in the service of
misguided geopolitical interests aimed at social and political
destabilization of foreign territories, We hope that the
senseless repetition of such practices, which have had such
woeful effects in Central Europe, Asia and Africa, will not
lead to similar disasters in other regions. Furthermore, the
Government and the people of Bolivia condemn policies of
"ethnic cleansing" in the strongest terms and call upon the
international community to take resolute and clear measures
to put an end to those actions and to punish those
responsible for them.
9th meeting
28 September 1994
for Development".
We therefore attach high priority to the themes of
the
Economic
"Agenda
complementarity, the transfer of technology, trade, the
opening up of economies, foreign investment and co-
operation should be our instruments for strengthening
solidarity
and
Governments.
friendship
and
among
peoples
In this
spirit, Bolivia strongly supports Latin
American unity and subregional integration, hemispheric
agreements, and any opportunity that may present itself
for exchanges between nations.
Latin America stands unconditionally in support of
democracy and against the illegal use of military means and
force, in accordance with the recent declaration of the
presidential summit of the Rio Group, the resolutions of the
Organization of American States and of the United Nations
and the numerous proclamations of Parliaments and popular
organizations from all over the continent.
These aims - cooperation and complementarity,
friendship and solidarity - must serve as the basis of the
new international order. For that reason, the observance
of the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter in
San Francisco should provide an opportunity to make
substantive progress in adapting the United Nations to the
new realities and demands of the world community.
Democracy, of course, cannot be left undefended.
Bolivia has had the bitter experience of long dictatorial
interruptions in its institutional life. Consequently, Bolivia
stands today with the people of Haiti and its legitimate
Government, and it supports the immediate return of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the restoration of the
democratic regime.
History has shown that peace, justice and respect for
the principle of self-determination can be guaranteed only
when there are consolidated democratic institutions capable
of defending and promoting human rights.
Solidarity
cannot be left at the rostrum. My country reiterates its
willingness to help, within its available means,
in the
process of restoring Haitian democracy to the extent the
legitimate Government of that country deems our help
useful.
The ending of the cold war must apply also to Latin
America and make it possible,
through dialogue and
understanding among the parties concerned, for Cuba to be
reintegrated into the inter-American community.
All States of the world must contribute to ensuring
peace, brotherhood and the timely solution of problems that
are as yet unresolved. To that end, action must be taken to
enable peoples to develop, since economic backwardness
and its social effects are at the root of the crises and
conflicts we face.
Governments on all continents must demonstrate the
ability to save future generations from the scourge of war.
We must make human rights, individual and collective,
fully effective. International justice must become possible
and be assured, and social progress within the broadest
concept of freedom must be promoted.
In international relations in the third millennium, law
must cease to be the instrument of the stronger, serving
to entrench injustices, and must become the sole and
effective means of resolving disputes, rectifying the errors
and excesses of past generations as often as may be
necessary.
On the subject of respect for the rules of inter-State
relations, Bolivia welcomes the entry into force of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and
welcomes the fact that 1998 is to be the International
Year of the Oceans. Convinced that recovering our
country’s access to the sea is an inalienable right of
Bolivia, the Government of President Sánchez de Lozada
is working to secure for the Bolivian people, during the
current decade, a real solution to the unjust land-locked
situation with which it has had to contend for over
100 years. My country believes
in the force of
convictions, in the force of international solidarity, in the
force and the evolution of law, and in the possibilities of
friendly negotiation with a view to overcoming disputes.
Democracy must find clear expression in inter-State
relations. Participation by countries large and small in
28
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the resolution of issues that affect all of them must be
equitable and not, as is sometimes the case, mere words.
This presupposes, among other things, a change in the
organization and composition of the Security Council so
that with its permanent and non-permanent members, it will
be representative of the realities and requirements of
appropriate participation, reflecting the obvious emergence
of new centres of power in different parts of the world. It
will also be necessary to strengthen the role of the General
Assembly and to restore the United Nations its central role
in the resolution of the major economic problems of the
planet, a task which, for the present, remains the exclusive
preserve of the super-Powers.
The right to development is an objective necessity,
although exercise of the right still seems remote for the vast
majority of the world’s population. We must assume an
effective commitment to give that right the same priority
treatment as is given to the human rights of individuals.
If the present generation is unable to defeat growing
the
poverty and secure employment opportunities for
already vast global army of
it will be
impossible to ensure the peace and well-being in the
developed regions of the world. Population growth, mass
migrations and globalization will take their toll, with a
negative effect on the dignity, the peaceful co-existence,
and the hopes of all mankind for a better life.
the indigent,
Over the centuries, the Andean peoples of Bolivia
have wisely been guided by three fundamental rules which,
in the Quechua language, are: "AMA SUA, AMA
LLULLA, AMA KHELLA", meaning "Do not steal, do not
be idle, do not lie".
If those three rules were also applied in relations
between States and nations today, they would have to be:
"Do not unjustly exploit the fruits of your neighbours’
work. Do not complacently enjoy your splendid life-style
amid universal poverty.
Do not make promises of
solidarity and understanding that you are not prepared to
keep."
I feel sure that the ability of all of us to live together
would be infinitely enhanced were we to be guided by such
rules.
9th meeting
28 September 1994
Mr. Crvenkovski (The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia): Allow me at the outset, Mr. President, to
congratulate Mr. Essy on his election and to wish all
participants in this Assembly success in their work. My
appreciation also goes to the Secretary-General for his
able leadership of our Organization.
At this year’s session the General Assembly will
deal with numerous issues of vital importance for the
whole of humanity. In the desire continuously to enhance
the role of the United Nations as a universal organization
of irreplaceable character, every Member State must make
its utmost contribution to the establishment of a better and
more prosperous world and to improving relations
between the peoples on this planet, in the spirit of the
Charter of the United Nations. In that spirit, my country,
the Republic of Macedonia, is prepared, with all of its
modest forces, to contribute to achieving these aims,
which are of universal interest, and to improving the
functioning and the role of this Organization.
I would
like to assure the Assembly that our delegation will make
its full contribution to that end.
The President returned to the Chair.
the forty-ninth session of
In the Republic of Macedonia, hopes run high that
the work of
the General
Assembly will result in the adoption of the "agenda for
development - and we deem development
the most
important issue facing humanity on the threshold of the
new millennium. We are convinced that the work of this
session will also have a positive effect in overcoming
In short, we are
acute crises and conflicts in the world.
prepared
the
strengthening of the role and the importance of the United
Nations for peace and security in the world, economic
progress and the prosperity of humanity.
to make
our
full
contribution
to
The last decade of this century has shown very
acutely the problem of economic and social development
in the world. On the one hand, there are the hopes of
humanity, rightly directed towards the world of highly
developed countries as a guarantor of economic progress,
social safety, human dignity and a healthy environment.
On the other hand, underdeveloped countries are facing
the elementary issues of survival and escape from
poverty, economic despair and insecurity.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, His Excellency Mr.
Stevo Crvenkovski.
The countries in transition, including my own, are
going through a painful period of trying to find their own
place in the world of market economies and democracy
and are additionally burdened by their own devastated
29
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
economies, social problems and threats of new, regressive
and undemocratic situations.
of
and
economic
international
This controversial picture of the world shows the full
complexity
social
development and thus raises the question of a possible way
out of such a situation. I am quite certain that the majority
of the world sees the solution neither in various new
ideological concepts nor in new regional and political
divisions along such lines - and even less in ideas leading
to a division of responsibilities and rights among countries
based on false altruism and utopian blueprints.
the
that
economic problems of
A solution is possible only if we acknowledge the
interdependence of economic and social development. This
is a fact to which no nation today can remain indifferent,
regardless of its size and level of development. It is more
than obvious
the
undeveloped world constitute a serious threat
to the
developed countries. Furthermore, it is more than clear that
a solution to the problem of underdevelopment cannot be
sought in the form of social assistance or gifts. On the
contrary, the very essence of global economic and social
interdependence teaches us that by helping the undeveloped
countries solve their problems developed countries are in
fact helping themselves. Thus, the inferior position of the
underdeveloped should be redressed through mutual
responsibility and by opening the prospects for economic
development and democracy under
the best possible
conditions on the world market.
In that sense,
I am convinced that
the successful end of the Uruguay
Round of negotiations and the establishment of the new
World Trade Organization in early 1995 are indeed
encouraging.
the new General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will stimulate the
further liberalization of world trade and enhance the world
trade system, because the reduction and elimination of
barriers in world trade will provide a chance not only for a
realistic way out for the underdeveloped and countries in
transition, but also for the global growth of world trade and
economic cooperation as well.
It is no less important that the United Nations and its
specialized institutions aim their efforts at
increasing
international financial support for development and at
tackling such acute problems as arrears and debt servicing.
These would be very concrete and positive steps towards
overcoming the problems of underdevelopment.
The comprehensive character of these problems must
be regarded with a very keen awareness of two global
30
9th meeting
28 September 1994
for
and
economic
programme
protection of the environment and
aspects as well:
demographic processes. Without these two aspects, a
universal
social
development cannot be envisaged nor can any future for
humanity. Global economic interdependence strongly
emphasizes
regional and world
the importance of
economic integration processes.
Their outlook and
advantages are unquestionable and they should be assisted
and encouraged by the United Nations. My country
views its support of such policies as increasing the
possibility of and prospects for its own development as
well as the development of other developing countries and
countries in transition.
Despite all the worthwhile efforts being made, I
regret to note that the Declaration issued at the World
Conference on Human Rights in Vienna is not being
carried out as expected. The world is still faced with
crude and massive violations of human rights. The
tragedies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda are
distressing confirmations of this fact. There are many
countries where the economic, social and cultural rights
of the people are being violated. Policies of racial, ethnic
and religious discrimination are widespread. We have
been witnesses to "ethnic cleansing" and genocide. And,
what is most regrettable of all, these are all used as
reasons for waging wars, murdering innocent people on
a massive scale and destroying towns and villages.
The region of the Balkans where my country is
situated is one such unfortunate example. The war in
Bosnia and Herzegovina continues. All the efforts of the
international community, the Security Council and the
most influential countries of the world cannot convince
the Bosnian Serbs that peace is the only solution.
It is
true that the forces of peace are growing. However, the
feeling of uncertainty in the region is still present, and
even spiraling.
It is difficult to foresee a settlement of
the situation in the region of the former Yugoslavia that
does not include full mutual recognition of the newly
independent States and the establishment of diplomatic
relations between them.
in
burdened
economic
conditions
The sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro have
seriously
the
neighbouring countries, in a region where economic ties
had already been severed and economic assistance from
the
needed.
Insecurity in the South Balkans is also growing. The
Republic of Macedonia is being exposed to the classic
economic aggression of a unilateral economic embargo
introduced by Greece in February this year in order to
international
community
urgently
is
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
impose its will in matters concerning Macedonian national
identity. Serious tensions have also been caused by the
most
and
Greek-Turkish relations. These are all elements of great
concern to us.
in Greek-Albanian
developments
recent
Due attention to this situation is being devoted by the
relevant responsible international factors and, within this
framework, by the Security Council.
I should like to
reaffirm the positive role and contribution of the peace-
keeping forces of the United Nations deployed on a
preventive mission in Macedonia, a very successful action
undertaken in the interests of peace and deserving wider
support.
With its peaceful policy and position, the Republic of
Macedonia is a factor for stability in the region. We are
sparing no effort to demonstrate that, even in a region as
turbulent as ours, other solutions are viable; that peace is
guaranteed by human and minority rights; that cohabitation,
tolerance and mutual understanding between various ethnic
groups is possible; that relations between States become
more stable when the principles of the inviolability of
borders are respected through cooperation on an equal
footing; and that problems can be resolved successfully
only through dialogue and political means. For us, a way
out of the historical frustrations and war myths in the
Balkans is possible only through the implementation of the
principles of the new European model of open borders,
integration and cooperation.
That
today,
is why,
the Balkan region needs the
support of the international community on a number of key
issues: an end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the
prevention of a spillover of that war, and the establishment
of permanent foundations for peace; the strengthening of
democratic processes in all countries and in the region as a
whole, and, especially, an increase in awareness of human
rights and the rights of national minorities; support for
economic reform in these countries, in view of the fact that
most of them are now in transition, and, most important,
their incorporation into collective security mechanisms.
Mr. Ben Yahia (Tunisia), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
The worst threat for the Balkans is the emergence of
new divisions and regrouping along religious or ethnic
lines. The Balkans cannot remain as a living relic of bloc
divisions in Europe and the world, since if it does it will
become an open threat
to peace and stability on the
continent and in the world. This can best be avoided
9th meeting
28 September 1994
through preventive action by the international community
in this region, not only in the form of monitoring
missions but through concrete policies which get the job
done.
Allow me to conclude by expressing our hope that
the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly will serve
to strengthen the role of the United Nations,
in the
interest of peace and security in the world, in the interest
of harmony in global economic and social development,
in the interest of the survival and protection of planet
Earth and in the interest of humanity.
The President (interpretation from French): I now
call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Planning and
Environment of
the Republic of Seychelles, Her
Excellency Mrs. Danielle de St. Jorre.
Mrs. de St. Jorre (Seychelles) (interpretation from
French): Mr. President, may we congratulate Mr. Essy
and wish him every possible success in exercising your
mandate.
Seychelles would like to take this opportunity also
to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for the timely and
judicious initiatives which he is constantly taking to
promote peace, justice and development.
We have gathered together to express the profound
aspirations of the countries we represent. We all have
our specific problems, our differences, our advantages and
our handicaps. We all have many unresolved questions
which stem from an international situation where the
factors of political and economic instability are becoming
increasingly frequent.
The hesitations of a changing world tend to engender
a feeling of pessimism, as we see contemporary history
being made.
Between the industrially developed countries and
those who are still marking time on the path to
development, considerable barriers are blocking the road
to sharing and to solidarity.
We now see cruel dissensions arising among peoples
that were previously bound by brotherhood.
On the international scene, where we are witnessing
a relentless confrontation between divergent
interests,
what place do we now give to the human dimension in
relationships?
31
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The end of this century is constantly being redefined
by shocks, upheavals and various types of aggression born
of negativism.
More than ever,
the success of our societies will
depend on their capacity to absorb these shocks and, when
to reinvest courage,
there is nothing or
little left
determination and perseverance,
in spite of sometimes
terrible lack of understanding.
But we also have to reinvest our capabilities, our
funds, our means and our inborn willingness - in other
words, unprecedented alliances have to be struck; for there
is no longer time to philosophize about the world we shall
bequeath to our great grandchildren. Because of the
unprecedented speeding up of history demographic,
economic and social projections are becoming alarming in
the medium term and no longer in the long term to which
we had grown accustomed through our cozy selfishness or
our defiance in the face of the unforeseeable.
The phenomenon of exponential growth, which is
widening gaps and encouraging rivalry, causes immediate
rather than delayed reactions. We have become our own
heirs! Undoubtedly, there is more food for thought in this
idea than in many statements.
That illustrates to what extent our efforts must be both
planned and creative.
It also means that the immediate
problem to be tackled is to define our priorities. Here, my
thinking is consonant with much of what has been said
from this rostrum. Certainly there is no lack of those who
plead for a safer, healthier and more prosperous world.
And so many conferences and seminars have echoed the
same thought and have recalled this idea in their final
documents. But we are aware that we have to go beyond
this; hence, we are asking for action programmes which
mobilize experience, energy and imagination. When
continuity of effort is the key factor for success, we must
expand the underpinnings of projects, assess results and
renew assistance.
In other words, what we are advocating is a definitely
prescriptive approach, rather than the sort of analytical and
descriptive exercises which has been the comfortable route
of many international gatherings.
If we are specific in defining the areas of our
deliberations, then the ensuing action will necessarily be
based on precise, useful and needed dynamics.
32
9th meeting
28 September 1994
This specificity, in the case of Seychelles as in the
case of more than 30 territories throughout the world, is,
from the point of view of development,
the dual
constraint of geographic and demographic smallness and
being an island.
Need we recall that the situation of small island
States can, in many respects, provide indications as to the
future of mankind. Here, more than anywhere else,
because of their vulnerability - whether it be due to the
fragile ecosystems, the scant economic outlets or the lack
of human resources - any dependence necessarily impacts
upon the very future of the societies concerned.
on
The Global Conference
the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States, held in
Barbados, was indeed extremely beneficial for us all.
It
focused attention on the particular situation of those small
States whose relatively high per capita income does not
accurately reflect the reality of a situation which donors
tend to tie to any aid for development.
There is no doubt that that Conference has been the
source of great hope for the small island States. But
some remain sceptical. In any case, we hope it will lead
to a change in attitude on the part of the industrialized
countries with respect to the unique situation of small
developing island States,
is the industrialized
countries that will not only have to take up and enlarge
upon the concerns of the small island States but also have
to set in motion the strategies and the plans of action,
which are the only real vehicles of change or of
development.
for it
international organizations
Far be it from us to engage here in singling out the
countries or
concerned.
However, two years after the Rio Summit we are very
disappointed to see that the provisions of Agenda 21 have
rarely given rise to actions. Does this mean that the
concept of lasting and sustainable development is going
to be severely compromised because of a lack of
solidarity and international support and failure to respect
commitments?
Let us get
the problem.
to the core of
The
harmonization of development policies and measures to
protect the environment necessarily implies the definition
of specific budgetary categories by priority, based on
criteria of complementarity as between national effort and
international efforts. This must be done free from any
spirit of charity, as well as divorced from any evaluation
based on per capita income.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Let us not forget the backdrop to all this, the fact that
in an era where everything occurs on a worldwide level the
individual and collective responsibility of States calls for a
global approach and equitable sharing of the cost and moral
investment
represents.
Those
responsibilities must be consciously assumed.
environment
the
All these are indicators that merit the attention - the
unwavering attention - of decision-making bodies and
international donors.
In the past, many pronouncements
have concluded on a hopeful note. Joined together in an
orchestral score, such notes would barely fill out a refrain
in praise of development, one that, like a clear conscience,
can often sound hollow.
And yet we do not doubt
the wisdom of our
negotiating partners. There are surely some who would like
to deal with questions of development from a dialectical
viewpoint, but that is not true of us. If, for us, the essential
thing is not to hesitate to be specific, we seek, in return,
measures that will be real, meaningful and measurable.
More generally, this could apply to the role women
should play in the development process. This is an old
debate. Fortunately, the time is now past when women
were viewed as non-conventional vehicles of progress.
Abolishing a principle, however, although paving the way
for many improvements, can also generate a considerable
potential for inertia, for the walls of hypocrisy, as we all
know, are infinitely thick. It is not enough to quote some
cases of women who are entrepreneurs or decision-makers,
There have always been some effective women. The
important thing is to modify behaviour and practices in real
terms, at the societal level, and to analyse and transpose
those models and ideas which have from time to time led
to good results. That is what we expect from the Beijing
Conference.
Where natural prerogative is concerned, we cannot of
course speak of delegating authority but here too of
equitable and responsible sharing.
Indeed, do we in fact
have a choice?
Women must act within their communities as a
proponent force that is open to change and capable of
enriching the dynamic processes linked to changing values.
It is impossible to give life without being concerned about
survival, without being deeply aware of the changes that
affect the individual or the society whenever they give rise
to uncertainty and muddy the waters.
Humanism obviously owes a great debt to women.
Let us enrich it with our understanding. The woman’s
9th meeting
28 September 1994
identity is strong, but in many places there is still a lack
of both recognition and expression, which are the
foundations of her legitimacy.
The ideal of legitimacy is a noble concept,
in
addition to being a good working notion. It is legitimate
to look forward to the fulfilment of the promises made in
solemn declarations;
that
intentions so boldly and courageously stated will become
promises, and it is also legitimate, when the urgency of
the matter no longer leaves time for either declarations of
intention or promises, to take action. Consensus can
come later.
is legitimate to expect
it
Here, and in the same spirit, I should like to
in the proposal made by the
emphasize our interest
Director-General of
the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for swift
humanitarian action - what we might call a "spontaneous
reaction" - whenever called for. For here again we are
talking about the legitimacy that endows the human entity
with dignity and makes it worthy of respect.
Before concluding I should like to appeal to all
countries and peoples present here to unite our efforts to
take one large step towards world brotherhood. Let us
overturn the rigid barriers of all kinds of self-interest, let
us be attentive to the needs of others and the future of our
planet. Let us shape our relationships for active solidarity
and willing adherence to the principle of
shared
responsibility.
On such vital questions there is no place for trite
official statements.
In coming decades, no one will be
fooled by our unwillingness to engage, openly, fully and
with determination, on the path of well-being, especially
when it is the neediest of us who most require it.
That is the price of true unity among nations. And
we in Seychelles harbor this desire to stand alongside all
countries in concluding the unprecedented alliance that
will guide the great ship of mankind towards the shores
of the third millenium.
It is up to us to ensure that those shores will be
welcoming ones.
The President (interpretation from French): I call
on Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassem Bin Jabr Al-Thani, Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Qatar.
33
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Mr. Al-Thani (Qatar) (interpretation from Arabic):
I should like, at the outset, to express to Mr. Essy and to
his friendly country my Government’s and my personal
congratulations on his election to the Presidency of the
General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session. We are
confident that his abilities and skills will enable him to
discharge his responsibilities in the best possible manner.
I should like also to congratulate the members of the
General Committee on their election to that body.
fail
to express
On this occasion I cannot
the
appreciation of the delegation of the State of Qatar, as well
as my personal appreciation, to Mr. Essy’s predecessor as
President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Samuel
Insanally, who represents the friendly Republic of Guyana,
for his excellent leadership and the work carried out during
his tenure.
It is also my pleasure to extend our congratulations to
those States that have recently joined our international
Organization. We look forward to their constructive and
effective participation in the activities of the United Nations
and to their defence of its principles.
In that context, I salute the delegation of the Republic
of South Africa and that country’s great leader, Nelson
Mandela, the first African President of the State, which, in
this new chapter of its history, will undoubtedly be a new
Member
representing the African continent and the
international community. We are convinced that it will
play an outstanding role, for which it is eminently qualified
by its stature, as well as by its expertise in all fields.
in
and
special
appreciation
I should like also to reaffirm the State of Qatar’s full
of
the
confidence
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
for his
commitment and devotion in the service of this international
Organization and for his efforts to uphold the noble
principles of
the United Nations and to promote its
international peace-keeping and peacemaking role in dealing
with international problems and crises. This is a role that
will undoubtedly increase in importance.
The General Assembly’s forty-ninth session is being
held in the shadow of dynamic and rapid changes in
international relations. These rapid dynamic changes have
not yet reached their culmination. We are in a period of
transition wherein new patterns of international relations are
constantly emerging.
It is a period in which the so-called
new international order is being formed.
34
9th meeting
28 September 1994
in particular,
the willingness of States to honour
The most important underpinnings on which this
new order must rest are, in our view, respect for the
principles and purposes of the United Nations and its
the principle of sovereign co-
Charter,
equality,
their
commitments in good faith, non-intervention in the
internal affairs of other States, the control by States of
their natural resources, the non-use and the absence of the
threat of the use of force against the territorial integrity or
political independence of other States, and the resolution
of international disputes by peaceful means in accordance
with the principles of international law through mediation,
dialogue or through the International Court of Justice.
With the ending of the cold war, a new era has
dawned in the United Nations.
This international
Organization is now being resorted to increasingly and
more urgently. The United Nations mechanism is now
squarely in the forefront of international efforts to face up
to problems that
Such
problems are now being examined and debated in a
serious manner in the United Nations and its specialized
organs and agencies with the aim of finding suitable
solutions thereto.
in the past were intractable.
In this regard, the State of Qatar believes that the
United Nations and its specialized organs and agencies
are the most appropriate framework for deliberation on
issues relating to peace-keeping and peacemaking, the
peaceful settlement of international disputes, questions of
development and the forging of
just and balanced
economic and social relations.
Given today’s challenges, there is no doubt that the
solving of such problems should be the collective
responsibility of all States regardless of size,
if the
solutions devised are to be compatible with the interests
of the entire international community. Therefore, the
State of Qatar
to restructure this
international Organization and its bodies in order to make
them more democratic and dynamic so that they may
become more suited to the task of satisfying new
international requirements and dealing with the challenges
of peace, development, the issues of international peace
and security, as well as economic and social issues.
supports efforts
by
the
are
These
issues
dictated
radical
transformations in the patterns of international relations.
First of all, there must be a balanced relationship between
the General Assembly as the principal political body, the
Security Council as the body responsible for questions of
security, and the Economic and Social Council as the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
body responsible for
development.
issues of economic and social
the Council may become an institution that is used to
impose the will of the strong on the weak.
9th meeting
28 September 1994
In addition, the General Assembly and its resolutions
must be given a more effective role as a framework for
deliberations and negotiations and for the adoption of
resolutions on issues of international importance. This is
fully in line with the commitment by all States to the
principle of sovereign co-equality and the right of effective
participation in the upholding of the common interests of
the international community.
Therefore, we believe that the exercise by certain
members of particular rights and privileges must not lead
to hegemony by a limited number of strong States over
the course of events in the world. Thus we believe that
the question of membership of the Security Council must
be dealt with in a manner that takes into account the large
increase in the membership of the United Nations while
putting some checks on the use of the right of veto.
No one State or group of States, regardless of stature
or power, should monopolize the fashioning of the new
international order in the absence of the United Nations,
which is the true representative of
the international
community. Such a new order must be fashioned by all
States collectively through the United Nations, whose
stature and efficacy must be enhanced and supported as the
only forum for
the body
responsible for international peace and security and the
body that has the overall responsibility for economic and
social development, the protection of the environment and
of human rights as well as for combating drugs and
terrorism.
international deliberations,
In this context, I should like to express my support for
the statement in the Secretary-General’s report "An Agenda
that democracy within the family of nations
for Peace"
requires
and
engagement of all States, large and small, in the work of
the Organization.
consultation,
participation
fullest
the
that
I should like to refer also to the statement in the same
report
the employment of preventive diplomacy
requires prior knowledge of potential disputes, participation
in peacemaking and peace-keeping,
the
agreements concluded and the taking of measures that aim
at resolving the economic, social and political problems that
led to the dispute in the first place.
support
for
We welcome the positive developments in the role of
the Security Council and its ability to perform the role
mandated to it by the Charter, thanks to the new spirit of
cooperation that emerged between its members and enabled
it to take collective measures in respect of some very
difficult
and to assume new
responsibilities such as the expansion of its authority in
respect of
through the
administration of some areas during periods of transition
and through the supervision of elections and the protection
of human rights. None the less, we have some fears that
some peace-keeping issues
and sensitive
issues
In addition, the international community must respect
the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security
Council. Political will must be mobilized to implement
those resolutions,
to impose peace if conditions so
require, or to negotiate peace if there is good faith and if
the parties cooperate. We believe that
this is the
guaranteed means of protecting the new international
order and of ensuring its acceptability, credibility and
stability.
We hope that
the celebration of
the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations will mark the rebirth of
a new, stronger and more democratic body.
In this
regard, we are encouraged by discussions, within and
outside the United Nations, regarding the restructuring of
the Organization and its various organs. These are very
constructive, serious and objective discussions, and all the
States of the world are participating in them.
The State of Qatar, proceeding from the wise
instructions of the Emir, His Royal Highness Sheikh
Khalifa Bin Hamad Al-Thani, and his loyal heir, His
Royal Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, has
always participated by all means in the solution of issues
related to the Arab Gulf, as well as the Arab and Islamic
nation. We have supported the Gulf Cooperation Council
because it serves the interests of the Gulf States and their
peoples. We, as part of the region, believe that our
security is closely linked to the region’s. We have
supported stability in the region and rejected every
attempt to bring about regional changes by force. We
believe that the security of the region requires cooperation
amongst
good-
neighbourliness, mutual
respect, non-intervention in
internal affairs and respect for international law. We hold
that all unresolved problems should be resolved by
peaceful means,
the
International Court of Justice.
through dialogue, mediation or
its States
basis
the
all
on
of
35
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Proceeding from this principle, the State of Qatar
supports the resolution by such means of the current dispute
between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic
of Iran over the three islands of Abu Moussa and the two
Tumbs.
On the Arab level, the State of Qatar has continually
called for the airing of issues in the Arab world and for
reconciliation, in order to promote Arab solidarity so that
the Arab Umma may resume its role in history and in the
march of civilization.
We have followed with the greatest concern the
regrettable events in the Republic of Yemen. Since the
dispute began,
the State of Qatar has participated in
diplomatic efforts to contain it. Despite the bloody and
regrettable struggle, friendly Yemen has maintained its
unity. As you know, from the beginning we have stood on
the side of legality and unity in Yemen, and we have been
eager to abide by these two principles in dealing with the
issue, proceeding from our faith in the need to maintain the
unity of the Yemenite territory and people.
As for the situation in Iraq, our position is that the
unity of Iraq and its territorial integrity must be maintained.
Iraq must commit
itself to the implementation of all
relevant Security Council resolutions. It must recognize the
sovereignty of
the state of Kuwait and its territorial
integrity, as well as its internationally recognized border
according to United Nations Security Council resolutions.
We also sympathize with the Iraqi people and call for the
alleviation of their hardship, taking into account the acute
shortage of medicines and foodstuffs.
Concerning peace in the Middle East, we support the
process and hope that negotiations will achieve concrete
progress on all tracks, particularly concerning Lebanon and
Syria. Last year, we welcomed the Palestinian-Israeli
agreement as a landmark on the road to a just solution to
the Palestinian question. We now welcome the subsequent
steps taken, namely the early transfer of authority and the
expansion of self-rule, both of which are important steps
towards the achievement of a just and comprehensive
solution to the question of Palestine. We also welcome the
Jordanian-Israeli declaration as to the ending of the state of
war between the two countries and the initiation of serious
negotiations to resolve all problems, specifically those
concerning water and borders. This declaration is also a
landmark on the road towards a just and comprehensive
solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, on the basis of the
Madrid formula; Security Council resolutions 242 (1967)
the full
and 338 (1973);
the land-for-peace principle;
36
9th meeting
28 September 1994
the
right
to
people,
including
withdrawal of Israeli troops from all occupied territories
(the Golan Heights,
the southern part of Lebanon,
Jerusalem); the restoration of all inalienable rights of the
Palestinian
self-
determination; and the creation of a State whose capital
will be Jerusalem, as it is a symbol of peace and is part
and parcel of the territories occupied since 1967. During
the transitional period,
the situation in this territory,
particularly its demographic aspects, should not be
changed.
I wish here to reiterate the need to put a stop
to the process of Israeli settlement, which is illegal and
constitutes a major hurdle in the way of peace.
Proceeding from this,
the General Assembly should
reaffirm, at its current session, all previous resolutions
regarding the question of Palestine and the Middle East
problem, and declare them unalienable.
In order to push ahead the peace process in the
Middle East, we participated in the multilateral
negotiations. We indicated that those negotiations did not
replace bilateral negotiations but complemented them, and
that
they would lead to nothing unless a just and
comprehensive peace was achieved in the region. In this
regard, the State of Qatar hosted, from 2 to 5 May 1994,
the fifth meeting of the Working Group on Disarmament
and Regional Security in the Middle East, which
developed from the multilateral negotiations.
regional
The position of Qatar was stated as follows. First,
support for all international efforts aimed at achieving
agreement on disarmament on the
and
international levels, and support for the efforts of the
Disarmament Conference in this respect. Second, the
arrangements of arms control after the achievement of
peace should be based on legally binding and co-equal
commitments by all parties under international law and in
conformity with the United Nations Charter. Third, arms
control efforts on the international level have achieved
remarkable success, particularly between the Russian
Federation and the United States as indicated by the
signing of START and all subsequent steps. Yet those
efforts have not achieved any tangible progress in the
Middle East, since one State continues to retain its
nuclear capabilities. Fourth, all States are called upon to
accede to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and to agree
to abide by its safeguards and subject
their nuclear
facilities to international inspections. The region must be
freed from all weapons of mass destruction and their
delivery systems.
In this regard, we wonder how the
General Conference of the International Atomic Energy
Agency could decide to resume its technical assistance to
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
9th meeting
28 September 1994
Israel, while Israel continues to reject the NPT and refuses
to submit to its safeguards regime.
sovereignty and its unity with and its one indivisible
capital, Sarajevo.
We follow with great concern the situation in brotherly
Somalia. We hope that national
reconciliation will
safeguard the unity, independence and stability of Somalia.
On this occasion, we wish to support the decision by the
Arab Foreign Ministers to set up an Arab ministerial
committee that would monitor the situation in Somalia and
work towards the desired reconciliation alongside the
Secretary-General of the League of Arab States.
As for Afghanistan, we express our concern over the
continuing violence and call upon all factions to halt
hostilities and work for a permanent and peaceful
settlement that would give precedence to the interests of the
Afghani people.
Since the Second World War, Europe has not
witnessed a tragedy such as that which is unfolding in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. The suffering imposed on the
Muslim people through the atrocities of ethnic cleansing,
genocide and mass killings at the hands of Serb aggressors
constitute crimes which far exceed all those committed in
Europe in the course of the Second World War. Despite
the fact that the Serbs reject the international peace plan
drawn up by the five States and accepted by Bosnia and
Herzegovina, no disciplinary action has been taken against
the Serb aggressors, while the embargoes are still in place
against Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In the very least, the
international community should enable the Muslims to
exercise the right of self-defence, a legitimate right
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Once again,
together with other members of the Islamic world we ask,
why is it that there is all this procrastination in dealing with
the Serbs, and why are they allowed to hold on to the land
they have acquired by force and on which they continue to
practice the atrocities of ethnic cleansing? The international
community is called upon to deal with this matter firmly
with no double standards and in a manner that would
guarantee the independence and territorial
integrity of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and guarantee for it an economic
situation that may enable it
This would
certainly contribute to the maintenance of international
peace and security in that sensitive region of the world.
to survive.
The President returned to the Chair.
The State of Qatar reiterates its condemnation of this
aggression and reaffirms the independence of the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
its
its territorial
integrity,
to
by
and
agreed
While we welcomed the resolution adopted by the
United States Congress
the
Administration to lift the embargo against the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have been surprised by the
latest resolution by the Security Council, which included
a relaxation of the sanctions imposed on Serbia and
Montenegro,
the State that stands beside the Serbian
militias in their continuing aggression against the Muslims
in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that the said
resolution will have grave consequences as it rewards the
aggressor and the forces that support that aggression and
constitutes a retreat in the face of aggression, massacres
and continuing ethnic crimes.
In this regard, we call on the Security Council not to
reward aggression. We call upon it to discharge its
responsibilities towards the protection of the Muslims in
Bosnia and Herzegovina by declaring the entire Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina a safe haven. The Council
must ensure that no military assistance is allowed to reach
the Serbs. The Muslims must be enabled to exercise their
legitimate right
to self-defence by the lifting of the
embargo on their country. Once again, we emphasize that
the war criminals in the former Yugoslavia must be
brought
the demand by the
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) contact
group on Bosnia and Herzegovina to be allowed to
participate in all activities of the contact group of five.
to justice and support
The world economy is slowly emerging from the
state of stagnation which has lasted for far too long. A
new period of varying degrees of growth has started,
particularly in the third world. Numerous elements had
contributed to that situation.
Foremost among those
elements was the burden of foreign debt which is being
aggravated by the deterioration in prices of basic export
commodities side by side with the paucity of foreign
investments in the areas of production and the very high
expenditures on armaments. The time has come for the
international community,
the developed
industrial States, to adopt effective measures that would
make it possible to devise a definitive solution to the
problems of indebtedness in the third world as a whole,
and in Africa in particular.
in particular
The debt burden in Africa has had many grave
consequences which have affected the ability of the
continent to grow and develop. Despite the many debt
rescheduling agreements concluded over the past few
37
9th meeting
28 September 1994
All we wish for here is that those issues should not
be used as a pretext to intervene in the internal affairs of
States, to deal with States in a discriminatory manner, or
to impose
conditions on providing economic or
developmental aid.
I refer in this connection to the idea of a carbon tax,
whether individual or collective, under the pretext of
protecting the environment. This is purely an economic
issue which will harm the economies of oil-producing
States, particularly those in the Gulf.
The State of Qatar reaffirms its support for the
United Nations efforts to deal with the issues I have
mentioned. The United Nations is the ideal institution to
face up to international and world issues with all their
political, humanitarian, economic and social dimensions.
Inspired by the Charter,
it can achieve success by
building a world based on relations of cooperation and
mutual confidence, a world of justice and stability.
The meeting rose at 7.45 p.m.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
years, the servicing of debt continues to consume over
22 per cent of all export earnings and continues to obstruct
investment and human development.
In this context, the dialogue between the North and the
South should be reactivated in a more effective manner in
order to find new means to achieve development in the
third world and to rid the third world of poverty and
underdevelopment. We believe that ridding the world of
poverty and underdevelopment is an essential prerequisite
of lasting peace and the welfare of mankind.
Undoubtedly, success in the dialogue between North
and South and productive cooperation between them will
promote efforts to reach a new more realistic and more
balanced international economic order. The development
of the South is not merely in the interests of its States and
peoples alone, it is also in the interests of the North and its
people.
The developing world pins its hopes on international
trade as a means of achieving prosperity for all. We
therefore welcomed the recent success achieved with regard
to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
and hope that this success will result in the freeing of trade
and of unrestricted competition in the world.
The threats facing mankind today, and which will
continue to face it in future, are not all political or military.
There are questions of the deterioration of the environment,
poverty, underdevelopment, drugs,
life-
threatening diseases, terrorism and violations of human
rights which become more grave with each passing day.
These non-political issues require urgent solutions before
they become intractable and threaten all mankind.
the spread of
Among
of
the
the
indications
international
community’s concern with economic and social issues is
the large number of international conferences devoted to
such issues. Over the past two years, the world witnessed
the holding of several such conferences,
including the
World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development in
Rio de Janeiro, and next year the World Summit for Social
Development will be held in Copenhagen. Each one of the
conferences that have been convened has achieved results
with regard to the issues it has dealt with by means of
resolutions and recommendations and the international
consensus
and
recommendations.
surrounding
resolutions
those
38
