United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
53rd Meeting
Monday, 7 November 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Pak Gil Yon
(Democratic
Korea),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
Republic
People’s
of
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 89 (continued)
(e) Global Conference on the Sustainable Development
of Small Island Developing States
Report of
Corr.1 and Corr.2)
the Conference (A/CONF.167/9 and
Report of the Secretary-General (A/49/425 and
Add.1)
Notes by the Secretary-General transmitting the
reports of
the United Nations Development
Programme (A/49/414 and A/49/459)
Mr. Hurst (Antigua and Barbuda): When my Prime
Minister, Mr. Lester Bryant Bird, addressed the General
Assembly four weeks ago, he said:
“while the United Nations has been a symbol of hope
for people from small countries such as mine, much
remains for it to do before it can represent to them an
organization which ... upholds the rights of their small
nations, which promotes their social progress and
better standards of life.” (Official Records of
the
General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Plenary
Meetings, 20th meeting, p. 19)
The United Nations Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States, which was held in Barbados last April and May,
surely inspired greater hope in the minds of people from
small countries. This was the first time in history —
certainly the first
time in the history of the United
Nations — that small island States had become the focus
of the Organization’s special attention.
However, it certainly was not the first time in history
that small islands had become the focus of international
attention. Between 1492 and 1763 empires were built by
the forceful acquisition of small islands in the Caribbean.
These were jewels in the crown of many a prince. In
1763, for example, two Caribbean islands — islands not
much larger than mine — were exchanged by warring
Powers, in a peace treaty, for what is today the second
largest nation on Earth. Such was the value of small
islands in the days before the industrial revolution, when
the Caribbean produced great wealth for mighty nations.
Today the wealth of the islands of the Caribbean is
its
to be found in its people and their institutions,
biodiverse flora and fauna, its tropical reefs and tropical
rain forests and its incredible natural beauty. Hundreds of
millions of people, primarily from the industrialized
countries, have come to stare at our beauty, to learn a
little of our history and to seek respite from a harried life
in their maddening metropolises.
Can the United Nations be more than “a symbol of
island nations? Can the
hope” to people from small
94-86950 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
United Nations promote a better standard of life for people
from small island States? Can the United Nations uphold
the right of small island nations to exist free from the threat
of environmental destruction? Much remains for the United
Nations to do before it can claim to represent
these
legitimate aspirations.
When the Global Conference was convened in
Barbados and the Programme of Action was negotiated,
five very important international implementation directives
emerged. These are contained in annex II, Chapter XV, of
the report. Today my delegation will address only one of
them — to be found in section 5 of that part of the
Chapter.
The report mandates the formulation of a range of
indicators of economic and ecological vulnerability. These
are needed for
the purpose of measuring sustainable
development in a way that that cannot be accomplished by
the crude gross national product (GNP) per capita device.
The GNP per capita device is neither apt nor realistic for
the purpose of measuring the economic performance of
small States. Indeed, everyone deems it, by itself, wholly
inadequate for
the purpose of measuring sustainable
development in any State. The GNP per capita device was
developed by economists from large countries, with large
countries in mind, and at a time when they could not
envision the existence of a small island State, much less the
application of such a device to so recent a phenomenon.
for our
an adequate
The GNP per capita device does not reflect the fact
that our island States are too small to provide for their
populations, at a low cost, many of the services routinely
afforded to citizens of large countries. As the economists
would say, we suffer from a “diseconomy of scale”. The
GNP per capita device fails to reflect our inability to
penetrate markets
embryonic manufacturing
industries, whose production levels reflect small scale. It
does not give
representation of our
vulnerability. A single hurricane can set our development
back 10 years or more when it destroys 50 per cent of our
housing stock, completely devastates our agriculture and
damages for a long time our precious but fragile tourism
industry. A month ago Saint Lucia, which is in the eastern
Caribbean, was visited by a tropical storm, which destroyed
more than 80 per cent of its banana crop. This represented
more than half of Saint Lucia’s annual gross domestic
product. Our proneness to natural disaster cannot be
disregarded, given the frequency and inevitability of such
incidents.
2
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
We join in the expressions of condolence to the
Government and the people of Egypt following the recent
natural disaster
country and its horrible
consequences, including the loss of life.
in that
In our
region, even man-made and unintended
circumstances can have an impact on our economic
performance in ways that
large countries can avoid.
During the gulf war, for example — 5,000 miles away
from the Caribbean — fear of terrorism caused many
people to cancel their travel plans. The effect on our
peaceful tourist destinations was devastating. The GNP
per capita device does not, and cannot, reflect
that
vulnerability. We decry its use because it paints an
inaccurate picture of our development status. It also fails
to measure the environmental costs associated with
production, consumption and disposal in any nation. The
need for a more useful set of economic-performance
indicators is surely very evident in this post-Rio world.
The Conference report recommends that
“Appropriate expertise should continue to be
utilized in the development, compilation and
updating of the vulnerability index.” (A/CONF.167/9,
para. 114)
In this regard, the University of Malta and the University
of the West Indies, among others, must be congratulated
for providing the necessary intellectual resources. The
emerging vulnerability index is not intended for use as a
yardstick of poverty or wealth; rather, it is intended as a
device for measuring the lack of economic resilience
arising from the relative inability of a country to shelter
itself
is easy to
construct; the results are not difficult to comprehend; and
it lends itself to international comparisons.
from forces outside its control.
It
Today we embrace the attempt to bring novel and
improved thinking to the development process, for by
succeeding, small island States will have contributed to
the emergence of a better world. We join, in that regard,
the statements made by the Group of 77, the delegation
of Barbados on behalf of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) and the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago
on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States. We are
thankful to the organs and agencies of the United Nations
system for the roles they have played in implementing
various facets of the Barbados Programme of Action.
Most important, my delegation applauds and thanks
the Government and the people of Barbados for having
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
sacrificed much in order to make our island voices heard.
Our efforts will come to naught
if the industrialized
countries do not cease and desist from engaging in harmful
production patterns, wasteful consumption lifestyles and
deadly disposal behaviours. Global warming and sea-level
rise threaten the very existence of small island States; until
our skies cease to be a dump site for harmful gases, our
small countries will remain vulnerable and threatened.
Our United Nations must uphold our right to exist free
of the threat of destruction. The next 50 years will be
critical. We believe that our United Nations possesses the
will and the power to harness the forces of good for
sustained development and a reversal of environmental
decline. The citizens of small island developing States wish
to move from seeing the United Nations as symbol to
embracing it as saviour.
Mr. Edwards (Marshall Islands): On behalf of the
people and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands, I would like to join with the previous statements
expressing sympathy and condolences to the Government
and the people of Egypt on the natural disaster that they are
experiencing.
Let me also reiterate the sentiments in regards to the
election of President Essy that were expressed on behalf of
the Republic of the Marshall Islands by Mr. Phillip Muller,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his statement in the general
debate.
We have just heard a statement on behalf of the South
Pacific by Australia, a statement by Trinidad and Tobago
as Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States, and a
statement by the Group of 77. My delegation fully supports
those statements. On behalf of my Government, I would
also like to pay a special tribute to the Government and the
people of Barbados for the hospitality and friendship they
extended to the delegation of the Marshall Islands during
the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of
Small Island Developing States.
My delegation had high hopes and aspirations when
we set out on the road that
led us to the Barbados
Conference. All the long hours and lengthy negotiations
tested our patience, and we were glad to see that
the
world’s attention would finally be focused on the small
island States. We have stated many times that we feel our
group of countries is a much-neglected group in the United
Nations family of nations. To show our sincere commitment
to the Rio process and its follow-up, we have implemented
many projects in the Marshall Islands aimed at sustainable
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
development, with many more in the planning stage. It
was in that spirit that we arrived in Barbados.
The Conference
itself was very fruitful
in
strengthening old links and forging new relations among
the leaders of the small island States. Our leaders were
full of resolve to ensure that the partnership we had
started upon in Rio should not be lost as we moved
forward from Barbados. However, I would be less than
frank if I did not mention the chagrin that was felt at the
low turnout from the developed countries. This was after
all supposed to be a conference “on” and not “of” small
island developing States.
of Action
and
language under
Let us look closely at one of the outcomes of
Barbados — the Programme
its
recommendations. On the whole, the first chapters contain
most of
the requirements that my Government has
envisaged in order to reach sustainable development. We
would have preferred stronger
the
international action sections, but we joined in the
consensus, since funding would be a separate issue
considered as a whole. My Government stands ready to
implement those national commitments that are not yet in
place and to work jointly with our region, as outlined by
Australia. However, we cannot pursue these goals without
the assistance of the international community. In this
regard, I wish to commend those countries that have
stood by the Pacific Islands and that have provided
urgently needed assistance. We appreciate what has been
provided, and we shall
such
assistance.
remain grateful
for
Therefore, we feel that the section of the Programme
concerning funding is totally inadequate. We may, as the
relevant paragraph says, seek to ensure that appropriate
attention is given to the concerns of the small island
States by the various international institutions. The danger
is that such a vague sentence will undermine our efforts
on the implementation level. We are grateful to those
friends who continue to support us, and my Government
strongly urges the developed countries to extend some of
their official development assistance to the small island
States. We also support the call made by the Group of 77
to ensure that
the 0.7 per cent
for official
development assistance is reached.
target
On institutional follow-up, we recognize that there
should be an identifiable unit within the Department for
Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development. This
office should have sufficient staff to be able properly to
carry out its duties and mandates. This is stated very
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
clearly in paragraph 123 of the Programme of Action, and
I strongly believe that we are not micro-managing the
Secretary-General if we voice the opinion that there should
be at least four professional staff members dedicated to
implementing the outcomes of the Barbados Conference.
We also feel
the
economic commissions should occur at the subregional
level wherever possible. For the Pacific, this would mean
the Pacific Operations Centre of the Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific, based in Port Vila,
Vanuatu.
the regional strengthening of
that
We commend the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) for the work carried out on the two
feasibility studies. In particular, we are glad to see the
report on the technical assistance programme for small
island developing States (SIDS/TAP), as we have been
aware, ever since we became a Member of the United
Nations, of
technical
cooperation among developing countries. In our opinion, the
SIDS/TAP programme could be implemented immediately,
as the international framework required is more or less
already in place.
shortcomings
area of
in the
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
Our negotiating partners had different ideas as far as
the cost was concerned. A journalist from the Pacific
proposed the following headline for his final report:
“North to Islands: Swim.” It seemed to him that the North
was only reaffirming existing pledges and programmes,
and that the islands would have to turn to each other for
assistance and advice. This has even been reiterated in a
well-known journal
that often circulates in this very
building.
The Marshall Islands, together with the other island
countries of the Pacific region, did not come to the
Barbados Conference
forests,
atmospheres,
zones, marine
ecosystems and coral reefs contribute a great deal to the
preservation, if not the betterment, of the overall global
environment. We would not like to come away with less.
empty-handed. Our
economic
exclusive
We know what the sustainable development needs of
the Marshall Islands are. The costs envisaged to meet
those needs are minute in comparison with the costs of
giant development projects around the world. Our requests
are not extravagant.
We also welcome the study done on the small island
developing States information network (SIDS/NET); it is
being studied in great detail in our capital. There are still
some unanswered questions, but we are hopeful that we can
have a period of consultations with UNDP and donor
countries to see how this programme could be implemented.
For many small island States, SIDS/NET would entail a
considerable investment. We need to look at this in detail
through careful examination.
I appeal to the States Members of this Organization
to look closely at the commitments freely made at Rio
and to reaffirm to the members of the Alliance of Small
Island States that they will fulfil those commitments.
Furthermore, I would like to invite the Member States to
look favourably on the draft resolution that will be
submitted by the Alliance of Small Island States through
the Group of 77, and to ensure its passage and
implementation.
island States, a critical element
These proposals are directed at capacity-building in the
small
in sustainable
development. But we have to realize that a certain degree
of capacity-building is required before we can get to the
level of implementing these proposals nationally. I must
add that we are disappointed that these two reports were not
translated and distributed at an earlier date.
We were all very much aware that
the Barbados
Conference was an ambitious undertaking. At the same
time, we were reminded that it would be the first follow-up
to Rio — in essence, a test of the international will to
implement Agenda 21. We were told by experts that the
islands would be useful arenas for pilot projects because of
their small scale and relative isolation. The cost would also
be much less — or so those experts said.
Mr. George (Federated States of Micronesia): We
join you, Mr. President, and previous
in
expressing our sympathy to the people and Government
of Egypt on the loss of life and destruction suffered as a
result of the recent flood.
speakers
The Ambassador of Australia has spoken for all the
Pacific Forum countries, including the Federated States of
Micronesia, on this important item — the report on and
outcomes of the Global Conference on the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States, held in
Barbados from 26 April to 6 May 1994.
At
the outset, I should like, on behalf of my
Government, to thank the Government of Barbados for
the excellent arrangements it made, for its hospitality and
for its valuable contributions to the success of the Global
Conference.
4
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to Australia’s Ambassador
I should like also to express my Government’s
appreciation
the
Environment, Penelope Anne Wensley, for the invaluable
role she played as Chairperson of the Preparatory and Main
Committees of the Barbados Conference.
for
The Federated States of Micronesia fully supports and
associates itself with the regional statement made by
Australia in its capacity as Chairman of the South Pacific
Forum. I am also happy to say that my country fully
supports the statement made by the Ambassador of Trinidad
and Tobago as Chairperson of our transregional common-
interest group, the Alliance of Small Island States, to which
we attach great importance. As a member of the Group of
77, we are in full agreement with the statement made by
the Ambassador of Algeria in his capacity as Chairman of
our Group.
(UNCED),
In 1992, at
the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development
the world
community adopted Agenda 21. All the nations gathered at
that historic Conference declared that Agenda 21 reflected
a global consensus and political commitment at the highest
level of cooperation on development and environment. They
further stressed that
the cooperation of all States was
crucial for the fulfilment of the objectives of Agenda 21. It
that we regard the issue under
is
discussion — the report and outcomes of
the Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island
Developing States — as a subject which is crucial to the
Federated States of Micronesia.
in this context
For the first time in the history of the United Nations,
we have been able to put forward an agenda for world
attention concerning the sustainable development of small
island developing States. The Barbados Conference was not
only the first global conference on sustainable development,
but also the first concrete implementation of Agenda 21.
Over the past two years or so, many delegations have spent
time, effort and energy in the complex preparations and
negotiations which led to the adoption of the Programme of
Action in Barbados in May 1994. Given the human,
technical,
that
process, we all know now how great a challenge sustainable
development really is. While addressing that challenge has
been a demanding exercise for all involved, we are now
embarking on yet another stage, which will require much
greater
the
implementation stage of the Barbados Programme of Action
is a tremendous task, which awaits the greatest commitment
of the international community.
financial and political complexities of
than before. As we
all know,
effort
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
It is exceedingly crucial to understand that, if we fail
to breathe life into the Programme of Action, all of our
efforts will be futile. In Rio we all joined in pursuing a
new agenda for the twenty-first century. It is even clearer
to us today that partnership participation in the sustainable
development movement will
the genuine
commitment and support of the international community,
especially that of the industrialized countries.
require
of
session
the General Assembly
My delegation believes that the ongoing work of the
forty-ninth
is
exceptionally important, because, as we continue to build
on the achievements of previous years, the international
environment and sustainable development agenda will
need to be tightly focused, with a common objective, in
the process leading up to the full review conference on
the overall implementation of the UNCED outcomes by
the General Assembly in 1997.
the forty-sixth session of
joined the United Nations at
The Federated States of Micronesia became deeply
involved in the various UNCED-related activities as its
priority when it
the
beginning of
the General
Assembly. We believe that the journey from Rio has had
many significant milestones. One of
the significant
achievements is the outcome of the Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States. The Programme of Action that emerged from the
Global Conference is the first post-Rio effort to amplify
the principles of Agenda 21 in a specific context pointing
towards tangible measures for implementation. We are
now at a stage when mechanisms have been established
to give impetus to the implementation of these measures.
With such mechanisms in place as the Commission on
Sustainable Development, the Conventions on climate
the
change,
and
restructured Global Environment Facility (GEF),
the
international community finds itself ever more obliged to
give the highest priority to the international environment
agenda. All of
these mechanisms offer a unique
contribution to the collective international effort towards
sustainable development in significant ways.
desertification
biodiversity,
and
level,
the regional
Much has already been done in our region to put
into effect the commitments undertaken in the Programme
of Action. At
the South Pacific
Regional Environment Programme (SPREP) has been
active in the coordination of a number of activities in the
area of sustainable development, including a regional
biodiversity programme funded by the pilot phase of the
GEF. At the national level, despite many difficulties that
my country faces as a small island State, the Federated
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
States of Micronesia has already begun to take positive
steps towards sustainable development. As a first step, and
in recognition of the importance of the Global Conference
on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States, my Government has created a widely representative
National Sustainable Development Board to monitor the
integration of
into
government action to assist with the analysis and
coordination of projects.
sustainable development policies
We welcome the recent report of the Secretary-
General on actions taken by the organs, organizations and
bodies of the United Nations system to implement the
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of
Small Island Developing States. With particular attention to
paragraphs 139 and 140 of that report, under the heading
“Institutional Arrangements”, we especially call for the
support of our developed-country partners for the creation
of an identifiable entity within the United Nations
for Policy Coordination and Sustainable
Department
Development, as called for
the
Programme of Action. Resources are required in order to
have this identifiable entity established and functioning as
the focal point within the Department to provide substantive
secretariat support,
review and
coordination of the implementation of the Programme of
Action. As the identifiable entity is envisaged as reporting
to the Commission on Sustainable Development and other
relevant bodies on the implementation of the Programme of
Action, it will ensure that the outcomes of the Barbados
Conference are effectively integrated into the Commission’s
thematic programme of work.
follow-up, monitoring,
in paragraph 123 of
My country also welcomes the cooperative and prompt
efforts of the United Nations Development Programme in
undertaking a feasibility study, as called for
in the
Programme of Action, on an information network and a
technical assistance programme for small island developing
States. While these feasibility studies are a valuable
contribution to giving impetus to the attainment of the
objectives and outcomes of the Barbados Conference, they
should be seen as an information and technical network to
move forward and complement the 14 substantive sectoral
areas in the Programme of Action yet to be implemented.
I wish to point out that it was with recognition of the
special vulnerabilities of small island developing States on
global environmental problems, particularly with respect to
climate change, biological diversity and international
waters, that the Programme of Action specifically requested
that the restructured GEF should be seen as an important
channel of assistance in these areas, through the provision
6
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
of new and additional resources. At the meeting of Heads
of State of members of the South Pacific Forum, which
was held in Brisbane, Australia, the Forum welcomed the
restructuring and replenishment of the GEF and its
intention to assist
in the outcomes of the Barbados
Conference.
We are not only the inhabitants of this planet, but
also custodians of the shared resources which will be
essential to the survival of future generations. It is in this
light that we call for a strong partnership, to be seen not
along lines of developed countries versus developing
countries, but, rather, as a shared goal and investment for
the benefit of the entire family of nations. As the
Programme of Action clearly sets out the actions to be
implemented at the international, regional and national
levels, my country urges all Member States to support
during the remainder of the forty-ninth session the overall
outcome of the Barbados Conference, including all the
enabling resolutions, which will give the specialized
United Nations agencies and organizations the mandate to
start implementing the substance of the Programme of
Action.
Mr. Samana (Papua New Guinea): My delegation
fully endorses and associates itself with the statements
made by the Chairpersons of the Group of 77,
the
Alliance of Small Island States and the South Pacific
Forum, who have eloquently expressed and conveyed the
significance and the importance of the Global Conference
on the Sustainable Development of Small
Island
Developing States.
community
to
international
We believe that the Barbados Conference was a
major historical milestone which provided the impetus to
the
its
commitment to the promise of Rio in 1992. It also offered
a positive opportunity for greater participation and
involvement by the international community in the
important areas and issues of common interest and
concern to mankind.
demonstrate
sustainable development of
Papua New Guinea maintains and shares the view
that
island
the
developing States and their survival depend critically on
the cooperation of the international community for the full
and immediate implementation of the Programme of
Action.
small
Papua New Guinea is already in the process of
introducing appropriate policies and legislative measures
to give added substance to the Programme of Action and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the realization of the overall goals and objectives of the
United Nations Conference
and
Development.
on Environment
It has been realized, by many at the national and
international levels, that the indiscriminate depletion of
natural resources, and its adverse effects on the global
environment and subsequent effects on climate change,
pollution,
level and environmental
degradation,
imposing serious
limitations particularly on the development and the very
existence and sustenance of small island developing States.
is becoming critical,
rises in the sea-
The small island developing States possess within their
national and regional surroundings natural habitats that
house unique species of flora and fauna.
role of small
The international community’s recognition of the
important
island developing States as
custodians of valuable biodiversity is not only timely but
indeed a positive step towards creating a greater opportunity
for the attainment of sustainable development for the
benefit of all our citizens.
At
the Barbados Conference, a strong political
message was sent to the world by the participation of our
Governor-General, Sir Wiwa Korowi who, among others,
challenged the international community to provide the
necessary resources to implement not only the Barbados
Programme of Action but also the overall outcome of the
Rio process.
Papua New Guinea is of the firm view that the success
of the Barbados Conference, like all other United Nations
conferences,
largely depends on the willingness of the
donor countries to provide adequate technical and financial
resources to ensure its full implementation.
The Programme of Action highlights a number of
development strategies which are important in promoting
sustainable development. More specifically, these strategies
include, human resource development, institutional capacity-
building, and the promotion of international cooperation in
the transfer of technology, trade and investments.
sound management practices
Our existing foreign and domestic policies are geared
towards achieving sustainable development, through the
application of
in the
exploitation of natural resources. This is done through the
environmental
establishment,
planning and protection legislation that
legal
mechanisms for the monitoring of environmental pollutants,
independence, of
since
sets
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
required levels, and effectively polices the
against
activities of industry in terms of adherence to national
environmental planning guidelines. This legislation sets
limits, for instance, in the case of forest resources and
parameters for sustainable harvesting.
of
the
The
direct
involvement
international
community as well as relevant United Nations specialized
agencies is needed in order effectively to fulfil the various
programme requirements and directly to support national
and regional efforts and priorities. In this regard, we
welcome the actions that have already been taken through
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
particularly the Feasibility Study on a Technical
Assistance Programme for Small
Island Developing
States, including two subregional workshops held in Fiji
and Barbados.
We are also pleased to acknowledge a joint initiative
of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
(HABITAT), UNDP and the World Bank on an urban
management and environmental sanitation programme in
a number of South Pacific island countries.
the
initiated,
complementing
increased participation in global
At the regional level, a number of programmes have
international
been
Programme of Action and including: the promotion of
coastal area management; the efficient use of energy
resources;
research,
assessment,
the monitoring and mapping of climate
impacts;
the
strengthening of disaster preparedness and institutional
management; and the establishment of mechanisms to
restrict the transboundary movement of hazardous wastes;
and the monitoring of marine pollution.
technical assistance;
the provision of
Papua New Guinea has initiated a move towards the
establishment of a regional convention on the prevention
of the transboundary movement of hazardous and toxic
wastes, which is now in its final negotiating stages and is
expected to come into force in 1995. This, we believe, is
a major step towards the overall management and
protection of our environment.
Papua New Guinea has also embarked on an
inter-island transportation project and has removed trade
and migration barriers, with some members of the South
Pacific Forum, to be consistent with the international
consensus on the promotion of equitable trade and
investment to achieve sustained economic growth and
sustainable development.
7
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
Island Developing States,
in response to the
Small
challenge we set for ourselves at the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development in 1992,
and to thank those who devoted so much time and effort
to preparing for it. The Programme of Action and the
Barbados Declaration adopted at
the Conference are
indeed landmarks on the road from Rio. They provide
fresh impetus to the work of the international community
on the sustainable development of small island developing
States.
It was a historic conference,
in as much as it
established a firm basis for directing the attention of the
international community to small island developing States
and the serious problems
they face in achieving
sustainable development. The Programme of Action is the
first step taken by the international community to help
them address those problems. Our next task is to ensure
its implementation on the basis of the partnership created
at the Conference. The Government of Japan, for its part,
will be guided by the Programme of Action and by the
spirit of the Declaration of Barbados in the delivery of
bilateral and multilateral development assistance to small
island developing States.
emphasizes
of Action
The Programme
the
importance of human resource development
to the
sustainable development of small island developing States
and pinpoints specific issues such as education, training
and research and development as being of particular
significance. It also rightly emphasizes the importance of
enhancing institutional and administrative capacity. This
is an orientation that is in accord with the policy of Japan
with respect to its development assistance to developing
countries, one of whose major priorities is enhancement
of self-reliance. There is a synergy that is produced when
effective national efforts are supported by external
assistance. Japan is determined to work to enhance that
synergy.
My
to
like
thank
delegation would
the
Secretary-General for his report on action taken by the
organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system to implement the Programme of Action, and also
for his notes transmitting the studies undertaken by the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) on the
feasibility of developing a Small Island Developing States
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Papua New Guinea is particularly vulnerable to
potential environmental degradation,
in the sense that
60 per cent of its revenues come from the exportation of
mining and petroleum resources,
including forest and
fisheries resources. Ironically, therefore, these industries
require the greatest attention and need to be monitored
closely for any potential adverse effects and environmental
degradation.
The National Government and UNDP is creating a
National Sustainable Development Strategy which,
inter alia, will oversee
the
Programme of Action.
implementation of
the
We therefore believe that the international community,
working through and with the regional and subregional
organizational mechanisms, can effectively implement the
Programme of Action that will further strengthen and
enhance international development cooperation in pursuit of
sustainable development.
We look forward to the report of the Commission on
Sustainable Development on the implementation of the
Programme at the next session, when we will continue to
make constructive contributions to the work of
the
Commission. Thus, we would encourage the various
agencies,
including the Inter-Agency Committee on
Sustainable Development, to give greater consideration to
the implementation of the Programme of Action.
The success of the Barbados Programme of Action
critically hinges on the positive support of the international
community in the effective implementation of national and
regional programmes.
Papua New Guinea looks forward, with a greater sense
of confidence in our endeavour, to the realization of the
goals of sustainable development pertaining to the particular
needs and aspirations of the small island developing States
as a prerequisite in developing the national and regional
capacity to contribute effectively in our global partnership
to ensure a better future for our children.
Mr. Maruyama (Japan): At the outset, my delegation
would like to join previous speakers in expressing its
deepest sympathy to the Government and the people of
Egypt on the tragic loss incurred as a result of the recent
flood.
My delegation would like to congratulate the
Government of Barbados for having successfully convened
the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of
8
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
technical assistance programme (SIDS/TAP) and a Small
Island Developing States information network (SIDS/NET).
Minister Sandiford for the able and skilful manner in
which he steered the Conference to a successful conclusion.
As the Secretary-General rightly points out, the report
should be considered to be of an interim nature. In view of
the important role of the United Nations system, my
delegation believes that it is vital to conduct a continuing
review of plans and programmes for implementing the
Programme of Action, and it therefore looks forward to
further reports. In that connection, it would welcome the
review of the Programme of Action by the Inter-agency
Committee on Sustainable Development suggested in the
Secretary-General’s report.
assistance programme
My delegation particularly welcomes and supports the
the studies undertaken by UNDP on the
results of
SIDS/TAP technical
and the
SIDS/NET information network. Cooperation is of vital
importance in enhancing self-reliance by small
island
developing States, and both SIDS/TAP and SIDS/NET are
designed to strengthen such cooperation. This, too, is a goal
that is in line with the policy of Japan, which attaches
importance to South-South cooperation in strengthening
international cooperation for development.
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to assure you,
Mr. President, that Japan will make every effort to play an
active role in implementing the decisions reached at the
historic first Global Conference on the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States.
Mr. Balzan (Malta):
join previous speakers in
expressing deepest sympathy and solidarity with the
Government and the people of Egypt at this trying time, as
they deal with the tragic consequences of the recent floods.
I
on
the
The Global Conference
Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States, which was
convened in Barbados earlier this year, marked the first
concrete measure emanating from the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio
de Janeiro in June 1992. The Barbados Conference
successfully accomplished its task. It specified relevant
policies within a framework of a Programme of Action
aimed at enabling small island developing States to achieve
sustainable development.
Unquestionably,
credit must be given to the
Government of Barbados for the excellent organization and
to the people of Barbados for the cordial hospitality
extended to delegations. Our gratitude goes also to Prime
The delegation of Malta views the current debate on
the report of the Barbados Conference as a manifestation
of the importance the international community attaches to
the well-being of small island developing States. My
Government welcomes the report
the
Secretary General, on the action taken by the organs,
organizations and bodies of the United Nations system to
implement the Programme of Action for the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States.
(A/49/425) of
island developing States,
While affirming the human and natural assets
pertaining to small
the
Declaration of Barbados did not fail to highlight the
hurdles that need to be overcome. In aiming at
the
attainment of a better quality of life for present and future
generations, the document adopts an exemplary wide-
ranging approach.
Comprehensive as it is, the Programme of Action
negotiated and agreed upon at Bridgetown addresses
innumerable issues relating to the sustainable development
of small island States, issues which have been repeatedly
underscored and which have been universally recognized.
In 1992, in Rio, the international community identified
the particular problems faced by small island States as a
special case with regard both to environment and to
development. If not catered for, their size, geographic
location and limited resources could constitute particular
vulnerabilities.
disadvantages.
At times, the size and geographic location of States
in this category impose in themselves a number of
economic
these
disadvantages are multiplied as a consequence of natural
disasters. In fact, vulnerability to external economic
influences and ecological fragility are major concerns for
small island developing States.
cases,
In
some
of Barbados, Her
A reality at times overlooked was pointed out by the
Excellency
Governor-General
Dame Nita Barrow, in her address to the Conference in
Barbados, namely, that one sixth of the Earth’s surface,
including a significant portion of
its marine and
biodiversity resources, falls under the jurisdiction of small
island States. This element is noted, more than as a matter
of pride, because one cannot
inherent
implications or its impact on the world community as a
whole.
ignore its
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
cognizant
Small island States are fully aware of their problems,
but
responsibilities,
likewise
responsibilities that, if shared, could be better addressed and
more easily resolved. Hence the need to encourage and
enhance regional and international cooperation.
their
of
History teaches us that small island States, in their
effort to survive, have always invested in their human
resources. This is one investment which has never failed.
On the contrary, it has consistently yielded high dividends.
investment
Malta, itself a small island State, is living proof that
the best
lies in the development of human
resources. Innovative and traditional economic activities
that have been undertaken have given our islands the
impetus needed to put the economy on a sound platform.
Small
island States, notwithstanding their diverse
characteristics, have always played an important role in the
multilateral process. Through their experience, gained in the
course of their long history, they can continue to contribute
to
economic
cooperation.
international
enhancing
political
and
The Convention on the Law of the Sea, which will
soon enter into force, and the proposal to include climate
change as an item on the agenda of
the General
Assembly — both launched by Malta — are two examples
of the manner in which a State, regardless of its size, can
contribute to the well-being of mankind.
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
Traditional wisdom teaches us that a problem shared
is a problem halved.
of
and
assistance
in Barbados,
the
As my delegation pointed out
the
involvement
international
community in resolving issues which may hinder or arrest
the sustainable development of small island developing
States have to be viewed from a much wider perspective.
That wider perspective necessarily includes the inverse
proportionality of the importance which small
island
States have in key strategic areas of the globe. Conscious
as they are of the responsibilities and hardships which
their sensitive location has often placed on them, small
island States are in the forefront in championing dialogue
as the unique tool for fostering greater harmony and
coexistence.
Dialogue is at
the root of any approach to the
resolution of problems. Dialogue helps identify problems
and stimulates solutions. Dialogue re-cements what
conflicts often undo. In so doing dialogue demands as its
basic element solidarity in action — solidarity which
warrants a comprehensive approach; solidarity which
should not be limited to mere words but should serve as
the means to translate words into deeds.
Mr. Pierre (Guyana):
to extend
condolences to the Government and people of Egypt on
the recent occurrences that have resulted in the tragic loss
of life and suffering in that country.
I wish first
In this context, my country welcomes the inclusion in
the Programme of Action of its proposal
to set up a
vulnerability index to serve as a supplementary yardstick to
measure the degree and extent of vulnerabilities in terms
both of economic structures and of institutions.
My delegation is happy to register its concurrence
with the statements delivered by the delegation of
Barbados on behalf of
the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) and the delegation of Algeria on behalf of
the Group of 77.
A main agenda item currently being discussed within
the Organization is the issue of development. Endless
discussions at different levels have identified the basic
elements necessary for socio-economic sustainability. The
Assembly is expected shortly to debate the measures
essential
the enhancement of development. The
requirements and concerns of the category of small island
States should not be sidelined.
for
Barbados does not mark the end of an exercise; rather,
it signals the commencement of an ongoing process which
monitors and ensures
that
the results obtained are
consolidated and augmented.
10
on Environment
The Rio Conference
and
Development gave the world perhaps its clearest signal
yet that the problems confronting humanity are so grave
and urgent that they require treatment at the highest level
possible. That Summit was equally unequivocal in its
emphasis on the unique nature and vulnerability of small
island States and of low-lying coastal regions.
The situation confronting small island developing
States in an increasingly competitive global economic and
political environment is very aptly depicted in chapter 17
of Agenda 21. Small island States are indeed a special
case both for environment and for development. They are
ecologically fragile and vulnerable. Their small size,
limited resources, geographical dispersion and isolation
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
from markets place them at a grave disadvantage
economically and prevent the realization of any benefits of
economies of scale.
In Barbados in April this year we met and deliberated
successfully on the special circumstances affecting this
group of partners. That occasion marked the first major
substantive follow-up process to the Rio Conference and
was unique for this and for its focus on a specific and
important concern. Our task henceforth will be to pursue
with equal vigour and enthusiasm the full and urgent
implementation of the agreements and decisions reached at
that Conference. Guyana
full
endorsement of
the Barbados Declaration and the
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of
Small Island Developing States, contained in document
A/CONF.167/9, now before the Assembly for consideration.
in urging the
joins
Important as they are, those agreements will amount
to very little unless appropriate mechanisms are established
for effective monitoring and implementation of actions on
a system-wide basis. To this end, we believe that it is
essential that this responsibility be appropriately located
within the Department
for Policy Coordination and
Sustainable Development, as provided for in the Programme
of Action. That Department should therefore be adequately
equipped for the proper fulfilment of its responsibility for
monitoring and coordination and for the provision of an
effective support
the follow-up to the
Conference decisions.
structure for
Two areas of critical importance to small island States
are information technology and capacity-building that would
enhance the capacity of those States to better utilize and
harness the assets of their rich natural habitat. In this
connection, the proposals for projects in the small islands
developing States information network (SIDS/NET) and the
small
assistance
programme (SIDS/TAP) set forth a full scope of work. The
efficient and prompt manner in which the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) has responded to a
mandate given it to prepare studies on these proposals
deserves our full commendation.
islands developing States
technical
Those studies are contained in additional reports also
before us for approval. Two noteworthy features of the
projects need to be underscored: the emphasis placed on
local capacity-building, and the utilization of indigenous
knowledge. I urge the Assembly to endorse the report now
before us and to give its full support to the action outlined
therein.
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
The extensive preparatory process in which we were
all engaged and the exemplary deliberations in the
Conference itself and in its other processes, such as the
meeting of the Group of Eminent Persons and the Forum
of the Non-Governmental Organization, all converged into
the highly successful outcome of which we now speak.
Our highest commendations must go to the Government
of Barbados and to the Alliance of Small Island States
(AOSIS) for their roles and efforts in ensuring such an
outcome. It now behooves us in the General Assembly to
treat the implementation and follow-up process with equal
seriousness and determination,
in order to give true
meaning to what has been accomplished.
Mr. Turnquest (Bahamas): Let me at the outset
associate myself with other speakers in expressing to the
Government and the people of Egypt the condolences and
sympathy of my delegation on the tragic loss of life and
damage resulting from the recent floods.
The
Bahamas
associates
itself with
the
commendations made by other delegations concerning the
successful outcome of the first-ever Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States, held earlier
in Barbados. The
Government of Barbados is to be congratulated for the
excellent arrangements made for the Conference and for
the care taken of delegations attending the meeting.
this year
My delegation is pleased to endorse the comments
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the
Group of 77, and by the representative of Trinidad and
Tobago on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States
(AOSIS) on this important item. We also fully associate
ourselves with the statement made on behalf of the
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) by the representative
of Barbados.
The Assembly has before it for its consideration the
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of
Small Island Developing States, as well as the Barbados
Declaration. The Bahamas considers that the Programme
of Action provides a blueprint for a comprehensive and
integrated approach to sustainable development by small
island developing States. It tackles the numerous issues
that we as island developing States must address in our
pursuit of sustainable development. The Declaration is a
statement of our collective political will. It is really the
reaffirmation of the commitments which were made in
Rio. The international community is called upon to fully
support and provide the effective means
the
implementation of this Programme.
for
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
for
our
efforts
focusing
blueprint
While we view the Programme of Action as an
excellent
and
commitments towards the sustainable development of small
island developing States, it is recognized that the successful
implementation of the Programme will need the full support
of the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable
Development within the United Nations. We view the
Secretariat support unit as a vital component of
the
implementation strategy.
the necessary
resources must be provided to the Secretariat in order that
it may fulfil the functions outlined in paragraph 123 of the
Programme.
In this regard,
of
the
My
report
delegation welcomes
the
Secretary-General, and is indeed pleased with the initial
efforts of the various development agencies of the United
Nations system in including the Programme of Action in
their respective work programmes. More importantly, it is
noted that certain agencies have actually commenced
activities which fulfil various aspects of the Programme of
commend the World
Action.
Meteorological Organization
and
programmes in several substantive areas of the Programme
of Action, particularly its specific programmes for climate
change and sea-level rise, which represent a major concern
for island States like my own.
regard, we
activities
In this
for
its
The Commission for Sustainable Development has a
mandate to review the implementation of the Barbados
Programme of Action within the context of its multi-year
thematic programme of work. We are aware that due to
time constraints, very little work was accomplished in the
previous session. We are, however, hopeful that there will
be an effective means for monitoring and reviewing the
progress made in the implementation of the Programme of
Action. We assure the Assembly that, as a newly elected
member of the Commission on Sustainable Development,
we are committed to play our role in the work of that
Commission.
In this connection, I am pleased to report that the
Bahamas is in the process of establishing a national
commission on science,
technology and sustainable
development. It is expected that the commission will be
headed by an executive director and will be responsible for
the follow-up of Agenda 21, the two Conventions arising
from the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development and the Barbados Declaration and Programme
of Action. The membership of the commission will reflect
a wide cross-section of the Bahamian community, including
Government officials, academics, the church, business and
industrial interests and non-governmental organizations.
12
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
My delegation is indeed pleased and encouraged to
note the prompt
response by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) to the mandates given
to it at Barbados in paragraphs 105, 106 and 126 of the
Programme of Action to support capacity-building in
small island developing States. With regard to paragraph
105, the UNDP was directed to coordinate a feasibility
study in collaboration with the small island developing
States and relevant subregional organizations for the
implementation of a small
island developing States
information network (SIDS/NET). However, while we
view SIDS/NET as a means of enhancing human
networking, which equips small island developing States
with the capacity to respond to the priorities of the
Programme of Action, it will be effective only if its
information component is one in which we, as island
developing States,
the primary generators of
information for the network.
are
The United Nations Development Programme was
also mandated, under paragraph 106 of the Programme of
Action, to coordinate a feasibility study on a technical
assistance programme for small island developing States
(SIDS/TAP). This directive has been ably fulfilled by
UNDP, as reported by the Secretary-General in document
A/49/459. My Government
is currently studying this
report with great interest. We are pleased with the manner
in which the study was conducted, that is, that there was
close cooperation with the AOSIS core group of States,
regional institutions, non-governmental organizations and
the island States themselves. The Bahamas notes, too, the
commitment by SIDS/TAP to involve as much as possible
experts from small island developing countries.
The Bahamas wishes to raise one small concern,
however, and that is that it be treated fully as a small
island developing State. The existence of a relatively
elevated gross national product per capita ought not to
operate in the Programme as a bar to equal treatment. I
take this opportunity to mention this point, as it ought to
be borne in mind that several island developing States
have now graduated from UNDP assistance as well as
from concessional treatment by most other international
financial institutions. We see this mechanism, therefore,
as one where the excluding criteria would not be applied.
Small island developing States are noted for their
species diversity and endemism. However, due to their
small size, their relative isolation and the fragility of
island ecosystems, their biological diversity is among the
most threatened in the world. We take this opportunity to
note that the Barbados Programme of Action contains
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
agreement on action to formulate and implement integrated
strategies for the conservation and sustainable use of such
territorial and marine biodiversity, and in particular of
endemic species.
In this regard, we commend the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP) for taking the leadership
within the United Nations system in forging a new
relationship between the United Nations agencies, a global
partnership to respond to current and future needs of
Member States in such areas as climate change and species
protection. We are pleased to note that UNEP will be
convening the first conference of
the parties to the
biodiversity Convention in the Bahamas from 28 November
to 9 December 1994. We are confident that the outcome of
that Conference will continue to focus the attention of the
international community on small island developing States
and their special needs and circumstances.
Although it
financing for
is recognized that
island developing States,
the
implementation of the Programme of Action must come
primarily from national public and private sources within
the small
it has also been
recognized that implementation of the Programme of Action
will require the provision of adequate, predictable, new
additional financial resources. In this connection, we take
the opportunity to urge the international community once
again to honour the financial commitments made and to
review our first full-fledged test of global partnership
forged at Rio, by which the international community made
firm commitments to work collectively to guarantee
sustainable development. Fulfilling pledged commitments
will certainly enable small island developing States to make
operational the blueprint of the Programme of Action of the
Barbados Conference.
and previous
Mr. Shambos (Cyprus): I should like to join you,
Mr. President,
in expressing
profound condolences and sympathy to the Government and
people of Egypt for the tragic loss in human lives and
property caused by the wrath of nature.
speakers
Small island developing States, a unique and valuable
component of our global environmental and developmental
undertakings, have finally achieved their due recognition by
attaining their rightful place on our agenda.
The culmination of this recognition was the convening
of the Barbados Global Conference on the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States, held at
Bridgetown from 25 April
to 6 May of this year. My
Government expresses appreciation to the Government and
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
for
conference
people of Barbados
arrangements, which led to the successful conclusion of
that historic gathering, and for the warm hospitality
extended to all participants.
excellent
the
The Barbados Conference itself can undoubtedly be
characterized as a success. Its Programme of Action and
the Barbados Declaration delineate the commitments of
mankind to the survival and progress of this vulnerable
and vital component of our globe’s delicate and complex
ecological and developmental balance.
The convening of the Conference is to a great extent
an achievement that should be attributed to the dedication
and persistent adherence of the Alliance of Small Island
States (AOSIS) to the cause of the special environmental
and developmental needs of small island States.
The Republic of Cyprus, itself a member of AOSIS,
embraced at an early stage the just cause of
this
pioneering exercise and will continue to work for the
realization and furtherance of its goals.
With regard to the activities of AOSIS, special
recognition is due its current Chairman, the Permanent
Representative of Trinidad and Tobago, Ambassador
Annette des Isles, and all the staff of her mission, as well
Permanent
as
Representative of Vanuatu, Robert Van Lierop,
the
spiritual father of AOSIS, whose personal vision and
extraordinary dedication to the goals set have made
today’s achievements an attainable reality.
predecessor,
former
her
to
the
The Barbados AOSIS Summit and its Communiqué,
which was unanimously adopted, highlight
the moral
dimensions of this exercise and prescribe the political
messages
island States are sending to the
international community.
small
The Barbados Conference indeed marked a milestone
in our history by honouring with commitments the
promises of Rio to one of the most vulnerable groups of
our community of States.
However, recognition and awareness alone will not
suffice to cure the acute problems small island developing
States are facing today. The degradation of
their
environment, their vulnerability to the adverse effects of
human-induced climate change, the rise in sea level and
subsequent submersion of their territories, the imminent
threats to their unique ecosystems and biodiversity
contributions all emerge as urgent issues of great concern.
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Their primarily single-product markets, their small size and
their remoteness from commercial, trade and technological
centres, the fragility and small scale of their economies,
their lack of adequate endogenous capacity for independent
sustainable development, the vulnerability of their cultures
and of their security and their exposure to pollution and
natural disasters all aggravate the overall challenges
confronting small island developing States. These and a
host of other
issues are of vital significance and of
universal dimension, and call for concerted,
effective
action if we aspire to succeed in the global effort to save
our
threatened integrated environment and to achieve
sustainable development for every part of our planet.
The international community agonizes over
the
indifference displayed about growing, crucial environmental
and developmental problems and is focusing its attention on
the implementation of the Barbados commitments and
demanding concerted global action to ensure sustainable
development in small island States that would serve not
only island interests but vital global interests as well. Being
at the centre of the international expectations in this regard,
we should respond to the high aspirations of our peoples
with the political determination to take concrete and
coordinated action to eliminate the ecological and economic
vulnerabilities of small islands and cement their significant
contribution to the world’s fragile environmental balance.
This objective is of paramount importance and is fully
supported by the Government of the Republic of Cyprus,
which
sustainable
development and the decisions taken in Barbados.
principles
endorsed
has
the
of
of
the
My
report
of Small
delegation welcomes
the
Secretary-General on the “Action taken by the organs,
organizations and bodies of the United Nations system to
implement the Programme of Action for the Sustainable
Development
Island Developing States”
(A/49/425). We also welcome the Secretary-General’s
submission of the feasibility study of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) on an information-
sharing network for small island States; Cyprus was used
as one of the case studies in accomplishing this task. We
consider both the report and the submission of the study as
significant steps in the right direction. The preservation and
enhancement of what has been achieved so far in this vital
area depend on our
the
responsibilities and duties emanating from the Barbados
documents.
to strictly fulfil
readiness
I conclude with the plea that developing and
developed countries work together to fulfil our obligations
to present and future generations so that this globe, our
14
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
common home, is not only preserved but also ameliorated
in order to secure the continuity of life itself. It is in this
just endeavour that the small island States could and
should play a leading role. Let us all act collectively to
ensure the survival of humankind in an environment
conducive to human dignity and prosperity all over the
globe.
Mr. Sardenberg (Brazil): I wish first of all
to
convey to the Government and the people of Egypt
Brazil’s heartfelt condolences on the tragic events in that
country a few days ago.
My delegation would like to express its gratitude to
the people and the Government of Barbados for its
gracious hospitality last April during the Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing States. In particular, my delegation
would like to express its gratitude to His Excellency
Mr. Erskine Sandiford,
of
Barbados, President of the Conference, and Ambassador
Penelope Wensley, whose guidance of the work of the
Main Committee of the Conference was fundamental to
the importance and scope of the decisions taken in
Barbados.
former Prime Minister
In June 1992 Brazil had the honour to host the
United Nations Conference
and
Development (UNCED). On that occasion, in Rio, the
links
goals,
environmental concerns and the well-being of future
generations were thoroughly established and developed.
on Environment
development
legitimate
between
The Global Conference on Sustainable Development
of Small
Island States, which emanated from the
decisions taken at UNCED, undoubtedly represented a
step ahead and a most significant milestone in the process
of mobilizing international efforts towards sustainable
development.
the
Conference in Bridgetown went beyond examining
general questions related to sustainable development by
adding original input to specific concerns that affect small
island States.
It was encouraging to note that
The characteristics of small island States and their
susceptible ecosystems have made us recognize their great
significance to our planet. Although those States are
afflicted by economic difficulties and confronted by
development imperatives similar to those of developing
countries in general, small island developing States have
their own peculiar vulnerabilities and characteristics, and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the difficulties they face in the pursuit of sustainable
development are particularly severe and complex.
sustainable
development, worthy
Brazil is well aware of this uniqueness and considers
that small island developing States represent a special case
for
concerted
international attention. The potential of the small island
developing States has been recognized. Nevertheless, they
are still faced with the challenge of ensuring that their
resources are used in a sustainable way for the well-being
of present and future generations.
of
In this regard, my delegation looks forward to the full
implementation of both Agenda 21 and the Programme of
Action formulated in Barbados. We consider that
the
Programme of Action represents a basis for action in the
agreed priority areas and defines a number of measures and
policies related to environmental and development planning
that have to be undertaken by small island developing
States with the
the
international community.
cooperation and assistance of
Moreover,
the Programme of Action outlines the
international community’s role in providing access to
adequate, predictable and additional financial resources, in
optimizing the use of existing resources and mechanisms
and in adopting measures to support endogenous capacity-
building, specifically for the promotion of the access of
small island developing States to environmentally sound
mechanisms and technology. The Alliance of Small Island
States should be warmly congratulated on the important
achievements of Bridgetown.
In establishing the basis for a new global partnership
for sustainable development, States have acknowledged
their common but differentiated responsibilities in respect
of global environmental degradation, so that
the most
environmentally vulnerable will be given priority. The
international
the
obligations taken on in Barbados towards small
island
developing States, for they are the most vulnerable among
us and could very well be the first to bear the negative
environmental impact of ill-conceived development.
community therefore has
to meet
the
community
international
Unfortunately,
is
apparently still reluctant to meet its financial obligations.
Less than 10 per cent of the funding for environment-
related programmes and projects agreed on at UNCED has
been forthcoming. The financial level at which the Global
Environment Facility has been renegotiated is equally
discouraging.
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
greater
in
achieve
self-reliance
My delegation believes that providing small island
developing States with the required material support is
one of the most important means to enable these countries
to
coping with
environmental matters. It is in this context that we call
upon delegations to foster financial support for projects
and programmes relating to sustainable development. We
understand that the implementation of these projects and
programmes is a responsibility of the countries directly
concerned. Nevertheless, the support of the developed
countries, United Nations bodies
and specialized
intergovernmental agencies is of the utmost importance.
for Small
In this regard, my delegation welcomes the study
entitled “A Feasibility Study on a Technical Assistance
Programme
Island Developing States”
(A/49/459, Annex). This document outlines a viable
facility to support technical cooperation between small
island developing States. We are confident that similar
studies will be prepared so that effective action can be
taken with a view to implementing the decisions
contained in the Programme of Action. My delegation
fully subscribes to the recommendations contained in the
study — especially those regarding the need for the
bodies of the United Nations development system to assist
the small island developing States in renewing existing
activities to ensure that they become compatible with the
requirements and aspirations enunciated in the Programme
of Action as a whole.
We believe that the post-cold-war world provides us
with ample room for new partnerships in the field of
genuine cooperation between developing and developed
States to effect sustainable development. It is fundamental
that
the United Nations system and the international
community as a whole support the efforts deployed in
such a task and that the parameters set at the Barbados
Conference to promote the ideals of sustainable and
environmentally sound development ensure that
the
question of adopting mechanisms to guarantee developing
States access to the new environmental technologies on
favourable terms continue to be addressed on a priority
basis.
We consider that the Declaration and the Programme
of Action emanating from Barbados derive from Agenda
21, the Rio Declaration and the Convention on Biological
Diversity, which must continue to be our beacons. Let us
abide by them, for we are certain that small
island
developing States, given appropriate assistance by the
international community, can and will implement relevant
plans and programmes to support their development.
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
I wish,
in conclusion,
to quote words used by
Mr. Henrique Brandão Cavalcanti, Minister
the
Environment of Brazil, in his statement at the opening
session in Barbados:
for
“The objective of our common effort
is, of
course, sustainable development. That is nothing but
a change in the present patterns of utilization of the
Earth’s resources in order to achieve sound economic
progress without compromising the ability of future
generations to do the same, and we must continue to
pursue the removal of all obstacles to the attainment
of sustainable development.”
I must, therefore, stress the great importance of the
Barbados Global Conference and call upon the international
community to honour
to a new
partnership that were undertaken both in Rio and in
Bridgetown.
the commitments
Mr. Bivero (Venezuela) (interpretation from Spanish):
I should like to convey Venezuela’s condolences to the
people and the Government of Egypt following the tragic
natural disaster in their country.
The outcomes of
the Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing
States, which took place in Bridgetown, Barbados, earlier
this year, are of great
importance to Venezuela. The
Barbados Declaration and Programme of Action flowed
from Agenda 21 in an area that is of particular interest to
Venezuela, which has an extensive continental and island
coastline on the Caribbean. We share with the small island
developing countries of the Caribbean geographical and
environmental realities, as well as the obligation to promote
sustainable development
in our subregion. Venezuela
supports the Barbados Programme of Action and would like
to reiterate that it is committed to making a contribution to
achieving the aims stated therein.
Although the self-sufficiency objective of the Barbados
Programme of Action is commendable, the Programme
acknowledges the need for the support of the community of
donor countries. The channelling of additional funds for
regional and interregional cooperation into support activities
is turning out to be critical at this stage. We share the
objective of the acquisition of new and additional resources,
and we are convinced that
the implementation of the
Programme of Action will demonstrate the need for them
in the medium term and in the long term.
16
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
In our opinion, capacity-building and the study on a
technical assistance programme that was undertaken by
the United Nations Development Programme in fulfilment
of the request contained in the Programme of Action are
of paramount importance at the initial stage.
Venezuela will consider how it might strengthen its
support for the Programme.
As Venezuela’s Minister
for Foreign Affairs
indicated during the high-level segment of the Barbados
Conference,
“Venezuela
the Barbados
Declaration and considers itself bound by and
committed to the Programme of Action.”
adheres
to
There are many examples of the way in which
global interdependence and shared responsibility have
shed light on the problems of the small island developing
countries. Only by working together can we benefit from
our experiences and try to combine our efforts to solve
these problems. To this end, the greatest assets are the
human resources of
the developing island countries
themselves and of other countries whose national
development processes are similar to ours, the United
Nations system and the community of donor countries.
We now have a comprehensive framework within
which to contribute towards supporting the efforts of the
small
island developing countries. The Barbados
Programme of Action will be a milestone in the process
of
implementing Agenda 21, both politically and
economically. We trust that the international community,
bilaterally and multilaterally, will respond constructively
to this challenge.
Mr. Razali (Malaysia): We all share the concerns of
the small island developing States regarding their unique
vulnerabilities. These range from economic and ecological
difficulties to security challenges. In recognition of the
urgent need to address the threats to the survival of small
island developing countries, the United Nations, together
with the Government of Barbados, hosted the Global
Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing States in Barbados in April-May 1994.
Malaysia was represented at ministerial
level, as we
wanted to demonstrate our solidarity with and our support
for the small island developing States.
The Barbados Conference adopted a comprehensive
Programme of Action, which addresses the range of
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
issues that affect the small island developing States. The
Programme of Action, which contains 15 chapters, serves
as the basis of and provides a blueprint for the sustainable
development of small island developing States. It must be
implemented, in full and in a timely manner.
The Barbados Conference has a special meaning for
all of us as, following the Rio Conference, it was the first
global meeting, in implementation of Agenda 21, devoted
to
development. The
implementation of the Barbados commitments would be an
important indicator of our collective determination to pursue
global sustainable development.
sustainable
question
the
of
Malaysia considers Chapter XV of the Programme of
Action, which relates to implementation, monitoring and
review of the programme at the national, regional and
international levels, as the most important chapter. Although
the implementation of policies and programmes to achieve
sustainable development is primarily the responsibility of
the countries concerned,
the support of the developed
countries, United Nations bodies and the specialized
intergovernmental
this
commitment was underscored at the Rio Summit in June
1992. In this regard, the developed countries should honour
their commitments made at Rio by supporting the
endeavours of
through the
provision of new and additional financial resources and
environmentally sound technologies on concessional and
preferential
to
environmental conditionalities on trade and development.
terms and through avoidance of resort
the developing countries
essential.
Indeed,
bodies
is
Chapter 15 of
the Programme of Action also
recognizes small island developing States’ dependence on
overseas markets for value-added exports in areas in which
they are internationally competitive and their need to
develop those markets. In the area of international trade, the
small island developing States face the same problems as
do other developing countries with regard to unjustified and
unilateral impediments that erode the competitive advantage
of developing countries.
While we all need to make the transition to sustainable
development, the bulk of the burden of change should not
be placed on the developing countries, including the small
island States. As it is, the developed countries already
possess and enjoy competitive advantages in technology,
access to markets and capital and management skills,
compared with the severe handicaps of the small island
developing States, such as unfavourable terms of trade and
prohibitive costs of
transportation, arising from their
distance and isolation from international shipping routes.
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
to
the
promotion
committed
Of no less importance is chapter XIV, which focuses
on human-resource development. In this respect, Malaysia
is
of South-South
cooperation, by which we share and exchange experiences
on development matters, especially human-resource
development. In 1980 Malaysia launched the Malaysian
Technical Cooperation Programme (MTCP) in order to
provide technical assistance to other developing countries.
The MTCP consolidates various forms of
technical
cooperation in areas where Malaysia has experience and
expertise. It is based on the belief that the development of
a country depends on the quality of its human resources;
hence its emphasis on the development of human
resources through training. Malaysia’s assistance under
the MTCP is essentially in the form of
training,
conducted either at Malaysian universities or at training
institutions. Other forms of assistance include study visits,
services of experts, and the provision of supplies and
equipment for socio-economic projects. To date, more
than 84 countries, including small island States, have
benefited in varying degrees from the MTCP.
The small island developing countries could also
benefit from participating in the projects implemented by
the Group of 15 for the promotion of South-South
cooperation. The projects involve training and exchanges
in experiences in the fields of finance, trade, information,
science and technology, environment and population.
Malaysia has also actively cooperated through the
Commonwealth, which has played a leadership role in
addressing the concerns of small island developing States.
We share the growing concern of the small island
developing States, as well as of other developing
countries, regarding the transboundary movement of toxic
and hazardous waste and the possible damage inflicted by
foreign ships carrying toxic and radioactive materials
through their seas. Such disposal of toxic, hazardous and
radioactive wastes, as well as oil spills and desludging
activities that result in the generation of hazardous waste,
has a serious effect on both marine and land resources. In
this regard, the recommendations contained in chapter III
of the Programme of Action, which calls for international
cooperation to ensure the strengthening of institutions to
provide assistance to Governments and industry in the
adoption of clean technologies as well as
in the
prevention of pollution and the handling, treatment and
disposal of hazardous wastes, should be implemented on
a priority basis.
We recognize that small island developing States are
in the front line of possible ecological disasters as a result
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
of climate change. As the small island developing States are
extremely vulnerable to the impact of climate change,
financial and technical support from the developed countries
and the international community for monitoring impact
assessment and adaptation is an urgent necessity.
The Secretary-General, in response to paragraph 106
of the Programme of Action, has circulated document
A/49/459, which contains specific recommendations for
technical assistance. The early implementation of these
recommendations would mitigate some of the immediate
concerns. At the same time, the presence of an entity in the
Secretariat to monitor the Programme of Action would
ensure that attention continued to be given to the threats
and problems facing small island developing States.
the survival needs — of
Two weeks ago, in the Fourth Committee, we had the
occasion to deliberate on the security of small States. A
consensus resolution was adopted following the debate,
to address the security needs —
signifying agreement
indeed,
small States. The
economic, ecological and security challenges confronting
the small
island developing States must be effectively
addressed to ensure their continued well-being. Our
commitment, through the Barbados Programme of Action,
to assisting the small island developing States will without
any doubt contribute to the long-term sustainable growth,
security and stability of small States.
Mr. Gallegos (United States of America): We also
join in sending condolences to the Egyptian delegation on
the tragic losses resulting from the recent devastating
floods.
As
the Global Conference on the Sustainable
Development of Small Island States demonstrated, small
island developing States are playing an increasingly active
and better-defined role in diverse world and regional
organizations.
The United States seeks to cooperate with island
nations in the struggle to generate sustainable economic
growth. The Barbados Conference, which addressed this
issue, established an agenda to which we are committed.
The agenda outlined steps that need to be taken globally,
regionally and locally in 14 key areas. We intend to work
with the international community to follow up the
Conference in order to give its work real content and to
activate the Programme it adopted.
The United States was pleased to take an active role
in Barbados. We are moving forward on development of a
18
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
coral-reef initiative, as explained by Under-Secretary
Wirth at the Conference. The United States believes that,
because many of the world’s coral reefs are located in
small island developing States, a practical approach to
their protection would address key concerns raised in the
Conference such as biodiversity, habitat protection,
natural-disaster protection and climate change.
that
island States,
We are working to ensure the participation of
developed and developing countries, international and
non-governmental organizations, academia and the private
sector in this effort. In this regard, let us bear in mind,
while considering the issues of sustainable development
in small
there is no substitute for
private-sector economic growth. Whether one considers
what sort of governmental economic policy to put in
place, how to educate and train people so as to improve
their
technical
assistance to be sought from abroad, it is the private
sector that will ultimately determine the success or failure
of the policy. Good government can help, but chiefly in
a supportive role, such as spadework organization, start-
up infrastructure,
the fostering of a positive business
climate, and assistance in publicizing the opportunities
available. Inefficient government, of course, can quickly
do far more to reduce or prevent growth.
lives or how to define the type of
In addition to the important coral-reef initiative I
have mentioned, my Government expects to follow up on
the Barbados Conference in a number of other ways:
through bilateral programmes,
the
regional development banks and other multilateral-
assistance agencies.
the World Bank,
efficiency
and
such as environmental-impact
We continue to advocate sustainable development
statements,
measures,
coastal-resource
energy
management. We will work to ensure
the
Commission on Sustainable Development undertakes the
important
reviews that will be necessary to ensure
implementation of the Programme of Action.
integrated
that
Mrs. Hassan (Pakistan): On behalf of
the
Government and people of Pakistan, my delegation would
like to express our condolences to our Egyptian brothers,
especially those affected by the tragedy, on the loss of
life and property in the recent disastrous floods.
My delegation had the great honour to participate in
the preparatory process of the first Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States and in the Conference itself. My Government’s
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to work with the small
island developing
commitment
countries in finding solutions to their difficult problems was
evidenced by the presence of a special representative of
Prime Minister Bhutto at the high-level segment of the
Barbados Conference.
Today is yet another historic moment in the history of
the United Nations, and especially of the developing
countries. With the adoption of the Programme of Action
agreed at the Barbados Conference, the United Nations will
be on the way to implementing this important document,
which is expected to directly affect the lives of many in the
small island developing States.
I take this opportunity to congratulate the Government
of Barbados on the success of the Conference. Our deep
admiration also goes to Ambassador Annette des Iles, the
Permanent Representative of Trinidad and Tobago, for her
stewardship in articulating the viewpoint of the developing
countries at the Conference.
itself
Pakistan is not a small island, but we share common
perceptions on development issues with our friends from
the small island developing States. Our problems are similar
in intensity, though they may be a shade different in nature.
Pakistan associates
fully with the views and
aspirations of all the developing countries on issues related
to the environment and development, and therefore the
outcome of
the Barbados Conference was extremely
important to us. We are convinced that the implementation
of the recommendations of the Conference will go a long
way in determining the path to be adopted by other
developing countries in the pursuance of sustainable
development objectives.
Awareness of environmental issues has grown over the
past two decades. This awareness has emerged among and
within Governments as they have addressed environmental
problems singly, bilaterally, regionally and globally. Despite
Rio and the apparent
regarding
environmental
environmental
problems
degradation has continued unabated,
threatening human
well-being and, in some instances, the very survival of life
on our planet. Environmental issues are the urgent concern
of all peoples of the world. They demonstrate in a dramatic
way the need for international cooperation.
shared perceptions
and
actions,
The high-level segment of the Conference, entitled
“Forging partnerships
sustainable development”,
provided an opportunity for statesmen and high-level
representatives to come together and discuss in a frank and
open manner whether the commitments made at Rio had
for
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
led to the forging of a new global partnership for
sustainable development. Rio started a realistic process,
and the results of the Earth Summit provided a solid base
for decisive action based on this new partnership.
It was evident during the discussions in the high-
level segment that, while Rio had laid the foundations of
this partnership,
the destructive patterns of human
consumption and production were continuing unabated.
Less than 20 per cent of the world’s population in the
developed countries continue to use 80 per cent of the
world’s
unplanned
industrialization and unsustainable methods of production
and the exploitation of resources without any regard for
the future have contributed to the deterioration of the
environment, causing environmental changes that threaten
the very existence of some small islands.
resources. Their
decades
of
Small
are
David Herbert Lawrence,
islands
truly,
in
the words
of
“vivid fragments of life (...) they are a celebration,
in the sea”.
The beauty that surrounds us in an island is, however,
threatened by an in-built fragility and vulnerability to the
forces of nature, as well as by human and environmental
degradation. The Barbados Conference achieved one of its
objectives: sensitizing the international community to the
problems of the small
island developing countries as
“high-risk entities”.
The gross national product of some small island
developing States may place a small number of them
among middle-income economies. However, such criteria
are certainly extremely deceptive. The sustainability of the
economic base of even the most affluent among the small
their special
islands cannot be assured,
circumstances. The
community must
recognize
of Action
acknowledges that the small island developing States face
peculiar environmental and development challenges.
fact. The Programme
international
in view of
this
Pakistan is extremely sensitive to the vulnerabilities
of the small island developing States, whose small size,
limited resources, geographic dispersion and isolation
from markets place them at a disadvantage economically.
They are vulnerable to global warming and rise in sea
levels, with certain low-lying islands facing the increasing
threat of the loss of their entire national territories. The
frequency of natural disasters has caused major setbacks
to the socio-economic development of the small islands.
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Pakistan was honoured to participate in the process of
designing sustainable development plans and programmes
tailored to the specific needs of the island States.
is
Pakistan
committed
to making
sustainable
development a reality. We are fully cognizant of the fact
that
there is a great need to integrate economic and
environmental priorities at the national level. Similarly,
global efforts are required to address environmental and
development issues in an integrated manner.
The efforts of the small island developing countries to
sensitize the international community to their problems
deserve our admiration. Despite their
limited human
resources at United Nations Headquarters, they have been
able to garner the support of the international community
for a Programme of Action that could be the first concrete
step towards the implementation of the recommendations of
Agenda 21 as they relate to the small islands.
The small island developing States require immediate
action and attention. Even a day lost in launching the
implementation of the Programme of Action would exact a
heavy price, especially for those small islands whose very
existence is threatened by the forces of nature. At the
Barbados Conference the international community, through
the adoption of the Programme of Action, recognized that
the
peculiar
environmental and developmental problems.
developing States
island
small
face
The implementation of the Programme of Action will
require additional financial commitments, both by national
Governments and the international community. The
expectation that such resources can be made available
merely through a re-ordering of priorities is certainly not a
realistic one. Most of the islands have small economies,
with a great degree of built-in unpredictability, whether due
to natural forces or to the structure of the economy. It is
difficult to expect that such economies would be able to
generate the extra resources without external financial
assistance.
The adoption of the Programme of Action by the
General Assembly will be another step towards the new
global partnership and a reaffirmation by the international
community of its responsibility to assist the small island
developing States in their own endeavours to assure a
secure and predictable lifestyle to their people.
To conclude, we hope that the Programme of Action
will allow for the development of appropriate strategies by
the small island developing States that will enable them to
20
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
pursue their sustainable development goals despite their
natural vulnerabilities. It also provides other developing
countries with an identifiable framework within which
South-South activities can be carried out. While South-
South cooperation is an important mechanism for learning
from the experiences of the developing countries, the
concept of international responsibility as included in
Agenda 21 must not be allowed to erode.
The developed countries have an important role to
play in assisting the small island developing countries in
the implementation of the Programme of Action. The
follow-up process in the Commission for Sustainable
Development will ensure the full participation of all
countries in the implementation of the Programme of
Action. We assure our friends from the small
island
developing States of our complete and full support to
achieve the objectives of the Programme of Action and
the Declaration of Barbados.
Mr. Isakov (Russian Federation)
(interpretation
from Russian): At the outset, on behalf of the Russian
delegation, I wish to join in the expressions of sympathy
on the tragedy suffered by the people and the Government
of Egypt in the recent flooding.
of
and
stimulating
The Barbados Global Conference on the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States marked
an important step forward in the implementation of the
decisions of the Rio de Janeiro Conference. In our view,
the Programme of Action agreed upon in Barbados has
practical significance for a purposeful solution to the
islands’ unique
problems of preserving the small
ecosystems
their
economic
development. The Programme of Action’s extensive
measures in such areas as natural disaster prevention and
preparedness, the safe removal of toxic and other wastes,
the preservation of marine coastal and land resources, the
sustainable provision of clean drinking water,
the
diversification of sources of energy production and
“disciplined” tourism, as we see it, are all intended to
ensure a more economical and attentive attitude on the
part of national Governments and the international
community towards the integrated problems of island
development.
One important area in which the island States can
exploit
their own efforts, coupled with international
assistance, is the development of human potential in such
areas as the preservation of culture, raising educational
levels and the provision of housing and medical services.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
the environment.
In this connection,
Of special significance is the active use of modern
scientific, technical and information potential capable of
ensuring the expanded use of environmentally safe and
inexpensive technologies, especially in the areas of
agriculture, energy, public health and effective monitoring
of
the Russian
delegation notes its readiness to establish and develop
cooperation with the small island States in those areas. The
sustainable development interests of those States would be
served by the applied use of my country’s scientific
research and practical experience in building a “small
economy”, preserving the diversity and uniqueness of the
cultures of the indigenous peoples of Russia, developing
coastal infrastructures and protecting the living resources of
the sea.
I
to express
the hope
that
should like
the
implementation called for at the Barbados Conference of
practical approaches and joint efforts for the survival and
development of islands throughout the world’s oceans and
seas will be accompanied by the necessary political will and
an awareness of common responsibilities for preserving the
uniqueness of our planet.
Mr. Pursoo (Grenada): I should first
like to join
to the
previous
Government and the people of Egypt on the loss of life and
property caused by the recent flood in that country.
in conveying condolences
speakers
Grenada associates itself with the statements made by
the Chairman of the Group of 77; Ambassador Annette des
Iles, Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States; and
the Minister of Tourism of Barbados, speaking on behalf of
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
In reaffirmation of the importance of Agenda 21 and
in recognition of the special circumstances confronting the
development of small island developing States, the United
Nations convened the first ever Global Conference on the
Island Developing
Sustainable Development of Small
States,
in Barbados from 25 April
to 6 May 1994.
It
afforded small island developing States the opportunity to
bring before the world community observations and studies
of the specific characteristics which adversely affect their
ability to achieve sustainable development. The Conference
generated a global effort which produced a Programme of
Action to address the areas of priority to sustainable island
development. Grenada wishes
its deep
appreciation to the organizers and participants of the
Conference — in particular the United Nations and the host
country, Barbados — and for the follow-up arrangements
in progress, especially the SIDS/TAP and SIDS/NET
to reiterate
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
initiatives undertaken by the United Nations Development
Programme. We also wish to express appreciation to the
Secretary-General for his reports and notes contained in
documents A/49/425 and its addendum, A/49/414 and
A/49/459.
There exist similar programmes of action, but such
programmes in themselves are no guarantee of a solution
to the problems they address. In this specific case,
political will and financial means are the two most vital
ingredients, without which the Global Conference’s
Programme of Action would most likely go the way of
several of its predecessors — into oblivion. But the spirit
of cooperation which was born in Rio at the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development in
June 1992, and the overall
realization of global
interdependence in conjunction with the common but
differentiated responsibility to secure the welfare of all
constituencies of our planet, give reason for hope.
The successful implementation of the Programme of
Action of the Barbados Conference holds out specific
development benefits to small island developing States
and indeed represents their hope. But failure successfully
to implement this Programme of Action could lead to a
void that could in turn entail setbacks and disruptions far
beyond the shorelines of those islands. The problems of
small island developing States are indeed a matter of
global concern and therefore the solution to those
problems must of necessity be in large measure global in
scope.
The Programme of Action did not seek to address all
the problems, development options and special needs of
small island developing States. Instead, it addressed those
that were deemed most critical, most essential and most
feasible. It has been intentionally fashioned to lead to ease
of implementation.
The disadvantages characteristic of the development
of
small
island developing States are severe and
numerous — the prospects and options are but few. The
protection of our environment, the sustainable exploitation
of our scant resources and the enhancement of our
institutional and administrative capacities require at this
time the forging of new and special partnerships.
Grenada wishes to express its appreciation to the
donor countries, organizations and bodies within and
outside the United Nations system that have responded to
the special needs of small island developing States and
have pledged continued support. Small island developing
21
53rd meeting
7 November 1994
the economic development of
small
circumstance which increases the uncertainty of small
island developing States; for global competition in the
l990s demands technological competence, and it is no
secret that, among the several handicaps that adversely
affect
island
developing States, the lack of technological capacity ranks
high. Traditionally, small island developing States have
acted responsibly in taking care of
themselves, but
globalization and technological developments have
brought new challenges which require specific assistance
merely to cope. Global cooperation to ensure the
successful implementation of the Programme of Action
for
Island
Developing States remains a vital contribution to the hope
of small island developing States.
the Sustainable Development of Small
The President: We have heard the last speaker on
this item.
In accordance with the decision taken by the
Assembly at its 30th plenary meeting, action on this
sub-item will be taken in the Second Committee.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its
consideration of sub-item (e) of agenda item 89.
The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
States have been made to understand that “aid fatigue” is
wearing thin the resolve, and taxing the will, of traditional
assistance processes.
We have been urged to be more creative in dealing
with the constraints, challenges, prospects and options
facing our countries. Small island developing states are
truly appreciative of such encouragement, for we are
cognizant that chronic dependency on aid can lead to an
acquired immunity deficiency syndrome, to the detriment of
the health of our economies. And so our economic
development objectives are guided by the need to achieve
self-sufficiency and genuine sustainability within the
framework of global interdependence.
At
the same
time,
the
international economic
environment of the l990s stresses competition, a
22
