United Nations
General Assembly
Forty-ninth Session
48th Meeting
Monday, 31 October 1994, 3 p.m.
New York
A/49/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Essy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Côte d’Ivoire)
In the absence of
(Netherlands), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Biegman
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Agenda item 11
Report of the Security Council (A/49/2)
The President: I call on the President of the Security
Council to introduce the report of the Security Council.
Sir David Hannay (United Kingdom), President of
the Security Council:
I am delighted to have this
opportunity to address the General Assembly as President
of the Security Council, albeit on the last day of my
presidency, and to introduce the annual report of the
Council covering the period from 16 June 1993 to
15 June 1994 (A/49/2).
to the
importance
The members of the Security Council attach the very
greatest
timely preparation and
submission of the annual report to the General Assembly,
as provided for in Articles 15 and 24 of the United Nations
Charter. In presenting this annual report to the Assembly,
I have sought to follow the practice established last year by
the Permanent Representative of Brazil. That is to say, the
draft of this annual report was issued to all Member States
and was adopted at a public meeting of the Security
Council, not at a closed meeting, as in the past.
Consideration of the Council’s report by the General
Assembly constitutes an important occasion for a
substantive dialogue and interaction between these two
principal organs of the United Nations, a dialogue which
will, I hope, touch not just on the nature of the report
presented to the Assembly today, but also on the
substance of the issues before the Security Council.
As has been the case with past reports, the report I
am introducing this year reflects the heavy workload of
the Council in responding to problems related to the
maintenance of international peace and security. As the
report notes, during the period under consideration the
Council held 153 formal meetings, adopted 87 resolutions
and agreed 68 statements by the President. In addition,
Council members held 252 consultations of the whole,
totalling some 353 hours. Other members of the Council
participating in this debate may wish to comment on the
substance of that work. It is not for me, as President of
the Security Council, to do so, except perhaps to note, as
our Brazilian colleague did last year, that the voluminous
content of the document before the Assembly reflects the
varied and complex nature of the challenges posed to
international peace and security and the justified
expectation of Member States that the Security Council
should respond to them.
The members of
listened
carefully to the proposals made in the debate in this Hall
last year upon the Council’s report, and also to debates
the Security Council
94-86866 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one week of the date of publication, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Section, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum. When the result of a recorded and/or roll-call vote is followed by an
asterisk, see annex to the record.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
48th meeting
31 October 1994
elsewhere in this Organization, on how the work of the
Council can be made more transparent and more accessible
to non-members of the Council. In June 1993 the Council
established an informal Working Group on documentation
and other procedural matters. That Working Group has met
regularly — virtually on a monthly basis — and a number
of steps have been taken following recommendations by the
Group. First and foremost among them are the changes to
the annual report itself. The introduction to the report has
been made more substantive and,
the
appendices listing resolutions and presidential statements
now provide cross-references to the relevant chapter,
section and sub-section of the report for each resolution and
presidential
remain under
consideration by the Working Group. While I would not
wish to stand here and tell the Assembly that this is a user-
friendly document, I would suggest that it is a slightly less
user-unfriendly document than the reports of two or three
years ago.
statement. Further changes
like last year,
In addition, the Council decided in March 1994 that
draft resolutions in their “blue”, or provisional, form would
be made available for collection by non-members of the
Council as soon as they were circulated. Also, in July 1993
the Council decided to make available to all Member States
the tentative forecast of the programme of work of the
Council for each month. This year the practice has been
instituted of annexing to the forecast a list of forthcoming
reports by the Secretary-General as requested by the
Council as well as the schedule of forthcoming reviews or
renewals of mandates of peace-keeping operations and of
sanctions regimes. Also, as part of the effort to improve the
documentation of the Council and make its work more
accessible, the Working Group has been reviewing the list
of matters of which the Council is seized. This year a large
number of items has again been removed from the list.
Items are removed only after extensive consideration and
appropriate consultation. Neither the removal of a matter
from the list nor its retention carries any implication for the
substance of the matter. But the exercise is a necessary one
of rationalization.
The Working Group has also given consideration to
the important question of ways of briefing Member States
on the progress of
consultations without
prejudicing the confidentiality and the efficiency of the
consultations system itself, and the first informal presidency
briefing of non-members on the current work of the
Council was held on 27 October 1994.
informal
of
steps
to improve
information with
troop-contributing
exchanges
countries regarding peace-keeping operations, including
their planning, management and coordination, particularly
when significant extensions of an operation’s mandate are
in prospect. The presidential statement of 3 May 1994
made certain recommendations in this regard. It also
committed the Council
review
arrangements for communication with non-members of
the Council. This month, consideration is being given to
further
for
consultation, involving Member States, troop-contributing
countries, members of the Security Council and the
Secretariat. I should just say that this morning we made
substantial progress towards decisions on this matter,
which will, I hope, not be long delayed.
to keeping under
these
arrangements
As indicated in the introduction to the Security
Council’s report, the report is not intended as a substitute
for the official records of the Security Council, which
provide a more substantive account of its deliberations.
Thus the report should be read, for the purposes of this
discussion in the General Assembly too, in conjunction
with other official documents of the Council, to which it
constitutes a reference guide.
In conclusion, I would just say that the members of
the Security Council will, I am sure, listen attentively to
the debate we are holding here today. They welcome this
opportunity for a substantive dialogue;
I hope that
members of the Assembly will see by the way we have
responded in the past year that this is not just a polite
phrase that we use. We are listening, and we will take
into consideration points that are put forward in this
debate.
The President: I wish to propose that the list of
speakers in the debate on this item be closed at 4 p.m.
today.
It was so decided.
Mr. Wisnumurti (Indonesia): It is a distinct honour
and privilege for me to deliver this statement on behalf of
the non-aligned countries on the agenda item before us,
namely, the report of the Security Council to the General
Assembly, to which we attach great importance.I should
like at
to commend the President of the
Security Council, Ambassador David Hannay, for his
lucid introduction of the Council’s annual report.
the outset
Finally, there has been much consideration this year in
to enhance consultations and
the Council of ways
The report highlights, among other things, a number
of procedural methods adopted by the Council with a
2
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
view to enhancing the efficiency of its work. We hope that
these could constitute a basis upon which to build our
endeavours to strengthen its efficacy further. I also share
Ambassador Hannay’s view that the consideration of the
report provides an opportunity, not only for a meaningful
dialogue on the nature of the report, but also on the
substantive issues considered by the Council.
Recent developments in world affairs have placed the
Security Council in a position of pre-eminence which has
ramifications for the work of the United Nations and
beyond it. Numerous circumstances have also contributed
to an unprecedented number of activities undertaken by that
august body. The steady expansion of peace-keeping
operations in various parts of the world has seized the
Council of an active agenda. We note with interest that the
cooperative spirit prevailing among the members of the
Council has facilitated the adoption of unanimous positions
on some complex disputes, while we are also cognizant of
its failure to resolve certain critical issues effectively. The
Council has thus reached a critical
turning-point and
Member States look forward to its more effective role as
the obstacles which paralysed it for so long continue to be
removed.
It
that
the countries of
is in this context
the
Non-Aligned Movement views the report of the Security
Council to the General Assembly in document A/49/2. As
in the past, the Council provides a comprehensive account
of its activities during the preceding year and describes its
task in the context of its ever-increasing responsibilities. It
also contains a compendium of communications and other
documents, as well as a listing of decisions and actions
taken on the issues that were brought before it.
the
It cannot, however, be denied that the hopes expressed
by an overwhelming majority of
international
community that the report would be transformed from a
descriptive account to a document that would analyse the
issues dealt with by the Security Council have been
disappointed. It is particularly regrettable that the report
does not contain an evaluation of the issues considered by
the Council and a detailed account of the work of its
special committees. Despite its voluminous nature,
the
report is not a document of a substance commensurate with
the greatly expanded role of the Security Council. It is,
therefore,
the considered view of the members of the
Non-Aligned Movement that the annual report mandated in
Article 24, paragraph 3, of the Charter must be more than
a mere description of activities and a reproduction of
resolutions already known.
It should instead contain
analyses and an assessment of the decisions taken on
48th meeting
31 October 1994
various issues in order to meet the need for greater clarity
and understanding of
the Council’s reasonings and
motives in adopting decisions.
The non-aligned countries take the view that the
attainment of these objectives would be further promoted
by the strict implementation of Article 15, paragraph 1,
and Article 24, paragraph 3, of the Charter pertaining to
special reports of the Security Council, in particular, on
the measures that it has decided upon or taken to maintain
international peace and security.
The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries has also
adopted a forthright position on a number of issues
pertaining to the functioning and operation of the Security
Council, especially those relating to equity, equality and
democratization in the decision-making process,
the
Council’s relationship with the other principal organs of
the United Nations and its procedures and practices. The
communiqué issued by the Ministerial Meeting of the
Non-Aligned Countries held at Cairo last June reiterated
the need for the faithful observance of the Charter
provisions concerning the role of the Security Council in
order to achieve a better balance with the other principal
organs of the United Nations, especially the General
Assembly. Article 24, paragraph 1, of the Charter states,
in part, that the Members of the United Nations:
on
the
Security Council
“confer
primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international
peace and security and agree that...the Security
Council acts on their behalf.”
Hence, the Security Council, in carrying out its duty
under
is accountable to the general
membership.
this provision,
further
The Cairo communiqué
stressed the
importance of enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency
of the Council by adopting a number of measures geared
to reforming its working methods and procedures,
particularly in the context of an improved relationship
with the General Assembly and non-members of the
Council.
With regard to greater transparency in the Council’s
decision-making processes the Cairo communiqué called
for an increased number of both formal and informal
meetings prior to the adoption of decisions,
thereby
allowing for wider participation. Other measures include
the
informal
consultations, full and informative press releases and the
non-members
participation
of
in
3
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
provision of tentative monthly programmes that will keep
Member States fully informed of the nature and scope of
the Council’s activities.
An effective and timely flow of information can also
be facilitated through, inter alia, the institutionalization of
consultations between the Presidents of
the General
Assembly and the Security Council. In this connection, we
urge the President of the General Assembly to propose
appropriate ways and means to facilitate an in-depth
discussion by the Assembly on matters contained in the
reports submitted to it by the Security Council, as mandated
by General Assembly resolution 48/264.
Yet another aspect of transparency is the need for
institutionalizing an appropriate mechanism for direct
consultations between the Security Council, the Secretariat
and interested States, especially the troop-contributing
countries, on the establishment and conduct of peace-
keeping operations. Equally important in this regard is the
participation of interested non-members in any subsidiary
organs established by the Council to monitor developments
in various parts of the world.
It
is also pertinent
to recall
the Security Council,
that both the Cairo
Conference and the Ministerial Meeting of the Non-Aligned
Countries held in New York early this month reaffirmed the
view of the Jakarta Summit Meeting that the exercise of
veto, which guarantees an exclusive and dominant role for
the permanent members of
is
incompatible with the aim of democratizing the Council.
The right of veto was accorded as a result of exceptional
historical circumstances that no longer prevail. The Council
as a body purports to act on behalf of all Member States,
and its decisions are binding. Hence, none of its members
the
should negate
frustrate
achievement of consensus. We are aware that
this
prerogative is rarely used in recent times, but there are no
assurances that it will not be used again with negative
repercussions. The veto provision should therefore be
reviewed.
the majority view or
In short, the non-aligned countries are committed to a
truly representative, transparent and democratized Security
Council which would reflect the current configuration of
membership.
The non-aligned countries note the positive response
of the Security Council in implementing proposals relating
to its working methods and procedures,
including the
adoption and timely submission of reports to the General
Assembly and the inclusion of its provisional agenda in the
4
48th meeting
31 October 1994
Journal. We also foresee the possibility of the adoption
by the Council of further concrete measures that would
strengthen its role in the maintenance of international
peace and security. In the same spirit, we remain hopeful
that
it would be responsive to change both in its
composition and in its procedures and practices. In these
endeavours,
fully
committed to rendering the Council more responsive in
meeting emerging challenges and opportunities.
the Non-Aligned Movement
is
Finally, the non-aligned countries propose that this
agenda item be kept open until such time as the President
has concluded his consultations as called for in resolution
48/264 and has informed the General Assembly of the
results of those consultations.
Mr. Razali (Malaysia): May I first welcome with
great appreciation the presence and effort of the President
of the Security Council, Sir David Hannay, who has come
here to present the report of the Security Council. We see
his presence as indicative of future prospects and of a
progressive understanding of the need to establish a basis
of dialogue between the General Assembly and the
Security Council.
My delegation would like to express our appreciation
to the President of the General Assembly for deferring
consideration of this important agenda item from 26
October to 31 October. This decision was necessary
because the Council’s 552-page report (A/49/2) was made
available to delegations only on 24 October. The
increasing number of speakers on this agenda item makes
clear the significance delegations attach to the work and
functioning of the Council. The general membership is
sending the message that
is both interested in
examining and has the right to examine the affairs of the
Council.
it
The Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement has
just conveyed the views of the Movement on this report.
The Malaysian delegation fully supports his statement.
My delegation would now like to highlight and reiterate
some of our views on the issues under consideration.
the legislative basis
The four-part report begins with an introduction,
which rightly recalls
the
submission of the report: namely, Article 24, paragraph 3,
and Article 15, paragraph 1 of the Charter of the United
Nations. From the viewpoint of the General Assembly, it
is equally necessary to emphasize that the debate on this
item is consistent with Article 10, which says:
for
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
“The General Assembly may discuss
any
questions or any matters within the scope of the
present Charter or relating to the powers and functions
of any organs provided for in the present Charter, and,
except as provided in Article 12, may make
recommendations to the Members of
the United
Nations or to the Security Council or to both on any
such questions or matters.”
Our deliberations today should focus on the decisions
and actions of the Council. After all,
in Article 24,
paragraph 1, it is recognized that the Members of the
United Nations have conferred
“on the Security Council primary responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security, and
agree that
this
responsibility the Security Council acts on their
behalf.”
its duties under
in carrying out
As the Working Group on the expansion and reform
of the Council proceeds, many of us will seek to utilize the
full implications of this Article to bring into being not only
an equitably expanded Council, but also one that truly
reflects the moral and political authority of the international
community.
As in the past, the report contains a compendium of
communications and other documents as well as a listing of
decisions and actions taken by the Council. In this regard,
the request of the vast majority of Member States for an
analytical and substantive report has not been met. The
Council has also failed to submit special
reports, as
provided for in Article 15, paragraph 1, of the Charter, to
the Members of the United Nations. The General Assembly
should have benefited from special reports on issues such
as those concerning Rwanda or Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The States Members of
the United Nations have a
legitimate right to full details of the Council’s actions on
various issues.
its responsibility for
Part I of the report, entitled “Questions considered by
the
the Security Council under
maintenance of international peace and security”, identifies
specific issues and the decisions it took on them. For the
purposes of our debate today, my delegation would like to
address the decisions of the Council pertaining to two
issues: “The situation concerning Rwanda”, as reflected in
pages 180 to 211, and “Items relating to the situation in the
former Yugoslavia”, from pages 67 to 161.
48th meeting
31 October 1994
According to the report, on the issue of “The
situation concerning Rwanda” the Council had 12
meetings, adopted eight
resolutions and issued four
presidential statements. Yet, among all these resolutions
and presidential statements, there is no explanation as to
how the Council could have countenanced the death and
maiming of thousands of people, generally considered
genocide by the vast majority of mankind. Between the
adoption of resolution 872 (1993) of 5 October 1993 and
the adoption of resolution 918 (1994) of 17 May 1994,
thousands of innocent people in Rwanda died, before the
Council decided to strengthen United Nations peace-
keeping operations there. The initial decision to reduce
the United Nations presence in Rwanda could be
interpreted, with the benefit of hindsight, as having
contributed to the calamity that befell that country.
The crisis in Rwanda has been acknowledged as the
most tragic humanitarian crisis of our time. During the
bloodletting the General Assembly received no special
reports from the Council. In essence, the United Nations,
representing the international community, cannot avoid
some kind of responsibility for failing to prevent the
killing of so many thousands of people and the huge
influx of refugees into the countries around Rwanda. The
debate on Rwanda and the failure of the United Nations
role there must be properly reflected, and lessons must be
learned, not only in the Council, but also in the General
Assembly.
In the case of the situation in the former Yugoslavia,
the report carries a number of sub-items, which include
“The situation in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia”, “Applications made under Article 50 of the
Charter”, “The situation in the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina”,
“United Nations Protection Force”,
“Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
(CSCE) Missions”, “Establishment of an international
tribunal for the prosecution of persons responsible for
serious violations of
international humanitarian law
committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia” and
“The situation in Croatia”.
The Council considered the issue at 35 meetings and
adopted 16 resolutions, and 18 presidential statements
were made, during the period under review. It is all too
evident that, despite all this activity, aggression against
Bosnia and Herzegovina and “ethnic cleansing” have not
ceased. Indeed, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
not only has the Council not enforced its own decisions
and resolutions, but
impeded Bosnia and
it has
5
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Herzegovina’s exercise of its inherent right to self-defence.
The
and Bosnia
issues of both Rwanda
and
Herzegovina underline the importance of, and the special
need for, the Council’s seeking wider consultations. Such
an approach would help arrest — or, at least, moderate —
a tendency on the part of certain influential members to
consider issues before the Council purely through their own
political prism. It will be increasingly untenable to maintain
that the Council is above the rest of the United Nations and
that
the five permanent members can individually or
collectively continue with their actions in the Council with
no means of making these actions accountable, to any
extent,
to the general membership. We have also had
situations in which permanent members, despite initial
qualms and reservations, chose to go along in order to
maintain the cohesion of the five permanent members. In
the days of the cold war the actions of the Council were
checkmated by the East-West pull and counter-pull. Now,
in the name of cohesion of the five permanent members,
the Council is becoming an “omni” organization, a cabal of
five, protected by the Charter from being answerable to the
general membership.
An overall assessment of the work of the Council
would indicate that the Council remains locked in paralysis,
with some influential members weighing the political,
financial and manpower costs of getting involved in crises.
The Council’s unwillingness to enforce its own resolutions
and respect the General Assembly, as in the case of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, could definitely undermine the credibility
and faith placed in the Council and the concept of United
Nations collective security.
As the body which, under the Charter, has the primary
responsibility for international peace and security,
the
Security Council, in carrying out its responsibilities on
behalf of the Members of the United Nations, must act in
conformity with the provisions of the Charter, particularly
Article 24. In this regard, the Council, before taking major
decisions or action,
is duty-bound to consult regional
groups,
troop-contributing countries and the general
membership.
My delegation notes with appreciation the positive
changes instituted by the Council with regard to its work
and documentation. The release of the tentative forecast and
the availability of some documents have created a sense of
positive responsiveness, on the part of the Council, to the
Members of the United Nations. Indeed, last Thursday the
President of
the Council organized a briefing for
delegations. Welcome as they are, however, these changes
6
48th meeting
31 October 1994
remain inadequate. They must be broadened, accelerated
and institutionalized.
the intention of my
delegation to dwell on details at this stage. We shall go
into detail in the Working Group on the expansion and
reform of the Security Council.
is not
It
The Members of
the Organization must have
unimpeded access to the Council for the purpose of
addressing it
in open public meetings to make their
pronouncements on major and current issues impacting on
international peace and security. Those of us who sought
to participate in the Council debate immediately after the
massacre at Hebron, for instance, are no doubt fully
aware of the tactics employed to dissuade Member States
from making such pronouncements. The practice of
preventing a debate, without even the use of the veto,
must be rejected in no uncertain terms.
The General Assembly’s resolution 48/264 invited its
President
“to propose appropriate ways and means to facilitate
an in-depth discussion by the Assembly of matters
contained in the reports submitted to it by the
Security Council”. (resolution 48/264, para.4)
In line with that resolution, discussion of this agenda item
should remain open to enable appropriate follow-up
action.
Mr. Mishra (India): The report of the Security
Council to the General Assembly (A/49/2) follows the
familiar pattern. It
is a valuable compendium of the
papers that emanated from the Security Council during
the period 16 June 1993 to 15 June 1994, with a bland
narration of
the sequence of events. Historians and
researchers will find it an excellent reference manual —
a guide to the activities of the Council, as the report itself
claims. They will have the advantage of having in one
place all the material necessary to learn about the breadth
of the activities of the Security Council during the period
in question.
However, the question being asked, particularly in
recent years,
is whether the report really fulfils the
obligations imposed on the Security Council by the
Charter,
in Article 24, paragraph 3, and whether the
General Assembly has been enabled to carry out its own
responsibility under Article 15 of the Charter to receive
and consider the report. It is not by accident that the
reference to the annual and special reports of the Security
Council to the General Assembly is made in Article 24.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
in an earlier paragraph, speaks of
the
That Article,
relationship between the Security Council and the General
Assembly. It states clearly that “in carrying out its duties
under this responsibility” — namely, the maintenance of
international peace and security — “the Security Council
acts on their” — that is, Member States’ — “behalf”.
There is,
therefore, an integral
link between the
Security Council’s role in the maintenance of international
peace and security and its obligation to report
to the
General Assembly once a year, if not more often. Similarly,
the General Assembly, under Article 15, shall receive and
consider
“an account of the measures that the Security Council
has decided upon or taken to maintain international
peace and security.”
We are grateful
to the President of the General
Assembly for readily agreeing to the request made by the
non-aligned countries this year to postpone the debate on
this item to enable those countries at least to look through
the 552 pages with which the Security Council has provided
us. Originally, as will be recalled, the debate was to take
place within 48 hours of the report’s having been made
available to delegations. It appeared as though this debate
was a mere ritual and as though the contents of the report
were of no relevance or consequence. This year we have
made the point that there should be time for delegations to
study the report and to comment on it after due
deliberation. The point
timely
submission is important
is to receive the
consideration to which it is entitled under the Charter.
to be stressed is that
if the report
In considering this year’s
report, we have the
advantage of having heard the views of Member States on
reform of the Security Council, expressed in the Open-
ended Working Group of the General Assembly. Many
delegations, including mine, emphasized the importance of
the report’s becoming a true instrument of interaction
between the Security Council and the General Assembly.
This can be achieved only if the report is made more
substantive, more elaborate and more analytical. It should
provide an insight into the informal process that led to
decision-making so that we can make informed judgements
which, in turn, will generate inputs that are of benefit to the
Security Council itself. This is the very essence of the
relevant provisions of the Charter that I mentioned earlier,
which were designed to give the general membership a
sense of participation in the Council’s decision-making,
which has serious implications for them. A sense of
48th meeting
31 October 1994
participation would greatly enhance the credibility and
moral authority of the Security Council.
Another purpose that an analytical report can serve
is to demonstrate the extent
to which the Charter’s
provisions concerning the division of work have been
followed. The Charter envisages a careful balance
between the principal organs of
the Organization,
especially the General Assembly and the Security
Council. A balanced relationship between the Council and
the Assembly is of paramount importance, and this can be
achieved only if the need for strict observance of their
respective roles, as stipulated in the Charter, is kept in
mind. The General Assembly has to remain watchful to
ensure that issues that are extraneous to the mandate of
the Security Council do not get dragged into it.
the
for
informal
subjects
We are aware that
in recent years the Security
Council has brought about some improvements in its
working methods — for example, listing in the daily
consultations;
Journal
distribution of the monthly programme to the general
membership; and briefings by the President. These are
small steps, but they do go in the right direction, and the
Council should be encouraged to take more innovative
steps to enhance transparency and democratization.
Interestingly, though, even the improvements that the
Council itself has authorized do not figure in its report.
One area in which the immediate interests of
Member States that are not members of the Council are
affected is peace-keeping. The considerable increase in
the number of operations and the fact that most troop-
contributing countries are not members of the Council
make it imperative that the non-members, particularly
troop-contributors, be involved in the decision-making on
peace-keeping. This
is particularly important when
decisions relating to the size, mandate and other aspects
of the existing major operations are taken.
While speaking of reform of the Security Council
with a view to enhancing its credibility and authority, one
cannot miss the point that the most important reform
required is to make the Council truly representative, in
terms of numbers as well as of the global power structure,
of present-day realities. Together with other like-minded
countries, India proposed in 1979 that this matter should
be examined. Today, there is general recognition that both
the permanent and the non-permanent categories of
membership of the Council should be expanded. While
criteria are established for non-permanent members, no
such criteria exist for permanent members. We have
7
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
already spelt out some relevant criteria in our statement in
this year’s general debate. These should be developed and
adopted before nominating any country for permanent
membership.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the report of
the Security Council should be more analytical in future
and, more important, we should set in place a regular
system of exchange between the General Assembly and an
appropriately expanded Security Council. An effective
mechanism is required for this if the general membership
is to be reassured that the Council is accountable to the
Assembly and is confining itself to the maintenance of
international peace and security by acting in strict
conformity with the provisions of the Charter.
Mrs. Hassan (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic): At
the outset, the delegation of Egypt wishes to thank the
President of the General Assembly for having deferred
consideration of the report of the Security Council to the
General Assembly thus making it possible for a larger
number of delegations to study and examine the report and
to consider all its contents.
the Council,
this month’s President of
The delegation of Egypt wishes also to extend its
appreciation to the Permanent Representative of the United
Kingdom,
for
introducing the report to the Assembly. This practice, which
started last year when the Permanent Representative of
Brazil introduced the report to the General Assembly, is a
step in the right direction towards more progress in the
implementation of the provisions of the Charter with regard
to the responsibility of the Security Council vis-à-vis the
General Assembly. The practice also reflects a new spirit of
cooperation which deserves appreciation.
The annual debate that takes place in the General
Assembly when the Assembly considers the report of the
Security Council, which is submitted to it in accordance
with Articles 15 and 24 of the Charter, affords all Members
of the Organization the opportunity of exchanging views
regarding the development of
the Security Council’s
activities, to take note of the Council’s achievements and its
attitudes on certain complex issues while taking note, at the
same time, of any shortcomings in the Council’s handling
of other issues. The debate is also an occasion that makes
it possible for conducting the necessary dialogue and vital
interaction between the General Assembly and the Security
Council. Such dialogue and interaction are bound to support
and strengthen the respective roles of the General Assembly
and the Security Council in discharging their mandates with
regard to maintaining international peace and security in
8
48th meeting
31 October 1994
accordance with the provisions of the Charter. In addition,
the debate is a significant occasion that highlights the
accountability of the Security Council to the General
Assembly and reflects the proper balance between these
two main bodies of the United Nations.
The consideration by the General Assembly of the
Security Council’s report acquires special and increasing
significance from the vital role of the Security Council in
the international arena, especially in view of
the
increasing complexity of the international situation and
the deterioration of peace and security in several regions
in a manner that has redoubled the Council’s activities
and greatly increased its responsibilities. This has led to
a great deal of justified interest in the Security Council’s
activities on the part of the Member States in particular
and the international community in general.
Mr. Seniloli (Fiji) Vice-President took the Chair.
Egypt’s delegation welcomes the report submitted by
the Security Council to the General Assembly this year,
in document A/49/2. In fact, the submission of this report
periodically, on time, is in line with the responsibility and
the mandate conferred on the members of the Security
Council by the Member States of the Organization in
accordance with Article 24 and the requirements of
Article 15 of the Charter.
We also welcome the adoption of the report in an
open meeting of the Security Council and its issuance as
a limited circulation document before it is considered and
adopted as is the case in all the other bodies of the United
Nations. We also encourage the continued distribution of
the monthly work programme of the Council to all United
Nations missions as this contributes to the flow of
information and welcome the listing of the Council’s
meetings
these measures, by
themselves, constitute a step in the right direction towards
the aim of
such
measures, for all their positive nature, do not rise to the
level of our expectations.
increased transparency. However,
in the Journal. All
There is an urgent need for further measures. This
requires the members of the Security Council to continue
to work for the adoption of additional measures to
improve the Council’s procedures in a manner that would
meet
the expectations and respond to the views and
proposals of the Members of the General Assembly in
this respect.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
On many occasions, Egypt has called for the report of
the Security Council to give an objective and analytical
account of all the activities undertaken by the Council in
discharging its responsibilities, particularly at a time when
those responsibilities are increasing qualitatively and
quantitatively. This means that the General Assembly, in its
capacity as the world body, should be fully informed of the
essence of the Council’s work. This is a particularly urgent
requirement
in
conducting its business, resorts as a matter of routine to
informal consultations, a practice which makes it difficult
for the full membership of the Organization to obtain
timely and open information on the Council’s work.
in view of the fact
the Council,
that
Unfortunately,
the Security Council’s report under
review this year is a conform copy of previous reports, with
the exception of a more detailed introduction and two
appendices: appendix VII containing communications from
the President of the Security Council or the Secretary-
General during the period covered by the report; and
appendix VIII containing the reports of the Secretary-
General issued during the period covered by the report.
the report
is a compilation of
Apart from these two innovations, which do not rise
to the level of expectations of the majority of Member
States, the report, regardless of its bulkiness, is not, in our
estimation, a substantive or objective document that could
be described as commensurate with the increasingly
important role performed by the Security Council. Simply
stated,
the resolutions
adopted, and various communications and documents issued
during the period it covers, all of which are common
knowledge as everyone has already seen and perused them.
The report, on the other hand, is devoid of any analysis or
evaluation of the resolutions adopted on the many disputes
the Council has dealt with nor does it include any hint at
any explanation that would shed any light, even a
generalized sort of
closed informal
consultations. Consequently, the report, in our opinion, falls
short of satisfying the desire of the overwhelming majority
of Member States for more clarity and understanding of the
Council’s thinking and motives. Therefore, it is not possible
to analyse the Council’s activities properly. Having said
this, we must say that we stress this point because it is
closely linked with the whole question of the representative
nature of the Council and its political responsibility vis-à-
vis the General Assembly. We all know that
the first
paragraph of Article 24 of the Charter states that
the
Security Council acts on behalf of the Member States and
we realize that it is from this conferred responsibility that
the Council derives its legitimacy.
light on the
48th meeting
31 October 1994
responsibility on the United Nations,
The increased activity of the Security Council puts
a great
a
responsibility that is shared by all the Member States of
the United Nations, not only from a political standpoint,
but also in a material context. Consequently, the very
least the Member States expect from the Council is a flow
of objective and timely information. This leads us to
highlight a few points which, unfortunately, have not been
covered in the report: First, the activities of the subsidiary
bodies of the Security Council, activities which are of
interest to a large number of Member States; second, the
implementation of the Council’s resolutions on the issues
it has dealt with; and third, an evaluation of peace-
keeping operations. All these are important issues which,
because of their impact on a large number of countries,
should not be absent from a report that genuinely reflects
the activities of the Security Council.
that Article 11 of
the Charter makes
The dialogue between the General Assembly and the
Security Council is vital and essential if these two main
bodies are fully to discharge their responsibilities with
regard to the maintenance of international peace and
security. In this connection, it may be appropriate to
recall
the
maintenance of international peace and security a shared
responsibility of the two bodies. The General Assembly
is empowered to consider
the general principles of
cooperation in the maintenance of international peace and
security, to discuss questions relating to such questions
and to make recommendations with regard to any such
questions to the Member States or to the Security Council
or
the special
responsibility vested in the Security Council with regard
to the maintenance of international peace and security
detracts not at all from the mandate of the General
Assembly in this respect. Hence the importance of the
indispensable balanced relationship between the two
bodies if they are fully to discharge their responsibilities
in a coordinated fashion.
from this
to both.
that
It
follows
In this connection and in view of the importance of
such balance, the delegation of Egypt wishes to stress the
following points.
First, there is a need for more transparency in the
decision-making process in the Security Council. In order
to achieve this, it is proposed that a greater number of
formal meetings be held before decisions are taken. This
would ensure the widest possible participation. Also, the
countries directly concerned should be allowed to take
part
consultations. A
comprehensive information system should be set up to
the Council’s
informal
in
9
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
provide all Member States with information. This could
include the circulation of bulletins to brief the Member
States with regard to the informal consultations of the
Security Council, together with any other practical measures
that would ensure the flow of information.
Second, a more dynamic relationship should exist
between the Security Council and the General Assembly. In
this respect, the reports submitted by the Security Council
to the General Assembly should be full of objective and
timely information on the activities of the Council and of
its subsidiary bodies. Exchange of views between the two
bodies should be promoted through the institutionalization
of consultations between the President of the General
Assembly and the President of the Security Council.
Furthermore,
regular direct consultations between the
Security Council and the troop-contributing countries should
also be institutionalized with regard to the taking of
decisions on the setting up and management of peace-
keeping operations. The ideal means of guaranteeing the
effectiveness of the Council’s resolutions and ensuring their
legitimacy can be found only in expanding the basis of
participation by those States that are not members of the
Security Council. In this connection, a number of initiatives
have been made and we wish to support the joint initiative
put forward by Argentina and New Zealand.
Finally, I wish to refer to the question of equitable
representation on and increase in the membership of the
Security Council. Egypt has taken part in the debate held
on agenda item 33 regarding the membership of
the
Security Council and in the work of the Open-ended
Working Group and will continue to participate in trying to
rectify the existing imbalances with the aim of enhancing
the Security Council’s effectiveness and credibility.
In conclusion, we wish to state that the spirit and letter
of
the Charter make it essential
the General
Assembly’s consideration of the Security Council’s report
should not be limited simply to taking note of the report
without making the necessary recommendations. It is our
hope that,
things will happen somewhat
differently.
in future,
that
Mr. Kalpage (Sri Lanka): My delegation has listened
with considerable interest to the introductory remarks of the
President of the Security Council, Sir David Hannay,
Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom. His
introduction of the report of the Security Council before the
General Assembly follows a welcome precedent, which we
hope will also be a regular feature in future.
10
48th meeting
31 October 1994
The list of speakers for this item this year is longer
than that of last year. This indicates the growing interest
the report of the Council is evoking. The debate should
not be seen as an opportunity to pillory the Council. On
the contrary, interest in the report reflects the strong
desire among all Members to enhance the effectiveness
and efficiency of the Council.
This is due to a number of factors: First, the United
Nations, particularly through the Security Council, not
only is now involved more deeply in fulfilling its
traditional functions, but is entering into uncharted areas
of activity which profoundly affect all States. Secondly,
in the current international situation, which has, overall,
been categorized as positive, a healthy feeling prevails
that
to promote effectively the
purposes and principles of the Charter. Thirdly, the wider
is the extent of understanding about Council decisions, the
greater will be their acceptance and the better the prospect
of decisions being efficiently and effectively implemented.
transparency is vital
Apart from this, there is the basic but rather obvious
fact that the membership of the United Nations has risen
from 113 in 1965, when the present composition of the
Council took effect, to 184 in 1994. The need to increase
the membership of
the Council has received near
universal acceptance.
The report of the Council in document A/49/2 is a
highly detailed compilation of decisions, resolutions and
communications. It provides much useful documentary
material. As Sir David Hannay himself said:
“... in conjunction with other official documents of
the Council ...
it constitutes a reference guide.”
(supra, p. 2)
If nothing else, it illustrates the extent of the Security
Council’s range of activity, which has obviously been
matched by a correspondingly wide interest in its work.
to
to
The report also briefly — all too briefly — refers in
Chapter 28 to certain innovative procedures and working
in recent months,
methods followed by the Council
particularly
enable
non-members of the Security Council to have a fuller
insight into its decision-making rationale. These need now
to be formalized. The Open-ended Working Group on the
Security Council has also discussed vital issues relating to
needed increases in the Council’s membership.
transparency
increase
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
to comment
The report of the Security Council covers a 12-month
period ending 15 June 1994. Discussions in the Working
Group on the Security Council continued well beyond this
date, its report being adopted only on 14 September 1994.
For this reason, it may not have been possible for the
Security Council
report on the
conclusions of the Working Group. It could also be argued
that the Security Council report is primarily meant to cover
decisions which have been taken within its own Chamber.
Yet, in the view of my delegation, it would be particularly
appropriate if the Council found it possible in future reports
to take cognizance of the considered views of the general
membership of the United Nations, including the permanent
members of the Council.
in its
Related to the Council’s report
is another matter.
Resolution 48/264, in its operative paragraph 4,
“Invites the President of the General Assembly,
following consultations, to propose appropriate ways
and means to facilitate an in-depth discussion by the
Assembly of matters
reports
submitted to it by the Security Council.”
contained in the
This resolution was adopted by consensus after long
and difficult negotiations on the revitalization of the work
of the General Assembly. We hope that the President of the
Assembly will initiate consultations on this subject within
the framework of the present agenda item, so that the
Assembly can hold a constructive discussion on matters
dealt with in the report submitted by the Council. We
would suggest, as the Chairman of
the Non-Aligned
Movement did, that this item — item ll — be kept open to
permit such consultations.
My delegation is certain that the Security Council
would see the interest displayed in its report as being
motivated by factors other than purely academic curiosity.
We believe the Security Council should encourage, not
disparage, this healthy interest in its work and provide in its
future reports “a clear and informative account of its work”
(resolution 48/264, para.3) to the fullest extent consistent
with the Charter which, it bears repetition, has enjoined the
Council to act on behalf of the entire membership of the
United Nations.
Organization of work
The President: I should like to inform delegations
that the Assembly will consider agenda item 39, “The
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina”, on Thursday,
48th meeting
31 October 1994
instead of on
3 November 1994 in the morning,
Wednesday, 2 November 1994 as previously scheduled.
Agenda item 11 (continued)
Report of the Security Council (A/49/2)
Mr. Sardenberg (Brazil): The delegation of Brazil
wishes to express its appreciation to Sir David Hannay,
President of the Security Council for the month of
October, for having introduced the report of the Security
Council (A/49/2) to the General Assembly, covering the
period from 16 June 1993 to 15 June 1994.
It is very gratifying for the delegation of Brazil to
note that the practice which was inaugurated last year,
when we were occupying the presidency of the Council
for the same month, has been aptly continued by the
delegation of the United Kingdom this year. We thank the
President of the Council for the kind references he made
to the initiative of my delegation and to myself. Likewise,
I wish to thank other speakers who made similar
references. It is our expectation that such a practice will
be maintained and further improved in the coming years.
The submission of the annual report by the Security
Council in accordance with Article 24, paragraph 3, of the
Charter and its consideration by the General Assembly, in
pursuance of Article 15, paragraph 1,
a
fundamental constitutional requirement enshrined in the
Charter, which provides a privileged occasion for a
comprehensive and in-depth dialogue between these two
crucially important organs of our Organization.
represent
In this regard, we welcome the call made in his
introductory remarks by the President of the Council for
“a substantive dialogue and interaction between
these two principal organs of the United Nations, a
dialogue which will, I hope, touch not just on the
nature of the report presented to the Assembly
today, but also on the substance of the issues before
the Security Council”. (cf. supra., p. 1)
It was precisely this very objective that inspired my
delegation to introduce the report last year. In answer to
this call, my delegation will gladly address today both the
formal and the substantive aspects of the report of the
Security Council.
11
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
48th meeting
31 October 1994
With regard to the format of the report, the delegation
of Brazil has always underscored the need to make the
paperwork and procedures of the Council less opaque and
more user-friendly vis-à-vis the membership at large of the
Organization.
In line with these concerns, during its
mandate in the Council for the biennium 1993-1994, Brazil
has been actively participating in the Informal Working
Group on Documentation and Other Procedural Matters,
whose efforts were instrumental in improving some of the
working methods of the Council, and which have been
referred to both in the statement made by the President of
the Council and in the introduction of the report. We note
with satisfaction that, as another step in enhancing the flow
of communication between the Council and the General
Assembly, the President of the Council started the practice
of regularly briefing orally non-member delegations at a
pre-arranged time and place. My delegation welcomes these
improvements and encourages the Working Group earnestly
further make
to
the
to
documentation and procedures of
the Council more
transparent to the membership of the Organization.
endeavours
continue
its
While taking note of the disclaimer that the Security
Council’s report is not intended as a substitute for the
official records of the Council, and that it rather constitutes
a reference guide to its work, we cannot fail to underline its
fundamental deficiency, namely that it only reports on the
official proceedings of that body. In this connection, we
point out that the introduction of the report mentions, for
the first
the frequency of informal consultations
during the period, noting that the Council held 153 formal
meetings, adopted 87 resolutions and issued 68 presidential
statements, as against 252 informal consultations totalling
some 353 hours of deliberations.
time,
that
While this first and timid acknowledgement of the
existence of informal consultations is a positive sign, it
highlights a paradox — namely,
the report of the
Security Council dedicates more than 500 pages to
describing official proceedings, a great part of which is
constituted by formal and formalized meetings lasting no
more than five minutes each, whereas no indication is given
about
the 353 hours dedicated to
252 informal consultations, during which most of the truly
substantive discussions were conducted. We therefore
consider
that some appropriate format be
devised to reflect the contents of the informal consultations
in the Council’s report in order to preserve the substance of
these deliberations in some authoritative form.
contents of
it essential
the
My delegation is not oblivious to the need for a
certain degree of confidentiality and informality in the
12
in order to expedite its
deliberations of the Council
proceedings. However, recourse to such methods should
be had with due criteria and not pushed to such extremes
that could compromise the accountability and legitimacy
of
the
Organization, on whose behalf it bears the primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace
and security.
the membership of
the Council
vis-à-vis
More transparency does not necessarily mean less
efficiency. While a smaller decision-making circle could
perhaps arrive at conclusions more rapidly than a wider
collegiate, hastily taken decisions do not necessarily
translate into effective results. The responses to the
complex challenges currently before the Council should
be based on careful assessments and balanced measures.
With the demise of the period of automatic alignments
within and without the Council, different perspectives and
contributions should be properly taken into account in the
deliberations of the Council if it is to attain fair and
lasting solutions.
The views of my delegation concerning ways and
means to improve the reporting system of the Security
Council have been presented on many previous occasions,
in particular in our statement during the debate on agenda
item 33. We intend to continue contributing to the
improvement of the working methods of the Council, both
here in the General Assembly and in the Security Council
during our remaining period in that organ.
confidence bestowed by the
Having been elected during the forty-seventh session
of
the General Assembly to occupy one of
the
non-permanent seats of the Security Council for the
period 1993 to 1994, Brazil has endeavoured to respond
to the
international
community. Our positions on the issues before the
Council have been founded on respect for the principle of
non-intervention, the upholding of the sovereignty and
territorial integrity of States, the permanent search for the
peaceful and negotiated settlement of disputes,
the
prevalence of the rule of law in the international public
order, the observance of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, and active contribution to peace-keeping
operations
the
Organization.
activities
relevant
other
and
of
We have endeavoured to participate constructively in
the deliberations of more than 20 situations placed before
the Council during the period covered by this report.
Moreover, our participation in the work of the subsidiary
bodies, in particular the sanctions committees, was guided
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
48th meeting
31 October 1994
by a concern firmly to implement the relevant resolutions
and decisions of the Council, without losing sight of the
need to avoid unduly aggravating the situation of vulnerable
populations and innocent third countries. We point out, in
this regard, that the Committee on Yugoslavia alone, which
is presided over by Brazil, has had to deal with more than
34,000 communications
than
45,000 communications so far in 1994, as reported by the
Secretary-General in his annual report on the work of the
Organization.
and more
1993
in
In the field of peace-keeping, we have participated in
the activities of the United Nations Observer Mission in
El Salvador,
the United Nations Angola Verification
Mission, the United Nations Operation in Mozambique, the
United Nations Protection Force and the United Nations
Observer Mission in Uganda-Rwanda, and we are actively
considering further participation in other operations. We
should like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the
selflessly dedicated and courageous personnel participating
in the numerous peace-keeping operations of
the
Organization, many of them operating under extremely
difficult and dangerous conditions.
for many of
In this regard, my delegation believes that the growing
number and complexity of peace-keeping operations has
made imperative a thorough rethinking on the principles
and practices observed by the United Nations in this field.
I point out, for instance, that while the Security Council is
the organ competent for establishing such operations the
great majority of Member States whose personnel take part
in them are not represented on the Council. Moreover, the
mandates set
these complex operations,
involving a delicate imbrication of peace-keeping activities
with humanitarian, electoral and development assistance,
need to be more carefully considered by all parties
concerned. This is undoubtedly a crucial area in which
substantive dialogue and close interaction between the
Security Council and Member States are required. We note
with satisfaction that this month, at the initiative of the
delegations of Argentina and New Zealand, the Council has
considered useful steps to improve consultations between
troop-contributing countries, members of
the Security
Council and the Secretariat. It is the expectation of my
delegation that these steps will be implemented soon and
further improved as necessary, and we stand ready to
continue to cooperate in this regard.
Without addressing each of the situations contained in
the Council’s report, I should like to underscore some of
the concerns that have guided our delegation during the
deliberations in which it has participated.
their
nature,
exceptional
First, my delegation has always advocated the need
for the Council
to explore all possible avenues for
negotiation before resorting to enforcement actions under
Chapter VII. By
these
enforcement actions should be used only in extreme cases
and cannot constitute a precedent for any other situation.
At the same time, when issuing warnings to parties in
conflict, the Council should exercise utmost restraint in
employing language making implicit or explicit reference
to coercive measures of dubious effectiveness. We would
rather prefer to see the Council making fuller use of its
diplomatic tools, such as special missions, rapporteurs and
other creative measures, in order to play a more proactive
role alongside the mediation activities of the Secretary-
General.
Secondly, we continue to hold that the authority of
the Security Council is not self-constituted. It originates
from a delegation of powers conferred to it by the whole
membership of the Organization,
in accordance with
paragraph 1 of Article 24 of the Charter, as has been
mentioned several
times during this debate. For this
reason, its powers and responsibilities under the Charter
should be strictly construed and cannot be created,
recreated or reinterpreted, creatively or otherwise, by
decisions of the Council itself. The competence of the
Council should not be extended to matters not directly
linked to the maintenance of international peace and
security, in particular when it involves legal and judicial
principles. Not being a judicial organ, there is no way the
Council could claim a jurisprudence or a system of
precedents for its decisions. It is our considered view that
the Security Council should not invoke Chapter VII of the
Charter to take decisions in matters that would amount to
amending the Charter itself by extending its field of
competence.
allow selective
implementation of
Thirdly, we firmly hold that all decisions and
resolutions of the Council must be strictly complied with
by all parties and by the Council itself. The Council
should not
its
resolutions nor adopt decisions only on selected situations.
It should demand full compliance with the terms of its
relevant resolutions as well as undertake to fulfil promptly
its own obligations under these resolutions. Above all, for
the sake of its credibility, the Council should refrain from
reinterpreting its own terms at different moments at its
convenience.
Fourthly, the Council should avoid the proliferation
of instances in which it delegates enforcement actions to
third parties without clear mechanisms for the control of
13
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
for
such
accountability
actions. Cooperation,
and
coordination and other arrangements with relevant regional
organizations are to be encouraged, but
they cannot
constitute a substitute for the fulfilment of the Council’s
own primary responsibility in the maintenance of
international peace and security in accordance with the
Charter.
Last but not least, the Council must act and be seen as
acting impartially in the performance of its responsibilities.
It should be ready to take measures against parties that fail
to comply with its resolutions and to support those who
comply.
it should avoid a purportedly
balanced approach that would eventually only favour those
who seek to postpone the fulfilment of their obligations.
In particular,
These were some,
though not all, of
the main
considerations that guided my delegation in addressing the
different situations described in the report of the Security
Council, and we hope this will clarify for the Members of
the Organization the positions adopted by Brazil.
In closing, my delegation would like to underscore
once again the critical importance of substantive dialogue
and interaction between the Security Council and the
General Assembly. Such exercise should not be restricted
to the occasion of the formal consideration by the General
Assembly of the Security Council’s annual report but
should be an ongoing, in-depth exercise stemming from the
constitutional
these two organs in
pursuance of their respective functions and powers as
enshrined in the Charter.
responsibilities of
In January 1995, there will be a second Summit-level
meeting of the Security Council to review the international
situation from the perspective of its competence. In October
1995,
there will be a Summit meeting of all States
Members of the Organization to assess the realization of the
purposes and principles of the United Nations throughout its
these
50 years of activity. It
occasions will
create
the
intensification of the dialogue and interaction between the
Security Council and the General Assembly, with a view to
strengthening the Organization as a whole for the benefit of
all its Member States.
is our expectation that
further momentum for
Mr. Mumbengegwi (Zimbabwe): Let me at the outset
lend my delegation’s support to the statement delivered by
the Permanent Representative of Indonesia on behalf of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
14
48th meeting
31 October 1994
The report before us in document A/49/2 is prepared
in accordance with Article 15, paragraph 1, and Article
24, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations.
Paragraph 1 of Article 15 provides that
the General
Assembly shall receive and consider annual and special
reports from the Security Council; these reports shall
include an account of the measures that the Security
Council has decided upon or
taken to maintain
international peace and security. Paragraph 3 of Article 24
provides that the Security Council shall submit annual
and, when necessary, special reports to the General
Assembly for its consideration.
Clearly,
the intention in the Charter of our
Organization is that the Security Council should be fully
accountable to the General Assembly through annual
reports or, where necessary, through special reports. In
fact, paragraph 1 of Article 24 of the Charter makes it
abundantly clear that the general membership confers on
the Security Council primary responsibility for
the
maintenance of international peace and security “in order
to ensure prompt and effective action by the United
Nations”. Thus,
its duties under this
responsibility, the Security Council acts on behalf of the
general membership.
in carrying out
peace
The mandate is clearly given to the Security Council
under the Charter solely in order to ensure prompt and
effective action by the United Nations. The authors of the
Charter correctly recognized that urgent matters of
international
be
expeditiously dealt with by a large and universal body
such as this General Assembly. Thus the annual and
special reports of the Security Council were meant to give
the General Assembly the opportunity to assess and
evaluate the work of the Security Council and provide
guidance as might be required.
security
could
and
not
Regrettably, the report of the Security Council to the
General Assembly remains a compendium of documents
and resolutions that have passed through the Security
Council. It is completely lacking in transparency and
totally devoid of analysis. This report, as those who have
spoken before me have also indicated, can be of use only
to
academic
researchers, and certainly not to this General Assembly.
historians,
librarians,
archivists
and
The format and content of this report might have
made sense during the cold war years, when it was
difficult for the Security Council to agree on anything of
substance and in some cases even of procedure. However,
we now have to accept that in this post-cold- war era,
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
where it is now possible for the Security Council to reach
consensus on a wide range of issues, the report before us is
not only anachronistic but also an unacceptable relic of the
past.
A report of the Security Council
to the General
Assembly should, in our view, contain a background of the
issues on which the Security Council has deliberated; a
record of developments on each of these issues as they
unfolded; the nature of the informal deliberations of the
Council; and the reasons behind each decision that the
Council took. We know that all too often Security Council
decisions are arrived at
through informal consultations
among Council members,
from which the general
membership, on whose behalf the Security Council acts, is
barred. It is therefore most disappointing to receive, year
after year, a report that fails to shed any light on the basis
of action of the Security Council.
The format and content of the report of the Security
Council to the General Assembly underline the urgent need
for the reform and restructuring of the Security Council so
as to ensure equality and democracy in its composition,
procedures and practices. Its decision-making process must
display greater transparency through wider participation of
the general membership both in informal consultations and
at formal meetings. We believe that once this shroud of
secrecy is lifted from the work of the Security Council it
will be much easier for the Council
to the
General Assembly the report expected under the Charter,
which underlines the accountability of the Security Council
to the general membership.
to present
We note with concern that some of the provisions of
Article 15, paragraph 1, remain a dead letter. In accordance
with that Article, the Security Council should submit, in
addition to the annual report, special reports on issues
affecting international peace and security. I cannot recall
that in the years I have represented Zimbabwe here at the
United Nations there has been a single special report on
issues affecting international peace and security; yet there
have been numerous upheavals and crises in various parts
of the world during this period.
Perhaps if the Security Council had provided the
General Assembly with a special report on Rwanda before
the events of April this year, collaboration between the
General Assembly and the Security Council might have
averted a tragedy of
the magnitude we subsequently
witnessed. My delegation was appalled by the manner in
which the Security Council handled the question of
the Security Council’s
Rwanda, and it believes that
48th meeting
31 October 1994
apparent selectivity and double standards in addressing
the various issues on its agenda should be avoided in the
future. Indeed, there could well have been compelling
reasons for the Council to act as it did; if so, one would
expect a full account in the annual report so that the
Assembly could try to find ways and means of avoiding
similar catastrophes in future. Regrettably, after reading
the report of
to the General
Assembly we are no wiser.
the Security Council
The General Assembly must commend the Security
Council on the tenacity it has displayed in dealing with
the intractable problems of
the former Yugoslavia.
Despite the many setbacks and the complexity of this
conflict as well as the continued lack of agreement among
the parties, the Security Council has not thrown up its
hands in despair, nor has it threatened to leave the parties
to consume themselves in internecine civil war. We know
that the achievement of peace requires patience, resources
and an unwavering will on the part of our Organization.
In this regard, it is of great concern that the Security
Council does not seem to have applied itself with the
same tenacity, unwavering will or generosity with peace-
keeping resources with regard to the conflicts in Angola,
Somalia, Liberia and Rwanda. It appears that in regard to
those conflicts resolutions emanating from the Council
constantly
of
international assistance. The general membership expects
explanations from the Security Council. Where would one
expect to find them if not in the annual report of the
Security Council to the general membership? Regrettably,
after reading the report we are no wiser.
imminent withdrawal
threaten
the
My delegation would like to underline, as others
have done, that it is better to commit scarce resources to
preventing conflicts or addressing them in their infancy
than to be compelled to do so when they have reached
catastrophic proportions, when even greater resources are
invariably required.
(Spain)
(interpretation
Mr. Laclaustra
from
Spanish): The Security Council is today submitting to the
General Assembly the report on its work from 16 June
1993 to 15 June 1994. This report was adopted by the
Council on 18 October last. The President of the Security
Council, Sir David Hannay, has introduced the report on
behalf of the members of the Council and has pointed out
some innovations that were made in drafting it. In our
view, these innovations have contributed to improving and
enhancing the text.
15
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
In this year’s consideration of the report we are
continuing the process, embarked on last year, of making
improvements in the drafting and publication of the report
with a view to enhancing the transparency of the Council’s
activities and the level of awareness of those activities by
Members of the Organization.
In this regard, the Working Group on documentation
and other procedural questions, a subsidiary body of the
Council which was established in June 1993 and which has
been meeting regularly since then, has played a very
positive role, in conjunction with the Secretariat, whose
concrete effect can be seen in this year’s report.
Last year we endorsed the expansion of the descriptive
content of the introduction to the report. Now we have
observed further improvements in the same direction which
should make it easier to study the report on the Council’s
work. I am referring to accounts of the formal meetings of
the Council, systematically grouped by agenda items,
together with resolutions and statements adopted with
respect
to these items, as well as the inclusion of
information on the activities of the Council’s subsidiary
bodies.
Also included, as appendices to the report, are
communications by the Secretary-General and the President
of the Security Council, as well as reports of the Secretary-
General issued during the period under consideration.
In addition, the rationalization of the Council’s agenda
has continued. The list of issues submitted to the Council
contained 215 items on 15 June 1993 as opposed to 150 on
15 June 1994, even though the Council had to address 17
new items during that period.
It is only fair to acknowledge the improvements I have
mentioned, which offer genuine grounds for satisfaction.
However, the Council is aware that there is a need to
continue working to ensure that
these innovations and
improvements become more substantive.
It is clear that from a procedural standpoint the formal
meetings of the Council are the place and the occasion for
the production of its records, in the context of its mandate
of peace-keeping and maintenance of international peace
and security. At the same time, we must acknowledge that
the Council does a great deal of its work in informal
consultations. In fact, matters of great practical importance,
such as the review of
the various sanctions regimes
imposed under Chapter VII of the Charter, are not the
16
48th meeting
31 October 1994
subject of a formal decision by the Council when the
result of those deliberations involves no change in them.
It would therefore be appropriate — in terms of both
the transparency and the faithful, realistic description of
the Council’s work — to speak in the report, at least in
statistical terms, of the Council’s informal consultations
and the items discussed in them. This would add nothing
that could give rise to misinterpretation, as the agenda of
informal consultations is set out daily in the Journal of
the United Nations.
Thus far we have been speaking of a report on the
work of the Security Council. It includes descriptions of
records, of the Council’s meetings, of the communications
sent to or by the Council, and of the items of which it is
seized. One might consider how the Council could put
this information together in analytical form and convey to
the General Assembly its assessment of its own work.
This would have two advantages. It would enhance the
quality, not just the quantity, of the information provided
by the Council, and it would yield a sort of authoritative
interpretation of the Council’s activities by the very body
that carried them out. Thus, other interpretations would
have to use the Council’s own assessment as a point of
reference, which would limit biased perceptions at
variance with the actual work of the Council.
Those issues are part of a broader debate aimed at
enabling all Members of the United Nations — on whose
behalf, under the terms of Article 24 of the Charter, the
Council acts — to participate more in the work of the
Council. Specifically, it is a question of broadening the
machinery and procedures for consultations to take into
account the views of States contributing to peace-keeping
operations in situations that affect them directly, as those
views are a most important part of the very conception of
an operation. The Security Council
currently
considering this question on the basis of the proposal
submitted by the delegations of Argentina and New
Zealand; in the view of the Spanish delegation, this is of
the greatest interest.
is
Moreover, last week the President of the Security
Council began the practice of
reporting weekly to
Members of the Organization on the Council’s informal
consultations on the matters before it. We view this as a
positive step, and consider that the Working Group on
Documentation and Procedural Matters could continue its
consideration
qualitative
augmentation of the flow of information to Member
States not members of the Security Council.
quantitative
and
of
the
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The Council has considerably expanded its activities
in recent years, addressing issues that increasingly affect all
States Members of the Organization. Increasing the degree
to which non-members are informed about and participate
in the Council’s decisions would only bolster the legitimacy
of those decisions and improve the prospects of their
implementation. During its term as a member of the
Council over the past 22 months, Spain has tried to make
a constructive contribution to that end, and will continue to
do so until the end of its tenure.
Mr. Bagatsing (Philippines): At
the outset, my
delegation joins other delegations in thanking the Permanent
Representative of the United Kingdom, in his capacity as
President of the Security Council, for introducing the
annual report of the Council and for presenting the various
measures the Council has taken to make its work more
transparent and accessible to non-members.
My delegation received the latest annual report of the
Security Council to the General Assembly just in time for
this debate, and we thank the members of the Council for
their efforts. Nevertheless, the situation would have been
much more encouraging if the report had been received
earlier so that delegations and the General Assembly could
have had more time to consider its substance and content
and adequately prepare for the debate.
in paragraph 4 of
More important, however,
its
resolution 48/264,
the General Assembly invites the
President of the Assembly to propose appropriate ways and
means to facilitate an in-depth discussion by the Assembly
of matters contained in the reports submitted to it by the
Council. This would be particularly relevant in the case of
the annual report. We therefore urge the President
to
undertake such consultations with delegations at the earliest
possible date with a view to enabling the General
Assembly, in line with resolution 48/264, to conduct such
an in-depth discussion on matters contained in the report,
particularly on those of an urgent character or those
commanding wide or general interest. It is particularly for
this reason that we fully support the proposal to keep this
item open after today’s debate.
As it stands now, even if we desired to conduct either
a meaningful exchange of views or the in-depth discussion
called for in resolution 48/264, the present organizational
set-up for our debate is not conducive to such discussion
and does not provide sufficient time for it. We believe that
a more appropriate mechanism should be established, to
give delegations and the General Assembly sufficient time
to express their views on the matters in the report and,
48th meeting
31 October 1994
where
recommendations.
appropriate,
to
translate
them into
The format for considering the report is one aspect
of this issue. The other pertains to its content. Although
we welcome the recent efforts of the Council to improve
the presentation of its annual report, we believe that the
possibility of having a substantive debate on the report
would be considerably enhanced and facilitated if certain
improvements in content and presentation were made by
the Security Council.
In this regard, in paragraph 3 of resolution 48/264,
the General Assembly encourages the Council,
in its
submission of reports to the Assembly, to provide a clear
and informative account of its work. We believe that this
could be accomplished by presenting a more substantive
and explanatory annual report, and not
is
essentially a compilation of official proceedings and
decisions. In other words,
the report should include,
among other things, and in an appropriate format, the
substance or
closed informal
consultations of the whole on the key matters covered in
the report, especially those informal consultations of the
whole which led to the adoption of a decision or course
of action on those key matters.
a summary of
just what
the
What is most important in this matter would be
information on the reasons why and the circumstances
under which a particular
issue was placed on the
Council’s agenda, and the elements or factors which led
to a specific course of action on that issue. This would, in
our view, enable the General Assembly and the
membership at
large to conduct a more meaningful
exchange of views on the issues in the report, as a clearer
appreciation would
the Council’s
deliberations and of the thinking of its members which
led to decisions or actions on these critical issues.
gained
be
of
We also believe that the annual report could include
a section containing an outline or preliminary forecast of
the annual work programme of the Council, particularly
on issues identified in the current report as requiring the
Council’s continued debate or further action.
The period covered should also be timely, as stated
in resolution 48/264. Current and urgent issues should be
particularly highlighted so that the Assembly could, if it
desires,
under
consideration by the Council.
on matters
discussions
focus
its
17
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
The Council should also seriously consider providing
more frequent special reports to the General Assembly in
accordance with Article 15 of the Charter. This would,
among other things, provide the General Assembly with a
continuous,
of
information on the Security Council’s decisions and
activities, and would facilitate any debate on them.
authoritative
source
up-to-date
and
Finally, we look forward to having in the near future
a truly substantive debate on the issues in the Council’s
annual report, as envisioned in resolution 48/264, not only
as a means of revitalizing debate on this item but also as a
convincing manifestation of
the
Security Council to the general membership, as set forth in
the Charter.
the accountability of
Mr. Azwai (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)(interpretation
from Arabic): The annual report of the Security Council to
the General Assembly was the subject of considerable
criticism at the last two sessions. This criticism stemmed
from the fact that the report is a copy of already known
resolutions and decisions and is merely a narrative, one that
does not deal with a considerable part of the Council’s
work.
With the aim of reforming the working methods and
procedures of the Council, many proposals have been put
forward. Today, as the General Assembly examines the
Council’s report to this session, we note that the Council
has paid some attention to such proposals. However, we
still find that what has been done does not rise to the level
of expectations of
the Member States. My country’s
delegation wishes to stress the need for the Council to carry
out all the proposed reforms, and the need for its reports to
be substantive and to respond fully to all that has been
called for by Member States as clearly set forth in General
Assembly resolution 48/264.
The submission by the Security Council of its annual
report to the General Assembly is stipulated by Article 24
of the Charter, with the aim of enabling the Members of the
United Nations, which agreed that the Security Council
should act on their behalf, to consider the report, to study
it and to make whatever comments they may deem proper.
The aim of that provision is also to enable the Member
States to ascertain whether or not the Security Council, in
carrying out its functions, strictly acts within its competence
under the Charter and whether or not, when dealing with
international questions, it takes into consideration the views
and positions of the Member States.
18
48th meeting
31 October 1994
As in the past, the Security Council report to the
present session, which is now before us in document
A/49/2, contains all
the resolutions, decisions, and
statements adopted by the Council in the course of the
year. Nevertheless, the report is neither comprehensive
nor detailed. It does not show, even in brief terms, the
motives underlying those decisions and resolutions and
does not make clear how they were arrived at, particularly
those resolutions adopted under Chapter VII of
the
Charter, which originate from the wishes of certain
States — especially the United States of America - which
would exploit the Council to serve their own aims and
purposes. In order for future reports to be comprehensive
and to truly reflect all
the activities of the Security
Council, my country’s delegation believes that
the
Council should remedy all these lacunae.
In addition, the report should set forth in detail the
results of the work of the Council’s subsidiary bodies and
should set forth the discussions that take place in its
informal consultations, since we assume that the Council
has nothing to hide with regard to what takes place in
such consultations. If such is indeed the case, then the
Security Council’s report should contain what goes on in
those informal consultations. Furthermore, such informal
consultations should not be the rule but
the limited
exception in order for the Council
to the
fundamental rule of its work, namely, more formal and
open meetings. That would enable Member States to
make clear their positions on matters before the Council
prior to and not after the start of the decision-making
process, as is the current practice, so that the Member
States will not continue to face a fait accompli over
which their views have no influence whatever.
to revert
The end of the cold war ushered in a new era of
cooperation in the international arena, which aims, inter
alia, at better balance between the activities of the organs
of the United Nations and at ensuring that those organs,
especially the Security Council, should exercise their
functions in a democratic fashion within the competence
set
forth in the Charter, without any hegemony or
influence by any State. Although these demands have
been repeated and reconfirmed on many occasions in
many forums — including the General Assembly, which
expresses the will of all Member States — we are
concerned that some Security Council actions show that
it has observed neither those demands nor the terms of its
own competence. A look at the Council’s activities during
the period covered by its current report reveals that the
Council has increasingly tended to encroach on the
functions of other United Nations organs. This is an
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
unacceptable tendency, because it is unacceptable for the
Security Council to use the definition of what constitutes a
threat to international peace and security as a pretext for
encroaching on the competence of other bodies, as is the
case with regard to human-rights issues.
still before
It is also untenable for the Council to act in haste or
to continue to adopt resolutions on questions that are still
being considered by other United Nations bodies. As a case
in point, we must mention what has come to be known as
the Lockerbie problem, which is
the
International Court of Justice. The International Court has
yet to rule on the problem. Libya has had recourse to the
Court as the question is purely legal, and not political,
contrary to the United States insistence and its forcing the
Security Council to accept that view. The United States has
pressured the Council
into adopting resolutions against
Libya which, to say the least, are arbitrary, unjust, run
counter to the Charter of the United Nations and are in
flagrant breach of
law and international
conventions, in particular, the Montreal Convention, which
is
the only instrument dealing with questions of
international civil aviation and whose provisions are quite
clear.
international
and refuse
To add insult to injury, the United States of America
has insisted on dealing with the question under Chapter VII
of the Charter, which concerns threats to international peace
and security. My country finds it really strange to pick out
Chapter VII and apply it to this incident, which is nothing
more than a legal dispute, at a time when others who
violate
to implement Security Council
resolutions, and whose actions, to say the least, can be
qualified as real threats to international peace and security,
are exempt from the application of that Chapter. We are, of
course, speaking here of the Israelis, who are exempt from
action under Chapter VII because of the hegemony of the
United States and its pursuance of a policy of double
standards with regard to the questions dealt with by the
Security Council.
While the Charter of the United Nations encourages
the settling of disputes by peaceful means, it is worth
noting that one of the resolutions mentioned in the Security
Council’s report under review, namely resolution 883
(l993), was adopted in continuation of a case that was dealt
with under Chapter VII of
the Charter, before the
mechanism provided for in Chapter VI had been properly
used.
the rule of holding
consultations with the States concerned was not applied.
We know that in a specific case, namely the Lockerbie
question, the Security Council ignored the need to engage
It also bears noting that
48th meeting
31 October 1994
in such consultations and turned a deaf ear to the views
voiced by my country and to the positions taken by
international and regional organizations on how best to
deal with this question. As a result of the intransigence of
three of its permanent members, the Council had to deal
with this question through the imposition of coercive
unjustified measures that run counter to many of the
General Assembly’s resolutions,
including resolution
44/2l5, which calls
refraining from applying
restrictions, blockades and embargoes against developing
countries as a form of political and economic coercion
that affects their economic and social development and
aims at forcing such countries to change their internal and
foreign policies in line with the wishes of major Powers
that would impose their tutelage on the world. My
country’s position is that these dangerous trends should
not be ignored or acquiesced in.
for
It is imperative to stand up to attempts by certain
permanent members of the Security Council to transform
it
into something like their own exclusive club, by
excluding other members and by conducting most of the
Council’s business among themselves, with the aim of
using the Council to achieve their own political objectives
through the obstruction of the settlement of disputes by
peaceful means and by dealing with certain differences
through the adoption of coercive measures.
Furthermore, my delegation believes that there is an
urgent need to reconsider the working methods of the
committees established by the Security Council, especially
those established by means of resolutions adopted under
Chapter VII of the Charter, including the Committee
established under
resolution 748 (1992) which has
become a Committee devoted to hurting and punishing
the Libyan people.
At a time when many Libyans are dying daily
because of serious illnesses and road accidents, a member
of the Committee, namely the delegation of the United
States of America, is reluctant even to respond to requests
for approval of organizing flying ambulances, which are
exempted from the air embargo. That delegation uses the
innovation of
the Committee’s taking decisions by
consensus to intentionally delay its replies to many
medical treatment requests, without giving any reasons.
This procrastination has deprived many Libyan intensive-
care patients of the chance of treatment abroad. As a
matter of fact, this new type of “veto” has caused the
death of many patients, including two little girls, Rima
Saleh Abdel Rahman and Safaa Ali Abdel Rasool, as well
as other children, old men and pregnant women. In
19
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
it
is
that,
through
really
surprising
its
addition,
procrastination and delays in answering requests submitted
to it for authorizing the arrangement of flights for Heads of
State and Government who wish to visit the Jamahiriya
using their own private planes, the Committee is trying to
impose more restrictions on Libya and hamper its attempts
at enhancing cooperation with other countries.
In discharging its main responsibilities in maintaining
international peace and security,
the Security Council
should neither set itself apart from the other bodies of the
United Nations nor set itself above them as if it were
superior to all those other United Nations bodies. The
sound approach should be consonant with the fact that
members of the Council, in exercising their functions, are
expected to transcend their national affiliations and keep in
mind always that they act not only on behalf of the groups
they represent but also on behalf of the Members of the
United Nations as a whole. In order for the members of the
Council to guarantee that the resolutions it adopts and
enumerates in its annual report truly reflect the collective
will of the international community, they should credibly
make sure that in its dealings, the Council applies the
principles of the Charter consistently, not selectively, and
addresses international problems fairly and objectively.
They should always keep in mind the statement of the
Secretary-General in paragraph 82 of his report entitled “An
Agenda for Peace” (A/47/277):
“The principles of
the Charter must be applied
consistently, not selectively, for if the perception
should be of the latter, trust will wane and with it the
moral authority which is the greatest and most unique
quality of that instrument.”
The practices of the Security Council have in many
aspects been strange indeed. In our view, they do not really
reflect the position of the Member States, on whose behalf
the Council acts. These are extremely dangerous precedents.
The crash of an American plane and the accusation that two
people from a certain country have something to do with
this crash has been referred to the Security Council, which
is forced into considering the matter, though it has nothing
whatsoever to do with the Council’s mandate and functions,
as we have already stated.
In addition, we see major Powers that are permanent
members of the Security Council and, as such, are supposed
to bear more responsibility for
the maintenance of
international peace and security pressurize the Council into
violating the Charter and infringing on the independence of
they be
the country of the two suspects, asking that
20
48th meeting
31 October 1994
surrendered to be tried before the courts of those Powers,
which is a dangerous precedent that encroaches on the
independence of all small countries, not only Libya. In
addition, pushing the Council into adopting a resolution
to invade an independent country to restore to power a
deposed President under
the pretext of protecting
democracy is a very dangerous and unprecedented act, a
flagrant intervention in the internal affairs of a State and
an act of contempt for the freedom of peoples. Would the
Security Council return every President deposed by his
people, anywhere in the world, or was it the emigration
problem that prompted the United States to use the
Security Council and the United Nations as camouflage to
stem this emigration by occupying its source?
My country wishes to alert all the countries of the
world gathered together here in this Hall to the grave
nature of such practices. Unless the world stands up to
such excesses, the major Powers, especially the United
States of America, will not hesitate to use the Security
Council for realizing their own objectives, regardless of
the fact that this is bound to undermine trust in the United
Nations and its impartiality and steer it, sooner or later,
towards the fate of the League of Nations. This is a fate
we,
the small peoples, do not wish for our world
Organization in which we have placed all our hopes for
the protection of our sovereignty and independence and
for preventing the powerful from preying on us while
using the United Nations as a cover for their excesses.
(A/49/2) of
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): My
delegation has reviewed the report
the
Security Council to the General Assembly covering the
period from 16 June 1993 to 15 June 1994. It is a matter
of regret that it took more than four months for the
Council to adopt its report and present it to the General
Assembly, leaving the entire membership only a few days
to evaluate the way in which the Council handled its
responsibilities during the past year.
As a principal organ of the United Nations, entrusted
with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of
international peace and security, the Security Council
should act on behalf of Member States in carrying out its
duties, as is provided for in the United Nations Charter.
As the Secretary-General stated in his report on the work
of the Organization, the increased participation in the
consideration in the General Assembly of the item now
before us proves that Member States are justifiably
interested in the work of the Security Council. The
question of the Council’s accountability to the entire
in the
membership is therefore the foremost element
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
smooth functioning of the Council. If the Council ignores
this very fact
its credibility will face serious damage.
Moreover, although the role and agenda of the Security
Council have been expanded in the post-cold-war era, the
Council needs to be more accountable to the general
membership.
Article 15 of the Charter gives the General Assembly
the responsibility of receiving and considering reports from
the Security Council. Moreover, Article 24 provides that the
Security Council shall submit annual reports to the General
Assembly for its consideration. Both Articles underline the
importance of the Security Council’s obligations in regard
to proper submission of
is repeatedly
emphasized by a great majority of Member States that the
annual
should be
characterized by a comprehensive and integrated analysis of
the issues on its agenda and of the approaches that the
Council adopts in addressing matters of substance.
the Security Council
its reports.
reports of
It
Unfortunately, the Council’s present report still lacks
any explanation of its decisions and any assessment of its
actions. Rather, it is a compilation of symbols, resolutions
and chronologies of issues already available to Member
States, and omits the proceedings of the Council in informal
consultations, as well as of its subsidiary organs. Such
reports cannot meet the minimum expectations of those
Member States that are not represented in the Council. The
submission of a report that fails to address matters of
substance, together with the Council’s current practice of
holding more closed meetings than formal meetings, has
aggravated the lack of transparency in its work. There is no
doubt
transparency into the
Council’s activities and democratization of its decision-
making process would enhance the credibility of the United
Nations system as a whole. In fact, the Council should
attempt to gain the confidence and trust of the general
membership so as to be able to act on its behalf. With
regard to the convening of informal briefings by the
President of the Council, my delegation hopes that these
will go beyond procedural matters and touch the substance
of the issues being discussed in the Council.
the introduction of
that
Prince Sisowath Sirirath (Cambodia), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
It is important that any consideration of the work of
the Security Council include a review of the Council’s
approach to threats to international peace and security.
Unfortunately,
selective
approaches and its application of double standards have not
only undermined its credibility, but have also prevented it
the Council’s
adoption
of
48th meeting
31 October 1994
from dealing effectively with clear cases of aggression.
Furthermore, lack of political will on the part of some
Powers has created situations in which the Council has
been unable to implement its own resolutions.
In conclusion, I should like to emphasize — as my
delegation has done previously — the importance of
implementing resolution 48/264 on the revitalization of
the work of the Assembly, in which, among other things,
the President of the General Assembly is invited to
propose ways and means of facilitating an in-depth
discussion by the Assembly of matters contained in the
reports submitted to it by the Security Council. In this
context, we firmly believe that consultations should be
undertaken so as to continue consideration of this agenda
item.
Mr. Sucharipa (Austria): Austria highly appreciates
the fact that this report of the Security Council to the
General Assembly, like the last one, was introduced by
the Member State currently holding the presidency of the
Council. This follow-up to the initiative taken by the
delegation of Brazil during its presidency in October 1993
is a clear manifestation of the political will to enhance the
relationship between the Security Council and the
membership of the United Nations at large, pursuant to
and in accordance with Article 24 of the Charter. By
presenting the report,
the Security
the Council’s members,
Council,
behalf
demonstrates awareness of
the Council’s particular
position vis-à-vis the General Assembly, as well as
readiness to enter into a dialogue with the Assembly.
the President of
of
on
The work accomplished by the Security Council
during the period under consideration deserves high
appreciation. The voluminous document in front of us
speaks for itself. The Security Council has become what
the founding fathers of this Organizations wanted it to
be — the cornerstone of all efforts to maintain and restore
international peace and security. Heavy political demands
on the Council often lead to more and more resolutions,
declarations or statements on issues before the Council,
which then all too soon find their way into the archives
without having
political
developments. Thus — to sound a note of caution — a
more selective approach might enhance the authority of
the Security Council.
impact on
had a
real
Security Council resolutions are effective only when
they gain political relevance outside this building, when
parties to a conflict not only take note of them, but also
through Security
abide by them — in short, when,
21
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Council decisions, concrete contributions can be made to
facilitate a political solution or to stabilize a volatile
situation.
Legitimacy and representativeness are important values
for a Council acting on behalf of all States Members of the
Organization in carrying out its primary responsibility for
the maintenance of international peace and security. These
values call for increased interaction, wherever appropriate,
between the Security Council and States that are not
members of the Council. We listened with great interest to
the relevant remarks made today by the President of the
Council.
In this context two main elements should be taken into
account.
Certainly, in order to ensure the necessary privacy for
constructive discussions and negotiations, deliberations in
closed meetings will remain necessary. However, in the
interest both of the Security Council and of the entire
membership, a certain balance between privacy and
transparency has to be achieved in order to pave the way
for a possible feedback from the international community,
as represented in the General Assembly, on the Security
Council’s work.
We therefore welcome the recent steps taken by the
Council towards better accessibility to information. In this
context, we appreciate the initiative taken by the British
presidency last week for briefings on a regular and more
formal basis.
Furthermore, Council members should continue to
ensure an increased and intensified informal information-
flow towards other Members of the General Assembly, and
especially towards Members from respective regions on
issues of particular concern to them.
As the second element in the context of an improved
flow of information, delegations with a special interest in
particular political situations dealt with by the Security
Council should, at an early stage of the Security Council’s
decision-making process, have and make use of
the
possibility of offering their views and making an input into
the Council’s work. This is especially true for countries
which, due,
to their regional proximity, are
politically concerned by a given conflict.
inter alia,
Furthermore, during the discussion of agenda item 33
to have
some delegations stressed that
consultations when economic sanctions and comparable
is important
it
22
48th meeting
31 October 1994
preventive and enforcement measures are considered. This
process should include an advance assessment of possible
negative effects on the economies of neighbouring
countries and an analysis of possible means to counteract
them. They should not, however, impede the decision-
making as such, whenever the imposition of sanctions is
required in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations.
Austria, as a country with a long-standing tradition
in United Nations peace-keeping, has a special interest in
a closer cooperation and dialogue between the Security
Council, the Secretariat and troop-contributing countries.
We therefore welcome the statement made by the
President of the Security Council on
3 May 1994 in which it was stressed that:
“The Security Council is conscious of the need
and exchange of
enhanced consultations
for
information with
countries
regarding peace-keeping operations, including their
planning, management and coordination, particularly
when significant extensions in an operations’s
mandate are in prospect.” (S/PRST/1994/22, p. 3)
troop-contributing
Having witnessed some improvements recently, my
delegation appreciates initiatives which have been taken
in this context, in particular by the delegations of New
Zealand and Argentina, and we are glad to hear that these
initiatives are about to yield concrete results. We would
again like to stress the importance we attach to strong and
sustainable working relations with troop-contributors.
My delegation is fully aware of the work that had to
be done by the Secretariat to prepare the report before us.
We also appreciate certain changes which have been
introduced in order to make the information contained in
the annual report more easily accessible. The report
contains a very accurate listing of official documents
issued by the Security Council during the period under
consideration and, as such, it is certainly a helpful tool for
delegations, and perhaps even more for students of
current history.
Finally, I should like once again to assure the
members of the Security Council, and in particular the
President, of our appreciation for their dedication to the
highly sensitive work done by the Council throughout the
year and for their contribution to this debate — a debate
which we consider to be of great importance because it
constitutes a dialogue between the General Assembly and
the Security Council and will certainly enhance and
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
strengthen the relationship between the two organs in the
interest of us all.
Mr. Albin (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish): We
attach particular importance to the report submitted by the
Security Council to the General Assembly under Articles 15
and 24 of the Charter. We consider this to be the essential
link in communications between the Security Council and
the most universal body of the United Nations in the
fundamental issue of the maintenance of international peace
and security.
We are pleased that this was the second time the
report was adopted in an open meeting of the Council. We
also express our gratitude to Sir David Hannay, Permanent
Representative of the United Kingdom and President of the
Security Council this month, for his introduction of the
report to the Assembly. We believe that these two features,
initiated
are
contributing to wider dialogue between the two organs.
under Brazil’s
presidency,
year
last
report
contains
a more
This year’s
extensive
introduction, in which we note a determination to improve
the organization and presentation of issues that the Council
has discussed or deliberated on. We find the brief account
of the activities of the Council’s subsidiary organs quite
helpful, particularly those dealing with the sanctions
Committees, whose importance has recently increased. We
also appreciate the effort to incorporate in the report two
new appendices — appendix VII,
the
communications from the President of the Security Council
or the Secretary-General; and appendix VIII, listing the
reports of the Secretary-General issued during the period
covered by the report.
listing
These efforts have no doubt contributed to improving
the channels of communication between the General
Assembly and the Security Council. However, a great deal
remains to be done. In our view, presentation of the report
should not be simply a formal fulfilment of an obligation.
Rather,
its objective should be to provide complete
information to the Assembly. We would like the document
before us to contain elements of an evaluation that would
enable us to grasp the basis of the Council’s decisions and
actions. We acknowledge that additional information is
provided in the introduction, but the present document still
does not enable the General Assembly to consider the
matter fully.
In the period covered by the report — that is, from
16 June 1993 to 15 June 1994 — a number of important
events have remained on the international scene, and many
48th meeting
31 October 1994
of them have been considered by the Security Council.
Given the number and substance of the items on the
Council’s agenda,
the States Members of the United
Nations have a pressing need to analyse and assess the
actions taken and the decisions adopted by the Council on
their behalf.
that we should be
increasingly interested in its work and in the way it
functions, as well as in the rationale for its decisions.
is only natural
It
Enhancing the transparency of the Security Council’s
methods of work and strengthening the effectiveness of its
decisions are among the fundamental
issues to be
addressed by the Open-ended Working Group on the
Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in
the Membership of the Security Council. This is reflected
in the efforts being made to ensure more direct,
transparent and timely communication between the
Council and the Assembly.
Last year as we addressed this item we suggested
that
it would be useful
to have the United Nations
Journal indicate items to be taken up in private informal
consultations of the Council. We are now convinced that
this has been most useful for all delegations and has
proved to be a sound practice adopted by the Council.
The fears of certain parties were unwarranted and this has
in no way affected the work of the Council.
great
and with
difficulty. After
An exchange of information between the Council
and delegations has been taking place but in a disorderly
fashion
private
consultations of the Council we believe that delegations
should be informed of what has happened in an organized
way as they seek daily to follow up the work of that
body. The Council should in the interests of all adopt
measures
is
precisely for this reason that we welcome the fact that last
Thursday the President of the Council, Sir David Hannay,
held an informal meeting with delegations to report on the
activities of the Council, and he added that there was a
wish for this exchange to take place periodically. We
encourage the Council
further
practical measures so as to enhance dialogue and
interaction with other Members.
to strengthen communication links.
to continue to adopt
It
Another proposal we mentioned earlier refers to the
effective presentation of special reports as provided for in
the Charter. There are issues of great interest to all about
which we would like to have more information and on
which the Security Council could report to the General
Assembly in greater detail and in a more timely fashion.
Furthermore, we believe that the submission of quarterly
23
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
reports could help to expand communication channels. A
special rapporteur of the Council appointed to report to
Member States would also improve cooperation between
Members and the Council.
We would also like to see a deepening of the fruitful
exchanges between the President of the Security Council
and regional groups. We are all aware of the complexity of
peace-keeping operations, and for that reason we endorse
enhanced communication between troop- and personnel-
contributing countries and the Council as proposed recently
by Argentina and New Zealand. We are aware of the
impact of the imposition of sanctions on third countries and
therefore believe that a dialogue between them and the
Council, as provided in Article 50 of the Charter, would
enhance the effectiveness of that organ’s decisions.
surrounding matters
The annual report of the Security Council must cease
to be a mere formality. It is clearly out of step with the
new circumstances
relating to
international peace and security. The full potential of
paragraph 3 of Article 24 and paragraph 1 of Article 15 of
the Charter must be given a chance to develop. Members
have entrusted the Security Council with the primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security. This in turn implies the accountability of the
Council to the Assembly.
We sincerely hope that in the near future we will be
able to engage in an exercise of renewed dialogue and
communication between the Security Council and the
General Assembly. This will undoubtedly require a report
containing substantive elements and analysis of
the
decisions and activities of the Council. The maintenance of
international peace and security, after all, is a purpose
common to all States Members of the Organization.
Mrs. Fréchette (Canada): As we approach the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations this year’s report of the
Security Council underscores to all of us,
if such a
reminder is necessary, the tremendous challenges faced by
the international community in efforts to maintain peace
and security. The wide-ranging number of conflicts the
Security Council currently deals with demonstrates that
after 49 years we remain far from achieving global peace,
one of the Organization’s central objectives. However,
while there are problems, the Council’s experience over the
last year also shows that only a concerted and determined
effort on the part of the international community can solve
them.
24
48th meeting
31 October 1994
In
the
period
post-cold-war
The Council’s record also reaffirms that the nature
of many of the conflicts we are now confronted with has
changed.
essentially
intra-State conflicts, with numerous and complex origins,
dominate the Council’s deliberations. In the face of this
emerging dynamic, Canada answers “Yes” to those who
ask whether the United Nations, and particularly the
Security Council, should be involved in resolving them.
The international community cannot stand aside as
conflicts which imperil the lives of millions of innocent
people and threaten their most fundamental rights, fester,
degenerate and eventually explode.
Just as it is clear that the challenges facing the
international community are both changing and daunting,
it is also evident that the Security Council is no Merlin,
who in one stroke can bring them to a peaceful outcome.
That is expecting too much. The Council’s record over
the past year represents a transition. From a period of
euphoria, when belief in the Council’s abilities to prevail
remained high, Council members, indeed all of us, are
today keenly aware of the limitations of its influence.
This realization notwithstanding, the Council should
avoid retreat. Far from diminishing, the need for firm,
decisive and united action remains essential. The Security
Council has a unique role to play in the preservation of
international peace and security. In responding to new
challenges, the Council is on the right track and moving
forward, even though the steps it has taken have not
always proved capable of solving all the problems.
As a major contributor to peace-keeping operations
with close to 2,800 soldiers and police officers serving in
eight missions, Canada is deeply interested in and often
directly affected by the Council’s decisions. Looking back
at the Council’s record over the past year we wish to
offer a few observations which we hope the Council will
take into account in its future deliberations.
In
for
developing mandates
peace-keeping
operations, or modifying them in mid-course, the Council
should aim to spell out objectives and priorities as clearly
as possible. This is essential for those who are left to
implement them. Where there are multiple components to
a mandate, prioritization is necessary to increase clarity.
This year in Somalia, the United Nations Operation in
Somalia (UNOSOM II) was operating under sometimes
conflicting direction from the Council. The less mandates
are open to ambiguity,
the better the chances costly
mistakes can be avoided and overall goals achieved.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
It is equally important for the Security Council to
resist incrementalism in revising tasks for peace-keeping
operations. Adding responsibilities to operations to deal
with new challenges without clearly refocusing the
objectives of a mission or providing it with adequate
additional resources to handle new tasks, muddies the water
and makes it difficult for those on the ground to carry out
their jobs effectively.
At the same time, the Security Council needs to avoid
sending mixed signals about what operations can or are
meant to achieve. Doing so can lead to false expectations
and damage the credibility of an operation.
The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina illustrates
both problems. Canada was and is in the forefront of those
contributing to the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR). That Force continues
to be a vital
requirement of life for over a million Bosnians. However,
the Council’s decision to give additional
to
UNPROFOR, and ambiguous messages about its mission,
have led many to confuse this operation with a force both
equipped and mandated to impose peace upon warring
parties. It is neither, but the Security Council’s actions have
at times contributed to this misperception.
tasks
the Haitian crisis
The Security Council
is most effective when its
actions are guided by clear and agreed goals, purposefully
and resolutely pursued, and involve measured actions. The
Council’s management of
is an
outstanding example. Throughout the crisis, the Council did
not waver in its unity of purpose — the restoration to office
of President Aristide. With this objective, the Council’s
response to the continued intransigence of the de facto
regime was consistent and graduated. Only when one action
proved inadequate did the Council move to the next, more
serious stage, culminating in the authorization of a
multinational coalition under the auspices of the United
Nations to carry out the Council’s objectives. The result
achieved in Haiti demonstrates how common objectives
matched with determined and measured action can translate
into success for the Council.
48th meeting
31 October 1994
(spoke in French)
and welcome. However,
Consultations with troop contributors are an essential
factor
in ensuring the success of a peace-keeping
operation. We welcome the presidential statement of 3
May 1994 (S/PRST/1994/22),
in which the Council
recognized the need to consult
the troop-contributing
countries when a change or extension in an operation’s
mandate is in prospect. The meetings currently chaired by
the Secretariat, to which Council members are invited, are
useful
their present
configuration, they do not entirely meet the need for the
Council to consult with troop contributors. As we have
already said in the debate in the reform of the Security
Council, we hope that the Council will follow up on its 3
May 1994 statement by fully committing itself
to
engaging in a substantive and direct dialogue with troop
contributors when renewing or modifying mandates. This
can be done without in any way challenging the Council’s
final responsibility for deciding on the nature of a peace-
keeping mandate.
in
Finally,
there has been much comment on the
Council’s inability to respond effectively to conflicts that
rapidly worsen. It is not that the Council does not have a
sense of what should be done; rather, the problem is the
absence of a rapid-intervention capability. We hope that
the anticipated Council summit next January will be an
occasion to give further consideration to rapid-response
mechanisms.
The Security Council needs to remain fully engaged
in dealing with new circumstances and addressing new
challenges. The last 12 months have made it clear that the
Council is still seeking the most appropriate ways of
doing so. Through constructive observations
and
suggestions, we can all help to ensure that the Council is
equipped to carry out
responsibilities. We are
convinced that its members will heed the lessons both of
this year’s setbacks and of its successes.
its
Mr. Lamamra (Algeria)
the Security Council, Sir David Hannay,
(interpretation from
French): First of all, I should like to thank the President
of
for
introducing the Council’s report, which covers the period
from 16 June 1993 to 15 June 1994. This is a
continuation of the welcome practice which was so
appropriately inaugurated last year by the Permanent
25
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Representative of Brazil, Mr. Sardenberg, then President of
the Council. It is to be hoped that this practice will be
sustained by a new spirit of cooperation between the
General Assembly and the Security Council and will have
a profound impact on the actual content of future reports.
that
The Algerian delegation also welcomes the fact that
the Council’s report, for the second consecutive year, was
adopted in a public meeting of the Council. We are pleased,
too,
the monthly programme of Council activities
continues to be disseminated, and that the United Nations
Journal announces the agendas for public meetings. We can
also note with satisfaction that this year’s report contains a
more detailed introduction and two new appendices
containing, respectively, a list of communications from the
President of the Council and the Secretary-General and a
list of the reports of the Secretary-General issued during the
period covered by the report. However, these innovations,
which we welcome, should not conceal the essential point
at
issue, which continues to be how to improve the
information given to States that are not members of the
Council — an objective on which, unfortunately, there has
not been any particularly positive development in the past
year. We cannot refrain from expressing the fear that there
has been something of a retreat from the relative openness
of last year, since it can easily be seen when we read the
Security Council’s report for this year that the hopes and
the comments made a year ago on this matter are as urgent
and relevant today as they were then. They have not yet
been sufficiently taken into account, with respect either to
the form and the content of the report, or to transparency in
the Security Council’s work, or to relations between the
General Assembly and the Council. I therefore do not need
to repeat here observations that have been supported by an
ever-growing wave of opinion within the United Nations.
the
primary
for
bears
responsibility
The interest displayed by the States members of the
General Assembly in the Security Council’s report is not
only legitimate but indeed legal, because it stems from the
actual provisions of the Charter. It is true that the Security
Council
the
maintenance of international peace and security. But it is
equally true that this is the result of a kind of delegation of
authority on a contractual basis, which was granted to the
Council so that the Organization’s action in this area could
be both prompt and effective, and on condition that, in
exercising this responsibility, the Council acted on behalf
of all the Members of the Organization. Quite clearly, we
see the existence here of a dynamic link between the
General Assembly and the Security Council, a link intended
by the founders of the Organization to ensure that these two
principal organs would have relations of cooperation based
26
48th meeting
31 October 1994
on complementarity and mutual respect for each other’s
prerogatives. It was naturally also understood that general
coordination would be undertaken by the single plenary
organ which is the very centre of the institutional edifice
of the Organization — that is, the General Assembly, on
which, in addition, Article 10 of the Charter confers the
right to discuss
“any questions or any matters...relating to the
powers and functions of any organs provided for in
the present Charter”
and to
“make recommendations to the Members of the
United Nations or to the Security Council or to both
on any such questions or matters.”
In fact, the mechanism of annual and special reports
provided for by the Charter as one of the umbilical links
between the Security Council and the General Assembly
is a clear, if incomplete and imperfect, expression of the
need for the deliberative organ, which represents the
collective will of the Member States,
to monitor the
Council’s actions, since the participants in the San
Francisco Conference noted that
the soul of any
democracy is control. If one needs convincing, all one
need do is refer to the documents of the founding
Conference to find that a great deal of thought was given
to the institutional life of the United Nations with the aim
of
forearming it against certain dysfunctions which
practice has, unfortunately, brought to light in abundance.
the most
representative organ of
Thus, Belgium urged in San Francisco that lessons
be learned from the failure of the League of Nations,
stressing that
the
Organization, the General Assembly, must have sovereign
competence to interpret the Charter. Venezuela, invoking
the future Article 24 of the Charter, expressed the belief
that such delegation of powers as the Article provided for
could be accepted if the General Assembly was given the
necessary oversight powers and if the Member States
were able to have recourse to them.
This demand for control is gaining in force and
relevance now that the disturbances caused by the cold
war in the normal functioning of United Nations bodies
has stopped and it has been established that general
support for the Security Council’s actions is the basis of
their legitimacy and strengthens their effectiveness.
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
This means that
the structure and content of the
Security Council’s annual report to the General Assembly
must be improved and that
the introduction of special
reports should be seriously considered. It also offers the
opportunity to reaffirm resolution 48/264, adopted by
consensus on 29 July, which, inter alia, encourages the
Security Council to:
“provide in a timely manner a clear and informative
account of its work, including its resolutions and other
decisions, including its resolutions and other decisions,
inclusive of measures taken under Chapter VII of the
Charter”. (resolution 48/264, para. 3)
Lastly, it implies that the Security Council’s work, which
embodies the hopes and frustrations of a great many States
and a large sector of public opinion, would benefit from
greater concertation and explicitness, particularly in the
context of this debate, which should be the highpoint in
efforts to affirm the collective responsibility of States
Members
for maintaining
international peace and security.
the United Nations
of
From this viewpoint, my delegation supports the
proposal made by the Chairman and other members of the
Non-Aligned Movement during this debate that this agenda
item remain open, allowing the consultations recommended
by resolution 48/264 to take place.
Mr. Graf zu Rantzau (Germany): We appreciate the
presentation of the report of the Security Council to the
General Assembly. The report is very extensive and its
compilation was extremely work-intensive, reflecting the
vast agenda the Security Council had to deal with during
the past 12 months, without, however, providing us with
much insight
the Council’s
deliberations.
into and analysis of,
In his report of 2 September 1994 on the work of the
Organization, the Secretary-General pointed out that until
last year consideration of the report of the Security Council
in the General Assembly attracted only limited attention,
while at the forty-eighth session numerous delegations made
statements on it. This year,
too, many delegations are
commenting. We see two reasons for this growing interest:
the enhanced activities of the Security Council and the
ongoing discussion on Security Council reform.
We have stated repeatedly, and we say it again today:
the Security Council’s effectiveness is based on its
credibility, and its credibility depends largely on both the
48th meeting
31 October 1994
the Council and whether
representative character of
United Nations Member States feel that it acts on their
behalf, as demanded by Article 24 of the Charter. It is
therefore essential that there be a free flow of information
between Council members and the general membership.
In the past — and we can attest to this from our own
experience — the general membership has often felt
locked out of
and excluded from the Council’s
deliberations and decision-making.
In our view,
two fundamental
issues must be
addressed to improve this situation. First, non-members of
the Security Council must have sufficient access to
information about the Council’s work. “Sufficient”, in this
context, means a degree of information which satisfies the
needs of individual Member States. It is natural that,
depending on the item under discussion, Member States
will have varying degrees of interest. Geographic nearness
to a conflict, historic or economic ties, or the fact that
troops were contributed to a specific peace-keeping
operation, are factors which will most likely increase a
Member State’s need to know in detail and without delay
what is being discussed and decided. Secondly, non-
members of
the Security Council should have the
opportunity to contribute their views and information,
whenever
the Security Council’s
deliberations.
appropriate,
to
on
in
representation
Throughout our debate about
and
the question of
equitable
increase
the
membership of the Security Council, as well as in the
discussions of the Working Group for the revitalization of
the work of the General Assembly, various ideas have
been put forward as to how these objectives could best be
achieved. In the meantime, certain steps have been taken
by the Security Council to improve the situation. My
delegation, for instance, highly appreciates the publication
of the agenda of informal meetings in the United Nations
Journal and the briefings on informal Security Council
meetings
established last week by the Council’s
presidency on a trial basis. Another example in this
regard is the attempt to react to demands for improving
the Security Council’s report to the General Assembly. As
President
Security Council, Ambassador
Sardenberg of Brazil introduced the report personally at
the
the Permanent
the United Kingdom today.
Representative
Furthermore, attempts have been made to obtain more
regular and substantive input into the Council’s work, in
particular
from troop-contributing
countries. My
delegation welcomes these initiatives.
forty-eighth
session,
the
as
did
of
of
27
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
However, more steps still need to be taken. A majority
of Member States seem to agree that a certain number of
closed informal meetings are necessary for the Council’s
efficient and effective functioning. At the same time, we
agree with the representative of France, who, during the
debate on agenda item 33 two weeks ago, expressed
support for an enhanced dialogue between the Security
Council and the general membership in formal meetings.
For the remaining informal meetings, it should be assured
that non-members of the Council can follow the events.
Furthermore,
is often difficult, particularly for small
Member States with limited resources, to be present when
the Security Council calls an ad hoc meeting. A mechanism
should be established to notify all Member States about
meetings called at short notice.
it
Consultations with troop-contributing countries are
crucial for the effectiveness of the Security Council’s work.
Decisions cannot be implemented and peace-keeping
operations cannot be carried out if those who do the on-site
work feel that they lack information or cannot make their
voice heard. Germany therefore clearly supports proposals
to establish a mechanism for coordination between the
Security Council
countries.
Argentina and New Zealand, encouraged by Denmark,
Finland, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Luxembourg,
the
Netherlands and Uruguay, have made a useful proposal. We
appreciate that in its deliberations this morning the Security
Council has discussed this proposal and that there appears
to be widespread support for it.
troop-contributing
and
With regard to transparency and openness, the Security
Council has introduced improvements. The ills have been
identified and some promising remedies have been
administered, but we are still somewhat short of a cure. A
large number of Member States have expressed the view —
which is fully supported by my delegation — that an
expansion of the Security Council can be only one aspect
of our attempt to improve the Council’s credibility and thus
its effectiveness. Increasing its transparency, facilitating the
flow of information between the Council and non-members
of
the Council and therefore reassuring the general
membership that its views are adequately represented by the
Security Council are of equal importance.
My Government is confident that agreement can be
found on the necessary further steps to improve the
Security Council’s transparency as part of an overall
package that will mark the end of our discussion about how
28
48th meeting
31 October 1994
to make the principal organ of the United Nations for the
maintenance of peace and security compatible with both
an increased membership and changed world realities.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work:
reports of the General Committee
Third report
(A/49/250/Add.2)
of
the General Committee
The President (interpretation from French): The
third report of the General Committee concerns two
requests for the inclusion in the agenda of the current
session of
sub-items
submitted by the
delegations of Rwanda and Zaire.
additional
I
first draw the attention of
representatives to
paragraph 1 (a) of the report.
The General Committee recommends the inclusion
in the agenda of the current session of an additional sub-
item under item 37 — “Strengthening of the coordination
of humanitarian and disaster relief assistance of the
United Nations, including special economic assistance” —
entitled “Emergency international assistance for a solution
to the problem of refugees, the restoration of total peace,
reconstruction and socio-economic development in war-
stricken Rwanda”.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include this additional sub-item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
The President (interpretation from French): In
paragraph 1 (b) of the report, the General Committee
recommends that the sub-item be considered directly in
plenary meeting.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts this
recommendation of the General Committee?
It was so decided.
The President
I
should like to inform members that this sub-item becomes
sub-item (f) of agenda item 37.
(interpretation from French):
General Assembly
Forty-ninth session
Next,
I draw the attention of
representatives to
paragraph 2 (a) of the report.
The General Committee recommends the inclusion in
the agenda of the current session of an additional sub-item
under item 37 — “Strengthening of the coordination of
humanitarian and disaster relief assistance of the United
Nations, including special economic assistance” — entitled
“Special assistance to countries receiving refugees from
Rwanda”.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include this additional sub-item in its agenda?
It was so decided.
48th meeting
31 October 1994
The President (interpretation from French): In
paragraph 2 (b) of the report, the General Committee
recommends that the sub-item be considered directly in
plenary meeting.
May I take it that the General Assembly adopts this
recommendation of the General Committee?
It was so decided.
The President
I
should like to inform members that this sub-item becomes
sub-item (g) of agenda item 37.
(interpretation from French):
The General Assembly will consider agenda item 37
as a whole on Wednesday, 23 November.
The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.
29
