United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
51st plenary meeting
Monday, 6 November 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.51
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Portugal
In the absence of the President, Mr. Camacho Omiste
(Bolivia), Vice President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Typhoon in the Philippines
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
May I, on behalf of all of the members of the Assembly,
extend our deepest sympathy to the Government and the
people of the Philippines on the tragic loss of life and
extensive material damage which have resulted from the
recent
the
international community will show its solidarity and
respond promptly and generously to any requests for help.
typhoon. May I also express the hope that
I now call on the representative of the Philippines.
In the name of
Mr. Allarey (Philippines):
the
Government and people of the Republic of the Philippines,
I would like to acknowledge with a profound sense of
appreciation
of
commiseration and sympathy for the unfortunate victims of
the super typhoon “Angela” which struck my country last
week.
your
expression
and
thanks, Sir,
The death-and-missing toll now stands at over 600,
and damages to infrastructure, crops and property have been
extensive. President Fidel V. Ramos has declared a state of
disaster in the islands of Luzon and the Visayas and has
taken personal charge of relief and rehabilitation efforts in
the affected areas.
As we pick up the pieces and start rebuilding our
lives, we take comfort in the knowledge that our friends
and neighbours,
the international
community, are with us during this time of adversity.
the members of
I shall certainly convey the sentiments that have
been so kindly expressed in this Assembly on behalf of
the Members of the United Nations to my Government
and to my countrymen.
Agenda item 40 (continued)
Building a peaceful and better world through sport
and the Olympic Ideal
Draft resolution (A/50/L.15)
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
Before calling on the first speaker, I should like to inform
the Assembly that
the representative of Nigeria has
requested to participate in the debate on this item.
Inasmuch as the list of speakers was closed this
morning, may I ask the Assembly whether there is any
objection to the inclusion of this delegation in the list of
speakers?
Since there appears to be no objection, Nigeria is
included in the list of speakers.
I now call on the representative of Romania, Mrs.
the Romanian Olympic
Lia Manoliu, President of
Committee.
95-86540 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
(interpretation
Mrs. Manoliu (Romania)
from
French): It might be presumptuous to imagine that we who
belong to the world of sport have the power to silence the
guns. War has often demonstrated that it is stronger; hence
the Olympic hiatus between the years 1936 and 1948,
which resulted from the Second World War.
impotence.
But the recognition of a relative weakness in the face
of
the forces of evil does not necessarily mean the
recognition of
I personally have had the
privilege of participating as an athlete in 6 Olympic Games,
and as a member of the Romanian Olympic Committee, in
7 others: 13 Games that did not all take place in optimal
internal and international political conditions. Nevertheless,
I am gratified to note that my country has respected the
genuine Olympic spirit
these Games and
throughout this half century. Romania has never boycotted
an Olympiad. There has never been a Romanian athlete
who refused to take on an opponent
for political,
ideological, religious or racial reasons. The Romanian
public, in turn, has avidly followed the conduct of the
Olympic Games, and the very natural desire to see the
representatives of its country achieve victory has never
prevented this wonderful public from unreservedly admiring
the performance of other competitors.
throughout
It was a real process of education in the pure Olympic
spirit of peace, with mutual understanding and awareness
between peoples — a process which involved not only
several hundred athletes, but also millions and millions of
Romanians. Guided by this spirit of total dedication to
Olympic values, Romania is among the traditional sponsors
of the draft resolution on the Olympic Ideal, whose most
eloquent expression — the Olympic Games — constitutes
one of the most important social and cultural phenomena of
our modern era, within which a collective heart beats: the
heartbeat of the Olympic athletes.
What other idea could be equally shared by the highly
developed and the developing States? What other institution
would be able to bring together young people from all over
the world — young people who have reached the classic
age at which they become cannon fodders — despite the
current tensions, the hostilities and the upheavals? What
other movement would be able to bring together young
people who come from countries which have been
adversaries for centuries or for decades, or even from
countries openly at war at a given time in history?
Regarding the organization and the direction of the
Olympic Movement, a pivotal role is being played by His
Excellency Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch, who, through his
2
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
policy of engaging in personal contacts and through the
prestige which he enjoys throughout the world, within the
most varied of political and diplomatic circles, has
succeeded in making the Olympic Movement an
interlocutor of the most representative and the largest
world forum, the United Nations. The result has been first
and foremost the proclamation by the United Nations of
the year 1994 as the International Year of Sport and of
the Olympic Ideal.
its
eightieth
anniversary,
The Romanian Olympic Committee, which in 1994
celebrated
reacted
enthusiastically to the International Olympic Committee’s
appeal concerning that commemoration by organizing
sports programmes as well as cultural programmes, which
were favourably received by the public in its country. The
respect and credibility which the Olympic Movement
enjoys in the eyes and the hearts of billions of people
throughout
the
International Olympic Committee (IOC) to put forward
the proposal to respect an Olympic Truce inspired by the
ancient Greek tradition of ekecheria.
the world made
it possible
for
The Romanian people, which was passionately
following the Olympic Games in Sarajevo, was a stunned
witness to the massacre committed on the outskirts of and
within this Olympic city, barely a thousand kilometres
from Romania. And, unfortunately,
such conflict
situations continue in various parts of the world. It is
entirely logical and very human to ask that the guns
should fall silent, at least for the brief moment — the 16
days — of Olympic competition in 1996. I paraphrase
Neil Armstrong: this would be a small step on the long
road to peace throughout the world.
in Atlanta,
In July 1996 we shall celebrate,
the
centenary of the Olympic Games. More than 100 nations
will be there — literally, through the presence of their
athletes — and billions of people will be there in spirit,
side by side with the athletes. We call on those involved
in struggles — not
in the arena but on the various
fronts — to stop the massacres and, instead, to follow the
games and note that it is possible to solve rivalries other
than through war.
Let us hope that 1996 — the year of the Olympic
centennial — will mark not only the organization of the
most prestigious Olympic Games ever but also the
fulfilment of that golden dream of the initiator of the
modern Games, Baron Pierre de Coubertain: “May sport
lead to peace.”
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the representative of Swaziland, His Royal
Highness Prince Sobandla, Minister for Home Affairs of the
Kingdom of Swaziland.
Prince Sobandla (Swaziland): The Kingdom of
Swaziland is not being deliberately redundant in repeating
the words of other representatives in congratulating Mr.
Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his deserved
election to the presidency of the United Nations General
Assembly at its historic fiftieth session. The members of
Mr.
our
congratulations.
do Amaral’s
are worthy
team too
of
The theme of this meeting is clearly spelt out in the
title of the agenda item. But before voicing the sentiments
of my country I should like, through you, Mr. President, to
express our sympathy and sorrow over the sad events that
have occurred in the State of Israel. The manner in which
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin lost his life reminded me of
our father, King Sobhuza II, who said that out of violence
comes no peace.
We,
the small and developing nations, have been
accused of employing the principles of peace and dialogue
as a shield to protect ourselves from those whose powers,
both in aggression and in defence, are mightier than ours.
This may be true, but we still hold to the traditional
practice of solving problems by peaceful means. This
applies to personal misunderstandings, party political
squabbles and international disputes.
It is not only Israel that is in pain today. A number of
peoples in different countries are suffering from various ills,
some of them the results of natural causes. We hope that
the Almighty will heal the wounds of the people of the
Philippines following the typhoon about which we have all
heard so much.
Coming to the agenda item with which the Assembly
is dealing today, one cannot disregard historical records,
which reveal that the Olympic Truce was established, in
ancient Greece, in the ninth century before Christ. This was
marked by the signing of a Treaty between Kings —
Iphitos of Elis, Cleosthones of Pisa and Lycurgus of Sparta
— which was subsequently ratified by all the other Greek
city-States. In part, the Truce provided that athletes, artists
and their families and ordinary pilgrims could travel safely
to participate in or attend the Olympic Games and to return
to their respective homes.
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Talking of contemporary experiences, I should say
that I was privileged to lead my country’s athletes to the
Olympics in Barcelona, where we were joined by the
King of Spain and other dignitaries from all over the
world. The same happened when we went to Victoria,
Canada, for the Commonwealth Games, where the Queen
of the United Kingdom tirelessly worked to promote
sports. Just
two months ago Africans gathered in
Harare, where President Mugabe hosted the biggest and
most successful games ever held on African soil.
None of our athletes came home from any of these
encounters with regrets. We could not have experienced
the same warmth, tolerance, love and appreciation for
others within the boundaries of our individual countries.
No community, no society, no country has a monopoly on
giving young people throughout the world these treasured
experiences. That is why I believe that we need one
another for the promotion of knowledge and peace.
Speaking in my capacity as Chairman of
the
Supreme Council of Sports in Africa, Zone VI, I can
confidently say that
the 10 countries in the region
appreciate the manner in which the Charter of the United
Nations takes cognizance of the need to develop friendly
relations between nations, on the basis of respect for the
principle of equal rights, and to take other appropriate
measures to strengthen universal peace.
It
in
is heartening
also to note
that,
its
resolution 49/29 of 7 December 1994,
the General
Assembly called upon my colleagues — Ministers for
sports and culture — and to other officials to participate
in the debate that is taking place today. The Olympic
Ideal has been aptly described by the Secretary-General,
His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
in the
following terms:
“The Olympic Ideal is a hymn to tolerance and
understanding between people and cultures. It is an
invitation to competition, but competition with
respect for others. In its way, Olympism is a school
for democracy. In other words, there is a natural link
between the ethic of the Olympic Games and the
fundamental principles of the United Nations.”
The Government of the Kingdom of Swaziland
strongly advocates such a spirit, and I am here to support
that spirit. The Olympic Truce must be given its rightful
place in promoting dialogue, reconciliation and the search
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
for long-lasting solutions in order to allow peace to reign
throughout the world.
Let us interpret to the fullest the old adage that says
prevention is better than cure.
Over the years it has often been stated that one
should not mix sport with politics. Recent events, however,
have indicated the contrary. Sport,
if properly used,
arguably provides the best therapy for creating peace, and
bringing balance and sobering effects in times of strife.
We therefore call upon our colleagues all over the
world to review their attitudes towards sport and to exploit
fully the avenues they provide in the quest for a peaceful
world. Our indifferent approach to youth and sport needs
thorough scrutiny. One may argue that because of our
strained fiscal resources, especially in the developing world,
it is impossible to elevate sport to its rightful pedestal. A
full reappraisal of the role of sport may convince us that
sport is a worthwhile investment if we are to bequeath
succeeding generations a world in which peace and the
dignity of mankind are secured.
The Government of Swaziland is appreciative of the
role played by sport in the international arena. In this
connection, our sports policy recognizes that sport helps
foster friendship. I am the first to admit that we have not
done enough to transform the Olympic Ideal
into the
Olympic reality. Introspection is inevitable, therefore, if we
are to be able to face the future without trepidation. We
have to invest our money in youth and sports for a better
world. Let this also be put on record: we owe the world
and the future to our youth. that is why every Government
should offer youth the best, which can be done precisely
through sports.
I wish to address the Assembly on the question of
drugs and the intensity with which this problem has
engulfed the whole world. I would be remiss if I omitted to
mention a sad phenomenon which has infiltrated the
sporting fraternity: drug abuse by youth and the sports
fraternity, which is undoubtedly inimical to the interests of
these groups and the international community at large. If
this issue is not addressed it will sound a death knell to the
Olympic Ideal and will never allow the Ideal to mature into
a reality.
As some of my brothers and sisters have done, I call
upon Governments, the United Nations and the International
Olympic Committee to rise up and deal swiftly, decisively
and collectively with this scourge. Let us make concerted
efforts to combat this menace; otherwise, the future of our
youth may end up in untold peril.
4
May I conclude by stating that the Government of
the Kingdom of Swaziland associates itself with the Ideal,
as it coincides with its age-old principle of mutual
coexistence. I hereby affirm my Government’s willingness
to cooperate in the fullest realization of this Ideal, as
endorsed by the Assembly of Heads of State of the
Organization of African Unity pursuant
to resolution
CM/Res.28(LXII), which was adopted in Addis Ababa by
the Organization of African Unity Council of Ministers on
23 June 1995.
Mr. Bhandari (Nepal): We are deeply shocked by
the news of the brutal and barbarous assassination of the
Israeli Prime Minister, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin. I wish to
express heartfelt condolences, on behalf of my delegation
and the people and the Government of Nepal, to the
bereaved family and to the people and the Government of
Israel. Mr. Rabin lived and died for peace.
In pursuance of the relevant resolution adopted by
the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session, we are
committed to emphasizing and re-emphasizing the role of
sports and the Olympic Ideal in building a peaceful and
better world. This is not only a question of commitment;
it is also the truth of our conviction.
In the last few decades, Nepal has been steadily
improving in its scope and quality of sport. Like most
countries, Nepal believes that the development of sports
activities will in effect help the development of a vibrant
and energetic society. Sport is fun and excitement, joy
and recreation. Above all, it is creative, in the sense that
authentic sportsmen and sportswomen create an enduring
atmosphere of peace and well-being.
My delegation would like to suggest that ekecheria,
or Olympic Truce, should not be limited to the cessation
of all hostilities during the Olympic Games. The young
men and young women who make an impressive
gathering during the Olympic Games should pledge to
work for peace and harmony in the world throughout the
rest of their lives. For they know that the psychology of
victory and defeat is more illusory than real. They know
that depression, bitterness or elation is but a transient
phase.
Coming as we do from the country of Lord Buddha,
the foremost apostle of peace the world has ever known,
our mind-set is consciously and subconsciously influenced
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to advance
by his message of universal love and friendship. We cannot
but be excited by the General Assembly’s reaffirmation that
the Olympic Ideal is to promote international understanding
among the youth of the world, through sport and culture, in
order
the harmonious development of
humankind, and by the recognition that the Olympic Ideal
is relevant to the United Nations Year for Tolerance, which
is being commemorated in 1995. Nepal cannot be apathetic
or indifferent to the measures for peace and prosperity that
the United Nations has taken in its resolutions.
One of
language or
the purposes of
the United Nations, as
enshrined in the Charter, is the achievement of international
cooperation in solving international problems of an
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character, and in
promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and
for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to
race, sex,
In this context, my
delegation is pleased to note that 1995 has been declared
the United Nations Year for Tolerance, which has been
celebrated throughout the world with programmes jointly
organized by the International Olympic Committee, various
relevant agencies of the United Nations, particularly the
United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO), international sports federations
and national Olympic committees.
religion.
to the
My delegation also appreciates the efforts of the
International Olympic Committee to mobilize athletes and
youth in celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations and the United Nations Year for Tolerance. We
express our gratitude
International Olympic
Committee for its humanitarian activities, such as food-
relief assistance to children in conflict situations,
in
cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). In keeping with the
tradition of
the Olympic Ideal, Nepalese youth will
participate, with other fellow sportsmen and women from
all over the world, in the observance of the Olympic Truce
in the forthcoming Summer Olympic Games in Atlanta next
year in order to promote international understanding and the
maintenance of peace in the world.
The Olympic Ideal originated during democratic rule
in Athens, and we are certain that it will be sustained fully
and entirely in a dispensation that is essentially democratic.
My delegation believes that the proper use of the Olympic
Ideal is necessary for the building of a more peaceful and
better world. This ideal, established more than 2,000 years
ago and dedicated to building a world in which people are
whole and healthy in body and in mind, can be an effective
force in the creation of a harmonious new world order.
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call on the representative of Portugal, His Excellency
Mr. Júlio Miranda Calha, Secretary of State for Sports.
Mr. Miranda Calha (Portugal): I wish at the outset
to express the condolences and sympathy of my country
to the Israeli people and to the family of Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin. He will remain in our memory as a great
statesman who dedicated his life to the cause of peace,
and we sincerely hope that this terrible loss will not affect
the ongoing peace process in the Middle East.
It is a great honour for me to address this Assembly,
as I believe that the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, together with the celebration of the International
Year for Tolerance, constitute an excellent opportunity for
us to underline the continued importance of contributing
to a more peaceful and better world through sports and
the Olympic Ideal. Activities carried out in the name of
this ideal have played a decisive role in the promotion of
understanding among nations, especially since the end of
the Second World War.
The General Assembly, by declaring 1994 the Year
of Sport and the Olympic Ideal, paid tribute to the
centennial of the foundation of the International Olympic
Committee (IOC). This decision represented a just
recognition of the activities undertaken by the Committee
and of those who have anonymously and selflessly
contributed to developing the modern sports world.
The Olympic Movement not only was
the
springboard for the organization of modern sports but is
the glue that keeps them together. Its activities, as the
President of
the IOC, Juan Antonio Samaranch, has
defined them, are both permanent and universal. It was
thanks to this movement, supported by many countries,
that
and
relationships was created and consolidated, based on
ideals that promote human ennoblement and on rules
deeply rooted in tolerance and loyalty. Only in this way
has it been possible to attain the current spectacular levels
of excellence and high standards that are normally
associated with today’s international competitions.
international
activities
network
an
of
Alongside these notable achievements, the activities
undertaken by countries through sports associations and
the Olympic Movement have contributed decisively to the
creation of a sports culture among millions of people,
who are
for physical
well-being, social contacts, contact with nature or merely
stress of daily life. These
an escape
through sports,
from the
searching,
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
characteristics allow athletes to be particularly conscious of
the need to defend the principle of respect for human
dignity. Consequently, sports and the Olympic Ideal have
now been linked to the major concerns of humanity, such
as the protection of the environment, the pursuit of peace,
the prevention of disease and the alleviation of human
suffering.
the
It is with great pride and satisfaction that my country
has joined in sponsoring the draft resolution before us
today, introduced by the representative of the United States
of America, which appeals to Member States to support the
activities of
International Olympic Committee,
especially those that seek to strengthen ethics and fair play.
The draft resolution also calls for the reaffirmation of the
observance of an Olympic Truce during the Games of the
XXVI Olympiad. Indeed, thanks to the appeal already made
by this Assembly and to the efforts of the International
Olympic Committee, the Marquis de Samaranch was able
to visit Sarajevo at the time of the Lillehammer Winter
Games of 1994.
In this
context,
the newly elected Portuguese
Government welcomes all
initiatives developed by the
United Nations and the International Olympic Committee,
and is willing to participate fully in them. Portugal has been
actively involved in peace-keeping activities of the United
Nations in Angola,
in Mozambique and in the former
Yugoslavia, either through diplomatic initiatives or by
sending peace-keepers to the field.
Portugal
intends to pursue its efforts towards the
achievement of world peace and international development,
and considers that a decision to put these matters before
this Assembly on a biennial basis constitutes a very positive
step. The Atlanta Olympic Games are approaching. The
observance of the Olympic Truce during the 16 days of the
competition is a major challenge faced by international
sports leaders and those responsible for world diplomacy.
It can constitute an important move towards conflict
resolution and provide an opportunity for the parties to
conflicts to work out their differences.
It is up to us to ensure that sports and the Olympic
Ideal continue to contribute towards a better world.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the representative of Senegal, Mr. Papa
Baboucar Mbaye, Vice-President in charge of International
Relations, National Council of Youth of Senegal.
6
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Mr. Mbaye (Senegal) (interpretation from French):
The theme of our meeting today, “Building a peaceful
and better world through sport and the Olympic Ideal”
pricks the universal conscience about the need for men
and women of goodwill to promote a framework of peace
and solidarity at every level. Sport and the Olympic Ideal
are the essential ingredient in this undertaking, as history
and modern practice prove every day.
At a time when the world seems to be heading
straight for an era of radical upheaval, when peace is
being assailed on all sides, respect for the Olympic Truce
is more urgently needed than ever before.
On the eve of the Games of the XXVI Olympiad,
which will be held in Atlanta next year, Senegal solemnly
reaffirms its support for the United Nations initiative and
urges Member States to adopt the draft resolution now
before the Assembly.
The youth of my country also calls on the glorious
International Olympic Committee and States to place
particular emphasis on education programmes for peace
based on the recognized virtues of sport and the Olympic
Ideal, which have become the most reliable bastions of
social
tolerance and understanding among
peoples.
interaction,
On the threshold of the third millennium, we venture
to hope that the ideals of de Coubertin and the Olympic
spirit will continue to inspire humankind’s onward march
towards universal harmony.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the representative of Canada, Mr. Adam
Ostry, Director-General of Sport Canada.
Mr. Ostry (Canada): First, I wish to transmit to the
Assembly, on behalf of the Canadian delegation, our most
profound and sincere condolences on the death of Israeli
Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin. The world has lost a great
statesman dedicated to peace and reconciliation. The
prayers of the Canadian people are with the family of
Prime Minister Rabin and with the people of Israel.
It is a distinct pleasure and a great honour for me to
speak on behalf of Canada on the occasion of the fiftieth
session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Canada is committed to supporting the principles
embodied in the draft resolution on the Olympic Ideal.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Canada has a long and distinguished history of support
for Olympism and the Olympic Movement. Great national
pride was expressed from coast to coast in Canada when
we hosted first the 1976 Montreal Summer Olympics and
then the 1988 Winter Games
in Calgary. Canada’s
commitment has not ceased renewing itself. Our bids to
host the 1996 Summer Olympics in Toronto and the 2002
Winter Olympics in Québec City attest to our sustained
loyalty to the Olympic Ideal. Indeed, this loyalty was also
underscored by the strong commitment from all levels of
government
financial
assistance to both Toronto and Québec City had they been
successful bidders.
in Canada to providing direct
Canada’s ongoing commitment to Olympism expresses
itself in other ways as well. In Québec City, in the spring
of 1995, Canada hosted the International Congress of the
International Sporting Press Association (AIPS) and the
World Forum on Physical Activity. Canada
has
demonstrated a strong commitment to the principles of fair
play and ethics in sport, notably through policies and
programmes to increase access by women to sport and
through our efforts in relation to anti-doping. In July 1994,
Canada endorsed the Brighton Declaration on Women in
Sport on the occasion of the Jeux de la Francophonie in
Paris.
Canada hosted the First World Conference on
Anti-Doping in Sport in 1988, from which the International
Olympic Anti-Doping Charter was created. As a founding
signatory of the International Anti-Doping Memorandum,
we are proud of our collaboration with France, Norway,
New Zealand, the United Kingdom and Australia. Our
domestic
over
2,500 tests annually; 75 per cent of these are random and
unannounced.
doping-control
programme
conducts
(Spoke in French)
takes
Canada
this opportunity to congratulate
Mr. Guy Drut, France’s Minister for Youth and Sport, on
his statement today, particularly with regard to anti-doping.
As a past Olympic champion, Mr. Drut is clearly in a most
distinguished position to argue both in France and at this
forum in favour of fair, equitable and ethical sport. Canada
supports the French message concerning international
standardization and harmonization in regard to anti-doping.
We must all, in particular the large countries that have
sufficient resources to do so, support the efforts of our
National Olympic Committees
strict
anti-doping measures, including unannounced testing, within
their respective domestic sporting federations. Canada also
introduce
to
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
hopes that other United Nations Member States will
reinforce their mutual cooperation in combating doping at
the international level.
(Spoke in English):
By including in the General Assembly’s agenda
discussion by the Assembly on “Building a peaceful and
better world through sport and the Olympic Ideal”, we
confirm that all countries have a great capacity for
mobilizing collective efforts in sport
to advance the
harmonious development of humankind.
The international Olympic Movement has an
enormous capacity to contribute to the quality of human
life throughout
the world. Canada is committed to
working with the International Olympic Committee and
its programmes to advance the values inherent
in
Olympism.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
of Greece,
representative
on
now call
the
I
Mr. Vassilis Kaskarelis.
Mr. Kaskarelis (Greece): Allow me first on behalf
of my Government to express our deepest condolences
and profound sympathy to the family, and to the
Government and the people of Israel on the tragic loss of
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, an eminent statesman and
leader dedicated to peace and reconciliation.
I welcome with great pleasure the Assembly’s
discussion of the draft resolution before us at a time when
the United Nations is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary,
and honour once more the Olympic Ideals of peace,
brotherhood and unity among peoples. In a troubled era
in which disputes, conflicts, inequalities, tensions and
environmental crises wreak havoc on the quality of life,
we meet today to discuss athletics and the Olympic Ideal.
By so doing, and by adopting the draft resolution before
us, we shall send the message that
there is still an
eagerness for communication and dialogue.
The Olympic Ideal has been living in the hearts of
the Greek people for more than 30 centuries. That is not
to say that through our long history we have not been
subjected to the vicissitudes of mankind: we have
experienced untold discord,
and disunity.
Nevertheless, however remote the goal of building a
world based on the rule of law, justice and peace may be,
the continuity of the Olympic Ideal has always provided
conflict
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
us with a source of inspiration and hope, for the present as
well as for the future.
Since its birth in 776 B.C., the Olympic Ideal has been
a token of man’s noble struggle to exceed his limits. In its
framework, competition stands for virtuous antagonism. It
expresses the desire to compete by peaceful means, to aim
at peaceful targets, and to attain victory through individual
effort and the exercise of the body and the mind. It is never
a means to exterminate an enemy. It contributes to the
enhancement of our overall potentialities.
The draft resolution’s call for world peace during the
Winter and the Summer Olympic Games has its roots in the
concept of ekecheria — the Olympic Truce established by
our ancestors. Even though it constitutes only a small step
towards world peace, we should not forget that a long path
is indeed made of small steps.
The Olympic Games in ancient Greece were convened
for the day of the first full moon after the summer solstice,
which today coincides with mid-July. This period of time
was called ierominia — holy month. On the eve of the
ierominia, special envoys travelled throughout Greece
carrying the message of peace and the Olympic Truce.
Peace was recognized as a fundamental prerequisite for the
Games. For 40 days before and after the Games, all
hostilities ceased and all persecution of individuals was
prohibited.
Alexander the Great often stressed that the city of
Olympia should be regarded as the capital of all Greeks. He
spread not only the Greek spirit, but also the athletic ideal.
He built athletic stadiums and organized athletic games. He
encouraged everyone to share the virtues of the perfection
of the body, the nobility of the spirit and the kindness of
the soul, as well as the values of noble emulation, freedom
and individual distinction emanating from honest victory.
In the year 393, Byzantine Emperor Theodosius I put
an end to the Olympic Games because he regarded them as
an expression of paganism. Many efforts were subsequently
made for the revival of the Olympic Games, which finally
led to the first modern Games held in the Kalimarmaro
Stadium of Athens in 1896. These Games were the result
of the joint efforts of the Frenchman, Baron Pierre de
Coubertin and the Greek, Demetrios Vikelas, who became
the first President of the International Olympic Committee.
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
It is a fact that the athletic movement has over the
years gone through many phases and crises. It is also true
that athletics is the expression of a powerful and universal
reality which brings a major influence to bear on the
wider social environment as a means of education in the
framework of school athletics, as a means of health and
recreation for all sexes and ages in the framework of
mass participation in sports, and as a means of
communication, brotherhood, solidarity and peace in the
framework of competitive sports.
This three-dimensional social role of athletics has
contributed to its development as a lasting cultural value.
However, the world athletic movement is today suffering
a dangerously deepening multifaceted crisis. It
is an
ideological crisis, because the philosophical nucleus of the
ancient Greek spirit
is being superseded by extreme
commercialization, which contributes to turning fans into
hooligans, athletes into ruthless professionals and sporting
clubs into trading companies. It is an operational crisis,
since athletic records do not reflect the noble endeavour
to extend the boundaries of the body and the mind, but
political, business and, occasionally, racial objectives.
Finally,
is an organizational crisis, since we seem
unable to confront the plagues of violence and the abuse
of prohibited substances.
it
On the other hand, the urge for physical exercise
plays an ever-increasing role in our everyday life. The
transformation of our lifestyle and the urbanization of our
societies, in conjunction with the anguish and stress of
our technological age, highlight the need to develop a
powerful athletics movement,
in which the largest
possible number of people will be able to actively
participate. We have the binding obligation to reconsider
the way in which the heritage of the Olympic Movement
and of ancient Olympia is being put to use around the
world, for we seem to have forgotten the sacred ideals,
limiting ourselves to judging everything and everyone
according to cheap materialistic criteria.
The Greek people wholeheartedly wish the city of
Atlanta success in hosting the Olympic Games next
summer. But we also hope that the world in general, and
the International Olympic Committee in particular will
acknowledge the moral debt they owe to Greece and to
the Olympic Ideal, and give my country the honour of
hosting the Games. It is indeed inconceivable that no
8
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Olympic Games should have been held, during the
twentieth century, in the country where they were born and
which has served as a major source of inspiration to the
history of the modern Olympics.
Greece stands ready to host the Olympic Games at the
turn of the century, and to invite world youth to take part
in Games of friendship, civilization and peace, so as to
inaugurate a new phase of the revitalization of the Olympic
Ideal.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call next on His Excellency Mr. Hans Peter Manz, Deputy
Permanent Representative of Austria to the United Nations.
Mr. Manz (Austria): Before addressing the item we
are debating today, I should like to convey, on behalf of
my delegation, our heartfelt condolences to the Government
and the people of Israel. The loss of Prime Minister Rabin
to a senseless act of murder has shocked and saddened the
people of Austria. We share the grief of his family and all
of Israel.
As we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, we should also reflect on how closely
related the underlying ideas of its foundation are to a much
older concept: that of the Olympic Games. As naive as it
may appear at times, the notion of competing peacefully in
sports rather than challenging each other’s strength by
engaging in warfare has certainly lost none of its relevance
and appeal. Its link to the United Nations is obvious, and to
underline its
forum seems only
appropriate.
importance in this
Today, as in ancient Greece,
the Olympic Games
contribute to international understanding and mutual
respect. Rivalry and aggression appear to be inherent
human features with a potential for devastating effect.
Engaging in sports allows us to channel those forces in a
constructive way and is therefore a powerful manifestation
of competitive yet harmonious human interaction. Austria
is proud to have hosted the Olympic Winter Games in
Innsbruck in 1964 and 1976.
However, sports are not only a peaceful way to enter
into competition with other individuals. There is another
aspect to any sports activity: the effect of sports on the
individual itself. It is a way to develop physical and mental
skills, which in turn foster people’s health and self-esteem.
Both factors are crucial to an individual’s well-being and
therefore to society’s as well.
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
often
find
Individuals who
In this context, I should like to stress particularly the
Special Olympics and their invaluable function for the
disabled.
themselves
marginalized and even humiliated by society are given the
chance by way of sports to be at the centre of attention,
to feel large-scale support and to become heroes. The
self-esteem acquired by those preparing for
and
participating in the Special Olympics is a rare but lasting
experience for all directly or indirectly involved. Austria,
as a former host country of the Special Olympics, will
continue to promote this specific concept as a particularly
important strategy for the full integration of the disabled
into society.
the international
The contribution of sports to people’s health and
self-esteem is also of eminent importance in the context
of
fight against drug abuse. The
involvement of young people in sports becomes most
relevant
in this context. We therefore welcome the
mutually beneficial cooperation agreements between the
International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme as well as
other relevant bodies. The Vienna-based Drug Control
Programme is very active in providing training courses,
creating manuals and offering technical assistance in this
field, all of which, we believe, are viable factors in
helping youth to withstand the deceptive attraction of
drugs and which we therefore strongly support.
Austria also welcomes the many activities of non-
governmental organizations in sports all over the world
that aim at enhancing a society free of drug abuse. We
thus encourage the IOC, in collaboration with local and
national committees, to help promote the importance of a
drug-free society at the forthcoming Games in Atlanta.
The eve of the centenary of the revival of the
Olympic Games in 1896 in Athens presents an excellent
opportunity to remember the ancient Greek tradition of
the Olympic Truce. May this spirit be reflected in the
forthcoming Olympic Games. May the Olympic Games of
the future be an example of harmonious competition
between individuals and nations and a rallying point for
the promotion of peace in the world.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call next on the representative of Colombia, Mr. Luis
Alfonso Muñoz Aguirre, Director-General of ColDeportes.
Mr. Muñoz Aguirre (Colombia) (interpretation
from Spanish): Peace and development are permanent
themes in the daily life of the United Nations. As the
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
world Organization celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, there
can be no better time to reaffirm the notion that
the
international
Olympic
promoting
understanding through sport and culture,
in particular
among young people everywhere, in order to promote the
harmonious development of mankind.
consists
Ideal
of
The joint endeavours of the United Nations and the
International Olympic Committee (IOC), such as recent
meetings on “Sport against drugs”, “Sport and the
environment” and “Sport for all and health for all”, are
among the reasons we support and invite other States to
support draft resolution A/50/L.15 on building a peaceful
and better world through sport and the Olympic Ideal.
Sport, recreation and the proper and beneficial use of
leisure time are a right which my Government is committed
to guaranteeing to all Colombians. The entry into force of
the national sports law, recently endorsed by President
Samper, will allow us firmly and decisively to take the
great plunge into sports to which our Government
is
committed. The current sport and recreation policy is aimed
at fostering the integration of the population, promoting the
participation of the student population at all levels, firmly
supporting physical education and encouraging formal
sports and the follow-up to sports-training schools.
as
of
the
part
sector
This law will help us to modernize and update sports
structures and to create processes for extending sports,
recreation and physical education to all municipalities of the
country. It will also strengthen sports participation in the
comprehensive
educational
development of young people.
It stresses sports and
recreational programmes for ethnic groups, in particular
indigenous groups, and for the disabled population. This
will allow for citizen participation and linkages in the
socialization
supervisory
mechanisms to be established to avoid violence and drug
use in sports are pillars of our national policy; that is why
we are working intensively on this subject.
process. Monitoring
and
it
is essential
We believe that
to control doping.
therefore soon establish a monitoring
Colombia will
laboratory which will allow us to take concrete measures
against activities that are antithetical to sports. That is why
we recently sponsored an international meeting on this
subject. We recently asked the European Union to allow us
to sign on to the anti-doping agreement that the European
countries have already adopted. We are a State member of
the Ibero-American Sports Council, an organization of 25
States created to establish mechanisms of cooperation,
10
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
strengthen relationships and exchange ideas on improving
development.
Colombia recently became Chairman of the Non-
Aligned Movement. Activities taken in the context of our
national policy should therefore have the coherence and
dynamism to allow us to share our experience with the
developing world. Now is the time to ask the developed
countries to encourage specific programmes that will
allow the developing world to integrate itself and to
contribute through sports to the peace and development of
the international community.
I should also like to emphasize the effort now being
made by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in favour of sport as
part of
I also
congratulate the International Olympic Committee and its
President, Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch, on the important
task it is carrying out, a task that we shall continue to
support.
the total education of
the person.
Colombia is enthusiastic and resolute in its support
for the draft resolution and undertakes to apply it because
we are aware that sport and culture are excellent tools for
bringing about peace and coexistence between peoples
and for improving conditions for continuing on the path
of development in equality and justice.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call on the Permanent Representative of Jamaica, Miss
Patricia Durrant.
Miss Durrant (Jamaica): Allow me, Sir, on behalf
of the Government and people of Jamaica, to express our
deepest condolences to the bereaved family and to the
Government and people of Israel on the tragic loss of
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin to an assassin’s bullet.
Prime Minister Rabin’s courage, his commitment to peace
in the Middle East and his indefatigable and fearless
pursuit of normal relations between the peoples of the
region have been an inspiration to us all.
I wish also to express our sincere sympathy with the
Government and people of the Philippines at the tragic
loss of life and destruction occasioned by Typhoon
Angela. As someone from a part of the world that only a
few weeks ago experienced the fury of several hurricanes,
we feel with those who have lost loved ones, their homes
and their livelihoods in this disaster.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the United Nations,
On the eve of the centenary of the Olympic Games,
which were revived in 1896, it is fitting that the United
Nations should devote special attention to the goal of the
item before us, “Building a peaceful and better world
through sport and the Olympic Ideal”. In keeping with this
goal,
through General Assembly
resolution 48/11, revived the ancient Greek tradition of the
Olympic Truce, which calls for all hostilities to cease
during the Games. The very ancient nature of this tradition
is a significant reminder that wars and hostilities are not
new to this century; that from time immemorial countries
have seen the value of sport as a catalyst for peace.
In the past few years, we have seen an increase in
conflicts motivated by racism, xenophobia and general
intolerance. This reality was brought home clearly to
athletes participating in the last Winter Olympics,
in
Lillehammer, Norway, who recalled in sad irony and
disbelief that in just a few years the beautiful city of
Sarajevo, gracious host to the 1984 Winter Olympics, had
been torn apart by conflict and hatred of a shocking
intensity. The conflict
the former
Yugoslavia has become a symbol of similar ethnic conflicts
in other parts of the world, and has focused attention on the
need for greater efforts to be made in favour of peace.
in the territory of
The Olympic Games, the Olympic Movement, the
whole spirit of the Olympic Ideal are meant to promote
friendship, mutual understanding and cooperation between
the peoples of the world and, by extension, between the
nations. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali summed
up this theme quite eloquently when he stated that
“The Olympic Ideal
is a hymn to tolerance and
understanding between people and cultures. It is an
invitation to competition, but competition with respect
for others. In its way, Olympism is a school for
democracy. ... there is a natural link between the ethic
of the Olympic Games and the fundamental principles
of the United Nations”.
For all these reasons, the Government of Jamaica
supports the call for the reaffirmation of the Olympic Truce
during the Centennial Games in Atlanta in July 1996. We
also support the reaffirmation of the Truce prior to each
Summer and each Winter Olympic Games.
The Olympic Ideal places particular emphasis on
mobilizing the world’s youth in the promotion of sport as
a vehicle for peace and understanding. This emphasis on
youth fits very well with the United Nations observance this
year of the tenth anniversary of International Youth Year,
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
that
which the General Assembly commemorated just two
weeks ago. At
time, my delegation stressed the
importance of youth to the development of our country
and of the world, and outlined some of the measures
being put in place to ensure the improved development of
Jamaica’s young people.
Jamaica has had a rich tradition of excellence in the
field of international sports since the 1940s, when our
great track and field athletes captured the imagination of
the world at the Olympic Games even at that difficult
time, just after the Second World War. This tradition
continues today.
learn the lessons of discipline,
Many of our athletes come from very humble
backgrounds. It is in this humble environment that they
first
fair play and
teamwork, by participating in sports and other cultural
activities. It is one of the greatest miracles — even to
Jamaicans — that, even without
resources,
proper equipment and formal training, many of our young
people have risen to become world-class athletes. Some
have used their talents to assist with their educations, and
all have recognized the value of sports — particularly
community sports — to their stability and to the stability
of their communities and of the world.
financial
In many communities in Jamaica, people set about
creating their own facilities and sports teams, and
organizing tournaments, fully understanding the power of
sports to calm tempers and counter juvenile delinquency.
In its national youth policy, the Government of Jamaica
has taken decisive steps to recognize the link between
sports and cultural activities and the growth and
development of our young people.
Youth organizations are encouraged to play a key
role in designing programmes to facilitate the integration
of youth into the community and to develop healthy
lifestyles, which are the best protection against drug
abuse. These programmes include participation in team
sports. In addition, through its national sports policy, the
Government of Jamaica emphasizes the provision of
competition-level and community playing fields and
facilities; assistance to increase significantly the level of
participation in selected sports in schools and at
the
community level; and the encouragement of greater
private-sector sponsorship of competition-level sports and
in assisting national representation at international events.
These steps are in line with the continued work of
the International Olympic Committee in collaboration
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
with organizations of the United Nations system, such as
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO), the United Nations Children’s
the United Nations Environment
Fund
Programme (UNEP),
the World Health Organization
(WHO) and the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme
(UNICEF),
The International Conference on Sport against Drugs,
held in Rome earlier this year and organized by the
International Olympic Committee and the United Nations
International Drug Control Programme, and the use of
famous personalities as goodwill ambassadors are an
excellent example of the use of sports to drive home the
anti-drug message to young people.
We should also like to commend the work of the
increased
in
International Olympic Committee
surveillance of doping in sport.
Jamaican sporting
authorities are adamantly against the use of medicaments to
enhance athletic performance. Not only is this a dangerous
and unhealthy practice for our athletes; it is also grossly
unfair to other competitors.
its
to succumb to the temptation of
We urge all athletes, as well as their coaches and
taking
doctors, not
performance-enhancing drugs. It is not worth the risk, and
robs the person of his or her dignity as a fair competitor in
the spirit of the Olympics. More important, such habits
developed in play are carried over into work, as young
athletes continue to cheat in their academic and business
activities.
Sport prepares young people for life. This, after all, is
the whole point of the Olympic Ideal and of the exercises
we are now conducting in our observance of that Ideal.
Those in charge of young athletes need to remember that
the method by which those athletes are trained reveals the
character of the trainer and how the trainer conducts his or
her affairs in all aspects of life. There are those who would
scorn the attempts of the international community to spread
the spirit of Olympism in trying to achieve peace in the
world. My delegation is fully aware that the reasons for war
are complex and that peace does not therefore come easily.
But there are many avenues for approaching peace. The
Olympic Games provide a medium for
international
communication like few other events. Indeed, there are
expected to be some 190 countries present at the Summer
Olympics in Atlanta.
We would urge
these
considerations in mind and to join in the promotion of the
any sceptics
to bear
12
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Olympic spirit, to the best of their ability. We urge the
international community not to give up hope that lasting
peace can be achieved in the world. We have in our
lifetime witnessed the dismantling of the system of
apartheid, against which so many of us sportsmen and
sportswomen fought valiantly. At
the last Winter
Olympics, in Lillehammer, a team from a tiny tropical
island which has experienced neither snow nor ice entered
the bobsled competition and finished ahead of many
veterans of that sport. They were an inspiration to many
people worldwide.
We are very pleased to co-sponsor
the draft
resolution before us and call upon all members to support
it.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call on the representative of Iraq, Mr. Maki Khamas,
Member of the National Olympic Committee of Iraq.
Mr. Khamas (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): I
have the honour to represent the Iraqi National Olympic
Committee in this international forum dedicated to the
exchange of views and the search for the means whereby
a peaceful world may be established through sport.
I should like first to extend sincere thanks to the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), which took the
initiative of requesting the inclusion of this item on the
agenda of the General Assembly in 1993, and has thus
afforded us the opportunity to search for means to
promote the Olympic Movement and thus to make it
possible for the United Nations to explore new concepts
and additional approaches in the service of peace and
stability in the world.
in the
service of
the
The Olympic Movement, through its activities and
programmes, has played an important role in the search
for world peace. It
is appropriate to consolidate the
relationship between the Olympic Movement and the
United Nations
common,
fundamental objectives of the Charters of the United
Nations and the Olympic Movement. This could be
achieved through teaching the world’s youth the virtues
of peace, and the elaboration of a cooperative plan to
promote sports relations amongst nations on the basis of
fair
of
confrontation and domination.
and mutual
competition
respect,
instead
The United Nations has set for itself a number of
ambitious objectives for the establishment of peace and
ensuring equality for all nations in the enjoyment of the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
fundamental human rights, which include the rights to
education for all, to health for all and to housing for all.
The promotion and development of physical education and
sports for all are vital prerequisites for the attainment of
these objectives. Therefore, it is necessary for the United
Nations to promote international cooperation in the field of
sports and physical education, and to immunize it against
the negative political effects generated through the
pursuance of self-interest by certain international quarters.
to and worked against
In this regard, mention should be made of the coercive
measures imposed by the Security Council against Iraq,
which have run counter
the
attainment of these objectives. For five years now, my
country has been subjected to a comprehensive embargo
which has impacted negatively on all aspects of life,
including sports. It has become extremely difficult for Iraqi
athletes to obtain sports equipment, uniforms, balls, nets,
training equipment, or equipment for sports medicine. The
embargo has also prevented many Iraqi
teams from
participation in various sports activities abroad, such as
games, conferences, and training camps, due to the scarcity
of resources.
The embargo and the lack of adequate nutrition have
deprived athletes of the necessary means to realize their full
athletic potentials. As a result, the number of sports teams
have declined, many sports clubs have been closed and
many sports tournaments, individual and collective, have
been cancelled. That has led to an extremely serious
deterioration in sports activities in schools and universities.
Furthermore, the Olympic Council for Asia, for narrow
political reasons, suspended the membership of the Iraqi
National Olympic Committee in 1990. Iraq’s membership
in that Council remains suspended without any justification,
in contradiction to the fundamental values and principles of
the Olympic Movement.
These negative consequences of the embargo on sports
and on every other aspect of life in Iraq place a legal
responsibility on the United Nations as well as a moral
responsibility on the International Olympic Committee and
make it
incumbent on both the Organization and the
Committee to work for putting an end to this unjustified
tragedy.
The manifestations we have just mentioned, as well as
many others, require us all to work closely together for the
attainment of the common objectives of the United Nations
and the International Olympic Committee which aim at
creating a world of peace and prosperity, free of the narrow
political interests of this or that party, a world in which
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
sport is not used as a political tool of policies dictated by
the narrow interests of certain international quarters.
We should like to take this opportunity to commend
the Marquis Juan Antonio Samaranch for his tireless
efforts to keep sports independent of the policies of
vested interests. From this rostrum we call upon all
nations — large and small, strong and weak, rich and
poor — to promote dialogue and to build bridges of hope
and understanding between them all through sports and
through observance of the humanitarian Olympic values
of mutual understanding, friendship, solidarity, justice and
equality, which eschew all
forms of discrimination,
domination and coercion.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
Japan, Mr.
I now call on the representative of
Shunji Maruyama.
Mr. Maruyama (Japan): The Government and
Japan are profoundly saddened by the
people of
is
assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. It
Japan’s earnest hope that the people of Israel will not
allow this tragedy to discourage them and that they will
remain committed to the peace process and ensure that
Prime Minister Rabin’s desire for peace in the Middle
East will be realized.
As the host country for the next Winter Olympic
Games, which will take place in Nagano in 1998, Japan
would like to express its great pleasure that the agenda
item entitled “Building a peaceful and better world
through sport and the Olympic Ideal” is being considered
at plenary meetings of the General Assembly in this the
year of the Beijing Conference on Women and the
Copenhagen Summit, which focused on people-centred
development, and the year in which we observed the
United Nations Year
for Tolerance and the tenth
anniversary of International Youth Year. In addition, next
year, in Atlanta, we shall celebrate the centenary of the
revival of the Olympic Games in 1896. Clearly, it is a
most opportune moment to acknowledge the importance
of sport in general and of the Olympics in particular.
All round the world, sport plays a prominent role in
the promotion of mutual understanding, friendship and
good will, and it is conducted under universal rules. It has
enormous importance for this reason, and we are pleased
that the world’s most important sports authority — the
International Olympic Committee (IOC) — and the
United Nations system are engaging in joint endeavours
in areas such as the prevention of drug abuse.
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
We also welcome the efforts of national Ministries of
Youth and Sport to strengthen educational programmes for
youth and to enhance the participation of women in all
aspects of the sports movement. It is essential, in particular,
that young people, who hold our future in their hands, join
in efforts to build a more peaceful world. This, we believe,
they can do by participating in sports and, more
importantly, by living their lives in accordance with the
principles that are at the heart of all sporting competition.
The world continues today to be racked by regional
conflict, and ways must be found to address this challenge.
The Olympic Truce is a very useful, if temporary, means of
effecting peace, and we are pleased that it has been agreed
that a Truce will be observed once again during the Nagano
Olympic Games. Since the time of the ancient Greeks, the
goal of the Olympic Games has been to build a peaceful
and better world and to enhance respect for human dignity.
That goal continues to deserve our full support.
By hosting the eighteenth Olympic Games, in Tokyo
in 1964, and the eleventh Winter Games, in Sapporo in
1972, Japan has demonstrated how deeply it believes in the
Olympic Ideal. As I mentioned at the outset, Japan is
privileged to serve once again as host country — this time
for the eighteenth Winter Games. The venue, Nagano, is
situated at the foot of the Japanese Alps, in the heart of
Japan — a place famous for its magnificent views and great
natural beauty. Preparations are already under way, with
extensive support from the Government of Japan, and every
effort is being made to ensure that these Games will be the
most smoothly run ever. We are convinced that the Nagano
Games will inspire participants and observers alike to strive
to realize the goals of the Olympics in their own lives and
in the relations of their countries.
We have
for
established three guidelines
the
organization of the Games in Nagano. First, as these will be
the last Olympic Games to be held this century, they should
be not only a series of world-championship events but also
an opportunity for youth and children — the men and
women of the early part of the next century — to appear on
the world stage. Secondly, as the Winter Games are ice-
and-snow events, we should try to feature the abundant
natural resources that Nagano has to offer. Thirdly, we are
determined to organize this historic event in such a way as
to ensure that
is a means of enabling everyone,
individually and collectively, to make a contribution to
peace, harmony and friendship. Japan will be honoured to
welcome athletes and visitors alike to the Nagano Games.
it
14
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Japan wishes to express its deep respect for the work
of the International Olympic Committee, and we welcome
Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch, President of the IOC, to the
General Assembly’s
its
100-year history,
the IOC has contributed to the
promotion of friendship and peace through sports, and the
international community owes it a debt of gratitude.
deliberations. Throughout
I should like to conclude my statement by quoting
the remarks of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali,
that were incorporated in the report of the International
Olympic Committee on the International Year of Sport
and the Olympic Ideal last year:
“The Olympic Ideal is a hymn to tolerance and
understanding between people and cultures. It is an
invitation to competition, but competition with
respect for others. In its way, Olympism is a school
for democracy. In other words, there is a natural link
between the ethic of the Olympic Games and the
fundamental principles of the United Nations.”
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the representative of Guyana, Mrs. Paulette
Cornette.
Mrs. Cornette (Guyana): I should like, first, to take
this opportunity to extend the condolences of
the
Government and people of Guyana to the Government
and people of Israel and to the bereaved widow and other
relatives of the late Prime Minister of Israel, Yitzhak
Rabin, who was assassinated last Saturday. It is our hope
that Mr. Rabin will not have died in vain and that the
peace process, which he had brought so far, will continue
to progress, leading to lasting peace in that region.
In less than one year from now, in July 1996 in
Atlanta, we will celebrate the centennial Olympic Games
of the modern era. During that period over 200 nations of
the world will field athletes who will be participating in
every conceivable area of sporting activity. The important
contribution which sports and culture offer
to the
participants, the majority of whom are youths, by way of
healthy competition of body and mind can never be
overemphasized.
We are equally well aware of the apparent ease with
which athletes at national and international levels are able
to interact, in defiance of all other obstacles, such as
language, race and religion. We are reminded that in
keeping with Olympic tradition, we will be making a
great effort to observe during the Games an Olympic
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Truce in the cause of peace. This initiative, which revives
an ancient Greek tradition, is all the more valuable because
it is completely in keeping with the principles of the United
Nations Charter and promotes a spirit of fraternity and
understanding between peoples.
As we in this Assembly are only too well aware,
global peace and security continue to elude our grasp. The
period of intense super-Power rivalry is thankfully now
behind us, and the world has retreated from the threat of
nuclear annihilation. We are now confronted, however, by
numerous
resist all attempts at
resolution. Witness the many factional conflicts that are
currently in progress in Europe, Africa and other areas of
the world.
localized wars
that
Commendably, the United Nations and particularly the
Security Council strive to bring peace and stability to these
troubled places. We are forced to recognize, however, that
the Organization’s success to date has been severely
circumscribed. While we
encouraged by new
breakthroughs in the various diplomatic and negotiating
processes, we cannot escape the conclusion that new
concepts and fresh approaches are needed to deal with the
persistence and proliferation of conflict.
are
By extending the principle of
the ekecheria, or
Olympic Truce, we can at least pray for some respite,
however temporary, from the killings and destruction which
accompany conflict. The Truce, as we know it, would
normally last for the period of the sporting event. During
that time national rivalries, jealousies and considerations of
politics, race, religion, wealth and social status were cast
aside. Kings competed with commoners for the honour of
winning the simple branch of wild olive which was given
to each victor and which over the years has come to
symbolize peace.
With political commitment, however,
the Olympic
Truce, which was considered sacred by all participants, can
be prolonged indefinitely. We therefore call upon people of
goodwill everywhere to place at
the forefront of their
thoughts and action the principles that ekecheria and the
Olympic Ideal seek to propagate.
Of those currently engaged in conflict we ask that,
despite the urgencies and validity of the causes for which
they struggle, they show some regard for these higher
principles that have been endorsed by the United Nations.
The fundamental principles of the Olympic Movement
embrace the values and ideals of this Organization. It is
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
therefore possible for it to collaborate with us in the
campaign to achieve world peace. The movement has
made a valuable contribution towards building a better
world through sport. The United Nations, for its part, has
taken a major step in furthering its own efforts to foster
peace and development, by its full acceptance and
endorsement of the concept of the Olympic Truce.
We are pleased to note the appreciable effort which
the International Olympic Committee is making to
provide humanitarian assistance to several war-torn areas.
Such assistance enables the international community to
make the best possible response to the growing number of
situations which require its intervention. We wish to
commend the Committee for its positive contribution and
to invite its continued involvement in the work of our
Organization. We have accordingly co-sponsored draft
to
resolution A/50/L.15, which
the
International Olympic Committee
closer
into
relationship with the United Nations system.
bring
a
seeks
The occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, which the General Assembly is observing this
year, should see a concerted international effort to fulfil
the principal aim of its Charter, namely to rid this and
succeeding generations from the scourge of war.
As the Olympic torch moves from Barcelona to
Atlanta, we must work to ensure that by the summer of
1996, when the
International Olympic Committee
observes its centennial, a permanent truce will be called
to conflicts among and within nations. It will certainly be
a worthy achievement if at the dawn of the twenty-first
century mankind can enter a new age of universal peace
and harmony.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the representative of Cyprus, Mr. Demos
Georgiades, President of the Cyprus Sport Organization.
Mr. Georgiades (Cyprus): In a world faced with
unabated turmoil, the ancient Greek spirit that gave rise
to the Olympian ideal of athletic achievement and
excellence transcends the cultural and political boundaries
that divide human communities.
The Olympic Ideal continues to inspire us to this
day. It shines like a beacon of hope, a guiding force
underpinning the fundamental values of society: peace,
freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. It
is a motivating element of human competitiveness without
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
recourse to violent confrontation, an essential ingredient for
the preservation of universal values.
Consideration of the present draft resolution by the
General Assembly during this year’s historic session is of
particular significance. It attests to the importance attached
by the United Nations to the Olympian values for their
contribution towards the promotion of peace and the
betterment of the world through sports. It is by instilling the
Olympic Ideals in our youth that cultural and political
discord can be overcome.
The Olympic Ideal serves to promote international
understanding among the youth of the world. In that way,
the necessary conditions for building harmony among
nations are created. It is thus that the prevailing culture of
conflict and misunderstanding can be mitigated.
The practice of sports offers a unique way to cultivate
the body, the mind and the soul. It is an activity that people
can engage in regardless of racial, cultural, political and
other differences. The Olympic Ideal dissipates prejudice.
Nearly a century ago, Pierre de Coubertin was inspired
by the same principles when he revived the Olympic
Games in their land of origin — Greece. This is why it is
only appropriate that the International Olympic Committee
give serious consideration to the proposal of Greece to
organize an Olympiad in the country that hosted the first
modern Olympic Games, the country that gave birth to the
original Olympic spirit.
Sports have always played a central role in the
education system of Cyprus. Statistical data indicate that
Cyprus compares favourably with those nations that are
most active in the realm of sports.
My country, a land divided by foreign aggression and
occupation, continues its struggle for peace and freedom.
This struggle is motivated by the same spirit that guided the
founders of the Olympic Games. It is a spirit driven by the
ideals of peaceful coexistence, mutual understanding and
reconciliation.
We live in an era of uneasy transition, characterized
by political and social upheaval. However, we must not
allow our fears and concerns about the present to cloud our
vision for the future. Our collective mission to promote the
Olympic Ideal can only serve to fulfil the objectives of the
draft
is, promoting and preserving
international understanding and cooperation through the
active participation of youth in sport.
resolution — that
16
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the representative of Viet Nam, Mr. Le
Buu, Director-General of the General Department of Sport
and Physical Education of Viet Nam.
Mr. Le Buu (Viet Nam) (spoke in Vietnamese;
English text furnished by the delegation): I feel most
honoured to attend, on behalf of the Sport and Physical
Education and Olympic Movement of Viet Nam, at the
invitation of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
and of
the International Olympic
Committee,
this debate on agenda item 40, entitled
“Building a peaceful and better world through sport and
the Olympic Ideal”, at the fiftieth session of the General
Assembly.
the President of
Our people, living in a country that has undergone
wars, strongly cherish a life of peace, independence and
freedom, and have an age-old tradition of sport. It is in
peace that Vietnamese sport has been integrated into the
modern Olympic stream since the end of the 1970s.
The objective of Vietnamese sport is to build a
movement of popular sport, physical education and good
health for
and to expand relations of
cooperation, friendship and development with friends all
over the world.
everyone,
Unfortunately, suffering is still being experienced by
many peoples. I would earnestly recommend to the sports
and physical-education leaders of every country that they
strive, as one of the important responsibilities within their
competencies, to implement resolution 49/29, adopted at
the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly on the
Olympic Ideal. It aims to create a world of peace and
stability in which all peoples may enjoy their fundamental
rights — for example, the right to live in peace and
equality, the right to development and the right to enjoy
sporting exchanges and cooperation on sport between
countries and peoples.
the President of
I should also like to take this opportunity to express
our sincere thanks to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations,
the International Olympic
Committee,
the Association of National Olympic
Committees, the international sports federations and the
sports and physical education organizations of various
countries for extending to Viet Nam their valuable
assistance.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
51st plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Vietnamese sport commits itself to do its best to make
a worthy contribution to the lofty cause of the Olympic
Ideal; it commits itself to building a world of sport for
peace and development.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the last speaker for today.
In order to hear the other speakers on the list and to
take a decision on draft
the
Assembly will continue consideration of agenda item 40,
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through
sport and the Olympic Ideal”, tomorrow morning as the
third item.
resolution A/50/L.15,
The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.
17
