United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
21st plenary meeting
Thursday, 5 October 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.21
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Azerbaijan, His Excellency, Mr. Hassan
Hassanov.
Mr. Kouliev (Azerbaijan)
(interpretation from
Russian): Mr. President, my Foreign Minister has asked me
to read out his statement on his behalf.
“Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to
congratulate you upon your election to the important
post of President of this historic fiftieth session of the
General Assembly. I am confident that, under your
skilful leadership, the General Assembly will write
one more significant page in the chronicles of the
United Nations. I should also like to express my
gratitude to your distinguished predecessor, Mr.
Amara Essy, for his valuable contribution to the work
of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session.
“I should like to express particular words of
gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to strengthen
peace on Earth.
“We have gathered here on this
anniversary year of
the existence of
fiftieth
the United
Nations, understanding as we do the tremendous
significance of the role played by our Organization
in the world today. All progressive people welcomed
the end of the cold war, rightly believing that it
would lead to an easing of nuclear confrontation and
an improvement of the political climate on the
planet. However,
totalitarian
systems entailed the emergence of bloody armed
conflicts and hot spots around the world.
the dissolution of
“The world has witnessed with tremendous
alarm the continuing military confrontations and
tension in the republics of the former Yugoslavia,
Tajikistan and the Nagorny Karabakh region of
Azerbaijan.
“For seven years now we have seen open
aggression from the Republic of Armenia against the
Azerbaijan Republic. Twenty per cent of Azerbaijan
territory has been under occupation by the armed
forces of the Republic of Armenia. More than one
million Azerbaijanis have been forcibly driven from
their homes. A serious hotbed of tension has been
created in the region and threatens international
peace and security.
“The Security Council has adopted four
resolutions on the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict in
which it called upon the aggressor to withdraw,
immediately
occupied
territories. However, the Republic of Armenia has
completely ignored compliance with the resolutions
from the
and
totally,
95-86232 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and as a Member of the United Nations is, in effect,
refusing to follow the decisions of one of its major
organs.
“Almost a year has elapsed since the adoption in
Budapest by the Heads of State and Government,
members of
the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), of a decision
appointing the co-chairmen of the Minsk Conference
on the settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict
designed to ensure the signing of a major political
agreement the realization of which should eliminate all
the consequences of the conflict. However, in this case
the Republic of Armenia is pursuing a policy of
putting forward obviously unacceptable conditions and
attempting to impose provisions which would impose
in advance a political status on the Nagorny Karabakh
region of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Here we are
faced with attempts
to intimidate us with the
possibility of the undermining of the peace-keeping
operation in the region. It is, to say the least, unethical
to accuse the victim of aggression, of not being
willing to compromise on the problem of
the
liberation of its occupied territories.
for
its part,
“Azerbaijan,
continuously
displaying its readiness for constructive cooperation
with the mediators in order to bring about a peaceful
settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict.
is
“We have repeatedly expressed ourselves in
favour of a multinational peace-keeping operation of
the OSCE for the maintenance of peace on the border
between Azerbaijan and Armenia and in the region as
a whole.
mandate and parameters of
“At the present time discussions are taking place
on the
the peace-
keeping operations of that Organization. In connection
with the fact that the peace-keeping operation in our
region will be the first to be carried out by the OSCE,
Azerbaijan has agreed to the provision of technical
expert consultative assistance from the United Nations
for the success of this operation.
“Azerbaijan shares the general understanding that
should be viewed as
peace-keeping operations
temporary in nature and should be used to promote a
climate to facilitate the settlement of a particular
problem. At the same time, however, we must not lose
sight of the fact that settlement is the ultimate goal. In
implementing any peace-keeping operation we must
2
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
strictly abide by the principles contained in the
United Nations Charter, particularly the principles of
respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
States and non-intervention in internal affairs.
“Peace-keeping operations must be based on an
appropriate mandate drawn up with the consent of
all the parties involved, and they must be impartial,
objective and neutral in character. Azerbaijan agrees
with the current and established international
practice under which the military contingent of any
country participating in a given peace-keeping
operation should not exceed 30 per cent of the total
is
for
the
It
international organs
involved in peace-keeping
operations to furnish all available information to
States and to keep world public opinion informed of
the progress of the operation.
also important
force.
the
for
“The settlement of
the conflict between
Armenia and Azerbaijan entails strict compliance
with these principles. Failing the liberation of all
Azerbaijani territory occupied by Armenia, there can
be no question of any comprehensive settlement of
this conflict. Restoration of the territorial integrity of
the Republic of Azerbaijan and the return of
refugees and displaced persons to their homes in
accordance with international practice are the only
bases on which a solution can be found to the
problem of
national minority
population in Azerbaijan.
the Armenian
“In the context of a settlement of
the
Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict I should also like to
draw attention to the principle of the right of peoples
to self-determination, a principle that the Republic of
Armenia is flouting. The world has not yet found a
workable balance between the principle of the right
of peoples to self-determination, on the one hand,
and the principle of the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of States, on the other. Nevertheless, it is
clear
as
contained in the Charter, is not intended to furnish
a pretext for flouting the principle of independence
and territorial integrity.
to self-determination,
right
that
the
“The Republic of Azerbaijan, now a full-
fledged member of
the world community, has
undertaken to abide by all universally recognized
norms and principles of international
law in its
relations with other States. The Republic of
Armenia, however, has persistently attempted to use
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to legitimize
the right of peoples
a pretext
to self-
the principle of
determination as
and
consolidate its territorial claims and to justify its
aggression against Azerbaijan and its occupation of
Azerbaijani territory. Indeed, the expansionist circles
in Armenia have been implementing such a policy for
years. In 1988, when the Soviet Union was still in
existence,
the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic
expelled its Azerbaijani population — some 200,000
persons, a national minority. Immediately following
that inhuman decision, the Parliament of Armenia,
acting counter to all
the norms and principles of
international law, approved Armenia’s annexation of
the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan — in
other words, it decided to annex a part of the territory
of a neighbouring State.
“Subsequently, 50,000 persons were expelled
from the Nagorny Karabakh region, whose total
population numbered 170,000, with the financial and
military support of the Republic of Armenia. In
addition, Armenian armed forces were used to
consolidate the annexation of the Lachin and Shusha
districts of Azerbaijan, through which the Republic of
Armenia maintains direct communication with the
Nagorny Karabakh region of
the Republic of
Azerbaijan. Through this corridor, cynically referred
to as a humanitarian corridor, a river of weapons,
ammunitions and human resources flows from the
Republic of Armenia. Some 20 per cent of the
territory of Azerbaijan is now occupied by Armenian
armed forces. Again,
this armed expansion is
accompanied by a thorough ethnic cleansing' of the
occupied Azerbaijani territories and a scorched-earth
policy.
“The world community must condemn the
actions of Armenia in Azerbaijan and call for the full
and unconditional withdrawal of the Armenian armed
forces from the occupied territories and for the return
of refugees and displaced persons to their homes. This
is clearly a case in which we are witnessing a total
disregard for the provision of the United Nations
Charter that calls upon all Member States
to refrain in their international relations from
the threat or use of force against the territorial
integrity or political independence of any State,
or in any other manner inconsistent with the
Purposes of the United Nations.'
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
World public opinion must not be misled as to the
true motives for the actions of Armenia, which is
cloaking its aggression against Azerbaijan in the
lofty principle of the right of peoples to self-
determination.
“Armenia’s aggression against Azerbaijan has
caused enormous suffering and grief to the whole of
the Azerbaijani people, who have been forced by the
military actions and occupation of the Armenian
armed forces to leave their homes, abandon their
property and flee in order to avoid falling into the
hands of the occupiers. The Azerbaijani Government
has been forced to convert many schools, dwellings,
sanatoriums and rest homes
into housing for
refugees and displaced persons. In the territory of
Azerbaijan, people are forced to take refuge in tent
cities. The normal
life of the country has been
almost totally destroyed.
“We
to the
countries
are grateful
and
international and non-governmental organizations
that have lent active humanitarian assistance to
Azerbaijan. The United Nations too has played an
important role in this assistance. The activities of the
1995-1996 humanitarian programmes, as presented
in the United Nations consolidated inter-agency
humanitarian assistance appeal for the Caucasus,
include relief projects in the food, non-food, shelter,
education and health sectors. However, as the
Secretary-General indicates in his annual report on
the work of the Organization, only 37 per cent, or
$12.8 million, of
the requirements pledged for
humanitarian activities in Azerbaijan had been
received as at 31 July 1995. Other projects carried
out under the aegis of the United Nations have
addressed capacity-building and the transition from
emergency assistance to development.
has
always
attached
“Azerbaijan
great
importance to multifaceted cooperation with the
United Nations system in the spheres of social and
economic development. Following the dissolution of
the USSR our country was confronted with the task
of radically restructuring the Azerbaijani economy
on a free-market basis. No country can be expected
to undertake such a radical restructuring unilaterally
without
international
organizations, and Azerbaijan has been no exception.
So far, we can point with some satisfaction to the
continued cooperation between the Government of
Azerbaijan and such important international financial
the active cooperation of
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
for Reconstruction
institutions as the International Monetary Fund and the
International Bank
and
Development. We have had considerable success in
stabilizing the exchange rate of the manat, our national
currency. The Government of Azerbaijan has received
approval of sizeable loans to assist in a number of
major infrastructure projects and for drilling and
transporting oil.
“Although the majority of the contacts between
Azerbaijan and the United Nations system have been
successful, we must nevertheless mention some
current problems. We have not yet been able to
resolve the question of a proper scale for Azerbaijan’s
contribution to the regular budget of the Organization
that would reflect my country’s real ability to pay.
“In Azerbaijan’s brief period of independence
some important changes have occurred. The Republic
of Azerbaijan has begun to build its free democratic
society on the basis of a market economy. We shall
continue to pursue that path. It goes without saying,
however,
the transition from one social and
economic system to another requires a certain amount
of time and very careful and meticulous work.
that
“We need fundamental changes in many aspects
of the life of the Republic, and corresponding changes
in the thinking of our people. After long stagnation,
the people have achieved civic freedom; now, they
must understand that freedom. This is one of our most
important areas of activity. A certain amount of
progress has been made with respect to the political
life of Azerbaijan. The principles of political
pluralism,
freedom of
expression, of
the press and of conscience are
guaranteed. Human rights are effectively protected. A
multi-party system is at work. We consistently act on
the principle of the primacy of law. Irrespective of sex
or national, religious, ethnic or linguistic affiliation,
citizens of Azerbaijan enjoy equal rights.
freedoms
personal
and
“Azerbaijan’s highest legislative body, the Milli
Majlis, has adopted a new electoral law, which is a
milestone in the development of a democratic society
in our country. This law is a further example of how
Azerbaijan is proceeding with the building of a
democratic civil society. Parliamentary elections in
Azerbaijan are scheduled for 12 November this year;
this confirms our unswerving policy of strengthening
independence and sovereignty. Many countries and
major international organizations, including the United
4
for Security
the Organization
and
Nations,
Cooperation in Europe and others, have already
agreed to act as observers of the elections. I take
this opportunity to invite States Members of the
United Nations to send observers to the elections in
Azerbaijan.
“In the social and economic sphere, our
purposeful reforms in the political area and towards
a democratic society have made it possible to create
the preconditions for economic and social change,
which is proceeding with success in our country and
which is laying the foundation for an early transition
to market relationships. The Republic has achieved
a certain stabilization of macro-economic indicators
and is doing all it can to encourage the development
of free enterprise. We have begun a conscientious
programme of privatization. Inflation, which had in
previous years reached 30 to 35 per cent per month,
has now been reduced to near zero. We appeal to
foreign
the
community
businesses to increase their
in the
economy of Azerbaijan. We have created all the
proper conditions for profitable activities by foreign
companies. International consortiums are stepping up
their activities; in addition to the Azerbaijan State oil
transnational
company,
corporations. These activities are aimed at
joint
exploration and development of oil and gas deposits
in the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea.
to
investment
include major
international
these
and
“The 50 years of the United Nations have
shown that the peoples of the world can achieve a
great deal when they combine their efforts and their
will
to defend world peace and to achieve the
prosperity of peoples. We know that it was concern
with preventing another world war that ordained the
foundation of the United Nations, and this remains
the main task before mankind today. For war annuls
all that the efforts of peoples have achieved.”
The President: I call next on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs and Worship of Costa Rica, His
Excellency Mr. Fernando Naranjo Villalobos.
Mr. Naranjo Villalobos (Costa Rica) (interpretation
from Spanish): It is the honour of the delegation of Costa
Rica to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at
this historic
session marking the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations. We are extremely pleased that a distinguished
son of Portugal, a country so closely linked to Latin
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
America by history and culture, has been chosen for this
high position. We offer you our full cooperation in the
performance of your important duties.
We wish to express to Member States the gratitude of
the Government and the people of Costa Rica for having
elected our country to one of the vice-presidencies of the
Assembly. That election is a significant honour.
It also gives me pleasure to join previous speakers in
thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire,
His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for the splendid way in
which he performed his duties as President of the General
Assembly at its forty-ninth session.
Costa Rica wishes to convey its recognition of the
indefatigable work carried out by the Secretary-General and
by other Secretariat officials towards peace and security.
The devoted efforts of the Secretary-General to champion
a safer, fairer, more peaceful and more humane world for
future generations will be a great legacy for mankind, along
with his determination to transform and modernize the
Organization and carry it into the future.
Fifty years ago, Mr. Julio Acosta, former President of
the Republic and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Costa
Rica, who headed our country’s delegation to the United
Nations Conference on International Organization at San
Francisco, said that the future of the world lay with the
Charter of
the United Nations, which was the most
important human document of the last 1,000 years. That,
indeed, is what it has been, at least over the last 50 years,
despite the many difficulties, the many frustrations, the
many conflicts. The Charter of the United Nations has set
a new course for mankind and has provided the
international community with an ethical code that grows
stronger every day.
Costa Rica, a founding Member of the Organization,
is firmly committed to the United Nations, in accordance
with its long-standing regime of democracy and respect for
human rights. The values and principles which give shape
to this Organization were an integral part of Costa Rican
life many years before the San Francisco Conference. With
the abolition of the armed forces in 1948, our country
renewed its faith in law and its hope that reason, not force,
would govern relations among human beings. With that
decision of President José Figueres, Costa Rica addressed
the world and declared peace. With the same thought in
mind, the Government of Costa Rica has promoted many
United Nations initiatives in support of peace and human
rights, including the establishment of the University for
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
Peace, the declaration of the International Year of Peace
and the creation of the office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights. All these ideas are
aimed at realizing mankind’s dream of sustainable peace.
In the spirit of commemorating in deeds the fiftieth
anniversary of the Organization, Costa Rica proposed a
World Week of Peace, to begin on 24 October this year.
This initiative, sponsored by a large number of countries
and unanimously adopted by the General Assembly on
12 July 1995, would silence weapons everywhere in the
world for at least a week, so that in the future sustainable
peace might prevail over destructive war. Costa Rica
hopes that during the Week all Member States will carry
out pro-peace activities and reflect on how important it is
for mankind to learn to live under the sign of concord.
My delegation is aware of the practical constraints that
stand in the way of the World Week of Peace achieving
its goals on the desired scale. However, it is our belief
that any move that could be taken this week to promote
dialogue, coexistence and harmony between nations would
be a valuable contribution to the celebration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations and to the building of
the future. The effort will have been worthwhile if even
one human being — a child, a woman or a man — is
saved from death as a result of this initiative.
There are no conflicts without solutions. All ground
is fertile for reconciliation. How many tears were shed in
South Africa, how much blood was spilled in the Middle
East! However, animosity has gradually disappeared and
harmony is beginning to flourish. Multicultural democracy
is giving a new and peaceful direction to the history of
South Africa. With the recent agreement on the West
Bank, Israelis and Palestinians continue to show that
peace is always possible. If there is a will for peace,
peace can be achieved. In that context, the United Nations
must continue to be the forum where all the peoples of
the world have fair representation. No country should be
excluded from becoming a Member of this Organization.
For many years,
the world prevented a general
conflagration by resorting to containment. Today,
although the East-West confrontation has dissipated, and
preventive diplomacy is making headway, there are still
latent seeds of world conflict, concentrated in the sub-
human conditions in which a large portion of the world’s
population live, and evident also in the massive decay of
the environment.
The urgent need to solve senseless conflicts such as
the one in the former Yugoslavia and to end the violence
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
besetting so many places in the world should not make us
lose sight of the fact that true peace involves a series of
elements much more significant than the mere absence of
war. As has been recently stated by His Holiness Pope John
Paul II, who offered to the world such a beautiful message
of hope and goodwill today from this Hall,
“... peace is not limited to the silence of cannons. It is
nourished with justice and freedom. It needs the
atmosphere of a spirit rich in some fundamental
elements, such as the sense of God, the taste for
beauty, the love of truth, the choice of solidarity, and
the capacity for
tenderness and the courage to
forgive.”
The fiftieth anniversary of the Organization is an
to
to achieve
occasion for reflection, but we should also use it
meditate on the challenge of our
sustainable development.
times:
to
a
peace
process
comprehensive
In Central America we have committed ourselves
and
firmly
democratization, in a regional effort to build peace and
democracy where these are needed, and to strengthen them
where they already exist. This journey is culminating today
in the encouraging advances experienced in the dialogue in
Guatemala. Costa Rica is optimistic about the efforts to find
a lasting peaceful solution to the problem involving that
brotherly country. We give our
to the
negotiation process being developed to that end under the
auspices of the United Nations.
full support
Central Americans, who for many years have
successfully advocated this process of peace
and
democratization, are today also committed to an alliance to
generate in our region a new model of development,
combining freedom and the well-being of the vast majority,
with respect for the natural environment. This Central
American commitment
to the region itself and to the
international community is being implemented through
various actions and development projects. We hope that the
international community as a whole will understand and
appreciate Central America’s effort, and will lend it its
support, as several friendly nations have already done.
As an integral part of the process of the consolidation
of peace and the building of sustainable development,
respect for human rights is no longer just a legal and moral
obligation of Governments;
it has become an essential
condition for harmonious life in every society. However,
we cannot disregard the fact that many situations in which
these rights are still ignored or violated persist, making the
task of the relevant international bodies doubly important.
6
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
It is not legal to violate human rights, but it is not right
to sit idly by, using the pretext of respect for sovereignty,
which is only hypothetical
respect and borders on
complicity.
For Costa Rica, a party to the International
Covenants on this matter and the headquarters of the
Inter-American Court of Human Rights, it is essential that
the United Nations assume a more dynamic and energetic
role in the protection of fundamental human rights and
require from Member States strict compliance with their
responsibilities in this area. For this purpose, protective
entities, in particular the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), should be
provided with more resources. We must also strengthen
measures
the
recommendations of those bodies, or prevent them from
performing their duties.
States which
against
ignore
We are also concerned that overcoming the balance
of terror has not put an end to the arms race, and that is
a matter of concern to us. We cannot understand why at
this time in history there are still countries which, with
surprising levity, destroy the environment and endanger
their neighbours with nuclear tests. This is a flagrant
violation of the commitments that marked the conclusion
of the negotiations to extend the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and has a negative
effect on the tasks related to the drafting of
the
comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty. Costa Rica has
never possessed, and does not want to possess, nuclear or
chemical weapons, and strongly urges participant States
to speedily conclude negotiations on this treaty and to
ensure that it takes effect as soon as possible.
conflicts
alive. Many Governments
However, the danger of a nuclear holocaust should
not make us unconcerned about the problems caused by
conventional weapons, the traffic in which has a tragic
impact on the third world and keeps a series of very
harmful
of
underdeveloped countries continue to waste resources on
weapons, resources needed desperately by their own
people for basic necessities. The democracies of the
industrialized world continue providing those weapons in
a business which undoubtedly, on a short-term basis, is
financially more
for
development.
cooperation
profitable
than
In 1994, relying on an initiative of the Government
of Romania, a group of 25 countries proposed to the
General Assembly the adoption of a voluntary, global and
non-discriminatory code of conduct for the international
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
this
transfer of weapons. My delegation believes that
subject must be reactivated without delay and also that
concrete action must be taken to make the Register of
Conventional Weapons within the United Nations effective.
The reduction of military spending has an immediate
repercussion on budget allocations for the promotion of
development and well-being. In Costa Rica, we learned this
lesson almost half a century ago and we have had no
reason since then to regret our decision. However, we also
believe that providing special treatment, such as cooperation
for development and the transfer of technology for peaceful
purposes,
to countries which reduce military spending
would be a great incentive, as has been suggested by Oscar
Arias, a former President of Costa Rica and a Nobel Peace
Prize Laureate in 1987.
In the spirit of building a new world, a world better
than the one that existed 50 years ago, the international
community has the duty to promote changes in the area of
international economic relations.
In
have
been
there
years,
recent
significant
reformulations in international trade plans. A World Trade
Organization has been created to replace the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and there has been a
proliferation of regional free-trade plans. However, this has
not dissipated the worrying trends towards protectionism
that are increasingly being developed by industrialized
nations. While the underdeveloped countries are applying
programmes with a view to the adjustment and the opening
up of trade, the richest countries are imposing burdensome
limitations on trade. My delegation considers that the ninth
session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD), to be held in South Africa in
1996, must become a fundamental forum for the discussion
of these problems.
Since the first meeting of UNCTAD, held in Geneva
in 1964, 77 countries of the Third World have joined in
demanding more equitable conditions in regard to world
trade. The fight for this new international economic order
has today become a priority because, even though the
military-political blocs which divided the world in the
recent past have now disappeared, the gap between North
and South is becoming ever greater. In the circumstances,
we consider that the presidency of the Group of 77 and
China, to which Costa Rica was appointed a few days ago,
is not only a great honour but also an important
responsibility. Costa Rica is deeply grateful for the support
it received in achieving this significant position and we
hope that in the performance of our duties we will make a
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
constructive contribution towards the launching of the
Group of 77 into the new international realities.
For some years now, it has been suggested that there
is a need to redesign the United Nations in order to give
the Organization a new look in keeping with a different
world situation. Costa Rica, on various occasions, has
expressed its support for initiatives in this area, including
the suggestion that Germany and Japan should become
permanent members of the Security Council, and that we
should guarantee permanent representation for all regions
in that body. Today, on the occasion of the celebration of
the fiftieth anniversary, we wish to reiterate Costa Rica’s
firm commitment to the renovation of the United Nations.
It is urgent to take steps along the lines pointed out by
the Secretary-General in his “An Agenda for Peace” and
“An Agenda for Development”, and it is important that
the
system should comply with the
resolutions of the General Assembly and the mandates of
the Security Council. It is also essential to provide a
follow-up to, and implement, the commitments made at
the Rio, Copenhagen and Beijing conferences.
international
In celebrating the fifty years of its existence, the
United Nations is still young. It remains young because
its spirit is still generously irrigated with idealism and
with faith in mankind. The Organization remains young
because it still believes that the human being has a greater
capacity to convince than to shoot, to love than to hate,
to build than to destroy, to procreate than to kill.
as
in 1945,
In 1995,
Let us preserve this essence of youth in our
Organization.
in spite of
disappointments, bitter days and years, the United Nations
represents the hope that there will be a future for our
children. The United Nations is the most
important
demonstration that there will be a future because the
words uttered in this Hall many years ago by the then
Foreign Minister and later President of Costa Rica, Daniel
Oduber, are still valid. He said that the United Nations
had revealed itself to be the only entity capable of
minimizing the sufferings which, alternating with the
satisfaction of being alive and of performing our duties,
were the common lot of mankind.
I would conclude with the inspiring words uttered by
His Holiness Pope John Paul II in this Hall this morning,
“The answer to the fear which darkens human
existence at the end of the century is the common
effort to build a civilization of love, founded on the
justice and
universal values of peace, solidarity,
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
liberty.” (Official Records of the General Assembly,
Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 20th meeting, p. 6).
Mr. Camacho Omiste (Bolivia), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Mohammed Saeed
Al-Sahaf.
Mr. Al-Sahaf (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): I am
pleased to begin my statement by extending to you sincere
congratulations on your election to the presidency of the
present session of the General Assembly. I am confident
that your high competence and profound experience will
contribute effectively to the success of the work of the
present historic session.
This session coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of
our Organization. There is no doubt that such an important
occasion calls for examining the course the Organization
has taken in order to draw the best object-lessons that
would enable the international community to proceed to the
building of a better future in which peace and stability
would prevail on the basis of justice,
the balance of
interests
international
cooperation that would be free from selfishness and
hegemony; a future which would open the doors towards
the solution of economic, social, cultural and humanitarian
problems
suffering to the
overwhelming majority of States, especially in Asia, Africa
and Latin America.
to cause
genuine
that
continue
peoples
and
of
all
the dangers of
Members of the international community welcomed
the end of the cold war. They view it as the harbinger of a
new age. However, many representatives of many Member
States did point out
imbalance in
international relations. They warned that the supremacy of
one super-Power would make international life hostage to
that Power and, thereby, lead to the imposition of its views,
interests and policies on the rest of
the world. The
correcting of this imbalance in the international situation
requires a great deal of care in upholding equality between
States, restructuring the United Nations in line with well-
balanced formulas, revitalizing the work of its institutions
in a manner
that would ensure balance and genuine
participation in responsibility, prevent hegemony by one or
certain parties over the international community and over
the United Nations with its institutions. Although these
objectives have not been achieved so far, to work towards
their achievement and to develop an understanding of what
they involved continue to be urgent needs of the highest
priority.
8
We believe that
the imposition of a unipolar
standpoint on the work of the United Nations totally
contradicts the purposes and principles of the Charter.
The persistence of such attempts would lead only to more
anxiety and deterioration in international relations.
This conviction stems from Iraq’s actual experience
over the past five years. It is an experience that relates to
the implementation of the resolutions of the Security
Council on the so-called Gulf Crisis, and especially the
implementation of resolution 687 (1991).
That resolution imposed upon Iraq a number of
obligations, as a basis for a comprehensive settlement of
the situation. A few days after the adoption of the
resolution, Iraq informed the Security Council of its
readiness to comply with the provisions of the resolution
despite the harsh nature of the obligations imposed
thereby. Since that date, Iraq has seriously taken upon
itself the implementation of the resolution in order to
normalize the situation at the regional and international
levels. In fact, a great many steps have taken place in
implementing the resolution. Our people hope that what
has been achieved will be the subject of an objective and
fair evaluation by the Security Council that would lead to
the lifting of the embargo imposed upon Iraq for more
than five years now.
Allow me to review very briefly the steps
implementing the
in
imposed by the Security Council
taken by Iraq in the context of
obligations
resolution 687 (1991).
the territorial
On 10 November 1994, Iraq officially recognized the
sovereignty,
integrity and the political
independence of the State of Kuwait, and the international
boundary demarcated by the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait
Boundary Demarcation Commission. This was done in
implementation of resolutions 687 (1991) and 833 (1993).
Iraq has cooperated also with the representatives of
the United Nations in returning Kuwaiti property on the
basis of the lists presented through the United Nations
coordinator. In this connection, Iraq affirmed that it will
return any item of property that would be found when it
is established that it belongs to Kuwait.
As regards the prisoners of war and the missing
in implementation of Security Council
persons, Iraq,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and
the Tripartite Commission
resolutions 686 (1991) and 687(1991), released all prisoners
of war and detainees who were in Iraq and repatriated them
in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red
Cross (ICRC). As for investigating the fate of missing
persons, we are cooperating fully within the framework of
the joint work carried out under the auspices of the ICRC
by
its Technical
Subcommittee on Military and Civilian Missing Prisoners
of War and Mortal Remains. Since the middle of 1994,
when we found the appropriate modality for effective
technical work in dealing with this humanitarian problem,
we have sought within the said framework to provide
answers to the questions raised in the individual inquiry
files presented to us on the basis of
the available
information. Moreover, Iraq has been receptive to all the
initiatives of States and personalities to find a quick
solution to this humanitarian problem in accordance with
the Geneva Conventions.
With regard to the subject of compensation, Iraq
accepted the principle of responsibility in accordance with
international law to compensate direct damage resulting
from the events in Kuwait as stated in resolution 687
(1991).
Iraq has cooperated also with the United Nations Iraq-
Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM) in carrying out its
tasks and has extended every possible assistance to the
Mission with the aim of enabling it to perform its duties.
for
the Prohibition of
Iraq has affirmed its adherence to the 1925 Geneva
Protocol
the Use in War of
Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases and Bacteriological
Methods of warfare, and deposited the instruments of
ratification of the 1972 Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development,
of
Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on
their Destruction,
in implementation of paragraph 7 of
resolution 687 (1991).
Stockpiling
Production
and
As for the implementation by Iraq of section (C) of
resolution 687 (1991), that is the provisions relating to
proscribed weapons, our relationship with the Special
Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) witnessed, in the middle of 1993, a turning point in
the field of positive and constructive cooperation in order
to finalize the implementation of the said section.
On 26 November 1993, we presented the official
response in regard to compliance with resolution 715 (1991)
relating to monitoring in the field of weapons.
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
In the process of work with the Special Commission
and the IAEA, we have not hesitated to offer all possible
assistance to facilitate the work, whether by presenting
information, available documents, details relating to past
programmes, the destruction of prohibited weapons, and
the setting up of an effective monitoring system. We have
been able to achieve substantive progress in this area, as
acknowledged by the Special Commission in its report to
the Security Council on 19 June 1995, and have taken the
final steps to complete the desired work.
These facts are well established in the relationship
between Iraq and the Special Commission and the IAEA.
The substantive nature of these facts cannot be distorted
by the campaign waged against Iraq by well-known
quarters because of special objectives of their own which
are totally alien to the objectives of resolution 687 (1991).
Despite all the propaganda, Iraq no longer has any
proscribed weapons, equipment, devices or materials, and
this is the essence of resolution 687 (1991). We affirm
our determination to continue our cooperation with the
Special Commission and the IAEA to close the weapons
file in accordance with the relevant resolutions and have
the embargo against Iraq lifted.
I should like to express here our deep regret
regarding the a priori ill-intentioned exaggerations which
cast a terrifying image of past Iraqi weapons programmes,
and the deliberate distortion of
these
programmes were something of the past and that they no
longer exist. Raising fears in such a contrived fashion is
not an objective position at all. It is an attitude prompted
by political objectives which are far removed from the
concern over security and stability in the region and the
provisions of resolution 687 (1991).
the fact
that
Iraq has taken all these steps even while it has
continued to suffer
the hardship caused by a total
embargo, the most extended ever imposed by the Security
Council in all its history. It is an embargo that embraces
everything and every aspect of life with the exception of
food and medicine. However, the freezing of Iraq’s assets
with foreign banks has prevented Iraq from using any of
those assets to purchase its needs of medicines and
foodstuffs and, thereby, has made the exception relating
to food and medicine devoid of any practical content. The
situation in Iraq has been aggravated by the actual
practice obtaining in the work of the Security Council
Committee established by resolution 661 (1990), which is
in charge of the application of sanctions against Iraq.
highly
Work
the Committee
proceeds
along
in
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
bureaucratic lines and follows the rule of unanimity. This
has provided certain States with an easy way to object and
thereby to reject a large number of export requests to Iraq
to meet civilian humanitarian needs, from pencils and
educational materials to automobile tyres and other simple
civilian provisions. All these matters are documented in the
records of the 661 Committee.
that, we have not received in return any objective and
equitable position that would have reduced sanctions
commensurately with the progress achieved by Iraq in
implementing the resolutions, or that would have given
encouragement and hope and given confidence that the
situation would be normalized eventually, in accordance
with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations.
The deliberate insistence on prolonging the embargo
against Iraq is not linked to Iraq’s implementation of its
obligations. It is a systematic plan to inflict severe damage
upon Iraq and to deliberately destroy its infrastructure and
put paid to its developmental capabilities. This is a fact that
is known to all. The reports of the competent United
Nations Agencies
of
non-governmental organizations concerned with relief
warned against the deterioration of the situation as a result
of the shortage of food and medicine, which threatens the
lives of millions of Iraqis, including thousands of children,
women and old people. In this connection, I should like to
refer to the last alert of the World Food Programme, issued
on 26 September 1995.
operating
Iraq
and
in
The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization, and his “Supplement
to An Agenda for
Peace”, refer clearly to the problem of sanctions. We
should like in turn to draw the attention of Member States
to the fact that the application of sanctions against Iraq,
with such cruelty and bureaucratic complexity, calls for
questioning and scrutiny, in the interests of objectivity. We
are not sure that all the representatives in the General
Assembly know that
the Security Council reviews the
sanctions regime against Iraq every 60 days, and that 27
reviews have been conducted to date without any easing of
the sanctions. The situation remains the same as it has been
since 3 April 1991, as if nothing had been achieved. Is this
a healthy situation?
The tragic consequences of the embargo have not been
limited to the food and health sectors in Iraq. The sections
of agriculture, education and environment also have
sustained grave damage, due to the shortages of materials
and the basic requirements needed for work in such sectors,
even at the minimum level required to satisfy the basic
needs of the civilian population.
The aggravation of this extremely difficult situation
has not prevented us from continuing to implement our
obligations under the relevant resolutions of the Security
Council. It is worth noting that, as is known to all, while
we were being called upon to implement our obligations,
and while we were deploying persistent efforts to do just
10
The reality has been the very opposite. From the
very beginning and to date, we have been the target of
many threats; doubts have been raised about our
intentions; and we have been, twice, the target of armed
aggression. There has been considerable deceit with
regard to objectives. Pressure has been brought to bear on
any party that even thought of treating us fairly, even if
such fairness was not intended as a gesture towards Iraq
but as a means of safeguarding the credibility of the
Charter system and of the resolutions of the Security
Council. We have been accused of intermittent and
selective cooperation and of a lack of peaceful intentions
and lack of credibility, to such an extent that the levelling
of accusations by certain parties has come to resemble a
chronic pathological alignment. Such accusations have
been accompanied by the continued pursuance on the
level of policies aimed at interfering in the
practical
internal affairs of Iraq in order to destabilize it;
to
undermine its security, stability, the freedom of its people
and its sovereignty; and to try and change its political
system.
A super-Power has imposed upon my country two
no-fly zones, in the north and the south, without any legal
justification or authorization from the Security Council. It
has also exercised every means of pressure and deception
to perpetuate the harsh conditions caused by the embargo
against Iraq, while, at the same time, it conspires, quite
openly, to change the regime. Without any hesitation, its
officials declare that such is its intention. While all this
takes place, it is we who are asked to prove our peaceful
intentions and credibility.
It is no secret that the Power that leads the onslaught
I have spoken of against Iraq is the United States of
America. All the facts on the ground make it clear that it
is the United States of America and no one else that
should be asked to demonstrate its credibility, to prove
that its intentions are peaceful, and to desist from its
continuing
and
interference in the internal affairs of Iraq and from
fomenting tension in the Gulf region under the pretext of
an illusory threat.
provocation,
aggression
acts
of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
President Saddam Hussein noted that the American
administration’s accusation that Iraq lacks credibility in its
relationship with the Special Commission is a false one,
and that it is the United States that does not have credibility
in dealing with States and international organizations.
Where is the credibility in the position of the United States
when it declares its determination not to lift the sanctions
against Iraq even if Iraq implements Security Council
resolution 687 (1991), of which the United States was the
chief author? Again, where is the credibility in the position
of the United States when the American administration
masses its naval and military forces in the Gulf and in the
Mediterranean under the false pretext that Iraq is planning
to attack Jordan, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia?
the United States
I do not wish to enter
into polemics with the
representatives of
in the General
Assembly. But I find it necessary, with regard to the
American allegations about credibility,
to raise certain
points of principle which call for serious thought and
contemplation. Before I do that, I should like to ask this
question: if it is important that the implementation of the
resolutions of the Security Council should be founded on
credibility, then how can allegations about the credibility of
Iraq be accepted at a time when the State which repeats
those allegations puts itself above the Security Council and
above the Charter and gives itself the right to interpret
United Nations
and to arbitrarily draw
conclusions from such interpretations that agree with its
own selfish interests which are far removed from any basis
to be found in the provisions of the resolutions themselves?
resolutions
While on the subject of credibility, where are the
efforts of the Security Council, and the United States in
particular, with regard to the implementation of paragraph
14 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which aims
at declaring the Middle East as a zone free from weapons
of mass destruction? This is an objective that has to be a
fundamental cornerstone of the edifice of peace, security
and stability in the region if such an edifice is to be built
on sturdy, well-balanced and equitable foundations. It is an
objective that acquires great importance from the standpoint
of the oft-mentioned credibility, since it is a known fact
that Israel possesses those weapons. Why does the United
States keep completely silent about paragraph 14, and why
has the Security Council not taken any action towards the
implementation of that part of its resolution? Does such a
blatant double standard have anything to do with
credibility?
Is it objective or even fair to imagine that
the
obligations stipulated in Security Council resolutions could
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
be implemented in a natural fashion in the context of such
circumstances, atmospherics, and hostile policies directed
against Iraq?
Iraq is well aware of the fact that it is not in its
interest
to conceal any information relating to past
weapons programmes, and that its interest lies in working
to lift as soon as possible the sanctions that are imposed
on it. Indeed, Iraq is acting in full conformity with this
objective. In this connection, we call upon member States
of the Security Council not to jump to any conclusions on
the basis of any unjust accusations levelled at Iraq,
because the right thing to do would be to wait for the
outcome of the work of the Special Commission, which
is responsible for evaluating the implementation by Iraq
of the Council’s resolutions concerning the proscribed
weapons.
We do not call for anything more than the legally
sound application of Security Council resolutions in
consonance with the purposes and principles of the
Charter, and not in line with the whims and aims of
unilateral policies of a certain State, which are founded
on the logic of naked power, opportunism, double
standards and the imposition of hegemony.
We believe that there is a collective duty to work
jointly with firmness in order to put things in the right
perspective in order to ensure the sound application of the
provisions of the Charter. The first step in this direction
requires us to ponder the philosophy of the sanctions as
created by the Charter. Is the sanctions regime a means
towards an end, or is it an end in itself? What is the
nature of the said regime? Is it punitive, or is it a means
whereby the purposes of the Charter should be achieved
without reference to the individual policies of individual
Member States?
It is well known to all that the sanctions regime
created by the Charter is nothing more than a means
aimed at achieving certain results which would ultimately
lead to the realization of the purposes and principles of
the United Nations as elaborated in Articles 1 and 2 of
the Charter, and that the means should cease to be applied
once the end has been achieved.
The competence of the Security Council to impose
sanctions is an exceptional means that is used when it is
established, objectively, that all other means of peaceful
settlement of disputes have failed. Such a means should
not be, however, a tool in the hands of a super-Power or
of a group of major Powers to achieve foreign policy
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
goals at the expense of the common interest of Member
States.
It is now patently clear that the imposition of sanctions
on Iraq and the maintenance of the embargo against it, in
the well-known fashion, cannot be justified on the
substantive basis of the provisions of the Charter, because
it has become, in actual fact, an extension of the unilateral
policy of a super-Power that has made sanctions an end in
themselves and a vindictive means that serves its own
interests in the region.
In essence, the grounds for the imposition of sanctions
on Iraq no longer exist and, thus, the sanctions should be
lifted. But a well-known State obstructs the process.
fail, because it
We should like to say to the United States that the
solution lies in dialogue, which provides a mechanism for
the achievement of interests on a balanced and equitable
basis. This is what Iraq has called for and continues to call
for. The policy of hegemony and of creating crises cannot
but
illegitimate and because the
international community rejects it. While this continues to
be our position of principle, we unfortunately find that the
United States statesmen ignore the realities of the region
and the needs and aspirations of its peoples, who yearn to
live in stability, peace and fruitful cooperation amongst
themselves and with the world as a whole.
is
At a time when we witness the tensions and internal
conflicts that prevail in the states of the region, and the
feelings of bitterness amongst their peoples as a result of
the current short-sighted policies, which recall to mind the
policies of the old imperialist Powers, we in Iraq should
like, from this rostrum,
to call for the promotion of
relations
good
dialogue,
neighbourliness amongst the States of the region, on the
basis of mutual respect, in accordance with the principles
of the Charter of the United Nations.
understanding
and
of
Iraq is an ancient country with a very long history that
goes back 7,000 years. The Iraqi people, who have
contributed greatly to human civilization, will remain in
control of their affairs, independent in their choices and
capable of overcoming crises.
We hope that Member States, especially the permanent
members of the Security Council, will make every effort to
interpret and apply the provisions of the resolutions of the
Security Council in accordance with their normal legal
meaning and not on the basis of whims and the political
interests of this or that State. Any course of action that
12
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
deviates from this principled rule would lead only to loss
of credibility and utterly undermine the principle of good
faith in the determination of international obligations.
The United Nations was established in order to
achieve the common goals of preserving peace, security
and stability in the world. The provisions of
the
Organization’s Charter, in letter and in spirit, are founded
on the balancing of
rights and duties and aim at
protecting the common interests of the international
community. Therefore policies that are based on the logic
of naked power and unilateral action outside the concepts
of the Charter, and that aim at achieving individual
objectives, are bound to contradict the very raison d’être
of the Organization and to contravene the letter and spirit
of its Charter. Such policies would only lead to the
marginalization of the Organization’s role in international
affairs.
It behoves us as we are about to celebrate half a
century of the existence of the Organization to rededicate
ourselves to honouring our undertakings as enshrined in
the Charter.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Latvia, His Excellency Mr. Valdis Birkavs, on whom I
call.
Mr. Birkavs (Latvia): Allow me to congratulate
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election as President
of the General Assembly. I wish all of us a productive
and fruitful session.
I also wish to thank His Excellency Mr. Amara
Essy, President of the Assembly at its forty-ninth session,
for his able leadership, and to give due recognition to the
Secretary-General for his achievements in restructuring
the United Nations
its golden
anniversary — an occasion for
and
celebration, but also a time for reflection and appraisal.
remembrance
eve of
on
the
The Baltic States have participated in the work of
the United Nations only since 1991. Nevertheless, during
the long years of occupation the United Nations was
perceived in Latvia as a unique global
international
Organization embodying humanity’s ideas about freedom,
human rights, sovereign equality and respect for the
principles of international law.
I shall not
join in detracting and criticizing the
United Nations, for it is not an entity existing on its own.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Rather, the effectiveness of the Organization is a function
of the political will of its Member States and their resolve
to find common ground. In criticizing the United Nations,
we should keep in mind the amount of criticism that must
be directed against ourselves.
It is to be hoped that the end of the cold war has put
an end to balance-of-power politics. Still, the situation in
the world today evokes historical analogies — about
collective security, aggressors and their appeasement. A
generation of Latvians still alive remembers the results of
appeasement in 1939. It is often stated that today’s leaders
must try not to repeat the mistakes of the past. The notion
that
they have succeeded is belied by the recent
establishment of international ad hoc tribunals regarding the
territory of the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda and by the
pressing need for an international criminal court.
Conflict-prevention mechanisms, including preventive
diplomacy and preventive deployment, as well as other
confidence-building measures, have become increasingly
important. The establishment of political dialogue between
parties and early action by the international community are
a key to heading off potential conflicts.
The status of the United Nations as a centre for
conflict resolution may be enhanced by promoting the
universality of the Organization. We support the statement
of the Secretary-General that the process of arms control
and disarmament needs to be globalized and that it is vital
that all States be engaged in the disarmament process in
practice as well as in declared intent. Latvia supported the
unconditional and indefinite extension of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We hope that
another historic step will be taken next year with the
conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty.
The dramatic rise in the number and complexity of
peace-keeping operations in recent years, as well as the
distinctive nature and experience of each operation, requires
new approaches to peace-keeping. Humanitarian assistance,
human rights and economic and political questions are now
integral components of peace-keeping. Experience shows
that
is necessary to detach peace-keeping from
enforcement action. In Somalia, as well as in the territory
of
the former Yugoslavia, peace-keepers have been
perceived as enemies. In such cases the most suitable
solution is for the United Nations to grant clearly defined
authority to international organizations or groups of States
that have the desire and the capacity to establish peace.
it
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
Recognizing that each State has a duty to contribute
to the maintenance of international peace and security,
Latvia is ready to participate, within the Danish battalion,
in bringing peace to the territory of
the former
Yugoslavia. For the purposes of peace-keeping, the Baltic
States have established a Baltic battalion (BALTBAT),
which is currently undergoing intensive training in
preparation for a future role in peace-keeping missions. I
take this opportunity to thank all countries that have
supported the establishment and training of BALTBAT —
in particular, the United States, the Nordic countries, the
United Kingdom and Germany.
Latvia strongly supports efforts to strengthen and
reform the United Nations system so that it may better
serve the peoples of the Earth. It recognizes that it is still
too early to clearly perceive the shape of the post-cold-
war world, which must be the final determinant of the
nature of the necessary reforms.
In these circumstances there is a need to view
reforms of the United Nations system as a long-term,
ongoing process that must protect the stability of the
United Nations system at all times. At the same time,
there is an opportunity for progress in regard to reforms
which can be made without making permanent
commitments to new fundamental system structures and
procedures.
In the light of these general considerations, I should
now like to address Security Council reforms and United
Nations system financing issues.
The operation of the Security Council must continue
to become more transparent and open, while preserving
the Council’s effectiveness. Its expansion must strengthen
the
global
decision-making, while respecting equitable geographic
distribution and the new geopolitical realities of the
post-cold-war era.
countries
small
in
role
played
by
Since there is general agreement about the need for
a modest expansion of the Security Council, the General
Assembly could immediately decide to carry it out, if the
force Member States to make
decision would not
permanent
two controversial
issues — the composition of the Council and the use of
the veto. Latvia intends to make proposals in this regard
to the relevant Working Group of the General Assembly.
commitments on the
The current system of financing the activities of the
United Nations depends largely on assessed and voluntary
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
contributions of Member States. The unprecedented
difficulties of financing the recent growth in international
activities have exposed the limitations of
the current
system, in which international activities have to compete for
funds
stronger
constituencies.
against national
that have
activities
A recent report, commissioned by the Independent
Commission for Population and Quality of Life, on
innovative financing mechanisms for internationally agreed
programmes, has made a number of recommendations to
study
such
mechanisms. Latvia would support a decision by the
General Assembly at
this fiftieth session to prepare a
compilation of information relevant to, and appropriate
studies of, innovative financing mechanisms.
information
compile
relevant
and
to
to
be
needs
however,
Innovative financing mechanisms are a matter for the
future. Even then, they should not supplant the current
system, which,
improved.
Governments have a long-range interest in strengthening the
United Nations by completing the reform of the current,
highly inequitable scale of assessments for the regular
budget. The reformed scale must obey the equitable
principle that Member States with equal average per capita
incomes should bear assessments that are broadly at the
same per capita level.
The current
inequitable scale is one cause of the
current financial crisis of the United Nations, in that the
over-assessed States are responsible for relatively high
amounts of outstanding contributions,
including arrears
from preceding years.
This observation is illustrated by the case of the 15
Member States, including Latvia, that were over-assessed
by a General Assembly decision, adopted by vote, in 1992.
A second decision in 1994 improved the situation
somewhat, by initiating a gradual decline in the excessive
assessment, which in 1997 will still be two times higher
than the assessment based on the principle of capacity-
to-pay.
While Latvia recognizes and tries to discharge its
obligation, derived from the principle of sovereign equality,
to pay in full and on time, it also believes that a second
component of the principle of sovereign equality — the
equal rights of all Member States — is not respected by the
present assessment. The resulting over-assessment
is a
reason that has led, in spite of Latvia’s best efforts under
difficult financial conditions and in the face of many
pressing social, economic and humanitarian needs, to a
14
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
build-up of arrears which now threaten the application of
Article 19 of the Charter, beginning January 1996. It will
force Latvia to seek relief from the General Assembly.
In discussing the work of the United Nations in the
economic and social sphere, it is useful to do so from the
perspective of the individual. Is he or she secure? Has he
or she enough food? Does he or she have adequate living
conditions and opportunities for developing his or her
potential?
In the world today, enormous differences in levels of
development persist among countries. The United Nations
has accomplished a great deal in its work to eradicate
poverty and disease and to provide humanitarian relief. It
would be possible to further improve this work by
improving coordination between relief agencies and
programmes and by eliminating redundancies. Relief must
address needs; the United Nations has a significant role to
play in needs assessment.
In the past Member States of the United Nations
have met in a number of global forums to highlight the
issues surrounding people-centred development. World
conferences in Rio de Janeiro, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen
and, most recently, Beijing have drafted platforms for
action. Such large gatherings are sometimes criticized as
being expensive and resulting in few tangible outputs.
Such criticism could be avoided if Member States were
to
fully. However
implementation is greatly constrained by the financial
realities of each State.
commitments
implement
their
has
implemented
Nevertheless,
Latvia
a
recommendation of
the 1993 World Conference on
Human Rights by establishing a national Human Rights
Office, which commenced operations earlier this year.
The Latvian Human Rights Office is an independent
institution for the protection and promotion of human
rights.
The international community has agreed that human
rights are inviolable and are the cornerstone of democratic
societies. We intend to continue to implement
the
recommendations
the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action, and urge other States to do the
same. Further, we believe that
the
adequate
the High
Commissioner for Human Rights must be resolved.
the question of
the Office
financing
of
of
of
The environment is an area that, along with human
rights, demands Latvia’s attention during the present
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
period of remedying the many consequences of Latvia’s
occupation. In this connection, Latvia is making efforts to
hold an international conference on disarmament and its
relationship to environment and development.
Latvia’s development, particularly in the social sector,
has been greatly assisted by the work of the Office of the
United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP),
established in Riga in 1992. The Government of Latvia
fully cooperates with and supports the work of UNDP, and
is ready to increase the level of this cooperation.
Latvia attaches high priority to the economic and
social work of the United Nations and understands the
obligation of each Member State to contribute to this work.
We value and support the efforts to reform the Economic
and Social Council and, in the spirit of sustaining and
furthering its work, have presented our candidature for
membership in the Economic and Social Council for the
period 1997-1999.
In pondering the future of the United Nations during
its fiftieth anniversary, allow me to quote Mr. Henry Cabot
Lodge, Jr., a former United States representative to the
United Nations:
“This Organization is created to prevent you from
going to hell. It isn’t created to take you to heaven.”
Let us remember these words as we look to the future of
the United Nations. Let us make the necessary changes to
our Organization and, moreover, concentrate our political
will so that we may ensure that humanity will always
remain firmly anchored between heaven and hell, on the
planet Earth.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the Chairman of the delegation of Malawi,
His Excellency Mr. David Rubadiri.
Mr. Rubadiri (Malawi): Allow me to congratulate the
President on his election to his high office at the fiftieth
session of the General Assembly. The Government and the
people of the Republic of Malawi hold him and his great
country, Portugal,
to
preside over the deliberations of the Assembly during this
important session, as the United Nations commemorates its
fiftieth anniversary, is an indisputable reflection of the
recognition of his eminence by the international community.
My delegation is confident
that he will guide the
deliberations of the Assembly to a fruitful conclusion.
in high esteem. His appointment
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
At the same time, allow me to pay tribute to his
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte
d’Ivoire, who, in spite of the complexity of the issues and
the difficult constraints which confronted the United
Nations during his tenure, guided the work of
the
forty-ninth session with admirable skill, dignity and
vision.
It is indeed very difficult to have to speak today
after His Holiness the Pope, lest those words which this
morning flew up to high rafters of this building be
forgotten. We in Malawi feel that perhaps it was our fate
to be scheduled to speak after him. The Assembly will
recall that the Pope talked about the moral aspects of
nationhood, politics and relations between nations. The
Assembly will also remember how he gave the word
freedom a new dimension and meaning, saying that man
will insist on it, whether small or big. The Assembly will
also remember the moral responsibility he put upon the
human being, both as an individual and as a member of
the community of what is really a small planet. One need
only fly a few miles up in the air from this little planet,
which we call Earth, to see that we all really look like
little rabbits dashing from one foxhole to another.
However, as human beings, we also resemble God, our
creator. To me it seemed as if our call to speak after him,
this afternoon, was an occasion to try to strengthen what
His Holiness the Pope left with us this morning.
I
The twentieth century is soon coming to an end.
Historians will remember and record it as the century of
three great phenomena,
think. The first was the
establishment of a power structure, as demonstrated by
the rise of the great experiments:
in
democracy built on capitalism and respect for individual
rights and the experiment in socialism based on a social
contract for a community with a common purpose. The
conflict of these ideas would lead to the emergence of
what would dominate the world’s political ways during
the first 45 years of this Organization’s existence: the
cold war.
the experiment
The second great phenomenon that the Pope referred
to was the fall of the empires built by the European
Powers from Asia to Africa and the proud rise of
colonized people to independence. The third — and
perhaps the most heart-rending — phenomenon of this
century was that of racism. We saw it first in South
Africa and later began to see it rearing its ugly head in
the twilight of this century.
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The curtain of this act finally falls on the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations. Let us remember the joy
and ecstasy with which the former colonial countries
emerged into independence as Members of this body. What
genius woke up to think of and,
to found this
idealism sustained it? Yet a dark
Organization? What
shadow haunted it
in its growth; and now, as the
celebration of the fiftieth anniversary is upon us, we
somehow realize that perhaps the cold war,
that Iron
Curtain, was used by the great Powers, in the name of
democracy, human rights and justice for all, simply to keep
a balance of power.
later,
Malawi does not wish to seem bitter in expressing
some of these thoughts; but 50, even in a mere human life,
is the age at which soul-searching is important. Along with
many others, Malawi sowed the seeds of its own gorgon 30
years ago — what the Pope referred to as the totalitarian
totem. The pattern of Presidents-for-life and one-party
autocracies bred a series of dictatorships supported by the
interests of the cold war’s great Powers.
When perestroika knocked on the door, man heaved
a sigh of relief. The cold war had ended. We in Malawi
were not left behind. A new dawn broke in the land once
described by Africa Watch as a place where silence rules.
Last year Malawi stood up in this Assembly to declare
proudly that a people cannot be kept down for ever by
man’s inhumanity to man. Thanks to the action of the
United Nations, Malawi
for
independence, but for democracy. A referendum in 1993
and a general election, supervised by this world body and
other friends, on 17 May 1994, gave birth to a new country.
This is what the Pope referred to as “hope”.
time not
fought,
this
Today, a year and five months later, the four estates
of democracy are taking root in Malawi. We now have an
elective executive and a pluralist parliament with one of the
most active and articulate oppositions slowly learning the
complex art of debate and the art of give-and-take. In
addition, we also have an independent judiciary protecting
the bastion of the rule of law from which all human rights
are protected and nurtured and we have an independent and
free press.
These four estates are almost a novelty in Malawi
after 30 years of autocracy and a dictatorship responsible
for the most vicious abuse of human life. Above all, it is
important to remember that pathological hero worship is the
price people pay for losing their self-respect. There is
therefore cause to celebrate the 50 years of the life of the
16
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
United Nations — especially for Malawi for, from the
land of the dead, we have come back to the land of the
living.
We are astonished, however, that at this moment of
rebirth Malawi — and possibly other countries — seem
to have been abandoned. Could this be what the Pope was
talking about — the small nations — those which have
power, whether it be economic or military? Where are
those great friends of yesteryear, the great friends of the
days of the cold war? We are astonished that as we are
rejoicing in our new democracy they are now standing
aloof watching our skeletons of hitherto silenced and
abused citizenry feeding the flickering fires of democracy
against the howling winds of poverty, hunger and disease.
In this wider breakthrough of understanding in the
universe, let us be thankful that on this tiny planet there
is on the East River in New York a piece of land where
people meet to discuss problems — some no bigger than
an ant-hill and some larger — thankful that somewhere
there is a little hill called Everest near Kathmandu where
lilliputian human ants can crawl up and become heroes!
After 30 Years of educated leadership we are still
one of the least developed countries in the world, highest
in the rate of illiteracy and the most highly indebted, but
the most beautiful in nature and the one best qualified,
perhaps, for a Marshall Plan.
Malawi is among those countries in the world that
have a high incidence of the HIV/AIDS infection. This
pandemic has seriously affected the young and active
the hub of
segment of
the population, which is
development activity in all sectors of
the national
economy. We commend the untiring efforts of the World
Health Organization and other institutions which, together
with my Government, are actively engaged in tackling
this pandemic.
least
for us,
the entire issue of
But perhaps I might add that, above all,
the
Conference on Women held in Beijing brought to the
fore, at
trying to
understand the whole question of man’s responsibility
towards man and the importance of the idea of hope and
sustenance in recognizing the role of women, for in my
country 70 per cent of the economy and 70 per cent of
human love and care and 70 per cent of all that makes a
nation admirable is in the hands of women.
How can one understand those who caused so many
bombs and mines to be planted in Mozambique and
Angola? How do they think of the women and children
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
who wake up with new hope and who go to fetch water or
plant their plantations and who find themselves blown up
by those who should have cared much more than to play
with such weapons — such utterly senseless weapons of
destruction?
Until recently my country hosted a large number of
from Mozambique when that country was
refugees
experiencing civil
refugee
community, which peaked at over a million, has now
decreased as refugees are returning home since the
conclusion of a peace accord between the then warring
FRELIMO government and the forces of RENAMO.
strife. The
size of
the
However, despite the ongoing repatriation of the
refugees back to Mozambique, a strong legacy of
environmental degradation is left behind. Deforestation,
overgrazing, and the destruction of roads used by relief
supply vehicles are some of the problems which resulted
from the presence of the refugees.
In addition, Malawi is playing host to a number of
refugee communities from around Africa — from Rwanda
and Somalia — although their numbers have grown
nowhere near those reached by our brothers and sisters
from neighbouring Mozambique.
The Government of Malawi would like at this juncture
to express its most sincere gratitude and appreciation for
the kind and invaluable assistance received from the United
Nations system, particularly through the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees
(UNHCR), as well as from donor Governments and
agencies, and non-governmental organizations at a time
when we most needed help.
Since the region experienced severe drought in the
1992 and 1993 crop seasons, with a mild recovery in 1993
and 1994, rainfall has continued to be erratic in southern
Africa. The economy of Malawi, which is almost entirely
agro-based, has been hard-hit, resulting in chronic food
shortages. This season has not been any better. Once again,
the country faces
severe food shortages, which the
Government has to meet through importing grain, mainly
maize. Is this a test of our democracy? Can a democracy,
even a classical Grecian one, grow on an empty stomach?
Against this background is the programme for the
alleviation of poverty, which the new Government of
Malawi has enunciated in order to tackle the chronic
poverty which it inherited from the previous regime. The
poverty-alleviation programme seeks to target the rural
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
poor, who are in the majority as the primary beneficiary.
A poverty-alleviation fund has been set up, along with a
Malawi social action fund, which is a component thereof.
The programme is multisectoral in approach and aims at
promoting the education and health sectors among others.
The Government has,
introduced free
primary school education and has also tried to increase
the number of schools.
in this regard,
My Government would therefore like to thank the
United Nations system and the donor community and the
many other institutions in the private sector — especially
the missionary sector — which have extended assistance
in our development endeavours, for if our courage and
hope had not been evoked by the Catholic bishops of
Malawi I would not be speaking here today. I am a
product of the 30 years of exile which totalitarianism
imposed on my country.
The success of the poverty alleviation programme
therefore becomes a major aspect of our hopes and
expectations. The new culture of tolerance has created a
highly conducive climate for
investment. We have
therefore opened the door to prospective investors to
come, explore and take advantage of the opportunities
which exist in other areas such as tourism, irrigation,
mining and other sectors of the economy.
Malawi has noted with interest the ongoing efforts
to reform the United Nations system. We have observed
in particular the various proposals that have been put
forward on the reform of the Security Council. The
Security Council
is, truly, an important organ of the
Organization. It is therefore proper and fitting that an
organ of such high standing should operate in an
accountable and transparent manner. In addition, Malawi
supports measures
aimed
equitable
the existing
representation in an effort
international political configuration as well as
the
composition of the United Nations.
at
to reflect
enhancing
As Malawi consolidates genuine freedom and
democracy it is pleasing to note that the rest of the
southern African region has unwaveringly embraced this
new culture of political pluralism and tolerance. More
important,
those countries which have for long been
devastated by civil strife have either resolved or are in the
process of resolving their misunderstandings.
Malawi welcomes encouraging moves towards the
demobilization of combatants of both the Angolan
Government Forces and the National Union for the Total
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Independence of Angola (UNITA) under the third United
Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM III). We
fully commend the invaluable role which we, the United
Nations, are playing in Angola.
In South Africa, the post-apartheid Government of
President Nelson Mandela is now firmly in place.
Incidentally, I am glad I can pronounce it properly, for it is
not “apartheid” but “apart hate” — put apart and hate. The
demise of “apart hate” brightened prospects for peace and
cooperation in southern Africa. Malawi therefore calls upon
the international community to render unflinching support
to the new and emerging democracies in the region so that
they do not slide back to anarchy and authoritarianism.
to extend its Mission for
The Malawi Government is concerned about the slow
pace at which the identification of eligible voters is
proceeding in Western Sahara. We appreciate the efforts of
the United Nations
the
Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) as a show of
genuine commitment to resolving this long-standing issue.
It should, however, be noted that without the commitment
of the principal players in the matter the current efforts will
all be in vain. We therefore call upon the Government of
the Kingdom of Morocco to allow the United Nations
Mission a free hand in its operations so that the deadline of
January 1996 for the holding of a referendum can be met.
Malawi has noted with a good deal of concern the
horrendous massacres of innocent people in the Central
African country of Rwanda. However, despite the continued
existence of ethnic tensions,
the efforts of the United
Nations to ensure that peace finally descends upon this
troubled area have not
faltered. To this end, my
Government earnestly commends the role played by the
United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR),
to which we have made a modest contribution of military
observers as a demonstration of Malawi’s commitment to
the restoration of peace.
The militarization of
the refugee camps outside
Rwanda is a source of great concern to Malawi. We
therefore call upon the international community to do its
utmost to reverse the reported inflow of weaponry into the
refugee camps, and appeal to the people of Rwanda to
exercise political maturity in order to avoid a degeneration
of the situation into the tragedy of yesteryear, especially
when the mandate of UNAMIR expires on 9 December
1995.
My Government is encouraged by the progress being
made in the Middle East peace process. We commend the
18
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
courage and determination of the Government of the State
of Israel as well as the leadership of the Palestine
National Authority to move ahead. The two players
deserve the unflinching support and applause of the
international community to ensure that elements which are
opposed to the peace process do not succeed.
On the other hand, we have observed with remorse
the tragedy which has unfolded in the countries of the
former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Innocent civilians
have been the most hurt in the shifting fortunes of war in
the Balkan region. Understandably, the United Nations
and the rest of the international community can play only
a limited role in the resolution of the conflict. My
Government, therefore, calls upon the principal players in
the region to cooperate with the international community
in finding a lasting solution to the conflict.
It is the hope of my Government that the Korean
people on both sides of the thirty-eighth parallel will
sustain and strengthen contact, with the aim of breaking
the existing impasse in the reunification of the divided
peninsula.
In the same vein, my Government favours any
efforts the United Nations may undertake with the aim of
resolving the issue of the international status of the
Republic of China on Taiwan in a manner which would
be acceptable to both the Government of the People’s
Republic of China and the authorities in Taiwan.
As the United Nations celebrates 50 years of
existence,
let us take full stock of the work of the
Organization since its birth. Let us retrace our steps and
weigh our achievements and failures so that we may
approach the twenty-first century with renewed vigour
and commitment. Let us not lose sight of the ideals which
the Organization stands for as we continue to uphold the
necessary flexibility for its adaptation to current trends.
that
lest we forget,
Lastly, to those who love and cherish democracy let
the word go out,
the name
“Nyasaland” at one time represented the biblical David
and Goliath in the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland,
which, if it had been given birth, would have made the
script for that region a different story. When the borders
that defined our nationhood opened again and we became
part of Mother Africa and the rest of the world, our State
President, Bakili Muluzi, burst out of a suffocated
Malawi, which had become a prison, and invited the
world to come and rejoice with us. The silent Malawians
who had crept out of Malawi, cautious not to speak to
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
others about the pain of imprisonment and death in their
prison country, now saw a new leadership, not only in
President Muluzi, but
the country
themselves. If these 15 months of the new Malawi have not
meant much to the World Bank, the fatigued donors and the
sceptical theoreticians, let them remember the following
great words of Pliny:
in the people of
“There is always something new out of Africa. Its
presence on this continent, like the great seas that
surround it, are legendary. Ignore Africa to your
peril.” (Pliny the Elder, Natural History, VII, 77)
In the same breath, we plead to you here again and
again: listen to what was said at the United Nations social
summit meeting, at the United Nations women’s summit
meeting and during the International Year of the Child.
There is no hope for mankind in the twenty-first century
and after without a United Nations based on those three
great occasions. Malawi pleads to those great nations that
have grown up with the ideals and ideas of human giants of
the world not to jump off the ship that carries us all. No
one can say, “Stop the world, I want to get off.”
On behalf of the people of Malawi, I thank Members
of the General Assembly for their attention.
Mr. Oyono (Cameroon) (interpretation from French):
The delegation of Cameroon congratulates Mr. Diogo
Freitas do Amaral on his election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fiftieth session. We wish him well
as he guides the work of this historic session, which
fiftieth
coincides with the
anniversary of
I do
Mr. Freitas do Amaral’s distinction as an educator and a
statesman, I welcome his election.
the Organization. Knowing as
commemoration of
the
Moreover, the President represents a friendly country,
Portugal, whose involvement in Africa is of long standing
and which shares with Cameroon a part of our history:
When he alit on the coast of the Gulf of Guinea in 1472,
the Portuguese Fernando Po was much impressed with the
abundance of shrimp in the waters off what is now the city
of Douala and named the place “Rio dos Camarões” —
Shrimp River — from which Cameroon takes its name.
We also convey our appreciation to His Excellency
Mr. Amara Essy, Minister
for Foreign Affairs of
Côte d’Ivoire, for the way in which he carried out his
responsibilities as President of the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session.
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
Finally, we pledge
to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, our constant support in his
tireless efforts to enable the Organization to attain its
noble purposes.
It
is of enormous significance that
the present
session of the General Assembly should coincide with the
fiftieth anniversary of the Organization. The United
Nations, which sums up and expresses the deep-felt
aspiration of the peoples and nations of the world to
peace,
an
indispensable conclave of nations. The Organization’s
universality makes it the ideal forum for governing the
world order.
freedom and
progress,
has
become
The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary should
therefore be a source of satisfaction to the entire
international community. It provides an opportunity to
gauge how far we have come since the beginning and to
consider our views on the future of the Organization.
When they created the United Nations after the Second
World War, the founders affirmed their determination to
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war.
Fortunately,
for more than half a century the
North — once the epicentre of most of history’s major
conflicts — has been a place of peace and cooperation;
and, despite the build-up of weapons of mass destruction,
the rivalry between the two great ideological and military
alliances did not drag international society into a third
world war, which would have sealed the fate of mankind.
Aware of the danger to the world posed by the arms
race, the United Nations encouraged the conclusion of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and
its indefinite extension; it has promoted the creation of
denuclearized zones,
inter alia in Africa, and the
conclusion of the Convention on the prohibition of
chemical weapons; and it has given decisive impetus to
multilateral negotiations on disarmament.
We are glad that, in its ongoing quest for peace, the
Organization has been able when necessary to adapt the
Charter to the realities, including by devising the notion
of peace-keeping operations, which have defused many
conflicts and created favourable conditions for dialogue
and negotiation.
By awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to United
Nations peace-keeping forces on 29 September 1988, the
Nobel prize committee paid tribute to the devotion and
courage of the more than half a million men and women
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
who since 1948 have served the cause of peace all over the
world.
Even if in recent years peace-keeping operations have
had mixed results and have been accused of consuming the
lion’s share of United Nations resources to the detriment of
development, it must be recognized that while the path has
not always been smooth, these operations have on the
whole yielded positive results. The “Agenda for Peace”,
then,
remains relevant, and must continue to be the
foundation of United Nations peace-keeping operations.
strengthen its
the timeframe for
Cameroon supports the recommendations of
the
Working Group to strengthen these operations by defining
in advance precise objectives,
the
intervention, and the resources needed for implementation.
Similarly, and as we have always said, the United Nations
must
and
subregional organizations by making available the means
necessary to enable them to discharge their peace-keeping
mandate. That is why we welcome cooperation between the
United Nations and the Organization of African Unity in
the area of prevention, management and settlement of
conflicts on a continent riddled with crises and conflicts of
many forms and many dimensions.
cooperation with regional
This applies also on the subregional level: to the role
in the area of peace-keeping of the Standing Advisory
Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, which
deserves support, as the Committee, which was created with
the assistance of the Secretary-General, brings together
11 Central African countries which have decided to set up
within their national armed forces units specializing in
peace-keeping operations to be carried out under
the
auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of
African Unity. Cameroon trusts that the United Nations will
show greater interest in this available force of more than
10,000 soldiers, which could serve as reserve forces for
peace missions.
Another area where United Nations action has been
particularly significant is decolonization. Thanks to that
action and to their own peoples’ emancipation struggles,
many colonial Territories have gained independence and
sovereignty; today they make up more than half of the
membership of the Organization. More than any other
continent, Africa is proud to have unswervingly promoted
the process of its own total liberation, which was recently
completed with the end of apartheid in South Africa.
Here we recall with gratitude that it was under United
Nations auspices that Cameroon attained sovereignty after
20
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
having been first a German colony, then a Territory under
League of Nations Mandate, then a United Nations Trust
Territory. It is our hope that the few Territories remaining
under foreign administration will freely exercise their
inalienable right to self-determination, so that the United
Nations objective of
eradication of
colonialism by the year 2000 may be realized.
complete
the
Also to the credit of the Organization are the
promotion of human rights, the ongoing development and
codification of international law, and achievements in all
the areas covered by the specialized agencies.
the most
vulnerable
and those
The promotion and protection of human rights in
and
general
disadvantaged in particular are at
the centre of our
concerns and those of the United Nations. The creation of
the Centre for Human Rights, the convening at Vienna of
the World Conference on Human Rights and the
appointment of a High Commissioner for Human Rights
all enable the United Nations to follow progress in the
area of human rights throughout the world and to assert
certain principles by which States must abide. Cameroon
welcomes
to
recognition of and respect for all human rights, including
the right to development.
and attaches great
importance
of
this,
As regards humanitarian assistance, our Organization
has been active on all fronts where it has been needed,
providing aid to victims of catastrophes and natural
disasters and war.
At this stage, I would like to mention and welcome
action taken in the field by the United Nations through
the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Office
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR), the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and other organizations, such as the World
Health Organization (WHO),
the United Nations
Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) and the International Labour Organization
(ILO).
On another matter, we would like to welcome
progress by the United Nations in the fight against the
scourge of drugs. The United Nations International Drug
Control Programme is a result of concerted efforts by the
United Nations and Member States in the fight against the
production, sale, demand for and traffic in, and the
unlawful
psychotropic
substances. Cameroon pledges and invites other States to
pledge unreservedly their support for the United Nations
distribution
drugs
and
of,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances in order to stop the scourge of
drugs.
in the
community,
We would like to emphasize the considerable efforts
exerted by the United Nations to focus the attention of the
context of world
international
conferences, on other questions of interest
that require
collective action, which should be taken by the entire
community of nations. These
concerns have been
manifested through the World Summit for Children, the Rio
Conference on Environment and Development, the World
Conference on Human Rights at Vienna, the International
Conference on Population and Development at Cairo, the
World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen, the
Cairo Conference on the Prevention of Crime, and Fourth
World Conference on Women at Beijing. On the question
of women, it is highly desirable that all States immediately
follow up on the decisions and recommendations of the
Beijing Conference.
But these successes of our Organization that I have
just mentioned may not have met the expectations of all
peoples.
First, in the area of international peace and security,
the Organization has not been able to prevent the spread of
sources of tension and conflicts throughout the world. Until
recently, it has been practically powerless in the face of the
tragedies of the former Yugoslavia, Somalia and Rwanda.
In
the
arena,
economic
and economic
and social development
the Organization,
notwithstanding the declaration of four United Nations
decades, has not succeeded in adopting declarations,
programmes of actions and other strategies to bring about
progress
in
developing countries. The proof is that conditions in these
countries are still unfavourable, and, in order to experience
growth once again,
they must engage in policies of
structural adjustment, the social burden of which has been
a source of major concern to their Governments. This is
true also of the high price they must pay to join the
mainstream of world trade in order
to avoid further
marginalization.
Development is primarily the responsibility of States
and the peoples concerned. Cameroon nevertheless believes
that the United Nations should, because of its universality
and in the best interest of the international community as a
whole, help to ensure global solidarity and interdependence
with a view to promoting development for all. This means
that we must stop inveighing against Africa in uniformly
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
pessimistic, not to say doomsday, tones. This style is all
too familiar and suggests that our continent is, in the
history of the world, nothing but a passive onlooker. But
who, in all seriousness, can place at the sidelines of world
events an entire continent, with 700 million inhabitants
today — 800 million in the year 2,000 — and with
immense natural, human, cultural and spiritual wealth? In
this connection, the Holy Father, speaking of Africa, on
the occasion of his recent second visit to Cameroon,
appealed in his post-synod apostolic exhortation for
avoidance of any blanket condemnations of an entire
population, an entire nation or, still worse, an entire
continent.
In spite of the serious difficulties that
its future. The sweeping changes which it
it must
overcome, Africa is determined to shoulder responsibility
for
is
experiencing today are nothing but the forerunners of a
nascent order whose purpose will be to integrate our
continent into the world of the third millennium. This
process of transformation is already yielding fruit in most
of our countries.
As
regards Cameroon,
I would like in this
connection, to emphasize our irreversible pursuit of the
process of democratization begun by Presidency Paul
Biya at the very moment he assumed power in 1982.
Between now and the end of this year, there will be
significant progress in this process with the adoption of a
new Constitution allowing for greater democratic
participation by the citizens of Cameroon in the
management of their own affairs, and a better balance
among the various powers of Government.
I would like to mention the impact our measures of
recovery and economic liberalization have had on various
sectors of activity. Cameroon is enjoying self-sufficiency
in food, and is beginning to enjoy growth again. Inflation
has been halted and macroeconomic balance in major
areas has been re-established. In a word, there are signs
of
life in economic activity. Strengthened by the
credibility confirmed — had that really been needed —
by the recent
the agreement with the
International Monetary Fund, my country is widening its
action for the acceleration of its economic recovery.
signing of
Our Organization is confronted with a sudden and
unexpected acceleration of history. Never has there been
such an acute sense of upheaval. The same questions keep
cropping up everywhere: Will the world in the future be
meaningless? What will the world order be like in the
future? Will the Organization have a hand in this new
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
order? And, finally, will it have the ability to be the melting
pot for this? But, when all is said and done, the end of the
cold war has brought fair weather.
However, it is clear that, 50 years after its creation,
the Organization needs to turn over a new leaf. That being
so, might it not be highly desirable for it to re-think its
role, its tasks, its functions, with a view not just to adapting
to this new context, but to responding better to the ever-
increasing and ever-more-insistent aspirations of the peoples
to peace and well-being? In any case, this is the desire of
Cameroon.
This anniversary must also be taken as an
opportunity for renewal, for highlighting and praising the
wealth of universality in the diversity in our Organization.
This
is an opportunity to renew our pledge and
commitment to the purposes and ideals of the Charter.
This pledge and this commitment must be translated into
a strengthening of our determination and our ability to act
collectively so that, as was the wish of the founding
fathers, we can save future generations from anguish,
fear, poverty, suffering and all sorts of uncertainty, and so
that we may finally move forward along the path of
transforming the tools of war into the tools of peace.
future for
These are the responsibilities we would like the
Organization to shoulder in order to ensure a better world
and a better
the next
millennium. In this connection, the manner in which the
United Nations discharges its responsibilities, or rather the
success of United Nations missions, will depend on the real
collective political will of its Member States.
the generation of
For its part, Cameroon feels that the current thinking
on the restructuring of the Security Council augurs well for
the revitalization of the Organization. The same is true of
the successful outcome of peace-keeping efforts made
possible by United Nations action and the concerted action
of
the international community in Cambodia, Central
America, Angola, Haiti, Mozambique and Eritrea. On the
same lines, the new diplomatic deals that are evolving in
the former Yugoslavia and the Middle East are undeniably
very encouraging developments.
In the final analysis, then, there is no reason not to
believe that in the near future the peoples of regions where
conflicts are continuing will, like so many others, have their
rendezvous with peace.
In all of these cases, Cameroon has the feeling that a
lasting solution will have to come through a meeting of the
political wills of the chief protagonists and the collective
will of the international community.
In spite of the difficulties that have impeded action in
the areas both of peace-keeping and of economic and social
development, the balance sheet of the Organization —
though certainly uneven — is not as negative as some
would have us believe. The celebration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations gives the international
community an ideal opportunity to consider the ways and
means available to our Organization to carry out
the
collective work of ensuring peace, security and prosperity
for all.
22
Cameroon, for its part, is prepared to contribute.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and
International Cooperation of Djibouti, His Excellency Mr.
Mohamed Moussa Chehem.
(interpretation
Mr. Chehem (Djibouti)
from
French): The United Nations has today reached a historic
turning-point for at this session, we are celebrating the
fiftieth anniversary of its founding. I am convinced that
this Assembly will benefit greatly from the President’s
vast experience as a distinguished jurist. On behalf of my
delegation, I would like to extend to Mr. Freitas do
Amaral my sincere congratulations on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly for a session which
will undoubtedly prove to be productive.
We are deeply indebted to Mr. Amara Essy for the
active and competent way in which he conducted the
proceedings of the forty-ninth session of the General
Assembly. It should indeed be noted that a number of
problems and reforms had the benefit of particular
attention under his presidency.
We would also like to express our gratitude and our
high regard to the Secretary-General for his enlightened
and pragmatic leadership. Today, more than ever, the
universality of the United Nations offers to many of us
the possibility of having our voices heard throughout the
world. We would also congratulate the Secretary-General
on his efforts to preserve and strengthen the role of the
United Nations in its work for peace, collective security
and development.
The situation in the world today, marked as it is by
a multiplicity of hotbeds of tension, demonstrates to us —
if that were necessary — the paramount role of the
United Nations. This is naturally a subject for reflection
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and of course a useful matter for us to ponder when we
analyse our compliance with the Charter and the ideals set
forth in it as we now stand on the threshold of an era
which, without any doubt, will prove vital for mankind.
Today, indeed, we are living in a different world — a
world which the end of the cold war has stripped of the
structures and priorities that were familiar to it. New crises,
difficult to understand and to which we must today find
appropriate responses, have arisen in all parts of the world.
Neither States nor even regions can deal with them
effectively and individually.
The explosion of ethnic identities, too long suppressed,
and the breaking up of States, have posed formidable
challenges to the international community, thus threatening
international peace and security. The crises that are
ravaging the world today are not as specific as those of the
cold-war era. Since they fall outside the focus of interest of
the great Powers, the responsibility for action falls on the
United Nations. However,
the absence of clear-cut
mandates, plus the inadequacy of resources, is partially
responsible for the performance of the United Nations in its
new role as guarantor of peace. In the light of these
circumstances, it is no surprise that early intervention is
often late in coming. But when the United Nations does
possess the necessary resources and support, it can achieve
commendable results.
The persistence of social and economic crises, the
collapse of Governments and structures underlie this
outbreak of civil conflicts in the world. It is clear that it is
not enough simply to separate the combatants and stop the
fighting in order to eliminate the multidimensional causes
of these conflicts. Until these causes are understood and
combated from the very outset of the crisis, we will never
be in a position to combat the flagrant acts of violence
against civilian populations. Until we are ready to offer
firm resistance to injustice,
to
continuing violations of human rights and peoples, we will
be doomed to watching history repeat itself over and over
again. Recent experiences of the United Nations have
demonstrated this, but none of them is more revealing than
the history of Bosnia.
to acts of aggression,
Nothing has contributed as much as Bosnia to
engendering a feeling of outrage within the international
community. Although numerous resolutions of the Security
Council reaffirming the sovereignty and territorial integrity
of Bosnia, confirming the inadmissibility of the annexation
of territory by force and condemning “ethnic cleansing”
the international
have been adopted,
the reaction of
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
community to the challenge posed by the Serbs has
always been hesitant and confused. The cost of this war
in terms of loss of human life, hardship and material
destruction is frightening. Serb bombings have turned the
designated “safe areas” into vast prisons. Sarajevo has
suffered by far the most from Serb strangulation.
However, the fall of the “safe areas” of Srebrenica
and Zepa marked a turning-point in the attitude of the
great Powers in this long and bloody conflict. These acts
of genocide undoubtedly constitute one of the greatest
humiliations for the international community since the
Second World War. The combined effects of bombings
and diplomacy seem to have negated Serb domination on
the ground at the same time as it has promoted prospects
for peace. Furthermore, United Nations personnel and
humanitarian convoys are no longer exposed to Serb
attacks thanks to the recent resolve shown by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization. For
the time being,
aggression is not paying off and the Serbs seem to have
partially renounced their traditional tactic of murdering
civilians with impunity. Over all, developments in the
situation have dealt a new hand and breathed new life
into the peace process. We welcome this new attitude, but
peace must be both durable and honourable for all people.
Bosnia, as a sovereign State, must be protected. Similarly,
Sarajevo must be preserved as a multiracial and
multicultural city.
The handshake between President Arafat and Prime
Minister Rabin in September 1993 was a source of great
hope and we can but rejoice further at recent events. The
second phase of negotiations led to the signing in
Washington of the Taba Accord on 28 September 1995.
We can only welcome that outcome. We encourage the
two parties to persevere in their efforts to expedite the
implementation of these agreements. They must strive to
contain the violence of extremists and to take all
necessary measures to strengthen mutual trust, which will,
undoubtedly, contribute to lasting peace.
The mutual recognition of Israel and of the PLO has
opened up a tremendous opportunity to strengthen peace
and development in the Middle East, as well as trading
and economic potential for the entire region. These are
the stakes and neither of
the
Palestinians nor the Israelis, should underestimate the
importance of this new perspective.
the parties, neither
Sometimes there are mixed feelings about United
Nations efforts around the world to contain hostilities and
settle disputes. The United Nations has effectively been
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
paralysed and hamstrung by the lack of resources and the
absence of any precise mandate during the crisis in
Rwanda. The establishment of the International Tribunal,
for Rwanda which is responsible for trying and prosecuting
the persons guilty of genocide has also been delayed.
Serious political dialogue can be broached, because it
would be hard to deny that
those who promoted,
encouraged or committed crimes must be taken to court.
Furthermore,
the whole issue of the reconciliation and
reconstruction of
failed because of
persistent internal tension and delays in the deployment of
international aid. An enormous task still lies ahead, not just
in terms of the repatriation of refugees but also of the
reconstruction of destroyed infrastructures,
including
housing, schools and medical facilities.
the country has
In many respects, there are great similarities between
the situation in Burundi and that in Rwanda. To date,
all-out civil war has been avoided but the situation remains
extremely volatile. The region as a whole is in need of true
reconciliation. We welcome the efforts of the Secretary-
General, who is trying, through constant contact, dialogue
and visits to the area, to resolve these complex problems.
His recent decision to appoint an experienced diplomat to
organize a national conference to promote reconciliation
and mutual understanding among the countries of the region
is a wise decision.
After almost two decades of fratricidal and destructive
warfare, Mozambique is today ready to begin the work of
national reconstruction following the peace process. We
should congratulate all the parties that have taken part in
the political
transformation of Mozambique on having
adhered to the peace process. Mozambique, with its
tremendous
and
development, has a great future ahead, which it should turn
to full advantage. This is a country for which the
international community has every reason to congratulate
itself for having given it timely support and substantial
resources to back the peace process.
economic
potential
for
recovery
In Haiti, the refusal of the army to comply with the
peace agreement and its intransigence in spite of the
condemnation of the international community left
the
United Nations with no alternative but to take resolute
action, beginning with economic sanctions, and then
international intervention. This made it possible for the
United Nations to deploy a peace-keeping mission there.
With the return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide,
political violence and human rights violations have been
greatly reduced. There is now a basis for ensuring the
24
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
security of the population, guaranteeing increased political
participation and consolidating democracy.
The untiring efforts in the long and difficult
negotiations in Lusaka to restore peace in Angola finally
led to an agreement on a general cease-fire and the
establishment of a government. The United Nations
played a prominent role in these negotiations with the full
support of three observer States. Much remains to be
done, but progress has been steady and positive. The
future of Angola will depend on the political will and
determination of its leaders to forge a new vision, a new
nation.
In Liberia, the determination of the United Nations
and of the countries of the region has made it possible
finally to conclude an agreement between the parties.
Hostilities are nearing an end, and a cease-fire is to be
negotiated. This agreement, concluded just a month ago,
does not mean that our troubles are over, but we can see
the light at the end of the tunnel. The Liberian people
seem determined to put a final end to this long and
destructive war, and it is the duty of the international
community to contribute to this long-awaited outcome the
necessary resources and substantial support.
Last year, we witnessed the end of United Nations
operations in Somalia, when it became clear that the
determination of the various Somali parties to reach a
compromise in the interests of the people of Somalia was
visibly lacking. Somalia has fallen into oblivion. It is
suffering from total political paralysis. Once again, it is
the same old story: warfare among factions. The country
must be helped to get off to a new start in order to create
better prospects for peace and stability.
We must recall that the prospect of a new civil war
is more likely than ever. The spectre of famine is looming
on the horizon. And the personnel of international aid
organizations faces a difficult choice: to accept a state of
increasing insecurity or to abandon the country to chaos.
the political
situation in Somalia,
We want to hope that, no matter how complex and
desperate
the
international community will not abandon that country
and will continue to provide the necessary support to the
Somalis,
in the realm of humanitarian
assistance. We hope, moreover,
that our brothers in
Somalia will find the path to wisdom and engage in
constructive negotiations to put an end to the suffering of
the Somali people.
in particular
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
My country, the Republic of Djibouti, continues to
face difficulties in our economic development
that are
exacerbated by the presence of refugees and displaced
persons, which make up more than 25 per cent of our
population. The pressure thus placed on our infrastructures,
our medical services, our housing sector and on education
and employment is more than we are able to deal with. The
cumulative effects of the civil wars that have raged in
recent years, both in our country and in neighbouring
countries, and of natural disasters — drought as well as
floods — have seriously hindered our efforts in the area of
development.
A new era of peace and political stability has begun in
my country, which regained its reputation as an oasis of
peace after the signing of the peace agreement of December
1994 and the formation in June 1995 of a new Government
that reflected the new situation.
Once peace had been achieved, and without any
transition, we began the difficult process of redressing our
country’s finances and economy, which had been seriously
affected by the consequences of three years of internal
conflict and the negative world economic situation.
has
just
been
through
launched
The first phase of a vast restructuring programme,
proposed by the Government and approved by the
Parliament,
the
implementation of various measures involving severe
budgetary restrictions. In addition to these measures, we are
currently negotiating with the International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank for the means to carry out a structural
adjustment programme. Furthermore, in accordance with the
resolutions of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social
Development, we wish to preserve our social achievements,
without which no lasting development can be envisaged.
On the regional level, Djibouti is still working towards
the establishment of a climate of cooperation in all areas.
The member countries of the Inter-Governmental Authority
on Drought and Development
the
Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa
(COMESA) have great potential and resources, and IGADD
and COMESA are the best instruments for harmonization
and coordination to maximize the exploitation of these
resources.
(IGADD) and of
On the international scene, Djibouti has discharged
productively and responsibly its current term in the Security
Council, and thanks all the countries that have supported it.
Our participation in peace-keeping operations, particularly
in Rwanda and Haiti, where Djibouti’s police and armed
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
forces are currently serving, is one of the best proofs of
this.
Together with its neighbours, Djibouti hopes to be in
the
a position to struggle against, and overcome,
consequences of instability and conflicts in our region.
We share the Secretary-General’s view that the work
of the United Nations is frequently misunderstood. The
development crisis is often overlooked because of the
priority given the short-term alleviation of emergency
situations. But development is no less urgent — quite to
the contrary — because today development is a global
issue, and peace, the economy, the environment, social
justice and democracy are its various aspects. The
pressures created by poverty, unemployment and social
disintegration are no longer contained within individual
frontiers; they affect our entire “global village”, moving
from country to country and from region to region. Only
consistent growth and lasting development will be able to
halt them. But, clearly, no country, no region can alone
successfully face
these problems. Even the best-
performing economies will face high unemployment if
world economic growth is not sufficient to absorb their
production. If we restrict ourselves to promoting growth
in some sectors to the exclusion of others, the result of
the growth will be unimpressive.
a
But it is most surprising that despite the fact that
world economic growth yields sufficient resources to
easily eliminate extreme poverty from the face of the
Earth, poverty not only persists but continues to increase.
The world has a great need of an engine for growth
worldwide,
role played by the United States
immediately after
the Second World War, when it
broadened world markets. But we can no longer hope that
a single country will take on this function. Likewise,
outdated international economic policies and institutions
are standing in the way of investments, the creation of
development programmes and the markets necessary to
increase demand in the third-world countries and
consequently stimulate economic growth.
Aside from this global reality, the difficulties faced
by sub-Saharan Africa are sui generis. The Secretary-
General himself recently called the economic results in
Africa disappointing, even in the countries that are
engaged in-depth reforms. Thirty-three of the 48 least-
developed countries in the world are in Africa. There are
many results of this state of affairs and they are well
known. The recent onslaught of ethnic conflicts and civil
wars has greatly contributed to instability, to the many
25
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
faces of poverty and to the underdevelopment of that
region. These conflicts have forced millions of people to
seek refuge in other countries or to become displaced
persons. The situation is particularly tragic for women and
children.
If Africa is to have a serious chance to develop, the
crushing burden of foreign debt must be alleviated. The
long-term debt of the African continent, amounting to $37
billion, constitutes about one-half of the debt owed by all
the countries of the “third world”. Very few of those
countries are in a position to repay their debt.
However, for Africa at least to come close to the
objective of 6 per cent of annual growth in its gross
domestic product, as envisaged by the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, would
require substantial external assistance. Even those among us
who, in Africa, have opted for free markets and healthy
currencies, view privatization and balanced budgets with
scepticism.
This situation, exacerbated by the shocks created by
structural adjustment programmes and political reform, is
continuing to intensify internal pressures and social
tensions.
It
is important
to maintain aid levels during this
transitional period because this will contribute to stabilizing
the economic conditions that would permit the emergence
of political and social conditions propitious
to free
institutions. Without such assistance, our fragile economies
are threatened with collapse before they can even attempt
to carry out their reforms. Yet, the fact is that for the
majority of African countries now engaged in this effort,
the flow of capital and assistance in all forms is beginning
to dry up.
As the President of the General Assembly has rightly
said, the world is passing through a transitional period that
is still “vague, confused and imprecise” (Official Records
the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary
of
Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 6). The effort
to
understand,
to assign priorities and to try to remedy
problems whose dimensions have profoundly changed has
just begun. It is revealing, indeed, that in his statement the
President
the new
international order that is to be built must not leave out the
United Nations, either by replacing it or by doing away
entirely with it.
told the General Assembly that
to identify,
26
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
For the United Nations represents a concept of work,
an expression of the idea whereby all mankind should
unite its strength to solve problems and improve its
conditions of life. To replace, weaken or marginalize the
United Nations would constitute an assault on this
concept.
that
The United Nations,
is, mankind working
together, should be the central mechanism through which
the world can achieve lasting growth and to lend
credibility and legitimacy to our efforts. Peace and
security remain important questions, but development and
economic and social problems are just as vital.
The structure of the United Nations should reflect
the realities and present problems as they really exist in
order to tackle them in an effective, professional way.
Djibouti
favours the constant monitoring of United
Nations operations in order to define means and methods
to eliminate all waste and reduce unnecessary costs.
financing the United Nations.
However, the improvement of the functioning and
the structure of the United Nations will prove of limited
use if the Organization does not have the resources it
needs to operate. The time has perhaps come to envisage
new methods for
In
addition, in the realm of collective security there is a vital
need to enlarge the Security Council, while respecting the
principle of equitable geographical representation, and to
make it more democratic and more transparent. The
structure and functions of
should be
periodically reviewed as
situation
evolves.
the international
the Council
In conclusion, we are the United Nations, and the
United Nations is us. Together we can achieve great
things.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on those representatives who have requested to
speak in exercise of the right of reply.
May I remind Members that, in accordance with
General Assembly decision 34/401, statements in exercise
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
statement and five minutes for the second, and should be
made by delegations from their seats.
Mrs. Albright (United States of America): I wish to
reply to remarks directed against the United States by the
head of the Iraqi delegation. I was stunned to hear the
Iraqi delegation speak about credibility. All of their
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
actions indicate that Iraqi foreign policy has no concept of
the meaning of the word.
But since he brought it up, let us discuss credibility.
Many Members here today remember the Iraqi speaker here
one year ago affirming that Iraq’s intentions towards its
neighbours were totally peaceful at the very moment when
it was moving offensive forces towards the Kuwaiti border.
Let us discuss the credibility of today’s remarks.
Among dozens of false statements in Iraq’s speech, the
most obviously unbelievable is the lie that “Iraq is well
aware of the fact that it is not in its interest to conceal any
information relating to past weapons programmes” (supra,
p. 11)
In fact, concealing such information has been the
consistent policy of the Iraqi Government from 1991 until
today. The Iraqi Foreign Minister, during several visits to
New York earlier this year, assured several members of the
Security Council that Iraq had turned over to the Special
Commission all documents relating to its weapons of mass
destruction programmes.
In August of this year, Iraq was forced to admit to
what the Special Commission, the United States and most
members of the Council had consistently believed: that Iraq
continued to conceal documents
relating to these
programmes.
Let me remind this body what Iraq was forced to
reveal and how dangerous Iraq’s programmes were to all its
neighbours. It had a crash programme to build a nuclear
weapon in 1990-1991; it had weaponized live biological
agents, including the deadly botulin and anthrax organisms,
weapons never before used in warfare; it produced a far
greater quantity of chemical weapons,
in more diverse
forms, than it had previously admitted; and it deliberately
kept
these documents hidden from the United Nations
Special Commission (UNSCOM), even as it was claiming
that all information had been handed over. UNSCOM now
has a responsibility to be more careful and thorough than
ever
these
programmes.
in verifying the complete dismantling of
After a constant four-year policy of deception, Iraq’s
current assertions have zero credibility in the Security
Council, as was made manifestly clear at the last review of
the Iraqi sanctions.
Iraq is seeking to turn its disregard for Security
Council resolutions into a bilateral issue between Iraq and
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
the United States. This is simply a misrepresentation of
reality. Not a single member of the Security Council
agrees with the assertion we have heard today that Iraq
has fulfilled its obligations under the relevant resolutions.
In fact, the only requirement that Iraq has fulfilled is the
recognition of Kuwait’s independence, sovereignty and
borders, accomplished three and a half years after Iraq
promised to do so. Every single member of the Council
insists that Iraq must comply fully with its obligations.
The great majority of
the
sanctions cannot be lifted until
Iraq is in overall
compliance with its obligations.
the Council agrees that
it
This is not
the United States position;
through implementation of
is the
United Nations position. The programme of the United
Nations is the programme of the United States: a change
in Iraqi behaviour
the
to return stolen
resolutions. Iraq’s continued refusal
Kuwaiti property, to account for missing Kuwaitis, to end
its support for terrorism and to cease the repression of its
citizens shows its contempt for the United Nations, its
lack of peaceful intentions and the impossibility of the
Security Council’s being able to trust Iraqi promises.
Actions, not words, are what will cause the international
community to treat Iraq differently.
I
found
the
particularly
inconsistent
Iraqi
delegation’s call for implementation of a zone free of
weapons of mass destruction. In fact, Iraq is the only
country in the region that has ever deployed biological
weapons into a war zone. It is the only country in the
world that has ever used chemical weapons against its
own civilian population. The United States is committed
to the goal of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction
in the Middle East, and is ready to work with any partner
that shares that goal. Iraq is a long way from such a
partnership.
We have heard much recently about the impact of
sanctions on the Iraqi population. So let us be clear: the
Security Council, and the United States in particular, care
far more about the suffering of ordinary Iraqis than does
the Government of Iraq. It is precisely because of the
deep concern of the members of the Security Council that
they endeavoured yet again to pass a Security Council
resolution — resolution 986 (1995) — that provides a
fair, flexible and generous mechanism for humanitarian
relief in Iraq.
Why does
refuse this
reasonable offer? We are forced to conclude that it is
that by
Saddam Hussein’s cynical and cruel belief
the Iraqi Government
27
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
maintaining the suffering of the Iraqi people he will obtain
some sympathy from the world at large. Despite press
reports today, we have no reason to believe that Baghdad
is any more ready than in the past to accept this resolution.
If the Iraqi Government wants to restore its credibility,
if it wants the world to believe that the tears it sheds over
the Iraqi people are not false, let it stop the excuses and
shifting of blame. Let the Iraqi delegation’s next speech
include an announcement that Iraq is prepared to use some
of its oil wealth for the good of its people, rather than for
the personal enrichment of the ruling clique.
The Iraqi representative stated that Iraq had accepted
the terms of resolution 687 (1991) in 1991. There was no
confusion about the terms of that resolution then, and there
is none now. All that remains is for Iraq to at last do what
it promised more than four years ago.
Let me, in conclusion, remind the Iraqi representative
that on a day when this body has heard such a stirring
speech from a religious leader respected around the world
it is especially important to follow his words and those of
religious leaders of all faiths by speaking the whole truth
and nothing but the truth.
Mr. Ghalib (Afghanistan): In response to the reply of
the delegation of Pakistan, my delegation would like once
again to draw the attention of the world community to the
questions contained in the statement made to this Assembly
by the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Islamic
State of Afghanistan, to which the Pakistani authorities
have long failed to provide answers. My delegation would
like to reiterate that unless and until Islamabad halts its
militant interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan
the prevailing state of peace, security and stability in the
entire region will remain in jeopardy.
interference by the Pakistani
The comments made by the Pakistan delegation do not
address certain questions, such as, first, the fact of the
continuous
intelligence
services — specifically Interservice Intelligence (ISI) — in
the internal affairs of Afghanistan, which met no evident
denial by the Pakistani delegation; and, secondly,
the
questions regarding the made-up group of Taliban, such as
the site of
its military hardware and
expenditures, and its training and planning, as well as the
tele-guided onslaught of the so-called Taliban, boosted by
the act of aggression by Pakistani militia in western
Afghanistan, where the occupied territories are run by a
Pakistani by the name of Colonel Imam acting as de facto
its emergence,
28
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
governor. These questions,
Pakistan’s reply and have yet to be answered.
too, were disregarded in
In the light of these issues, my delegation would like
to point out that, above all, the words of the Pakistani
delegation on the situation inside Afghanistan contradict
the solid principles of
the United Nations Charter
governing relations between countries — affirming the
development of such relations on the basis of respect for
equal
their
comments themselves contribute to and further strengthen
the evidence provided in our statement.
rights and self-determination. Moreover,
attempted
It is no secret that the Pakistani authorities have
always
undeniable
involvement in the domestic affairs of Afghanistan by
misinforming the world community, by propagating
fabrications.
cover
their
up
to
My delegation cannot conclude without saying that
the statements made by the Pakistani delegation not only
illustrate their linkage with and sympathy and support for
the opposition, but actually sound like the opposition’s
voice in an international forum.
Mr. Gomersall (United Kingdom): My delegation
would also like to address remarks made earlier today by
the Iraqi Foreign Minister.
In his statement, the Foreign Minister of Iraq made
the familiar claim that others are to blame for the
problems of Iraq, and in particular for the maintenance of
sanctions imposed after Iraq’s unprovoked aggression
against Kuwait.
that Government alone. Even today,
The problems of Iraq and the suffering of the Iraqi
people are the responsibility of the Government of Iraq,
and of
those
problems and that suffering are being prolonged and
aggravated by the actions of the régime. The sanctions
remain in place simply because Iraq has failed to comply
resolutions. The
with the relevant Security Council
Foreign Minister of Iraq must know that
this is the
just of one delegation in the Security
position not
Council, but of many others,
including the United
Kingdom.
Iraq’s latest admissions about its weapons of mass
it had
destruction, after countless assurances
produced
its past
accounting
programmes, simply underlines the need for the Security
Council to continue to act very cautiously.
that
of
final
and
full
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The humanitarian needs of the people of Iraq have
been addressed in a number of Security Council resolutions,
most recently resolution 986 (1995), which enables the
regime to sell oil to feed its people, even while sanctions
remain in place. The Government of Iraq still refuse to
implement this, thus inflicting continuing suffering upon
their own people. That is the truth which unfortunately
most Iraqis are unable to hear.
Mr. Al-Qaysi (Iraq): My Foreign Minister made it
clear in his statement that he did not want to be drawn into
polemics with the representative of the United States. She
came to the Hall, she threw her vindictiveness, and she is
just about to leave, joined by the representative of the
United Kingdom, whose country’s name was never
mentioned by my Foreign Minister, but who took it upon
himself, which is his own free choice, just to trail the
United States in defence of the position of the Security
Council.
It is our perception that the position of these two
States is not the position of the Security Council. They took
it upon themselves to speak on behalf of the Security
Council collectively — and selectively, unfortunately —
missing so many facts that boil down in our favour.
Let me pick up the question of credibility. What is
credibility? Credibility is an ethical value, and if it is an
ethical value then it should be followed by all. The two
representatives who have just spoken are telling the General
Assembly that Security Council resolution 986 (1995) was
adopted as a fair and flexible mechanism to provide
necessary care for the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi
population, within the framework of sanctions. That in itself
is an admission that the sanctions imposed upon Iraq as a
framework did not take care to provide for the necessary
humanitarian needs of the Iraqi population; otherwise, a
new resolution for it would not have needed to be adopted.
Was it true that this resolution, as described by the
representative of the United States, was simply to sell oil to
feed the Iraqi people? Has she forgotten the political thorns
that were put into that resolution with a view to enabling
their own plans for secession in Iraq and for interference in
the internal affairs of Iraq. Where is credibility here?
Let me talk again about credibility when it comes to
the question of what
they called concealment of
information. Despite all that was said by Mrs. Albright,
whatever we found we gave to Ambassador Ekeus. The
crash programme she talked about in the nuclear field was
described by the International Atomic Energy Agency
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
(IAEA) as ridiculous, because they knew about it. Where
is their credibility when they raise fears about past
programmes, old stories, the information for which, in its
totality, was given to the Special Commission and to the
IAEA? If they care about credibility, why do they not
wait for these two responsible bodies to conclude, within
the time available, and come with their conclusion to the
Security Council so that the Security Council can make
the correct assessment? Why have they fanned so many
concoctions against Iraq since August? Pelletreau roves
around the capitals discussing the situation in Iraq; other
countries are drawn in support; there are lies about Iraqi
troops massing in order to attack neighbouring countries.
Is that credible? I wonder.
Mrs. Albright said that there was no confusion about
Security Council resolution 687 (1991) in 1991 or now.
But who is confusing Security Council resolution 687
(1991)? Is it not the official position of the United States
that paragraphs 21 and 22 of that resolution mean exactly
the
resolution with
interpretations that do not have any basis whatsoever in
its provisions? It is not Iraq; Iraq is the weaker party
here. It is the United States of America.
same? Who is glossing that
In all our contacts with the members of the Security
Council and with others it has been consistently pointed
out to us “If the position of the United States is such and
such, then we can make such and such a move”. The
perception now is that there is no way to implement
paragraph 22, even if the Special Commission concludes
positively in favour of Iraq. Why? Because we are going
into an election year in the United States. Who does Mrs.
Albright think does not know about this in this Hall?
Everybody knows it. Is this credible? Is this ethical under
the interpretation of the rules of the Security Council and
the Charter of the United Nations?
We have repeatedly called for dialogue, but the
Assembly has heard Mrs. Albright and the representative
of the United Kingdom. They do not want dialogue.
Before I close, I say finally to the representative of
the United Kingdom that he should know that
the
perception throughout the Arab world is that his country
was the cause of all the ills from which we are suffering.
I say to Mrs. Albright in closing that there is a
marked difference between us and her. We look forward,
but she continues to cry over
the past by looking
backwards.
29
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
statement of
the
Mr. Babar (Pakistan): We have heard yet again the
totally irrational
representative of
Afghanistan in his response to our statement in exercise of
the right of reply. Let me repeat once again that Pakistan’s
contribution to the Afghan cause is well known. We have
helped Afghanistan and its people during a very difficult
period of their history. We have done so at great cost and
sacrifice. We have played host to 3.5 million Afghans,
including their leaders, for 14 long years. We continue to
entertain the greatest
the people of
Afghanistan, who are our brothers. More than 1.6 million
of them still enjoy hospitality in Pakistan because of their
disillusionment with the regime in Kabul.
sympathy for
21st plenary meeting
5 October 1995
We do not understand or appreciate the vile
accusations of a regime which is clinging to power
despite the loss of support of its own population. We said
earlier that we have no preferences among the different
groups in Afghanistan, but we are interested in peace and
stability in this neighbouring country, which alone would
enable the Afghan refugees still in Pakistan to return to
their homeland in honour and with dignity. Only the
people of Afghanistan can decide their own future. They
no longer support a regime which is trying to rule the
country on the basis of an ethnic minority. History tells
us that such regimes do not survive.
In the interests of peace and harmony in a war-torn
country, it is therefore necessary for the regime in Kabul
to understand that a quick and early hand-over of power
alone will enable the Afghan people to choose a
Government which has the confidence and support of the
people. Meanwhile, we urge the representative of
Afghanistan to refrain from trying to visit the frustrations
of a discredited regime on others.
Mr. Ghalib (Afghanistan): My delegation would like
to exercise its right of reply in relation to the comments
made by the Pakistani delegation at the next opportunity
in the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.
30
