United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
56th plenary meeting
Monday, 13 November 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.56
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Pibulsonggram
(Thailand), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 41 (continued)
Support by the United Nations system of the efforts of
Governments to promote and consolidate new or
restored democracies
Report of the Secretary-General (A/50/332 and
Corr. 1)
Draft resolution (A/50/L.19)
Mr. Ayalon (Israel): At the outset I wish to express
my delegation’s appreciation for the sympathy extended to
us by the President, as well as by Member States, in the
wake of last week’s assassination of the Prime Minister of
Israel, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin. To everyone concerned we say:
“The State of Israel is heartened by your words and your
actions.”
We are pleased to see that a growing number of States
are recognizing the fundamental
relationship between
democracy, development, peace, security and respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Democratization is not only a moral issue. It is tied
directly to the establishment of peace and stability. The
existence of a democratic government
is the central
guarantee for preventing policies of violence and
aggression. This stems from its very nature, which places
people’s destinies in their own hands and is attentive to
the people’s yearnings for peace and prosperity.
Israel is still mourning the death of Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin, whose life was tragically cut short by an
assassin’s bullet. Sadly, political assassinations still occur.
Assassination favours no specific system of government;
bullets do not differentiate between democrats and
dictators. Democracies, however, are best equipped to
deal with such despicable acts. In States such as Israel,
where the rule of democratic law is firmly entrenched and
its values and traditions are enshrined, there is a smooth
and orderly transition from one leader to another, even
during times of acute emergencies and crises. My
delegation is proud of the strength that Israeli democracy
has exhibited through these difficult times. We remain
committed to the pursuit of democracy and the peace
process that our late Prime Minister championed.
The fact that a growing number of countries are
embracing democratic principles is one of the most
promising developments of our time. But we must not
grow complacent. Democracies are still a minority among
United Nations Member States, and the dangers they face
from within and from without are still formidable. The
process of democratization is a long one that must be
is
nurtured and protected in order
dependent
the
development of grass-roots
support. Openness and
participation by people from all walks of life encourage
to bear
leadership
fruit. It
upon
courageous
and
95-86618 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
sustainable development. Democratic societies produce
pluralistic, free market and enterprising economies. As a
result, they enjoy the highest standard of living in the
world.
For these reasons, it is appropriate for the United
Nations to support the efforts of the Governments of the
new or restored democracies. The international community
should promote the development of democratic political
cultures by instilling democratic values in the people, and
especially in the young. Education for democracy should be
a never ending process that encourages citizens to be
informed and active participants in the noble task of
government. This year experts from Israel held seminars on
education for democratic elections in Nicaragua and
Guatemala. Later this month Israel will be hosting a
seminar on the role of labour unions in the transition to a
free market economy. Next month another seminar to be
held in Israel will deal with development and nurturing
democracy
organizations, with
participants from 25 countries. For 1996 we are planning
similar programmes for participants from all over the
world.
grass-roots
through
Economic and humanitarian assistance is also crucial
to buttress democratic reforms and to ensure the viability of
young democratic institutions. We are certain that the report
of
submitted to the General
Assembly at this fiftieth session, will be given the highest
priority and attention.
the Secretary-General,
In the past year alone we have contributed to several
funds: those for victims of torture, for humanitarian causes
in Rwanda and Yugoslavia, for the war crimes Tribunal in
Abkhazia and for clearing minefields in Cambodia.
in this
resolutions
Our promotion of democracy is not
limited to
charitable contributions. Israel
is pleased to have co-
sponsored a number of
session
supporting democratization. We view this as an expression
of the importance we attach to the issue, as well as a signal
of our
readiness to cooperate with the international
community in providing assistance to new and restored
democracies throughout the world. Accordingly, we endorse
the Nicaraguan initiative, and co-sponsor
this draft
resolution to support new or restored democracies. We look
forward to its adoption by consensus.
Mrs. Klein-Loemban Tobing (Suriname): The
Republic of Suriname is, as it was last year, one of the
sponsors of the draft resolution on support by the United
Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote
2
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
and consolidate new or restored democracies, which this
year is contained in document A/50/L.19.
In the short history of Suriname as an independent
nation, the democratic process has been interrupted at
least twice. These interruptions have inflicted great pain
and losses upon the Surinamese people. Having gone
through difficult years, Suriname is now on the road,
admittedly not an easy one, to establish a stable and fully
fledged democracy.
While on this road the Surinamese people have
experienced the value and impact of
international
solidarity. In organizing our renewed expressions of
freedom and democracy, we have received inestimable
encouragement and political support. Countries like my
own, in which democracy was interrupted and now has
been restored, should be supported. This support is critical
in order to countervail the internal and external forces that
endanger our emerging democracies.
The
as
delegation
of Suriname
great
importance to the Managua Declaration and Plan of
Action,
adopted by the Second International
Conference of New or Restored Democracies, held from
4 to 6 July 1994 in Nicaragua.
attaches
The participants at that Conference agreed, within a
true partnership of democratic nations, to exert themselves
to the utmost to serve peace, democracy and security and
to continue their efforts to create an environment in which
the necessary democratic processes can be developed —
an environment in which the United Nations Secretary-
General’s “An Agenda for Peace” and “An Agenda for
Development”, as basic instruments for the consolidation
of democracy, can be implemented.
My delegation supports the proposal to convene a
Third International Conference of New or Restored
Democracies, to be held in 1996 in Bucharest. It will
provide us with an opportunity to evaluate the results of
the implementation of the Managua Declaration and Plan
of Action.
The great efforts of the United Nations and its
specialized agencies to support and assist new and
restored democracies have recently become evident in my
country through the organization of a seminar on
“Strengthening democracy”. This seminar, held from
30 June to 2 July 1995, was organized by the National
Assembly of Suriname, the Parliamentarians for Global
Action and the United Nations Development Programme
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
(UNDP). About 90 representatives of governmental and
non-governmental organizations, human rights, religious,
youth and women’s organizations, political parties, trade
unions, educational institutions, the media, the police force
of Suriname, private enterprises, and the Pan American
Health Organization (PAHO) participated in the seminar.
During the seminar on “Strengthening democracy”, the
Surinamese people again stressed their firm belief in
democracy and the democratic institutions as the only basis
for progress, peace and social well-being. At the seminar,
a resolution was adopted in which the participants ensure
future cooperation towards: promoting equality between
men and women through their equal participation at all
levels of political and public life, combating legal
inequalities and violence in the family, and striving for
mutual respect among members of the family, using, among
others, the standards laid down in pertinent international
conventions and agreements; secondly, developing strong
links between the democratic institutions of Suriname, the
organizations that make up its civil society, and the
international
the
socioeconomic development of Suriname, which is central
to fostering a lasting democratic political culture in the
country; and fourthly, fostering respect for the rule of law,
the constitution and the democratic institutions and
procedures that it establishes.
community;
increasing
thirdly,
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to thank the
United Nations and its specialized organizations and
agencies for the important contributions they have made
towards the consolidation of democracy in Suriname. With
the general elections — to be held next year — in sight, it
will be of the utmost importance to have the continued
attention and support of the international community, in
order to consolidate the Surinamese democracy and its
democratic institutions and so to protect and consolidate
fundamental human rights and freedoms.
The Acting President: I should like to inform the
Assembly that the representative of Yemen has asked to
participate in the debate on this item.
Inasmuch as the list of speakers was closed on Friday,
10 November, in the morning, may I ask the Assembly
whether there is any objection to the inclusion of this
delegation in the list of speakers?There is none. Yemen is
therefore included in the list.
Mrs. Moutoussamy-Ashe (United States of America):
The United States is pleased to address the issues raised
under the agenda item entitled “Support by the United
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote
and consolidate new or
restored democracies”. The
Vienna World Conference on Human Rights recognized
that
and fundamental
“Democracy, development and respect
freedoms
for
human rights
are
interdependent and mutually reinforcing. Democracy
is based on the freely expressed will of the people to
determine their own political, economic, social and
cultural systems and their full participation in all
aspects of their lives”. (A/CONF.157/23, para. 8)
have
interest
noted with
for new or
Bearing this in mind, we welcome the report of the
restored
Secretary-General on support
democracies. We
and
appreciation the section covering assistance the United
Nations system is providing for
institution-building,
particularly in the areas of creating and strengthening
democratic structures of government, enhancing the rule
of law, and improving accountability, transparency and
quality in public sector management. We strongly agree
that
the Secretariat and the United Nations agencies
should increase cooperation in the area of institution-
building
through
strengthening capacity-building of democratic institutions.
governance,
particular
and
in
The Secretary-General’s report accurately states that
the challenge of democratization in today’s world cannot
be met by the United Nations system or by Governments
alone, although the latter remain the principal actors.
Regional organizations, non-governmental organizations
and trade unions, to name a few, share the responsibilities
of building democratic societies. And around the world,
it is ordinary citizens who are doing the hard, sometimes
painful work of building democratic societies from the
bottom up. They are making democracy work not just on
election day, but every day. They are promoting civil
societies
law and make
Governments accountable.
the rule of
respect
that
and malnutrition. The
Many young democracies contend with the vast
problems of grinding poverty, illiteracy, rapid population
growth,
these
democracies may ultimately depend on their ability to
show their citizens that democracy can deliver — that the
difficult political and economic choices will pay off soon,
and not just in some distant future. But nations that free
human potential, that invest in human capital and defend
human rights, have a better chance to develop and grow.
survival of
As President Clinton has stated:
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
“Democracies do not wage war against one another;
they make better partners in trade and diplomacy; and,
despite their inherent problems, they offer the best
guarantee for the protection of human rights.”
The United States welcomes the challenges raised in
the Secretary-General’s report on support for new and
restored democracies, and we look forward to continuing to
work with the United Nations and other international
organizations to develop the public and private institutions
essential to a working democracy and the rule of law.
Mr. Ziauddin (Bangladesh): Bangladesh was happy
to participate in the Second International Conference of
New or Restored Democracies, held in Managua from 4 to
6 July 1994, and was party to the Declaration and Plan of
Action adopted by the Conference. We therefore welcomed
and endorsed the inscription on the agenda of the item
entitled “Support by the United Nations system of the
efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or
restored democracies”. We also fully supported General
Assembly resolution 49/30 of 7 December 1994.
It therefore goes without saying that my delegation
strongly supports the continuing involvement of the United
Nations system, and, indeed, the international community,
individually and collectively,
in supporting efforts of
Governments to promote and consolidate democracy. In this
regard, we take particular cognisance of the Secretary-
General’s caveat that the United Nations system
“does not endorse or promote any specific form of
government”
and that
“Democracy is not a model to be copied from certain
States, but a goal to be attained by all people and
assimilated by all cultures.” (A/50/332, para. 5)
He goes on to refer to democratization as:
elections
to representative bodies,
“a process by which an authoritarian society becomes
increasingly participatory through such mechanisms as
periodic
the
accountability of public officials, a transparent public
administration, an independent judiciary and a free
press.
that
democratization does not necessarily lead immediately
to a fully democratic society. That goal may be
attained only in steps, with an authoritarian society
gradually becoming less so.” (A/50/332, para. 6)
inherent
It
is
in
this
concept
4
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
We fully agree with this view.
A factor of pre-eminent importance that Bangladesh
would like to stress is that democracy is not only a
sustained process, but provides the only long-term and
sustainable route to successful development. Democracy
and development are integrally interlinked. Just as nations
have a responsibility to promote better standards of living
as the essential base for restoring democracy, so the
international community must provide a more conducive
external environment through trade, investment and the
transfer of technology. Furthermore, Bangladesh fully
supports as relevant the essential premise of the Managua
Declaration that the democratic process and democratic
progress in our countries should not occur in isolation, but
must be provided with an avenue for continuous
communication and contact.
We welcome the Secretary General’s comprehensive
report pursuant
to resolution 49/30, which remains a
useful compendium of actual and potential areas of
support for the democratization process by the United
Nations system. We have taken specific cognisance of his
observation and recommendations relating to electoral
assistance; the role of international observers; means of
ensuring the durability of the democratization process;
administrative aspects of governance; cooperation in
institution-building and in such key areas of involvement
as the strengthening of leadership skills and political
institutions; support for effective judiciaries to guarantee
the rule of law and protection of human rights; and the
strengthening of linkages between government and civil
society through non-governmental organizations,
the
media, local government and professional associations and
through decentralization. Through support for democratic
structures and forms of government and a smooth
continuum from relief to sustainable development, secure
and solid foundations for peace, democratization and
development can be achieved. The entire process requires
a multiplicity
towards
democratization.
partners working
of
We therefore support the draft resolution now before
us and call on the Secretary-General to present a report to
the General Assembly, at
its next session, on the
implementation of the present draft resolution, including
ways and means to enable the Organization to respond
effectively and in an integrated manner to requests from
Member States for assistance in this field.
My delegation believes that
in the wake of the
important Third International Conference of New or
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Restored Democracies, scheduled to be held in Bucharest
in 1996, and the General Assembly resolutions,
the
concerns of countries with new or restored democracies will
be kept under scrutiny on a continuous basis.
Mr. Domingo (Philippines): The Philippines joins our
brother delegations in supporting draft resolution A/50/L.19,
which aims to move forward the initiative expressed in last
year’s consensus
resolution 49/30. Like many other
delegations, we also appreciate the Secretary General’s
report on United Nations efforts to assist, at the request of
Member States,
in their democratization. We believe,
however, that there is a need to intensify and optimize
United Nations efforts.
As noted both by the First International Conference of
New or Restored Democracies, which was held in Manila
in 1988, and by the Second International Conference, held
in Managua in 1994, many problems, both internal and
external, assail new and restored democracies. The national
euphoria resulting from the overthrow of a tyrannic
dictatorship or from a deliberate choice,
through legal
processes, to change a form of government is, in most
cases, as we have observed in the last few years, soon
dissipated by a realization that making a democracy work
is not as easy as proclaiming a democratic Government.
Internally, there are forces of the “left” and of the
“right” which tend to destabilize Governments. Leftist
forces seek to give more privileges, rights and benefits to
masses of people who seem to be left behind — justly or
unjustly — in the political, social and economic adjustment
processes. Rightist forces suspect anarchy in adjustment
processes and seek to strengthen unduly the powers of
government
in order to maintain order where national
discipline seems lacking. In many instances, minorities
within the body politic, encouraged by the prevailing spirit
of democratization, strive for recognition of their identity at
the expense of national unity and integrity.
Externally, new and restored democracies — often
constrained by mistakes or by habits from a long heritage
of State-controlled economies — find it difficult to compete
with countries experienced in capitalistic free trade. Thus,
there is a need for new and restored democracies to be
helped, both by sympathetic and friendly countries that are
aware of the difficulties they face and by international
organizations, like the United Nations, which could assist
technically and financially in helping democratizing States
achieve stability and self-reliance.
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
is
Not far beyond the immediate adjustment needs of
new and restored democracies
the need for
development. The linkage of development with democracy
should be obvious. Development fosters that domestic
stability which is a sine qua non for democracy, as well
as international peace and security -
the requisite
environment for the nurturing of democracy. It is thus
important for the United Nations — an Organization
committed to the
“prevention and removal of threats to peace”
— to support the efforts of Governments to
“promote
democracies”.
and
consolidate
new or
restored
United Nations
and
democratizing Governments should be based on the faith
of its founding fathers
democratic
support
for
“in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and
worth of the human person, in the equal rights of
men and women and of nations large and small”,
which are elements essential to a democracy.
I should like to reiterate what
the Philippine
delegation said last year on this point. United Nations
support, to be effective and durable, should be based on
serious study of the scope of support, of ways and means
to achieve objectives, as well as of Organization-wide
acceptance of the objectives and the means. What, in
concrete terms, can the United Nations do? What, in
concrete terms, can it not do or should it not do?
Thus, the Philippines sees the value of the operative
paragraph of the draft resolution requesting the Secretary-
General to submit a report to the fifty-first session of the
General Assembly on innovative ways and means to
enable the Organization,
in support of the efforts of
Governments, as requested by Member States, to respond
effectively and in an integrated manner.
In order that the Secretary-General’s study may be
properly appreciated by the general membership of the
United Nations, the General Assembly should include in
the agenda of its fifty-first session an item entitled
“Support by the United Nations system for the efforts of
Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored
democracies”.
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Conference of New or Restored Democracies was
first held in Manila in 1988, moved to Latin America in
1994 and will be held in Europe — in Bucharest — next
year. The whole world is interested in, and concerned
about, the aspirations to and problems of democratization.
Many countries seek United Nations assistance for their
efforts to practise democracy. We hope that the Secretary-
General’s report and its early discussion by the General
Assembly will serve as an important input to the Third
International Conference of New or Restored Democracies.
New and restored democracies are becoming a very
relevant force in today’s world. May they continue to grow
and thrive in their democratic way of life, for the peace and
security of the entire world.
(Argentina)
Mr. Cárdenas
(interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation is particularly pleased to speak on
this agenda item, concerning the support by the United
Nations system for the efforts of Governments to promote
and consolidate new or restored democracies.
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
In the framework of democracy and the freedom that
it guarantees,
initiative flourishes and political and
economic freedom results in increased opportunities. This
is not just a romantic idea; the practical lesson of history
is that oppression and authoritarianism always come to an
end by making insecure the very regimes that
they
support.
The modern concept of development is based on
these freedoms, but also on the responsibilities of the
State, representing society, which must guarantee respect
for individual freedoms and must strengthen the system
itself.
Respect
for
individual
freedoms, human rights,
freedom of expression, tolerance, respect for justice: these
are all values that are established slowly — slowly by
comparison with the speed with which totalitarian regimes
usually seize their illegitimate power. Thus, countries that
enjoy democracy today have an unavoidable duty to
promote it where it does not exist and to renew their full
support for the consolidation of transitional processes.
As the Heads of State or Government declared at the
latest Ibero-American Summit held in my country last
month, democracy, respect for human rights and respect for
the fundamental freedoms of the human person are essential
values for our peoples. These three values, whose defence
is of great importance to our country, are three central
pillars of
the modern State, necessarily affecting the
prosperity and stability of our societies.
Democracy is undoubtedly the best
system of
government for proper channelling of the popular will. It
produces Governments with a mandate — a mandate to
whose fulfilment those Governments must be unshakeably
committed. If they act honestly and effectively they are
rewarded at the ballot box. The democratic process also
makes it possible to correct abuses and to eliminate
corruption or arbitrary action by the powerful, who are
inexorably replaced when the people lose trust in them.
Latin America was plagued by totalitarian regimes for
a number of decades. However, in recent years, in the new
international situation, a growing number of countries have
adopted and recognized democracy as the best system of
government. There have been many elections in the region,
producing general expressions of commitment to democracy
and creating new areas of peace and dialogue, which are
essential
is urgently
needed in our countries.
for development, something that
6
That is why my country is represented here today,
the Second
just as it was in Managua last year at
of New or Restored
International Conference
Democracies, speaking in support of this objective, which
is a matter of priority for us. The United Nations, under
its Charter, has
responsibility to help
consolidate new democracies and prevent any return to
anachronistic systems of oppression.
a historic
For these reasons, my country, with total conviction,
has no hesitation in endorsing and co-sponsoring the draft
resolution.
Mr. Pirozhkov (Ukraine)
(interpretation from
Russian): The process of moving towards a democratic
society, engaged in by many States which have taken the
road of renewal and progress, is gaining the recognition
and support of the world community. We can say without
exaggeration that
trend in the
development of world civilization on the eve of the third
millennium, and there is no doubt that it will intensify in
the twenty-first century.
this is a dominant
In this year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, the delegation of Ukraine reiterates the high
value that it attaches to the Organization’s multifaceted
activities in the areas of peace-keeping and conflict-
prevention, help for the poor and the unfortunate and
efforts to unite countries and peoples on the basis of the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
principles of democracy, justice and progress. Within these
for
extensive activities, support
the
International Conferences
of New or Restored
Democracies — the first of which was held in Manila in
1989, and the second in Managua in 1994 — constitutes a
new and important trend.
the initiatives of
for
subject
clarified mechanisms
We can observe with satisfaction that, for many new
States that emerged at the end of the twentieth century, the
Secretary-General’s interesting and comprehensive report on
this
the practical
realization of the principles and strategy involved in the
creation of a modern civil society. Moreover, the types of
interaction between international organizations and national
States in respect of democratic changes in individual States
that are engulfed in civil war and have deeply rooted
authoritarian traditions have become clearer. This aspect of
the activities of the United Nations system requires special
attention and demands respect for the peoples of the new
States, where the democratic process is still very fragile and
is only now being put on a solid foundation.
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
abandon it. Of course, there are still many obstacles and
difficulties on this path that are typical for post-socialist
countries with economies in transition, but for our country
there is not — and cannot be — any other alternative to
the establishment of an open civil society.
We pay tribute to the efforts of Governments to
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies. At
the same time, we place much hope in the United Nations
system to establish constant
in order
to make the use of
“trusteeship over new States in the process of
formation,
force
inadmissible and ensure adherence to the established
norms of international law” (Official Records of the
General Assembly, Plenary Meetings, 35th meeting,
p. 6)
the
suggested
of Ukraine,
as
by
Mr. L. D. Kuchma,
the Special Commemorative
Meeting of the United Nations General Assembly on the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization.
President
at
As a newly sovereign State, Ukraine is entirely at one
with the new or restored democracies, which have actively
declared their commitment to democratic choice and have
broadened participation to large
their
populations in the processes of social, political and
economic change, through such mechanisms as nationwide
elections to representative bodies, accountability of State
officials, a transparent public administration, a reformed
judiciary and a free press.
segments of
The delegation of Ukraine fully agrees with the
contents of the report by the Secretary-General on the
support by the United Nations system for new and
restored democracies, in particular the proposition that:
“Without national and global confidence in the
essential elements required for the development of a
robust economy, democratization will be threatened”.
(A/50/332, para. 112)
that on 9 November 1995,
This multifaceted process of democratic transformation
is taking place in full measure in our country too. This is
confirmed by the fact
in
Strasbourg, Ukraine was solemnly admitted as a full-
fledged member of the Council of Europe. It has acceded
to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and
Fundamental Freedoms, and is constantly occupied with
developing a multi-party system, establishing free and
independent mass media,
democratic
structures of government, and carrying out legal reform.
consolidating
Our delegation would especially like to emphasize that
inter-ethnic peace has been firmly established in sovereign
Ukraine, and there are no ethnic conflicts. This undeniably
shows that we are on the right lines in such an extremely
important and delicate sphere as State policy on national
groups.
We note that Ukraine has confidently embarked on the
path of democratic transformation and will never voluntarily
adopted
of Ukraine,
the Government
In this connection, I would like to inform the
General Assembly about a new programme of activities
of
on
11 October 1995 by the Supreme Council, the highest
legislative body. This programme is aimed primarily at
achieving macroeconomic stabilization and halting the
slump in production, which is the main source of growth
in living standards for the population. Implementation of
this programme will be accompanied by the adoption of
a new Constitution, development of legislation, structural
and industrial readjustment of the economy, consolidation
of the financial and monetary system, retraining of public
service personnel and a rise in business activity.
these plans, we feel
In the realization of
the
understanding and support of the international financial
organizations for the problems of Ukraine, and their
readiness to render assistance in overcoming the complex
problems of the transitional period. Today Ukraine stands
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
at the beginning of the road to transformational reforms, but
we believe that it will not change direction and will become
a full-fledged member of the community of democratic
States.
the democratic institutions of
In the countries with new or restored democracies,
new negative problems are also appearing, whose solution
reaches beyond the borders of those States. These are the
problems of refugees and illegal migrants, organized crime
and international terrorism, the transit of narcotic drugs and
so on. As
the new
democracies are strengthened, as pointed out in document
A/50/332, a reduction in the assistance and attention given
to these States by the United Nations system can be
foreseen. In this connection, in the opinion of the Ukrainian
delegation, international cooperation between the United
Nations and the new democracies should not die out, but,
on the contrary, should be reinforced, bearing in mind that
every positive process, unfortunately, also has negative
consequences, which must be neutralized and eliminated;
this can be achieved only through the united efforts of
representatives of the world community.
The development and consolidation of new or restored
democracies is a global problem for mankind, the solution
of which, we hope, will occupy the place it deserves in
United Nations activities in the twenty-first century.
The Ukrainian delegation supports the draft resolution
introduced by the delegation of Nicaragua on this agenda
item and requests that Ukraine be included in the list of
co-sponsors of document A/50/L.19.
Mr. Sychou (Belarus) (interpretation from Russian):
First of all, I should like to thank United Nations Secretary-
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his informative and
comprehensive report
to the General Assembly on the
forms and mechanisms of support by the United Nations
system for new and restored democracies.
At this session, as it did last year, the Republic of
Belarus has joined in co-sponsoring the draft resolution on
this question. We consider that the process of creation and
democratic development of States which have experienced
totalitarianism in their history and then rejected it deserves
full support and encouragement by the United Nations and
by the world community as a whole. The fact that the
United Nations
fiftieth
anniversary year is the result of the radical changes that
have occurred in the post-confrontational world and bears
witness to the ability of the United Nations to react
energetically to the new challenges of time.
tackling this
topic in its
is
8
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
for
their
The Republic of Belarus, which in March 1994
adopted a new Constitution focusing first and foremost on
people and respect
inalienable rights and
freedoms, and which has elected the first President in its
history, has embarked on democratic reforms. The
experience of
independence and
progress on the road to reform unfortunately has shown
that
the processes of transformation of political and
economic systems require large material and social
resources, and do not always go forward painlessly.
the early years of
In the case of Belarus, these processes have been
burdened by the consequences of the erstwhile senseless
arms race, which resulted in the accumulation on its
territory of a considerable quantity of armaments which
our State must
today reduce in accordance with its
international obligations. The solution of questions linked
with the Chernobyl nuclear plant accident are a serious
additional burden for the national economy. However,
whatever the specific problems characteristic of each State
experiencing a period of transition to a democratic form
of social organization, one thing is beyond question:
namely, that overcoming the obstacles standing in the way
depends on the effectiveness of the interrelationship
between democracy and development.
The Managua Declaration, adopted at the Second
International Conference of New or Restored Democracies
in July 1994, reaffirms the proposition that:
“Development, as one of the fundamental rights
the full exercise of
of all nations, promotes
democracy”. (A/49/713, para. 6)
At the same time, the stable development of new or
restored democracies depends on the successful reform of
its political and economic institutions, and we believe that
the United Nations possibilities in that direction are far
from having been exhausted.
I
In conclusion,
should like to confirm the
attachment of the Government of Belarus to the principles
of democracy, political pluralism and the protection of
human rights, and to express the hope that the draft
resolution on “Support by the United Nations system of
the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate
new or
restored democracies” will be adopted by
consensus.
Mr. Laing (Belize): Democracy is often painful.
When the old order changes, politicians in power,
bureaucrats and others associated with them suffer. So do
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
their domestic and foreign collaborators, since scholars,
governmental colleagues, diplomats and others now have to
develop new relationships, friendships and even loyalties.
Democracy, in the sense of the process of the exercise
of the popular will, is often painful as well. On the one
hand, the masses do not always use the best table manners
in exercising their choice. On the other hand, the obvious
choice of the people — the anointed — sometimes do not
accept the popular will and do not serve.
When the people have spoken,
their anointed
representatives, once in office, often interpret their mandate
in ways not acceptable to the people. The value system,
concepts and laws of the new leaders might provoke a
desire, or even a clamour, for that which was recently
jettisoned.
However, centuries of accumulated history have taught
us that the alternatives to democracy are no substitute for
that fragile and often bitter plant. If pain accompanies the
pleasure of democracy, this is merely a human reality. We
must therefore express heartfelt praise to those nations
Members of this Organization that, with little prior tutelage
in or experience of democracy, have taken the giant step
into that terra incognita.
All praise is due to the Secretary-General for the
valuable efforts at undergirding democracy described in his
report contained in document A/50/332. Praise is also due
to the Commonwealth for similar efforts. We must also
ensure that both organizations are provided with support,
especially voluntary support, in the performance of their
remarkable tasks.
The report discusses
the task of promoting a
democratic culture. In that connection,
it stresses the
importance of nurturing a climate for pluralistic political
parties and movements. My delegation wishes to support
the various suggestions,
including the importance of
establishing systems for appropriate training.
Regarding the report’s discussion of the need for free
and independent media, we are impressed with the efforts
of the Department of Public Information (DPI) to support
independent and pluralistic media in various regions. We
wish to stress the importance of such media’s being
completely autonomous,
if not autochthonous. This is
particularly necessary in these days of globalism in the
media, since global uniformity is, logically, anathema to
true freedom, independence and democracy. We hope, too,
that in its seminars, in the context of the political process,
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
DPI stresses the importance of the media’s renouncing the
use and abuse of sound bites that distort and deceive.
As the report suggests, establishing an adequate
political culture requires broad-based civic education. This
could be aided by the sponsorship of study visits by
politicians and others to appropriate countries with well-
developed electoral systems. However, ways and means
must also be found to inculcate in politicians, who often
operate systems of spoils, the value of love, a word we do
not often utter in this hallowed Hall.
legal
One cannot express anything less than unstinting
praise for the numerous actions of electoral assistance
taken by the Organization, as described in the report. As
with the similar actions which have been taken by the
Commonwealth, one is bound to recall
that a major
ingredient of the venerable doctrine of self-determination
is the human right to democracy. One may therefore
legitimately ask whether or not there has developed a
universal
broad-based
democracy. Of course, any such universal requirement of
democracy would have to be in line with the desiderata of
decentralization and respect for and compliance with the
traditional structures of authority in society, as discussed
in the report. Likewise, the structures of government
which, pursuant to that norm, must be built should indeed
include the other human rights, as the report seems to
indicate. However, we would remind representatives that
such human rights should, in addition to civil and political
rights, include cultural, economic and social rights.
norm commanding
Such a broad-based democracy must
clearly
incorporate a set of firm legal structures. But, as the
report clearly indicates, those structures should not, willy-
nilly, connote a
“wholesale transfer of Western-based legislation”
(A/50/332, para. 103)
civil
service
After all, democracy, by definition, must have a variable
content, for which the United Nations must provide
appropriate and tailor-made assistance. Happily, the report
identifies the importance of assistance through capacity-
building,
improving
accountability, transparency and quality of public-sector
management. In this connection, the baneful character of
corruption is stressed. My delegation urges that efforts to
extirpate this scourge should be no less far-reaching than
those directed at the evils of terrorism and narcotics. And
they should reach, as far as is appropriate, into the private
sector, which is increasingly a substitute for government.
reform and
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
That thought leads to consideration of the extent to
which unmitigated globalism is consistent with democracy.
Inasmuch as globalism connotes uninhibited concentration
and monopolization of business organizations, production
and markets, it must be asked whether it is compatible with
the popularism inherent in democracy. My delegation hopes
that this subject will be taken up by the Secretariat in its
future work.
fully
expects
delegation
Finally, my
that,
internationally, democracy will continue to be developed as
a relevant and vibrant value and institution. As Belizean
Prime Minister Manuel Esquivel recently remarked to the
General Assembly,
this
Organization is equality. My delegation believes that
equality is a vital aspect of democracy which we must
enshrine in such fields as the role of small States in the
global
the participation of women and the
composition and structure of the Security Council.
the unfinished business of
system,
Our thanks are due the Philippines and Nicaragua,
which have kept before the General Assembly and the
world this important subject of support for the new or
restored democracies. However, as we have indicated, the
subject needs to be extended to include all democracies.
(Russian
Mr. Ordzhonikidze
Federation)
(interpretation from Russian): The movement of countries
of new and renewed democracy was born very recently. Its
history is not
long, not as long as the history of
democracies or the 50-year history of the United Nations,
which emerged in response to the challenge posed to world
society by totalitarianism.
Nevertheless, the movement has already passed two
major milestones — the First and Second International
Conferences of New or Restored Democracies, held in
Manila and Managua, respectively — and we are gradually
preparing the ideological
foundations for cooperation
between the States participants in the movement. The
Managua Declaration and the Plan of Action adopted last
year do indeed bode well for the future, and we hope that
the next Conference, in Bucharest, will lead to an even
greater understanding that the tasks to be carried out by
States with different forms of democratic structures are
common to all of us.
The ideas underlying the movement of countries with
new or restored democracies cannot but be consonant with
the ideals of the community of nations. Consolidation of
democracy and political stability promote sustainable
development and economic growth. As we see it, the value
10
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
of democratization is primarily that, having become an
integral part of the internal political processes, it provides
a basis for reconciliation, tolerance, full application of,
respect
for and defence of human rights, and the
development of social practices based on the peaceful
search for constructive solutions.
At a time when democracies, proceeding from the
pluralism of ideas and interests as expressed by parties,
movements and ethnic, religious and language groups, are
exerting efforts towards further development, people are
learning tolerance and beginning to understand that
potential differences are not grounds for crude force,
terrorist acts or appeals to separatism; and at a time when
ways of stabilizing internal situations are no longer the
main concern of Governments, real preconditions begin to
exist
sustained economic growth and social
development geared to the individual.
for
In our view, awareness of the positive potential of
these common ideas served as the basis for political
consensus and the adoption last year of the resolution
recognizing the importance of the Managua Declaration
and the Plan of Action and requesting the Secretary-
General to study the ways and mechanisms in which the
United Nations system could support the efforts of the
Governments of new and restored democracies. Today,
relying on this important document, States can continue
the dialogue on what must be done so that efforts by
Governments to develop democracy not only enjoy the
support of the United Nations system, but so that in fact
the very focused activities of the world community itself
can serve to promote and strengthen democratic structures
in Member States.
We believe that putting the question this way could
provide a powerful
incentive to develop respect for
human rights and the rule of law and legality and to put
a brake on the danger of the disintegration of State
structures or the emergence of internal conflicts. It is not
necessary to mention the resources that are used by the
United Nations system to deal with the consequences of
internal conflict, but of course these United Nations
efforts cannot in themselves and all at once fully heal the
wounds
aggressive
nationalism and contemporary manifestations of racism or
religious intolerance. Massive flows of refugees from
places where the democratic institutions, because of their
weakness have not been able to challenge conflicts about
to erupt
into political discussion and constructive
solutions, are sad testimony to this.
inflicted
peoples
on
by
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The report of the Secretary-General highlights some
aspects of the question of how to provide United Nations
system support for the efforts of Governments to promote
and consolidate new or restored democracies. Perhaps it is
not altogether fortuitous that the main focus has been on
assistance in holding elections. Democracy, as is well
known, begins with the awareness of the right of everybody
to participate in the government of his country either
directly or through freely elected representatives, and the
Russian Federation, consistently following this difficult
process of step-by-step constitutional reform, will gladly
welcome international observers, including United Nations
observers, for our elections in December.
But, in our view, no less important than the holding of
elections are such activities of the United Nations as
providing assistance to States in establishing free and
independent mass-
information media, promoting the
establishment of educational systems in the area of human
rights, establishing and strengthening democratic structures
of administration, ensuring the supremacy of law, and so
forth.
Recognizing that democracy and development are
among the main foundations of international peace and
security, the States participating in the Second International
Conference of New or Restored Democracies agreed that
strengthening democratic processes is a key element in
consolidating peace and international security. Russia
cannot but welcome this approach.
Mr. Jele (South Africa): My delegation considers that
the agenda item before us represents one of the important
aspects of the principles guiding this body.
Even as a young democracy, South Africa has already
experienced many of the facets that the draft resolution and
the Secretary-General’s report address. Having experienced
the destructive and anti-human force of apartheid, we owe
it to ourselves and to humanity to order our affairs in such
a manner that an effective and lasting blow is struck against
any form of dictatorship.
We believe Member States must build on the cause,
common to us all, that everywhere on the globe there is a
process leading to the entrenchment of democratic systems
of government. The ordinary people of the world must have
the freedom to determine their destiny, unhindered by
tyrants and dictators. However, we must guard against the
tendency to project certain models of democracy as a
universal panacea and role models for all Member States.
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
The role of the United Nations system to support
efforts by Governments to promote and consolidate new
or restored democracies is a vital one for those States
emerging into democracy. The United Nations has vast
experience in this area and should support efforts towards
good governance.
In this context we welcome the
Secretary-General’s
document
A/50/332.
contained
report
in
We in South Africa are engaged in the process of
redefining ourselves in democratic terms. Our drive
towards a democratic dispensation is motivated by the
unshakeable belief that only democracy can and will
satisfy the yearning of equality and freedom for all the
people of South Africa, Black and White.
Our Government of National Unity is committed to
a people-centred society of liberty. Far from using ethnic
diversity to promote racial domination and tyranny, as
witnessed in the dark days of apartheid,
the new
Government recognizes ethnic and cultural diversity as
part of the rich tapestry of our country, a creative
contribution
non-sexist,
democratic South Africa. We therefore consider it vital to
build a future premised on fundamental human rights, and
for the realization of this objective we pursue an approach
that
rights and that
perceives no difference between civil and political rights,
on the one hand, and cultural, social and economic rights,
on the other.
recognizes the indivisibility of
non-racial,
building
to
a
The new Parliament of South Africa now operates
within the framework of a Constitution which is the
supreme law of
the country, and under which the
independent Constitutional Court serves as an effective
mechanism to ensure that Government actions are in line
with our Bill of Human Rights.
The Secretary-General has touched on a number of
key issues that are essential for the promotion and
consolidation of democracy. A multiparty political system,
free and independent media, the building of a political
culture through civic education, regular elections, the
creation and strengthening of democratic structures of
government, and respect for the rule of law are some of
the most
important are
government accountability and transparency.
important aspects.
Just as
The challenge to the United Nations is to answer the
question: given our interdependence, what is it that we
can and must do to ensure that democracy, peace and
prosperity prevail everywhere?
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
My delegation believes that the elaboration of the new
world order must of necessity centre on this Organization
and that appropriate forums should be found in which we
could all participate to help determine the shape of the new
world. We believe, as our President has said, that the four
elements that would need to be knit together in fashioning
that new, universal reality are: democracy, peace, prosperity
and interdependence.
As we continue to debate the reform of the United
Nations, we believe that the Organization should once more
turn its focused and sustained attention to the basics of
everything that makes for a better world for all humanity.
In this regard,
the thought-provoking observations and
recommendations made by the Secretary-General in his
report deserve our careful consideration.
We fully support the draft resolution before us and
hope it will be adopted by consensus.
Mr. Alakwaa (Yemen) (interpretation from Arabic):
No one values the blessings of democracy more than those
who have been deprived of it. We, in the Republic of
Yemen, have included in the Constitution of the United
Yemen a number of principal articles that guarantee
democracy and protect human rights and fundamental
freedoms. We have not confined ourselves to legislating
and laying down rules and regulations that do just that, but
have gone beyond the theoretical framework into the field
of genuine actual exercise of democracy. In the political
arena in our country there are now more than 30 political
parties and more than 100 newspapers and periodicals. The
first parliamentary elections
in United Yemen were
organized on the 27th of April 1993, with the participation
of all national forces without exception. In short, all
segments of Yemeni society now have the right
to
participate in policy-formulation and in decision-making as
well as in the actual implementation of such policies and
decisions. The Government of United Yemen is now
engaged in returning confiscated properties to their rightful
owners and in compensating those who sustain a loss as a
result of such return. It has also cancelled all restrictions on
emigration. There is no citizen that is now deprived of the
right to travel abroad.
While we agree with the report of the Secretary-
General contained in document A/50/332, in particular with
paragraphs 5 and 7 of its introduction, to the effect that
democracy is not a model to be copied from certain States,
and on the ways and means whereby assistance may be
given in this regard, we believe that notwithstanding the
existence of special circumstances and characteristics in
12
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
certain societies, this should not prevent the establishment
or restoration of democracy albeit gradually, until such
circumstances and characteristics allow for the adoption
of a genuine and developing democratic system that
would be founded on the participation by all in action and
in the business of Government.
We share the opinion voiced by the Foreign Minister
of Nicaragua, namely that democracy is not an end in
itself and that is not a cure-all for the ills of society. Yes,
indeed, it is no panacea for all problems, but it does
afford all social
forces the opportunity of working
together in seeking solutions to those problems. We value
the assistance extended by the United Nations for the
consolidation or restoration of democracy. Incidentally,
preparations will be made shortly in the Republic of
Yemen for the holding of the second parliamentary
elections in the context of our abiding unity. We shall be
grateful for any assistance that may be extended to us by
this Organization, by any Member State or by non-
governmental organizations in our forthcoming electoral
process.
Finally, we support
resolution
contained in document A/50/L.19, soon to be adopted by
this Assembly.
fully the draft
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on item 41.
I should like to inform members that action on draft
resolution A/50/L.19 will be taken at a later date, to be
announced.
Agenda item 47
Question of equitable representation on and increase
in the membership of the Security Council and related
matters
The Acting President: Members will recall that at
its 108th meeting, held on 18 September 1995,
the
General Assembly adopted decision 49/499, by which the
Assembly decided
“that
the Open-ended Working Group on the
Question of Equitable Representation on and
Increase in the Membership of the Security Council
and Other Matters Related to the Security Council
should continue its work, taking into account, inter
alia, the progress achieved during the forty-eighth
and forty-ninth sessions and the views expressed
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
during the fiftieth session of the General Assembly,
including its Special Commemorative Meeting on the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, and submit a report to the Assembly before
the end of its fiftieth session, including any agreed
recommendations”.
In this connection, I should like to recall, for the
attention of members, document A/49/965, which contains
a letter dated 15 September 1995 from the Permanent
Representatives of Finland and Thailand to the United
Nations addressed to the President of
the General
Assembly. The two Permanent Representatives, in their
capacities as Vice-Chairmen of the Open-ended Working
Group during the forty-ninth session,
forward to the
Assembly in document A/49/965 the compendium of their
observations and assessments, their discussion papers, and
proposals and other documents presented to the Open-ended
Working Group.
Before calling on the first speaker, I should like to
propose that the list of speakers in the debate on this item
be closed today at noon.
It was so decided.
The Acting President: There are already 70 names on
the list of speakers. I therefore request those representatives
wishing to participate in the debate to add their names to
the list as soon as possible. In view of the long list, I
should like to appeal to members to keep their statements
to no more than 10 minutes, if possible.
Mr. Martínez Blanco (Honduras) (interpretation from
Spanish): Honduras is speaking in the debate on item 47 of
the agenda, “Question of equitable representation on and
increase in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters”, on behalf also of the Central American
countries of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua
and Panama.
Central America welcomes and takes note of document
A/49/965, which the General Assembly has before it today.
We would like to thank the Vice-Chairmen of the Open-
ended Working Group, the Permanent Representatives of
Finland and Thailand,
their dedicated efforts in
preparing this document in their personal capacity.
for
and
Legitimacy
effectiveness
two
characteristics that must distinguish the Security Council of
the United Nations before the international community.
Two other goals sought by the Working Group are
are
the
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
transparency and democracy in the work of the Council,
the organ upon which the Charter has conferred primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace
and security. Making the Security Council into a more
representative, credible and effective body with a more
equitable composition is the general objective of the effort
begun with the adoption, in this Hall, of resolutions 47/62
and 48/26.
Much was done to achieve these objectives during
the forty-ninth regular session of the General Assembly.
The dialogue in the Working Group made it possible to
identify some points of agreement among Member
States
and to draw up a compendium of ideas and
proposals, which will serve as an important basis for the
negotiating stage to be undertaken by the Working Group.
However, major differences remain that will require in-
depth analysis by the Working Group.
its
enhance
Central America shares the view that the objective
of increasing the membership of the Security Council is
to
legitimacy while maintaining its
effectiveness. The increase will have to reflect
the
changes that have taken place on the international scene,
including the substantial increase in the membership of
the United Nations. The desire expressed by the Members
of the United Nations to enhance the effectiveness of the
Security Council will become reality if we make the
Council as representative an organ as possible, reflecting
the universal character of
the United Nations and
including within it
the greatest possible variety of
interests and views, and if we adopt, as guiding principles
to that end, those of the sovereign equality of States and
of equitable geographical distribution, as provided in the
Charter.
Central America believes that
the principle of
democratization in international relations requires greater
representativity in the organs of the United Nations. Only
a Security Council with a broad membership based on the
principle of equitable geographical representation can
have the necessary legitimacy to act on behalf of all the
Members of the United Nations, as it should pursuant to
Article 24, paragraph 1, of the Charter. Only a broad
membership can give the Security Council greater
credibility, for its members will
then be inclined to
greater participation in the collective responsibility of the
maintenance of international peace and security.
We recognize the importance for the composition of
the Council of the participation, as permanent members,
of those States that have global political and economic
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to,
the
responsibility
influence and the capacity to share in, and contribute
financially
for maintaining
international peace and security. However, we would deem
it unacceptable if, through the application of those criteria,
only developed countries could be admitted to the category
of permanent membership. That would be incompatible
with the principles of the sovereign equality of all Members
of
the United Nations and the democratization of
international relations. We believe that, in order to arrive at
a consensus in selecting new permanent members, we
should include developing countries in that category,
applying the same criteria as those set forth in the Charter
for the election of non-permanent members. Ideally, the
category of permanent membership would be eliminated
gradually, because its creation was justified by past realities
but
is no longer appropriate in the new international
context.
The Central American region strongly supports the
idea of increasing the number of non-permanent members
of the Security Council, in view of the need for equitable
geographical representation. In this context, we believe that
the various proposals submitted by the Member States
deserve careful analysis. We are of the view that
the
countries of Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and
Asia should have increased representation in the Council.
The United Nations has grown considerably in the past 30
years. This justifies increasing the membership of the
Council, mainly with developing countries — which
constitute the majority of Member States — so that their
interests can be duly represented, thereby preserving the
pluralistic nature of the Council and democratizing its
decision-taking processes. We believe also that the non-
permanent members should have an opportunity to be re-
elected alternately. To that end, Article 23, paragraph 2, of
the Charter would have to be amended. This measure could
help to improve representation in the Council.
The countries of Central America believe that the right
of veto should be limited and ultimately abolished. The
circumstances at the end of the Second World War that
gave rise to the veto have changed and there is no longer
any justification whatsoever for the veto. Central Americans
feel that the right of veto should not be granted to any
potential permanent members of the Security Council.
Equal treatment for new and old permanent members is an
unacceptable legal basis for granting it, also because the
veto in itself is an anti-democratic practice and is contrary
to the principle of the sovereign equality of States. Any
reform of the Council will have to settle this issue with a
view ultimately to abolishing the veto. To that end, we
14
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
agree with the proposal to hold periodic reviews of the
veto and other voting procedures.
With regard to other matters related to the Security
Council, Central America is satisfied with the progress
made towards increasing transparency and with regard to
the Council’s working methods. The measures already
adopted, which simply reflect the discussions held in the
Open-ended Working Group, are a significant contribution
to increasing the Council’s legitimacy and credibility. We
believe that these measures should be institutionalized and
reviewed periodically, and we agree that there should be
more consultations between the Security Council and
interested parties, regional arrangements and organizations
and countries that contribute troops to peace-keeping
operations. Similarly, we acknowledge that it is important
for the Security Council to adopt specific measures to
improve the working relationship with the General
Assembly, with other United Nations bodies, and with
States that are not members of the Council.
The Central American region feels that the results of
the efforts made at the last two sessions by the Open-
ended Working Group are highly significant and lay a
firm foundation for beginning the Security Council reform
process. We are sure that the various proposals made by
Member States or groups of Member States are all useful
and will help to expedite negotiations. As the Vice-
Chairmen of
the Open-ended Working Group have
recognized, much remains to be done before broad
agreement is reached among all Member States, but to
secure that agreement we should continue to give impetus
to the activities of the Open-ended Working Group.
Finally, the Central American States share the view
that Member States should take full advantage of the
momentum generated by the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations to use this fiftieth session of the General
Assembly to work towards the substantial achievements
we have set in motion.
We hope that the reform of the Security Council will
be realistic and inspired by democratic principles and
objective criteria so that all Members of the United
Nations, including small States, have the opportunity to
participate in the Council and thereby to help it shoulder
its tremendous responsibility.
Mr. Kamunanwire (Uganda):
In the light of
statements made during the forty-ninth session of the
General Assembly,
it had been the wish of most
delegations that the settlement of the question of equitable
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
representation on and an increase in the membership of the
Security Council and related matters would be one of the
most important outcomes of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations. Unfortunately,
this is not happening.
Instead, differences and divergent views on the issue
continue to make a breakthrough difficult.
My delegation, however, recognizes and commends
the seriousness and serious efforts of the President of the
General Assembly and the Chairman and the two Vice-
Chairmen of the Open-ended Working Group on the matter.
In particular, we pay special
tribute to Ambassador
Wilhelm Breitenstein of Finland and Ambassador Nitya
Pibulsonggram of Thailand for the achievements so far. In
their report,
there is
general agreement on the expansion of the Security Council
and on reviewing its working methods and other matters
related to its functioning in a way that further strengthens
its capacity and effectiveness, enhances its representative
character and improves
its working efficiency. This
achievement should now enable us to resolutely narrow the
crucial issues of how to expand the Council and review its
working methods.
the Vice-Chairmen conclude that
A number of proposals have been made on guiding
principles for the democratization of the Security Council.
The principle of equitable geographical distribution of
permanent seats in the Security Council, reflecting the
current expanded membership of the United Nations should
be of the essence. Other considerations such as
“the capacity to share global responsibility for the
maintenance of
international peace and security”
(A/49/965, para. 6)
should not demean another principle,
that of political
commitment by all Member States. Moreover, any attempt
to give prominence only to the most powerful nations will
serve to negate the principle of the equal sovereignty of all
Member States. The position of Uganda is that Africa
should be allocated permanent seats in the expanded
Security Council proportional to the size of its membership
in the United Nations.
Any genuine reform of the Security Council must
address the question of the veto. Whatever categories and
types of membership are finally agreed upon, all members
of the Security Council should exercise equal powers.
Either the veto power applies to all or it should be
dispensed with. The argument that the veto power
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
“had ensured the continued participation of the
major Powers in the Organization” (ibid., para. 13)
sends messages of domination; and it not only undermines
democratic principles but also contravenes the Charter
principle of the sovereign equality of all Member States.
In its present form, the Security Council has initiated
commendable measures and new practices aimed at
improvements in transparency and working methods. This
momentum should continue so that the measures taken
and practices adopted reflect
transparency and
clearly streamlined methods of work within the Council.
In particular,
relationship
between the Council and the other organs of the United
Nations, especially the General Assembly.
there should be a mutual
total
is
seized, as
In this respect,
the General Assembly, as the
supreme policy-making organ, should be constantly and
fully informed on all issues and strategies of which the
Council
the most
representative forum, the body where all Member States
have equal opportunity to express their concerns and
interests with regard to various issues — including peace-
keeping and international security — that affect
the
international community.
the Assembly is
Further, with regard to the issue of Security Council
consultations concerning peace-keeping operations, it is
logical and important to include regional organizations
and countries of the region concerned. These not only
play a complementary role in preventive diplomacy and
peace-keeping but also, and in particular, bear the brunt
of the influx of those whom conflict has made refugees
or displaced persons, as well as providing logistical bases
for peace-keeping operations.
If my delegation is pressing for democratization of
the Security Council and for strengthening of the General
Assembly, it is because an inequitable United Nations will
serve neither the ends of peace nor those of development.
Mr. Fulci (Italy): As I am speaking for the first time
under your presidency, Sir, I should like to begin by
recognizing the very important contribution that you, as
the Permanent Representative of Thailand, have made to
the work and activities of the United Nations, thanks to
your experience, talent and impartiality.
We held the very first meeting of the Open-ended
Working Group on reform of the Security Council on 19
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
January 1994. We have been discussing this question, at
times very intensely, for almost two years.
We have, by and large, reached consensus on some
essentials — namely, that the Council must operate with
transparency, effectiveness and efficiency and must have
better coordination with the General Assembly and with
other United Nations bodies. But no progress whatsoever
has been made on the essential
issue of enlargement.
Positions on this point have not become any closer; if
anything, they are further apart and more entrenched than
ever. Consequently, we missed the initial target: to agree on
reform in time for the fiftieth anniversary. The only thing
which we seem to have agreed on is that we are in
profound disagreement on how to enlarge the Council.
The reasons behind this disagreement are very clear to
the Italian delegation. We are confronted by two opposing
visions of the future of our Organization. One is an
approach that I do not hesitate to call elitist; the other is a
democratic one.
Some Member States maintain that we should increase
the number of permanent seats by two — a solution that
has been dubbed “the quick fix”. Even though this formula
has apparently been abandoned by some of its initiators,
others still seem to favour it. Reform of this type would not
be evolution. Rather, it would be involution of the present
system. The five current permanent members are all from
the northern hemisphere, and almost all of them are fully
industrialized, prosperous nations. Adding two more with
the same profile, rather than correcting this imbalance,
would clearly aggravate it.
A variation of this formula is the “2+3” proposal: two
permanent seats for highly developed nations, and three
permanent seats for the developing world — that is to say,
one for Asia, one for Africa and one for Latin America.
Objections have been raised to this approach, for many
reasons.
First, it would benefit only two or five Members of
the United Nations, to the detriment of the remaining 175.
The end result would be a small directorate of big
countries, making critical decisions on questions that affect
us all, but on which we would have no say. Furthermore,
this formula would introduce the concept of elitism — of
continental, hegemonic power — where it has so far been
absent and where, I believe, it does not belong: in the world
of non-aligned countries.
16
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
Secondly, this formula would double the number of
Council members fully absolved from the need to stand
for democratic election. And, to me, one thing is clear: if
10 members of the Security Council were never again —
no more, for eternity — to have to pass the test of an
election, the General Assembly’s attempts at dialogue and
interaction with such a Council would have almost nil
results.
Thirdly, there are countries that contribute more to
the United Nations budget than do some of the current
permanent members. Others have larger populations or
make more substantial contributions to United Nations
activities. If they were shut out of permanent membership,
they would inevitably compete for non-permanent seats
much more frequently than they do now. This, in turn,
would greatly diminish the election chances of other,
medium-sized to small, countries in their respective
geographic
even
acrimony would prevail if the “quick fix” or the “2+3”
formula were adopted.
groups. Disharmony,
resentment,
Fourthly, since permanent members cannot be
removed, except by their own agreement — a most
unlikely occurrence — the new permanent members
would,
in principle, sit on the Council for eternity,
impervious to changes in the world or in their own
fortunes.
Fifthly, permanent members, as we all very well
know, are assured a continuous presence in other
important bodies of the United Nations system. If other
permanent members were to be created,
they would
undoubtedly aspire to those same benefits, considering
them an implicit and undeniable prerogative of their new
status. This would risk creating a virtual monopoly of
permanent members — old and new — over many bodies
in the United Nations system,
the so-called “cascade
effect”.
least,
Last but not
increasing the number of
permanent members would double the number of vetoes
on the Security Council, and threaten to paralyse its
activity. The veto, as has already been stated by the two
previous speakers,
is an institution whose time has
come — during the cold war years — and gone. We
should be focusing on how to limit its use, not on how to
proliferate it.
The opposite vision of the future of our Organization
that of democracy, equitable geographical
is,
representation, and equitable rotation. We strongly believe
instead,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
that rotation is the key word for a truly democratic reform.
Italy’s proposal moves in this direction. Our project has
undergone many changes since it was first presented at the
beginning of last year. We have listened to criticism, and
taken it into account.
Thirdly, it should be underlined that while more
frequently rotating countries, if elected, would sit on the
Security Council every six years, all others could, in
theory, stand for election as often as every four years, in
accordance with the present rules.
What we are proposing is to leave the permanent
members at five, and increase the Security Council by
adding eight or 10 new non-permanent seats. According to
this formula, the General Assembly would choose 24-30
countries to rotate in the additional non-permanent seats
over a six-year period, with each country on the Council for
two years and off for four years. Needless to say, those
countries would be excluded from competing for the current
non-permanent seats. The General Assembly should select
those 24-30 countries on the basis of their contribution to
the general aims of the Organization, particularly peace-
keeping
financing,
humanitarian aid, etc.), and other criteria that could no
doubt be identified by the General Assembly itself. But this
group must not be fixed in perpetuity. Every 10-12 years
there would be a review of the list, and those countries that
had not honoured their greater
responsibilities and
commitments would be replaced by other members able and
willing to meet them.
(troops, matériel,
operations
seats
In our plan,
should privilege
the geographical distribution of the
additional non-permanent
the
continents that are currently underrepresented. For example,
if 10 new seats were added, five should go to Africa and
Asia, two to the Latin American and Caribbean States, two
to the Western European and Others Group, and one to
Eastern Europe. In this way, 70 per cent of the additional
non-permanent seats would be reserved for developing
countries.
Critics of this formula have implied that it ultimately
creates a third category of members. We do not believe that
this is so. What we have in mind is not a third category but
a system of rotation, as follows.
First,
like all non-permanent members,
the 24-30
countries would be subject to election by secret ballot —
the very essence of democracy — and required to obtain a
two-thirds majority.
Secondly,
this would not be a closed rotation
agreement, but an open one, which should be reviewed
every 12-15 years. Nothing would prevent other interested
countries from forming additional rotation agreements,
some of which already exist — such as the one for Africa
— although they are not always complied with.
Finally, and most important of all, mid-sized and
small States would have a concrete, realistic hope of
being elected to the Council, since they would no longer
have to compete for seats with their larger neighbours,
who systematically elbow them out at every election. And
those who have been here for a number of years know
this only too well.
In fact, those who would benefit the most from our
proposal would be the smaller and mid-sized States, 79 of
which have been kept out of the Council so far, while 43
have served only once. In short, I believe we should work
for reform that brings about the inclusion of all, and the
exclusion of none.
One of the reasons most frequently cited for creating
two new permanent members is that Germany and Japan
represent the new reality of the past 30 years in the
international community — the new global powers. With
all due respect, I cannot share this view. These two global
powers, along with others, have existed as global powers
at least since the beginning of the century. The true new
reality of the past 30 years is that 100 or so former
colonies have become full-fledged sovereign countries. If
they stand united, they are one of the main players at the
United Nations.
“Economic and social progress will not attain
its full significance unless it is accompanied by an
effort to democratize international life. In my view,
democratization is an imperative, not only within
States but also between States and in all the power
centres of international society.” (SG/SM/5772)
from his
These are not my words, but those of Secretary-
General Boutros-Ghali,
to the
Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement in Cartagena
last October. It is our sincere hope that this spirit, the
spirit of democracy among nations, may also prevail in
these halls, for the sake of the future of our Organization
and of the international community as a whole.
address
Mr. Jemat (Brunei Darussalam): On behalf of my
delegation, I would like to express our appreciation to the
President, as well as to the two Vice-Chairmen of the
Open-ended Working Group, His Excellency Mr. Wilhelm
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Breitenstein and His Excellency Mr. Nitya Pibulsonggram,
for the report (A/49/965) on this important subject, which
we hope will take us a considerable step forward in seeing
how the Security Council can be reformed and revitalized.
The authority and credibility of the Security Council,
which, under the Charter, has primary responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security, have
grown substantially in recent years. In this task, the Council
must be strengthened and revitalized so that it can adapt to
new realities. Majority views are now focused on the
importance of ensuring that changes in the structure of this
Organization should reflect
the changes in the global
political, economic and social landscape.
We therefore associate ourselves with the general
support expressed by members of the Open-ended Working
Group on the need to increase the membership of the
Security Council and review its composition, particularly
with regard to the addition of developing countries. While
expanding membership to fill both permanent and non-
permanent seats is important, we feel that the question of
representation of interests, particularly for small countries
and countries without regional representation, is even more
important. My delegation would like to emphasize the
importance of the composition of the Security Council
reflecting clearly and equitably the geographical distribution
and representation of United Nations membership. In this
regard, we support the need for developing countries of
Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean to be
represented both in permanent and in non-permanent seats
of the Security Council.
Apart from the expansion of the Security Council’s
membership, serious consideration must also be given to the
need to enhance the effectiveness of
the Council’s
operations, particularly in its decision-making process. It is
important for the Security Council to continue to maintain
its
to function
efficiently and effectively. To this end, my delegation
welcomes the briefings by the President of the Security
Council to the non-members of the Council.
transparency and openness
in order
The Security Council has so far experienced both
success and failure. In several cases, its resolutions have
remained merely resolutions and failed to achieve their
intended objectives. On others, imposed resolutions have
tended to punish not only the guilty but also the innocent.
For instance, the imposition of economic sanctions has had
unintended victims, both in target countries and third
countries. Adequate precautions must be taken in enforcing
such resolutions, and a mechanism needs to be conceived
18
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
to ensure that such actions punish the guilty but do not
affect the lives of innocent civilians by depriving them of
their basic needs.
Another concern of my delegation is the power of
certain States to influence the decision of the majority
when such decisions affect vital issues of international
peace and security. My delegation is of the view that the
current reform process should also address the need for a
more balanced decision-making process that serves the
interest of the majority.
on
the Question
In conclusion,
I would like to reiterate my
delegation’s support for the work of the Open-ended
Working Group
of Equitable
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the
Security Council. We would also like to express our view
that the reform of the Security Council should strengthen
its effectiveness and its representative character, including
equitable geographic representation for permanent and
non-permanent members.
Mr. Catarino (Portugal): The question of equitable
representation on and increase in the membership of the
Security Council has been under consideration by the
Open-ended Working Group since it was established by
the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session. Much
work has already been done in the Working Group over
the last two years.
In fact, the working methods of the Security Council
have improved considerably in the last two years, thanks
largely to the Working Group’s efforts for greater
transparency in that organ vis-à-vis
the general
membership. Non-members of the Security Council are
today far better informed with regard to the deliberations
of the Council. They also have greater access to it and are
able, directly or indirectly, through effective working
machinery, of communicating their positions on matters
of which the Council is seized.
However, now, in the fiftieth session, we are at a
point where we must strive to move ahead significantly in
the process of uniting our positions. We must all agree as
soon as possible on what the Security Council should
look like and how it should function in order to address
most effectively the new challenges of international peace
and security.
During both the general debate and the Special
that many
Commemorative Meeting,
delegations concurred in recognizing the need to bring the
it was clear
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
into line with the new realities of
Security Council
international relations. Similarly, the report of the Open-
ended Working Group states that
Cartagena Summit. The relevant paragraphs of
Document, in its draft form, stated the following:
that
“there was agreement to expand the Security Council
and to review its working methods and other matters
related to its functioning in a way that
further
strengthens its capacity and effectiveness, enhances its
representative character and improves its working
efficiency.” (A/49/47, para. 13)
When the Open-ended Working Group reconvenes this
coming January, the opportunity to strengthen the Security
Council must not be lost. Many proposals have been
forwarded, including a suggestion from Portugal. But the
overriding importance of reaching an agreement on one
comprehensive package for enhancing the effectiveness of
the Council must be kept in mind. It will not be possible
for every proposal to figure in the final package.
We must all, therefore, exhibit the necessary flexibility
to meet each other on common ground, where the objective,
surely shared by all, of an effective, representative and
efficient Security Council can be reached. Bridges must be
built and crossed so that the Working Group can pave the
road towards a consensual solution agreeable to all. We
believe that such a solution must benefit the membership as
a whole, as well as each and every country, large or small.
At the end of this process of hard work, all Member
States must feel that the enhanced Security Council is one
that represents them, both individually and collectively, in
carrying out the demanding but vital tasks required in the
maintenance of international peace and security.
Mr. Londoño-Paredes (Colombia)
(interpretation
from Spanish): Allow me to congratulate the President on
his unanimous election to the presidency of the General
Assembly. We are sure that under his leadership the
Assembly will achieve its objectives.
It is an honour for me to speak on behalf of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries on the agenda item
before us, the “Question of equitable representation on and
increase in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters”, which was one of the crucial
issues
addressed at the Eleventh Conference of Heads of State or
Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,
held in Cartagena last October. As a result of
its
deliberations, the Movement adopted common positions on
the matter, which are included in the Final Document of the
equal
in
the
“The Heads of State or Government welcomed
the ongoing endeavours aimed at reforming and
improving certain structures and procedures of the
United Nations as an essential component of
strengthening multilateralism, with a view to
ensuring
participation, more
balanced
representation and better equilibrium,
in keeping
with the principles and objectives of the United
Nations. In this context, they stressed the need to
democratize the United Nations to better reflect the
universal nature of the Organization and to fulfil the
principle of sovereign equality of States. They
underlined, in particular, the need for full democracy
the Security
and transparency in the work of
Council,
recent practices and
performance. They expressed their determination to
participate
of
revitalization and reform, in the firm conviction that
the United Nations is an indispensable forum to be
supported and strengthened. Yet democratization of
the international political and economic institutions
inherent in such a process continues to be hampered
by those who seek to preserve their privileged
position of power. In these endeavours, the main
purpose should be to make the Organization more
responsive to the changing realities and emerging
challenges of peace and development in a dynamic
context.
constructively
process
in view of
its
“In view of the increasing trend on the part of
some countries to exercise undue influence over the
Security Council and the privileged and dominant
role that the veto right ensures for the permanent
members of the Council, which is contrary to the
aim of democratizing the United Nations,
they
reiterated their position adopted at the Fifth, Sixth
and Tenth Summits regarding the special privilege of
permanent members of the Security Council
to
exercise the veto and committed themselves to
actively promote its curtailment, with a view to its
elimination. Furthermore, while welcoming the
actions taken by the Council with regard to its
transparency and working methods, they considered
them still
insufficient and urged the General
Assembly to recommend to the Council further
measures to ensure its full democratization.
“They took note of the report of the Open-
ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the
Security Council, reflecting agreement to expand the
Security Council and to review its working methods
and other matters related to its functioning in order to
strengthen its capacity and effectiveness and enhance
its representative character. As important differences
continue to exist, further in-depth consideration of
these issues is required. They acknowledged that the
non-aligned countries participated in the deliberations
of the Open-ended Working Group and expressed their
determination that the Movement pursue the work of
the Open-ended Working Group in a concerted and
active manner.
the working methods
“They reaffirmed that both the reform and the
expansion aspects of the Security Council should be
considered as integral parts of a common package,
taking into account the principle of sovereign equality
of States and equitable geographic distribution, as well
transparency, accountability and
as the need for
democratization
in
and
procedures of the Security Council,
including its
decision-making processes. They noted positively the
proposal submitted by the Non-Aligned Movement to
the Open-ended Working Group on Security Council
reform, encompassing the issues of membership,
transparency and working methods of the Council.
They emphasized that
to expand the
Council should be comprehensive in nature in order to
improve its credibility and thus reflect the universal
character of the world Organization. They considered
it essential to substantially increase the proportion of
members of the Council belonging to the Movement
and to that end they urged that
the non-aligned
countries
increasing the
should work towards
representation of developing countries of Africa, Asia
and Latin America and the Caribbean in the Security
Council. Any attempt to exclude non-aligned countries
from any expansion in the membership of the Security
Council would be unacceptable to the Movement.
They therefore agreed on the need for a coherent and
coordinated approach by the members of
the
Movement.
the proposal
“They stressed the importance of enhancing the
the Security Council by
effective functioning of
adopting specific measures aimed at improving the
working relationship of the Council with the General
Assembly, other organs of the United Nations and
non-members of the Security Council. They also
underscored the need to operationalize Article 50 of
20
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
the Charter, particularly by institutionalizing the
consultations envisaged under this Article, as well as
to adopt other effective measures to enable non-
members to bring to the attention of the Council
members their problems and difficulties, with a view
to their solution.
“While recognizing the importance acquired by
informal closed meetings of the members of the
Council, they reaffirmed their conviction that those
the
informal
provisions
and the
provisional rules of procedure of the Council, nor
restrict the necessary transparency in its work.
enshrined in the Charter
consultations must
replace
not
the objective of
to meet
a
“In order
restructuring of
the United Nations that would
achieve democratization, transparency and efficiency
of the Security Council as well as better balance of
functions between the principal organs of the United
the Heads of State or Government
Nations,
examined
the
possible convening of the General Conference for
the revision of the Charter foreseen in Article 109 of
the Charter of the United Nations at an appropriate
time.”
various mechanisms,
including
Finally, my delegation would like to reiterate, on
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement,
that we will
continue to work in the Open-ended Working Group in a
constructive, concerted and active manner.
Mr. Park (Republic of Korea): I wish to thank the
Chairman of the Working Group, Mr. Amara Essy, and
the two Vice-Chairmen, Mr. Breitenstein of Finland and
Mr. Pibulsonggram of Thailand, for their outstanding
contributions to the work of the Open-ended Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on
and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council
and Other Matters Related to the Security Council. I am
confident that my colleagues join me in commending
them on a job well done in tackling the complex and
highly sensitive tasks with which they have been
entrusted.
I would also like to express my full confidence in
the leadership of the new President of the General
Assembly, Mr. Freitas do Amaral. There is no question in
my mind that his wise guidance will significantly advance
the debate on this issue of great importance during the
Assembly’s current session.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
As we are all aware, a clear consensus exists among
the Member States on the urgent need for reform of the
structure and procedures of the Security Council. The broad
participation in the Open-ended Working Group and the
large number of delegations which touched upon this issue
during
the Special
and
Commemorative Meeting this year attest
to the high
premium which Member States place on this issue.
general
debate
both
the
We have now come to the end of another year of
intensive discussions. This year’s session of the Working
Group has seen fruitful results, as we have been able
thoroughly to assess the major issues, enrich the discussion
further and, by so doing,
identify some areas of
convergence. Although consensus remains elusive on major
issues, my delegation is encouraged that
the Working
Group is moving in the right direction.
This year’s report, which was adopted in the Working
Group and duly noted by the General Assembly on 18
September, illustrates that three broad categories of issues
are currently under discussion in the Working Group. They
are: first, how to restructure the Security Council to achieve
better representation of the general membership; second,
how and to what extent the Council can be democratized
vis-à-vis its decision-making process, including the question
of veto power; and lastly, how to improve the Council’s
working methods towards greater transparency.
increases
to reflect
The report also reveals that, despite wide gaps in the
positions of delegations on most of the hard-core issues,
there is some convergence of views. First, as the two Vice-
Chairmen pointed out, there is clear agreement on the need
to expand the Council
in the
membership of the United Nations to a total size within the
range of the mid-to-low twenties. Secondly, although no
delegation opposes an increase in the non-permanent
membership of the Council, the question of increasing the
permanent membership remains a point of controversy.
Thirdly, with the exception of a few delegations, most
Member States called for certain measures to restrict the
exercise of veto power, including its scope of application.
Finally,
the need to
enhance the transparency of the working methods of the
Council.
there was quasi-unanimity about
My delegation believes that
the report and the
compendium will facilitate our dialogue. As the papers
contained in the compendium have provided valuable input
in our past discussion, they should continue to serve as a
basis for the future deliberations of the Working Group.
It
is for this reason that
the delegation of the
Republic of Korea welcomes the decision of the General
Assembly that the Working Group should continue its
work during the fiftieth session and submit a further
report before the end of the session.
At this time, my delegation would like to reiterate its
basic position on the reform of the Security Council as
follows.
First and foremost, we strongly believe that the final
package of the reform should be based on consensus
among Member States, in view of the profound impact
that the package will have on the capacity of the Security
Council and the United Nations as a whole in the decades
ahead. Any decision that lacks the general support of the
Member States will hamper the viability of the United
Nations.
Secondly, we believe that better
representation
strengthens the political and moral authority of the
Council. It ensures more effective implementation of its
decisions. It flows from this that the key element of
reform is to bolster the Council’s legitimacy. One of the
best ways to achieve this objective is to make the Council
more representative of the general membership, enhance
democracy in its decision-making, and improve the
transparency of its procedures.
Thirdly, on the issue relating to the expansion of the
Council, a formula must be found which allows better
participation in the Security Council of medium and
small-sized Member States, which constitute an absolute
majority of the Member States in the United Nations.
My delegation has always believed that
the
expansion of the Security Council should incorporate the
full range of interests and points of view, rather than be
designed to accommodate the needs and privileges of
some select groups of countries. For these reasons, the
enlargement and composition of the Council must reflect
the universal character of the United Nations and must be
guided by the principle of sovereign equality of States
and equitable geographical distribution.
In this regard, some concepts advocating the creation
of regional or semi-permanent membership have been
introduced. In the past, my delegation has expressed its
interest in the proposals based on these concepts. We
remain interested in these proposals, in the belief that the
creation of such a membership would be beneficial to
both small and medium-sized countries.
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Fourthly, another equally important aspect that we
should focus on in the reform exercise relates to the
decision-making procedures of
the Council. We have
always questioned the continuing relevance of the veto in
the light of the changed realities of today’s world.
The veto system is incompatible with the principles of
democracy and sovereign equality. While it is true that the
veto has rarely been used in recent times, there are no
assurances that it will not be used again. Moreover, the
international community is aware of many instances in
which the threat to use the veto, or even the possession of
that power, influenced the deliberations and decisions of the
Council.
As it stands, however, none of the permanent members
is willing to accept the abolition of the veto. Under the
circumstances, we share the view of those delegations that
advocate a realistic approach based upon pragmatism. In
that regard, we are pleased that many proposals designed to
limit the veto power in its scope and use have already been
tabled, and we believe that the Working Group should
discuss them in detail and identify the areas where we can
take some positive steps.
Fifthly, my delegation strongly opposes the extension
of the veto power beyond the five current permanent
members. We have in the past repeatedly voiced our strong
an
opposition to such proliferation. The veto is
anachronistic
discarded
eventually — definitely not one that should be extended to
other members of the Council.
institution
be
that
should
Sixthly, any reform that results only in an enlargement
of membership is not satisfactory to us. Our firm view is
that a mere change in the size and composition of the
Council — one that is not accompanied by some specific
changes in its working methods — would not be sufficient.
In this regard, we are pleased that a broad consensus
on the need for a more open and transparent Security
Council appears to have emerged from the discussions in
the Working Group, and that some limited but important
initiatives have already been taken by the Council towards
that end, as enumerated in the observations and assessment
of the two Vice-Chairmen. However, we believe that much
more can be done, even without waiting for the finalization
of
in most cases an
amendment to the Charter is not required. We urge the
Council to respond further to the aspirations of the majority
of the Member States to increased transparency in its
working methods.
the reform package, given that
22
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
Finally, I should like to share some of my thoughts
on how we might best proceed further in the discussion
of the subject before us.
We believe that the Member States should strive
hard to keep the momentum alive and further facilitate the
process, so that a reform package acceptable to all
Member States could emerge at an early stage.
In closing, I should like to reiterate the Republic of
Korea’s firm commitment to participate actively, with an
open mind and a constructive spirit, in the deliberations
of the Working Group and to fully cooperate with other
delegations to achieve consensus.
Mr. Pawar (India): Allow me to take this
opportunity to congratulate Mr. Diogo do Freitas Amaral
on his election as President of the fiftieth session of the
General Assembly. My delegation has no doubt that the
work of
the Assembly will proceed smoothly and
productively under his expert guidance.
At the recent Summit in Cartagena of the Non-
Aligned Movement many important decisions were taken
by its Heads of State and Government in regard to the
expansion and reform of the Security Council, which will
provide a beneficial input for the work of the Open-ended
Working Group in the coming year. The statement of the
Ambassador of Colombia in this regard, giving the
details, has the full support of my delegation.
The report of the Working Group on the Question of
Equitable Representation on and Increase
in the
Membership of the Security Council has a wealth of
documentation annexed to it. This compendium shows
that in the past two years of extensive discussions we
have witnessed a rich exchange of ideas and views that
gives us a clear insight into the thinking of the Member
States. Notably, there are both areas of convergence and
areas of differences on a number of questions related to
the main issue. However, it is significant that a consensus
exists for an expansion of the Security Council that would
reflect the increase in the membership of the United
Nations, especially of developing countries. This is
necessary to ensure the Council’s
legitimacy and
effectiveness.
My delegation supports the continuation of the work
of the Working Group on the basis of this important
consensus decision. We hope that the Group will attempt,
in its further work, to narrow the differences that exist
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and to make sustained efforts to reach a consensus on
unresolved issues.
In this context, I should like to quote here from the
statement made by our Prime Minister before this Assembly
on the occasion of the Special Commemorative Meeting to
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.
“The United Nations today includes a much
larger number of independent, sovereign States than
when it began. In such a context, the United Nations
cannot afford to be seen as either exclusivist or
incomplete, either in appearance or in outlook. In
particular,
an adequate presence of developing
countries is needed in the Security Council on the
basis of objective criteria: nations of the world must
feel that their stakes in global peace and prosperity are
factored into United Nations decision-making”.
(Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth
Session, Plenary Meetings, 40th meeting, p. 45)
arise
exclusion
from the
The existing imbalances in the membership of the
Security Council
from
representation of an overwhelming segment of the world
population: that residing in the developing countries. Any
proposal that accentuates this imbalance obviously will not
enjoy consensus. As has been made clear in the Cartagena
Declaration of the Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement,
any attempt to exclude non-aligned countries from any
expansion in membership of the Security Council, including
permanent membership, would be unacceptable to the
Movement.
We believe that the expansion of the membership of
the Council in the category of permanent members should
be decided upon on the basis of agreed criteria for
selection. Once criteria are agreed upon, the decision on
new permanent members should be made globally by the
membership of the United Nations. We have, in the course
of the deliberations of the Working Group, suggested
certain criteria, such as population, contribution to the
United Nations system, support and participation in peace-
keeping, and potential for a regional and global role. Other
criteria have been mentioned by other countries. We believe
that it would be beneficial for the Group to analyse these
suggestions and come up with an acceptable set of criteria
against which the claims of each country could be assessed.
On the basis of such criteria, some countries will clearly
qualify for permanent membership. We believe that India
will be among them.
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
As we have stated on several occasions,
the
expansion of the Council and its reform should be
considered as integral parts of a common package, taking
into account the need for transparency in the decision-
making process. We welcome the Working Group’s
decision that the final agreement on cluster I and cluster
II issues should comprise a comprehensive package.
Before concluding, I wish to assure the Assembly
that India will continue to participate actively and in a
constructive manner
in the discussions within the
Working Group in a constructive manner.
representation
Mr. Eitel (Germany): For the third consecutive time,
the General Assembly is discussing the question of
equitable
the
membership of the Security Council. Last year, we spoke
before the General Assembly and expressed our thanks to
the Chairman of the informal Working Group and to both
Vice-Chairmen for their outstanding work during the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
increase
and
on
in
Today I shall take this opportunity to thank the
Chairman of the informal Working Group during the
forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, Foreign
Minister Essy, and the two Vice-Chairmen, Ambassador
Breitenstein and Ambassador Pibulsonggram, for their
excellent work. In particular, I would like to express my
thanks to the two Vice-Chairmen for their accurate
assessment of the progress achieved by the informal
Working Group and for the proposals set forth in their
report, which has been circulated as an official document.
We regret that Ambassador Pibulsonggram will be
leaving. Let me use this opportunity to thank him again
for his untiring efforts to guide and conduct the work of
the Group. We hope that a successor can be found as
soon as possible. Like the great majority of Member
States, we are opposed to further changes in the Bureau
of the Working Group because this cannot but affect the
work of all working groups. I am sure we all have the
greatest interest in progress being made in the Working
Group on an Agenda for Development as well as in the
High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial
Situation of the United Nations.
I see our task of restructuring the Security Council
as comparable to the renovation of a huge house whose
roof has suffered damage from storms. Therefore, the
attic and roof must be rebuilt and strengthened to once
again be able to cope with bad weather to come. During
the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly we
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
answered the questions of why we thought it necessary to
rebuild the attic and what kind of reconstruction we had in
mind. During the last session — the forty-ninth session —
of the General Assembly, we consulted several architects
and weighed the pros and cons of their proposals. Now,
during the fiftieth session, the anniversary session of the
General Assembly, we have to take the third step and select
the proposal which is the most adequate and suitable. This
decision will not be an easy one. But I am convinced that
we will be successful. I am optimistic for three reasons.
First, we have no time to lose. We will not be able to
meet the challenges facing our Organization unless the
United Nations house has a repaired and stable roof and
attic. Any damage to the roof affects the house as a whole.
Those who have carefully followed the general debate of
this session of the General Assembly and the statements
made during the fiftieth-anniversary celebration know that
there continues to be consensus about the urgent need to
reform.
Secondly, we know what we are aiming at
in
rebuilding the attic. We want an attic which is easily
accessible and which has many means of access to the
other floors. In other words, the Member States should have
the opportunity to be represented on the Council more
frequently. We want
the attic to be large in all four
directions. This also applies to those who live on this floor.
No one shall be excluded. In other words, all world regions
should be equitably represented on the Council.
In
particular, the regions of Africa, Asia, and Latin America
and the Caribbean States need stronger representation. We
do not favour an undemocratic architectural plan for the
enlargement of the Council which excludes States or groups
of States from the outset.
We want to ensure the upkeep of the attic. The attic
of a house suffers particularly from strong weather and
storms. It needs experienced inhabitants who have reliable
equipment and special tools to maintain it. In other words,
countries that are able and willing to contribute on a global
scale to the maintenance of peace and security and that
have already taken on large responsibilities regarding
international development and United Nations activities
should be permanently represented on the Council. We, and
with us a large number of other Member States, believe that
Germany is one of these countries. The attic should not be
closed off or have an impervious concrete floor. I have
spoken already of the need for many means of access. It
must be bright and have skylights. In other words, the
Council’s work must be carried out
in an open and
transparent manner to enable non-members to receive all
24
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
the information they require. Some progress has already
been achieved in this context. During the German
presidency of the Council we tried to live up to this task.
Nevertheless, much still needs to be done.
There is no space left in the house for additional
floors, special ante-rooms or special entries. We are not
aiming at a completely new architecture with new classes
of inhabitants. We prefer a thorough renovation of the
house that we know and cherish. In other words, models
of rotation, which received the support during the recent
general debate of less than 3 per cent of Member States,
are no alternative or, at best, a bad one and would create
more problems than they could solve.
the
Thirdly, we have now a more than sufficient number
of
recommendations, opinions and reports on the
rebuilding. On the part of the United Nations there are the
report of
informal Working Group and the
observations and the assessment by the Vice-Chairmen of
the progress of its work. I congratulate the Vice-Chairmen
on their judicious observations regarding the important
progress made.
fully with their
suggestions and their belief that Member States must aim
at substantial achievements during the current, fiftieth,
session of the General Assembly.
I associate myself
Two other important United Nations documents, both
issued on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, lend momentum to the reform of the
Council: The Declaration of the Member States and
Observers of 24 October 1995, representing the peoples
of the world, and the statement of the Security Council
adopted at its meeting at ministerial level under the Italian
presidency on 26 September 1995. Both documents call
for the reform of the Council.
From the Member States themselves we have the
statements made during the recent general debate and the
anniversary meeting. The statements
show a clear
tendency in favour of enlarging the Council. The
parliamentarians of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU)
at the special session of the Inter-Parliamentary Council
in New York marking the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, adopted a declaration entitled “A
Parliamentary Vision for International Cooperation into
the Twenty-First Century”. This declaration calls for a
reform of
to make it more
representative while at the same time maintaining its
authority and effectiveness.
the Security Council
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Some important and well-recognized groups of States
have issued joint statements. I would like to mention,
among others, the non-aligned countries at their recent
Summit, the Nordic States and the informal group of small
and medium-sized countries. In a solemn declaration on the
fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter of the
United Nations,
its summit
meeting in Cannes last June, unanimously called on the
United Nations and its Member States to pursue and
develop the reform programme under way and to make
further progress in adapting United Nations structures and
institutions,
to present
circumstances.
including the Security Council,
the European Council, at
Finally, several comprehensive studies on reform
questions have been published by independent experts this
56th plenary meeting
13 November 1995
year. As one example of many I may mention the
Qureshi-von Weizsäcker report, which deals explicitly
with reform of the Council. We must make good use of
the momentum created. It will not last forever. Let us
take advantage of the window of opportunity that is now
open.
is,
We agree with the observation, made by the Vice-
Chairmen of the Working Group and by numerous other
States, that the time has come to move on to the next
phase of the work — that
to a process of actual
negotiations aimed at achieving a single, comprehensive
agreement. The decisive question that we shall have to
answer is this: will the future composition of the Council
benefit the Organization and the international community
of States? So far as my country and its readiness to serve
the United Nations as a permanent member of the
Security Council are concerned, I am not afraid of the
answer to this question. The United Nations can count on
Germany.
The Acting President: We shall continue our
consideration of item 47 this afternoon, starting at 3
o’clock. As was announced earlier, some 70 delegations
are listed to take part in the debate on this item. As we
have heard only nine at this meeting, I again appeal for
brevity. Delegations are requested to ensure, if at all
possible, that statements do not exceed 10 minutes.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
25
