United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
48th plenary meeting
Thursday, 2 November 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
In the absence of the President, Mr. Berrocal Soto
(Costa Rica), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Agenda item 27
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo imposed by the United States of
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/49/401 and
Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/50/L.10)
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call on the representative of Cuba to introduce draft
resolution A/50/L.10.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (interpretation from
Spanish): It is quite a paradox that in the midst of the
celebrations for the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, and for the fourth consecutive year, my country
finds itself once again obliged to condemn one of the most
flagrant acts of aggression ever committed against any
people. This act is all the more serious and reprehensible in
that it is being committed by a world super-Power against
a small and proud nation, such as the one that I have the
honour of representing.
This is the case of the economic, commercial and
financial blockade that for more than 34 years has been
imposed by the Government of the United States against
Cuba, in violation of the most fundamental norms of
international
among
sovereign and independent nations, and of freedom of
trade and navigation.
law, of peaceful
coexistence
Furthermore, it is regrettable that this systematic and
reinforced policy of economic strangulation of the Cuban
people throughout the country’s economic and social life
is being carried out in open defiance of the international
community and ignoring three successive resolutions of
the United Nations General Assembly. Those resolutions,
adopted by an increasingly wide majority, have stated the
need to put an end to the blockade against Cuba and
rejected its extraterritorial nature.
It is an indisputable fact that the blockade against
Cuba is continuing and being intensified.
Not only is the group of laws and regulations
governing this policy of permanent economic aggression
still in force, but new steps are being taken to strengthen
and expand them, particularly as
their
extraterritorial implications for third States. Actions to
this end have just been approved by the House of
Representatives and Senate of the United States Congress.
concerns
95-86495 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Today as never before, and in the most diverse ways,
the blockade continues to affect the recovery of the Cuban
economy and the living standards of our people. Today
again, an entire arsenal of mechanisms and procedures is
being fully deployed and fine-tuned, in order accurately to
monitor Cuba’s external economic relations and to ensure
the extraterritorial implementation of the blockade by, inter
alia, bringing a broad range of pressures to bear on Cuba’s
potential economic partners, and through a relentless
persecution, which includes working covertly against
Cuba’s economic activities abroad, especially those relating
to capital
investments and crucial areas of the Cuban
economy.
The so-called “Torricelli Act” of 1992, whose basic
goal is to cut off Cuba’s trade with subsidiaries of United
States companies based in third countries, and which was
strongly rejected in this very forum, is still fully in force in
the legal system of that country and is being strictly
implemented according to its statutory provisions.
As a result of the provisions introduced by that Act
against freedom of trade and navigation, most carriers are
demanding higher-than-normal freight charges from Cuba,
claiming that if they enter any Cuban port, their ships will
not be admitted to any United States port until 180 days
have elapsed. For example, in the state of Virginia, the
authorities have included,
in the official port-related
documentation required of carriers, an affidavit stating that
they have not entered any Cuban port for 180 days prior to
their arrival in Virginia.
from Cuba’s natural
Owing to the surcharge on some imported goods that
the blockade obliges us to purchase in markets that are far
distant
trading environment, and
because of the increase in transport costs, the loss to our
national economy is reported to have increased to $60
million during 1994, and the figure is approximately the
same for this year.
Moreover, in 1994 and 1995 trade between Cuba and
subsidiaries of United States companies based in third
countries have been reduced to virtually zero — although
such trade had amounted to $718 million in 1991 — owing
to the suspension of licenses issued by the Treasury
Department as part of the extraterritorial effects of the
aforementioned Act,
thereby seriously affecting our
purchases of foodstuffs and medicines for our people.
Moreover,
there is still a ban on any foreign
company’s selling to Cuba medications, medical equipment
or medical supplies that may contain components or
2
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
technology of United States origin, even if the company
involved is not a subsidiary of a United States
corporation. As can be seen from the Secretary-General’s
report, the most recent effects of this type of regulation is
the damages that have been incurred by companies from
the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany, Belgium, Italy
and Australia, inter alia, which have historically had trade
transactions with Cuba.
All
in all,
taking into account
the revenues not
received and the additional disbursements caused by the
blockade, the total damage to the Cuban economy in 1994
is estimated at more than $1 billion, which accounts for
50 per cent of the country’s total imports for that year.
This is in addition to damages reported to the Assembly
in prior years.
The Secretary-General’s report contains detailed
information on the damage caused to our country’s
economy and to our people’s quality of life, as well as on
some of the actions taken to frustrate Cuba’s trade
operations with third Governments and companies that are
not subject to United States jurisdiction, which provides
further evidence of the extraterritorial nature of the United
States policy against my country.
Similarly, it is hard to believe that these actions have
gone so far as to pressure the Governments of some
developing countries into not buying new products, some
of them unique, of Cuba’s biotechnological industry, with
no thought for the thousands of lives that our vaccines
and other medicines, which are of proven effectiveness,
could help save.
Yet
the people of Cuba, and in particular our
children, our pregnant women, our senior citizens and the
ill, are daily victims of the continuing and stepped-up
blockade against Cuba. Ever-greater damage is being
done in the areas of health and education, two spheres in
which our people, and people throughout the developing
world, have always taken pride.
The Secretary-General’s report clearly describes the
impact of this policy on the decreasing nutritional levels
of the Cuban population, and makes reference to the
emergence of hitherto unheard-of health problems among
the sectors that are most at risk, a fact that has been
corroborated by international bodies and United Nations
organs.
One example will suffice to illustrate the criminal
nature of the blockade: the only two companies, both of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
that supplied pacemakers for
them in third countries,
patients suffering from heart disease have stopped doing so,
one because the devices contained components made in the
United States and the other because it was absorbed by a
company based in the United States.
Our united and heroic people have endured the
consequences of the blockade with great suffering and daily
shortages. At a time when the United Nations
is
commemorating its fiftieth anniversary, it is deplorable that
an entire people should be suffering as a result of a
unilateral political decision. It is hard to believe that this
crime, which could also be stopped by a unilateral political
decision on the part of the United States, should continue
to be committed day after day.
If the consequences of this aggressive policy against
us have not been worse, if there are no Cuban homeless, if
not one health or educational centre in our country has been
shut down, if we have managed to maintain our very low
rates of mortality and morbidity, it has been thanks to the
excellent Cuban health-care and educational systems and to
the full-time dedication of the people who work in our
centres, as well as to the assistance provided by our
institutions and to the selflessness and solidarity of each
and every one of our people.
adopted
by
The measures
the United States
Government on 20 August 1994 to intensify the conditions
of the blockade and to place additional obstacles in the way
of normal relations between the Cuban émigrés resident in
that country and their relatives in the island of Cuba are
now being fully enforced. Thus, Cuban nationals residing
in the United States continue to be the only persons
deprived of their right to enjoy normal relations with their
country of origin.
As has been pointed out on more than one occasion,
the strengthening of the policy of continued economic
aggression against Cuba through political pressure and
various threats against sovereign Governments, which is
being implemented at both the legislative and the
governmental
in the well-known circumstances
facing my country, is no mere accident, and my country has
now abruptly lost more than 85 per cent of its traditional
trade.
levels,
Nor is it an accident that that policy is being taken to
unheard-of extremes at a time when Cuba’s major
macroeconomic indicators are showing signs of recovery in
the national economy and when changes being introduced
are just beginning to yield positive results — including an
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
increased interest in our country on the part of foreign
investors.
During this year the international community has
viewed with deep concern and alarm the approval by the
United States Congress of legislative initiatives to move
the economic, commercial and financial blockade against
Cuba to unimaginable levels, particularly the new
extraterritorial dimensions that
the most conservative
circles in the Congress want to give to a policy that, since
its inception, has been designed to impose United States
law on third States. To that end they intend to punish
with imperial-like severity any State, company and even
individual that has economic links with Cuba. Attempts to
subject the sovereignty of third States to the designs of
United States legislation and to subordinate the norms and
principles of international law to the unilateral dictates of
one country are becoming more evident and more
dangerous than ever. Clearly this would be the ultimate
consequence of the adoption of the initiatives that are
currently before the United States Congress.
With a total lack of ethical and legal sense, those
promoting these new initiatives are attempting to
internationalize the unilateral blockade by the United
States against Cuba, as if that policy had not already been
expressly rejected by the international community in three
General Assembly resolutions.
As indicated in the report of the Secretary-General,
these new forms of extraterritorial application of United
States laws could even lead to Cuban nationals, who have
subsequently became American citizens and whose
properties were nationalized by law in Cuba in the 1960s,
taking legal action in United States courts against foreign
investors
in Cuba, which would obviously breach
international law. Likewise, United States assistance to
other countries would depend on the type of relation these
may have with Cuba.
My Government cherishes the firm and constant
hope of maintaining normal relations with all States,
without exception, and our country reaffirms its readiness
to settle the differences separating Cuba from the United
States by means of dialogue and negotiation based on
respect and equality, in the same way, for example, as the
talks on migration. Despite that, there are new dangers
facing Cuba and its survival as an independent nation.
Cuba appeals to the international community not only
because of the extraterritorial effects of the blockade,
which have a juridical and economic affect on third States
as well as us, but also because today, as never before, it
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
is clear that the United States is attempting to decide, even
through legal instruments, the system of government and
social structures that should exist in Cuba, as was so starkly
stated in the Torricelli Act and the bills before the United
States Congress.
In energetically rejecting such a
presumption, Cuba, an independent and sovereign State, is
not only acting in its own interest, but also for the benefit
of all States which at any time may find themselves
harassed by a more powerful country by virtue of the
unfortunate precedent that could now be created. In Cuba,
by the sovereign will of the Cuban people, there will be no
second Platt Amendment.
These are, in essence, the reasons that underlie the
draft resolution contained in document A/50/L.10 which I
have the honour of introducing and which was already
familiar to most of the delegations present here. The
decision this body will soon have to take remains crucial to
the respect of the principles enshrined in the Charter of this
Organization and international law, and a clear message to
those who attempt to violate them. We hope that with the
positive vote of the delegations here present, the Assembly
will once again reaffirm its commitment to the principles
that govern the very existence of this Organization.
Mr. Tello (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
This session has given Member States the opportunity to
reaffirm their solemn commitment to the purposes and
principles of the Charter of the United Nations. In the
recent Declaration adopted at the Special Commemorative
Meeting on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of our
Organization, we,
reaffirmed our
support for the idea that:
the Member States,
“the United Nations of the future will work with
renewed vigour and effectiveness in promoting peace,
development, equality and justice and understanding
among the peoples of the world”. (resolution 50/6,
fifth preambular paragraph)
We also undertook to promote methods and means to
secure peaceful settlement of conflicts.
In accordance with the foreign policy principles set out
in its Constitution and pursuant to its obligations deriving
from the United Nations and international
the
Government of Mexico has neither promulgated nor applies
any laws of an extraterritorial nature. On the contrary, in a
wide range of forums we have rejected unilateral coercive
measure that affect the well-being of peoples, hamper free
trade, and are alien to universally recognized commercial practices.
law,
4
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
The Government of Mexico would like again to
voice its concern at the recent adoption in the two houses
of the United States Congress of draft legislation known
as the “Cuban Liberty and Democracy Solidarity Act”.
My country respects the sovereignty of States but it is of
the view that the provisions embodied in this legislation,
by their nature and scope, compromise the sovereignty of
third States and the principles of international law and
free trade.
We appeal
to the sense of justice, equity and
international solidarity of the United States Congress to
prevent that initiative from becoming law, because if it
does come into force, it would amount to a clear breach
of international law and a political precedent that would
be unacceptable to the rest of the world.
The use of unilateral measures cannot lay any kind
of basis for peaceful, secure and harmonious coexistence
among States, but merely disturbs the climate for
understanding and tolerance. Methods that belong to a
bygone age and a clouded vision that is already out of
step with the new world situation will not help us to
strengthen the rules of a new international political scene.
We are convinced that the embargo should be lifted. It is
essential to realize that dialogue and negotiation have
already proven their effectiveness and have yielded
satisfactory results which should and can be built upon.
My delegation will of course vote in favour of the
draft resolution contained in document A/50/L.10 because
it takes the view that pressure exerted by one country on
another has never been and never will be the best way to
secure an international order that respects the rule of law.
We
reaffirm our
dialogue,
conciliation and negotiated political settlements are still
fully relevant and valid as the best means of ensuring
understanding.
conviction
that
(Lao
Mr. Kittikhoun
People’s Democratic
Republic) (interpretation from French): Here at its fiftieth
session the General Assembly must once again take up
the agenda item entitled “Necessity of ending the
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by
the United States of America against Cuba”. That
embargo, which has gone on for more than 30 years now,
has not only done damage to the Cuban economy but has
above all prevented the Cuban economy from being
reintegrated into the world economy.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
My country, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
given our obligations under the Charter of the United
Nations and international law, has never promulgated or
applied laws or measures of this kind. We regard such
measures as acts of aggression against the sovereignty of
other States and against freedom of trade and navigation.
For four years now the Assembly has been seized of
this issue. My delegation deeply regrets that no solution
that is acceptable to the parties directly concerned is yet in
sight. So, unfortunately, the embargo continues and is even
reinforced. The Cuban people has already endured much
suffering because of the embargo. Must
the suffering
continue? For how much longer? Should we just look on
indifferently with our arms crossed? Obviously not. What,
then, should we do to make a positive contribution to
solving this thorny problem?
The Cuban people is a people like all the others on the
Earth. They are innocent people who wish only to live in
peace and dignity and to enjoy the economic and
commercial cooperation of the outside world. We do not
think it fair to punish a people, much less condemn it to
further suffering and to living indefinitely with such an
embargo. For these reasons, the international community
must do everything in its power so that a solution agreed
upon by the two parties can be found as quickly as
possible, which would help to preserve peace and restore
confidence between the peoples of
region and
throughout the world.
this
No one here is unaware of the complexity of this
problem, but if we all look straight ahead to the future, this
problem, just like many other complex problems, stands a
chance of being solved. The Lao People’s Democratic
Republic sincerely appeals to the two parties directly
involved — the Republic of Cuba and the United States of
America — to enter into serious negotiations and do
everything in their power to solve this problem quickly.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
Before calling on the next speaker, I should like to propose,
if there are no objections, that the list of speakers in the
debate on this agenda item be closed at 12 noon today.
It was so decided.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I therefore request
representatives who wish to speak in
the debate to add their names to the list of speakers as soon
as possible.
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Mr. Ngo Quang Xuan (Viet Nam) (interpretation
from French): This is the third time I have spoken to the
Assembly on the agenda item entitled “Necessity of
ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
In this connection, I wish to refer to the statement
made by Viet Nam’s Minister for Foreign Affairs in
which he said that
international opinion is becoming
increasingly concerned over the fact that the application
of sanctions is veering more and more towards becoming
a form of punishment or retribution used for specific
political purposes, which is at odds with the relevant
objectives originally set out in the Charter of the United
Nations. In fact, such sanctions affect above all the lives
and the health of innocent civilian populations. Hence, the
regarded as
prolongation of
should be
unacceptable because it neither makes
them more
effective nor takes into account their consequences.
sanctions
The trend towards
the use of dialogue and
international and regional cooperation is becoming
irreversible. We take the view that
the principles of
respect for independence and national sovereignty, non-
interference in the internal affairs of other countries,
mutually beneficial cooperation on a basis of equality,
settlement of all disputes through negotiation and non-use
or
threat of use of
force should always govern
international relations.
On the basis of these principles, I wish to stress that
Viet Nam fully associated itself with all the relevant
General Assembly resolutions, such as resolutions 47/19,
48/16 and 49/9, as well as with the declarations recently
adopted in Cartagena, Colombia, by the Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries calling vigorously
for the lifting of the economic, commercial and financial
embargo against Cuba.
I wish to state once again Viet Nam’s position that
these laws with extraterritorial effects must be repealed
because they are prejudicial
to the legitimate trading
interests not only of Cuba, but of third countries.
Viet Nam supports all endeavours and measures that
can encourage the Republic of Cuba and the United States
to undertake negotiations as soon as possible with a view
to solving the outstanding problems between them, in
keeping with the current
trend towards dialogue and
cooperation in the world.
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
In conclusion, I should like to extend the deep
sympathy of the Vietnamese people to the people of Cuba,
currently suffering so many hardships. In a spirit of
understanding and of solidarity with the people of Cuba, the
Government and people of Viet Nam have begun, and will
continue,
and material
assistance to and demonstrate solidarity with the Cuban
people as they attempt to overcome the difficulties and the
consequences of the blockade policy to which I have
referred.
activities which lend moral
Mr. Londoño-Paredes (Colombia)
(interpretation
from Spanish): I have the honour of speaking on behalf of
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries has viewed
with growing concern the continuation of the economic,
commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United
States of America against Cuba. We are naturally surprised
to see that in some cases the effects of the end of the cold
war seems to go in only one direction. Even more
disturbing is the existence of discrimination for clearly
political motives.
It is unacceptable to attempt to impose a certain form
of conduct upon a State or group of States through
unilateral coercion. In the case of the economic embargo
against Cuba, such attempts, far from creating support
within the international community, have stirred up more
and more support for Cuba’s Government and especially for
its martyred people, for it is they who ultimately suffer the
hardships caused by this action.
In various declarations the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries has stated its support for the principles set forth
in the resolutions adopted at the forty-seventh, forty-eighth
and forty-ninth sessions of the General Assembly entitled
“Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo imposed by the United States of America
against Cuba”.
At the Eleventh Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Cartagena
de Indias, Colombia, from 18 to 20 October last,
the
Movement’s position on this issue was reiterated. The
Cartagena Declaration states,
“The Heads of State or Government called upon
the Government of the United States of America to
put an end to the economic, commercial and financial
measures and actions against Cuba, which, in addition
to being unilateral and contrary to the United Nations
6
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Charter, international law and the principle of good
neighbourliness, cause huge material
losses and
economic damage. They called upon the United
States of America to settle its differences with Cuba
through negotiations on a basis of equality and
mutual respect and requested strict compliance with
General Assembly resolutions 47/19, 48/16 and 49/9.
They expressed deep concern regarding new bills
submitted to the United States Congress that would
step up the embargo against Cuba and widen its
extraterritorial character.”
Elsewhere in the Declaration,
international
“The Heads of State or Government condemned
the fact that certain countries, using their dominant
position in the world economy, continue to step up
the adoption of unilateral coercive measures against
developing countries that are in clear contravention
of
law, such as trade restrictions,
blockades, embargoes and freezing of assets, with
the purpose of preventing these countries from
exercising their right to fully determine their own
political, economic and social system and freely
expand their international trade. They deemed such
measures
their
immediate cessation.”
unacceptable
and
called
for
The Heads of State or Government of the Ibero-
American countries, which include various countries of
the Movement, met recently in San Carlos de Bariloche,
Argentina, where they stated,
“In accordance with the principles enshrined in
the Charter of the United Nations, as well as those
of the World Trade Organization and of international
law, and also in accordance with resolutions of the
General Assembly, we reject the unilateral coercive
measures that affect the well-being of Ibero-America
peoples,
impede free exchange and universally
accepted transparent trade practices and violate the
principles governing regional coexistence and the
sovereignty of States.
“At this time we are particularly concerned
over normative regulatory changes being discussed
in the Congress of the United States that would run
counter to these principles, application of which we
demand.”
Before concluding, in my capacity as Head of the
delegation of Colombia, I should like to express our
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
support for the draft resolution before us and our conviction
that it is necessary to eliminate the unilateral application of
economic and commercial measures against a State that
affect the freedom to carry out international trade.
Once again, we appeal for dialogue and negotiation to
be used to find a solution to the differences between the
United States and Cuba.
connection with agenda item 27, now before the General
Assembly.
The implementation of resolution 49/9 of 26 October
1994, entitled “Necessity of ending the economic,
commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United
States of America against Cuba”, continues to attract
widespread support among Member States.
to
condemn
unilateral measures
Mr. Valle (Brazil): Since the end of the cold war,
international relations have largely lost the confrontational
and ideological character they once had. Global tendencies
point to a need for increased dialogue and cooperation.
Against this background, coercive trade measures of any
kind are not appropriate. The international community is
bound
have
extraterritorial consequences and affect
the legitimate
interests of third parties. Brazil believes that the application
by any country of laws and measures in violation of
resolution 49/9 and previous resolutions on the matter,
would be a cause of concern for
the international
community as a whole. Such laws and measures contradict
generally accepted principles of international law. It is
therefore appropriate for the General Assembly to take
action on this issue.
that
Moreover, our assessment of the embargo against
Cuba is that it only retards the accomplishment of its
declared objective — that is, national reconciliation, the
enjoyment of freedom and prosperity by the Cuban people
and the full reintegration of Cuba into the inter-American
community.
I take this opportunity to recall that such measures
against Cuba were rejected very recently by several
multilateral forums — most notably, the Rio Group, the
Ibero-American summit and, as has just been mentioned by
the Ambassador of Colombia, the Conference of Heads of
State or Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries.
Brazil will vote in favour of draft resolution A/50/L.10
as a means of defending principles of international law,
promoting peaceful and friendly relations between States
and affirming the principles of cooperation. We expect that
a large number of other countries will do the same.
Mr. Mwakawago (United Republic of Tanzania):
Allow me to commend the Secretary-General on his report
in document A/50/401 and A/50/401/Add.1, dated 20
September 1995 and 20 October 1995, respectively, in
Most notable is the fact that all the 48 replies from
Governments, as well as six others, from organs and
agencies of the United Nations system, recorded in the
report affirm compliance with the resolution, in line with
the purposes
and
international
the
international community is overwhelmingly opposed to
the embargo against Cuba.
the Charter
law. This is a clear indication that
and principles of
Therefore, my delegation remains gravely concerned
that well after the adoption of resolutions 47/19, 48/16
and 49/9 no progress has been made to do away with
measures
“aimed at strengthening and extending the economic,
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba”
(resolution 49/9, seventh preambular paragraph).
This lack of progress has ominous implications for the
lives of ordinary Cuban people.
In this year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, the need to promote dialogue and to uphold the
spirit and letter of the Charter could not be more urgent.
the post-cold-war spirit demands that nation
Indeed,
States coexist
respect, under
international
like many other Member
States, believes that the embargo imposed on Cuba, with
its extraterritorial nature, does not augur well
for
international peace and security.
in peace and mutual
law. Tanzania,
At this point, my delegation wishes to draw the
Assembly’s attention to the relevant section of the Final
Declaration adopted by the Non-Aligned Movement at its
Summit Conference held recently in Cartagena, Colombia.
This calls for the lifting of the economic embargo against
Cuba and urges the United States to settle its differences
with Cuba through negotiations, on the basis of equality
and mutual respect. Mindful of the adverse effects of the
Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 — the “Torricelli Bill” —
the leaders of the Non-Aligned Movement also expressed
deep concern about the new Helms-Burton legislation
before the Congress of the United States, which seeks to
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
intensify the embargo against Cuba and to widen its
extraterritorial nature.
Tanzania, which enjoys very friendly relations with
both the United States and Cuba, trusts that a negotiated
solution will be possible before the devastating new
legislation can take effect. Our belief is strengthened by the
proven capacity of the United States, in particular, to broker
peace in the Middle East and, now, in the Balkans. There
is also the international climate conducive to peace efforts.
I shall conclude by expressing cautious optimism that
this time next year the United States embargo against Cuba,
which is more than 30 years old, will be on the negotiating
table. It is with this in mind that Tanzania supports and will
vote for draft resolution A/50/L.10.
Mr. Yoogalingam (Malaysia): We support
the
statement made by the representative of Colombia in his
capacity as Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement. That
statement duly reflects the traditional position taken by the
leaders of
the Non-Aligned Movement, which was
reaffirmed at the Movement’s Cartagena Summit.
We have always expressed the view, as reflected in
our previous statements on this agenda item, that the matter
can best be settled between the two countries themselves.
Malaysia acknowledges Cuba’s right of resort to the United
Nations, particularly on issues involving the question of
extraterritoriality. This issue impinges on the fundamental
principles of international law and runs counter to a number
of resolutions adopted over the years by this body. As we
mark the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, it is
timely for us to reiterate our commitment
to those
principles. They serve the collective interest of us all, and
as Members of the United Nations we are all obliged to
support them. Upholding the principles of international law
and promoting peaceful and friendly relations between
nations are the basic tenets that have governed inter-State
relations. Consistent with these tenets, Malaysia will vote
in favour of the draft resolution.
the highest
Mr. Kharrazi (Islamic Republic of Iran): Just about
a week ago, representatives of all States Members of the
United Nations gathered here at
to
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization.
In their statements, and by adopting the Declaration on the
Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations,
they not only emphasized the promotion of international
cooperation and friendly relation among States, but also
reaffirmed their strong commitment to the purposes and
the United Nations and
principles of
the Charter of
level
8
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
international law, particularly sovereign equality, non-
interference in the internal affairs of other States and the
peaceful settlement of disputes.
the Charter
law embodied in various
Despite the end of the cold war and the dawn of a
new international environment, certain States regrettably
continue to adopt unilateral measures and actions against
other States. Specifically, coercive economic measures
amounting to economic terrorism and based on the short-
sighted interests of those who claim a predominant
position in the world run absolutely contrary to the
and the principles of
provisions of
international
international
instruments and documents, in particular the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Universal
Declaration
and
Malnutrition, the Declaration on the Inadmissibility of
Intervention in the Domestic Affairs of States and the
Protection of their Independence and Sovereignty, and the
Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning
Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. Such
measures and actions adversely affect
the social and
economic development and the humanitarian activities of
a target country and consequently hinder
the full
achievement of human rights by the people subjected to
these measures.
the Eradication
on
of Hunger
It is an undeniable right of every State to choose its
political, economic, social and cultural system without
interference in any form by another State. In this context,
the continuation of
the economic, commercial and
financial embargo against Cuba, which has inflicted
serious losses and has resulted in economic hardship and
deprivation for the Cuban people, runs contrary to the
purposes and principles of the Charter and the rules of
international law. The Islamic Republic of Iran, like other
members of the international community, advocates the
removal and elimination of all economic and trade
embargoes imposed on Cuba and believes that
the
differences between States should be settled in a peaceful
manner.
the Heads of State or
Government of the Non-Aligned Movement, during its
eleventh summit conference, held in Colombia two weeks
ago, called upon the Government of the United States to
put an end to its economic, commercial and financial
measures and actions against Cuba.
In this connection,
Cognizant of the economic, social and financial
difficulties which the Cuban nation is facing as a result of
the unreasonable embargo, my delegation would like to
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
extend its support once again to any step that the General
Assembly may wish to take to resolve the issue under
consideration. The international community should not
remain silent about a situation in which certain States
engage in economic terrorism and try actively to undermine
the economic or political stability of another State with the
aim of imposing a specific political and economic structure
on that country.
Mr. Azwai (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): The post-cold-war era has witnessed the
settlement of many disputes. In many regions of the world,
enemies have settled their differences and adversaries have
buried the hatchet. This Assembly itself has sought, in its
past three sessions, to solve the long-standing problem
caused by the imposition by the United States of America
of an economic, commercial and financial embargo against
Cuba. While many had hoped that the United States would
end its coercive measures against the Cuban people, quite
the reverse has happened. Not only did the American
Administration persist
the
provisions of the Assembly resolutions, including the latest,
resolution 49/9, but it has tightened the embargo procedures
by applying the set of measures adopted by it in August last
year. This is not only a shameful flouting of the will of the
majority of
the international community but also an
affirmation of the determination to persist in the attempt of
imposing a political and social system of the United States’
choosing on the Cuban people.
in its usual disregard of
to promote
its own economic
I do not believe that
The net of anti-Cuba legislation which has been in the
making for over 30 years now has hindered most of Cuba’s
efforts
and social
development and has plunged a whole nation into suffering
and hunger.
the international
community needs any figures or statistics to appreciate the
magnitude of the damage done, especially in the case of the
vulnerable groups of society such as children, the elderly
and women, as a result of shortages of medicines, the ban
on financial transfers and Cuba’s inability to benefit from
scientific and technological advances. These unethical
practices which are flagrant violations of human rights
refute America’s claims
the defender of
democracy,
the
advocate of free trade and the champion of human rights.
These practices push into the limelight
the American
approach of starving peoples and resorting to measures that
have an extraterritorial reach and constrain the freedom of
trade by pressuring companies and other countries to
prevent them from dealing with the peoples who reject
United States hegemony, such as the Cuban people.
the upholder of
international
legality,
that
it
is
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
The policy pursued by the United States of America
against Cuba is not an isolated case. Rather, it is a well-
established policy that has been pursued against other
countries, including my own. Since 1986, the American
Administration has imposed against my country harsh
economic measures that have continued to be renewed
twice yearly. These include banning American companies
from dealing with Libya, preventing Libyan students from
continuing their post-graduate education at American
universities, and freezing Libyan assets in American
banks. As in the case of Cuba, where the American
Administration justifies its embargo with pretexts that can
only be construed as interference in the internal affairs of
Cuba, the pretext used to justify its series of coercive
measures against Libya is that Libya poses a threat to
United States national security. If one is surprised at
America’s actions against the Cuban people, just because
they decided, of their own free will, to choose their own
political and economic system, nobody would be naive
enough to believe the claim that Libya poses any threat
whatever to America’s national security. How could a
small country with limited resources such as Libya be a
source of threat to anybody, let alone being a threat to the
security of the strongest country in the world, the United
States of America, which is located thousands of
kilometres away from Libya?
The situation, in fact, is quite the reverse. It is Libya
that has been the target of continuous American threats
and provocations. Libya’s security and the safety of its
people have been compromised by direct aggression,
when hundreds of American military aircraft carried out
raids against Libyan cities, demolishing houses, schools,
hospitals — leaving behind tens of dead,
including
women and children. When such acts of aggression and
provocation failed to achieve the United States objectives
against the Libyan people, the United States created a
new problem which has come to be known as the
Lockerbie incident. The United States accused two Libyan
nationals of being the perpetrators and,
instead of
accepting Libya’s initiatives and the proposals of regional
organizations which aim at resolving the problem in the
framework of the competent forums, under the relevant
conventions, including the 1971 Montreal Convention on
the safety of civil aviation, the United States of America
has rejected all such offers and has used the United
Nations Security Council to impose unjust sanctions on
Libya, which have resulted in the death and injury of
thousands of people because of the intensive use of land
roads and have caused economic losses in excess of
$10 billion.
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
My delegation, which fully realizes the magnitude of
the difficulties that face the Cuban nation as a result of the
American embargo, wishes to express its support for any
measures the General Assembly may see fit to adopt with
a view to seeking an end to this embargo. In this context,
it is most important to recall that the principle of the
settlement of disputes between States by peaceful means is
enshrined in many articles of the United Nations Charter,
including Article 2, subparagraph 3, which reads “All
Members shall settle their international disputes by peaceful
means ...”. This principle, which has been reaffirmed since
the establishment of the United Nations, has proved its
effectiveness in the settlement of many disputes. That is
why my delegation hopes that the accumulated residue of
the past will not stand in the way of resorting to this
principle in seeking to end the long-standing embargo
against Cuba, especially since Cuba has repeatedly declared
its readiness to resolve the problem within that framework,
and has voiced its readiness to seek the settlement of the
problem by the appropriate means.
The choice now is the United States’. Either
it
responds to repeated calls and settles its differences with
Cuba and with other countries on this basis, and thereby
pursues a course that would be welcomed by the
international community as something that meets one of the
purposes of the United Nations contained in subparagraph
1 of Article 33 of the Charter, which calls on the parties to
any dispute to seek a solution by peaceful means, or it will
persist in pursuing the policy of embargoes and boycotts,
and thereby make
continued
international protests, since such coercive measures run
counter to the aims and purposes of the United Nations,
especially with regard to the promotion of friendly relations
amongst peoples.
subject of
itself
the
Such a policy also contradicts the Charter of Economic
Rights and Duties of States adopted by the General
Assembly at its twenty-ninth session. This Charter states in
its article 32 that no State shall use or encourage the use of
economic, political or any other measures to pressure any
other State into becoming dependent on it in the exercise of
its sovereign rights. Moreover,
the coercive measures
imposed by the United States against Cuba and other
countries
strengthening the
foundations of constructive international cooperation, and
are not
the
establishment of relations of friendship and cooperation that
would strengthen international peace and security. To
persist in imposing these measures is to undermine the
spirit of trust, and to create a climate of uncertainty for all
peoples.
impede efforts aimed at
consistent with the
tendency towards
10
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Let the Administration of the United States know
that the policy of embargo, starvation and the killing of
the elderly and the children will not
succeed in
subjugating peoples. It is an unjust imperialistic policy of
the arrogance of power that has been rejected by all
peoples. The Cuban people are the witness to that fact.
We salute the Cuban people and every other people that
suffers injustice at the hands of the United States, refuses
to knuckle under to the arrogance of power and resists the
embargo, for it will prevail.
Mr. Poernomo (Indonesia): My delegation views
with deepening concern the dispute between Cuba and the
United States, which has persisted for the past three and
a half decades. It is particularly regrettable that the poor
relations between them have been aggravated by the
imposition of numerous measures, including a devastating
embargo on trade. Further compounding the situation is
new legislation intended to further tighten the embargo to
the detriment of the interests of the Cuban people.
Consequently, Cuba may well face an economic crisis of
unprecedented proportions.
Before proceeding, I would like to associate myself
with the statement
just delivered by the Permanent
Representative of Colombia, as Chairman of the group of
non-aligned States.
Punitive economic action of such magnitude, and for
so long, has already inflicted great suffering and hardship
on the people of Cuba and has impeded their development
aspirations. The strengthening of international cooperation
for development has now become essential; hence, we
share the widely expressed view that, in the post-cold-war
era, no nation should be deprived of the opportunity to
participate freely and without hindrance in the economic,
commercial and financial relations between States. To
erect barriers in this regard is incompatible with the
objective of establishing a new and more equitable
international order for stable peace and for economic and
social justice.
Continuation of the embargo may well provoke a
serious crisis, not only for Cuba but also beyond, with
repercussions for regional peace and stability. It is against
this backdrop that various international forums, such as
the Non-Aligned Movement and the Ibero-American
Heads of State and Government, have called for an end
to unilaterally imposed coercive measures directed against
other States. Many Member States have also expressed
their opposition to the promulgation of
laws with
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
extraterritorial effects that thereby adversely impact the
interests of other countries.
Cuban-American relations call
for a new and
refreshing approach taking into account
the profound
transformation that has taken place on the global scene —
including in the Latin American region — where we have
witnessed an end to conflict and a strengthening of
political, economic and social relationships.
The
into regional
reintegration of Cuba
and
international economic life has now become imperative. It
would also be in conformity with the sovereignty of
nations, the United Nations Charter and the principles of
international law. At this juncture, we cannot turn away
from those precepts and norms.
fully with the
Mr. Mazemo (Zimbabwe): My delegation associates
itself
statement by the Permanent
Representative of Colombia on behalf of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries.
As we have all said on numerous occasions here
before this Assembly, and at other international forums, the
end of the cold war opened a window of opportunity for the
solution of seemingly intractable international problems.
Indeed, many old enmities have disappeared beyond
recognition and in their place we have witnessed
cooperation, dialogue and reconciliation: former adversaries,
who once stood on opposite sides of the ideological divide
around the world, have come together to resolve their
differences through negotiations and dialogue, as called for
in the Charter of the United Nations. We do not believe
that the continued crisis between the United States and
Cuba has a place in this emerging world order, whose
important, integral qualities and cardinal principles should,
we hope, be peaceful coexistence and tolerance in a
politically, socially and economically diverse world system.
aimed at
reinforcing the
Zimbabwe is deeply concerned at
the recently
proposed measures to tighten even further the economic,
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba. These
latest measures
economic
strangulation of Cuba curiously — and regrettably — come
at a time when the strength of criticism by world public
opinion has made this policy increasingly untenable and
insupportable. We have made this point in the past and we
do so again now: the extraterritorial extension of United
States legislation is inconsistent with international law; it
violates basic and long-standing rules of international law;
and it violates the sovereignty both of Cuba and of its
trading partners.
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
We believe that it is both wrong and immoral for the
more powerful Members of the Organization to impose
their will on their smaller and weaker neighbours. We
have been told on many occasions that the intention of
the embargo is to induce a certain social order in Cuba.
My delegation is not convinced that this is a judicious
way to encourage economic and political reforms: the
only effective way of introducing reform is through
dialogue and active engagement, and not
through
isolation, disengagement and embargoes.
The United States has in the past argued that every
government has a right to choose the partners with which
it wishes to have commercial and political relations.
However, we think that, when unilaterally conceived
measures negatively impact on the right of other States to
engage freely in international trade, then the international
community has a right and an obligation to demand a
reversal of such measures.
The Charter of
the United Nations provides a
mechanism for determining the existence of — and the
responses to — threats to international peace and security.
Under Articles 41 and 42 of the Charter, only the
Security Council, after collectively determining the
existence of a threat to international peace and security,
is empowered by the international community to impose
legally binding economic sanctions. In the situation before
us today, the existence of a threat to international peace
and security has not been collectively determined, and the
embargo is therefore a clear violation of international law
and of the relevant provisions of the Charter.
The embargo has, over the years, caused untold
human suffering to the Cuban people. Cuba’s remarkable
progress in the areas of public health, education and
social welfare, which was matched only in the world’s
richest countries and used to be the envy of people all
around the world, has been crippled by the trade embargo,
which
from importing
medicines, foodstuffs and other essential commodities.
Zimbabwe is in no way convinced of the rightness of the
ethics of a policy that denies the free flow of food and
medicine to the most vulnerable sectors of the Cuban
population: young children, poor women, the elderly and
the sick.
prevents Cuba
effectively
The brutally harsh realities that have been visited
upon the Cuban people by the blunt instrument of the
embargo should be of concern to all Members of the
Organization. The ugly scars of this policy stand out in
sharp relief as the sad evidence of the collapse of an
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
economy and a social welfare system that once ranked
among the best in the world. However, my delegation is
convinced that, as they have gallantly done for the past
generation, the Cuban people will triumph and justice will
prevail.
the House of
Nations. On 21 September this year,
Representatives of the United States Congress adopted, by
a two-thirds majority, a new law containing specific
provisions which exceed the Torricelli Act of 1992 in
increasing the severity of the economic blockade.
Zimbabwe believes that
the United States, as the
world’s strongest Power, should lead by example. We
indeed take note that the United States is currently playing
a crucial mediatory and facilitatory role in significant peace
processes elsewhere. We dearly cherish the excellent
relations that we enjoy with both the United States and
Cuba, and we are very uncomfortable with occasions such
as this, when we seem to chastise one of our friends.
What we seek, in so many words, is dialogue and
reconciliation, and not confrontation. We therefore sincerely
hope that the United States will reconsider its policies,
resolve all outstanding differences and put the matter finally
to rest.
Mr. Odlum (Saint Lucia): The countries which
comprise the Caribbean basin at present enjoy a wide
measure of mutual agreement and solidarity on the concerns
and issues affecting each other. The recent establishment of
the Association of Caribbean States has given fresh impetus
to this flowering consensus, and Cuba is a member of that
Association.
The Government of Saint Lucia is pleased to support
the draft
resolution entitled “Necessity of ending the
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by
the United States of America against Cuba”.
the past
The history of the debate of the issue of the United
States embargo against Cuba appears to be nothing but a
dialogue of the deaf. It is a dialogue of the deaf because
this Assembly has debated resolutions of this same genre
for
three years. The majority voice has
strengthened on every occasion as the General Assembly
adopted the parent resolution, 47/19, with 59 votes in
favour in 1992. In the following year General Assembly
resolution 48/16 was adopted with 88 votes in favour, and
in 1994 the General Assembly voted convincingly to end
the embargo by 101 votes to 2, with 48 abstentions. Two
cold-war allies stood firmly against the general will of the
Assembly.
Subsequent action by the organizers of the blockade in
tightening it instead of deferring to the spirit and intention
of the resolutions of the Assembly constitutes a flagrant act
of disrespect for the principles and organs of the United
12
this Assembly, which also enjoys
Saint Lucia is deeply concerned that a founding
member of
the
distinction of being the host country to the United
Nations, should so trivialize the conclusions of
the
General Assembly and seek to flout the will and the
expressed wish of the international community. The clear
intention of the Helms-Burton bill is to penalize third
States which maintain economic and commercial relations
with Cuba and to use the force of the law of the United
States to impose sanctions against persons, companies and
countries seeking to conduct
trading and commercial
relations with Cuba.
The extraterritorial nature of
this legislation is
offensive to small countries like ours and seriously
undermines fundamental notions of sovereignty and
equality which constitute the pillars of the Charter of the
United Nations. The expressions of good intentions to
the Charter which we heard
preserve the spirit of
consistently throughout
the Special
Commemorative Meeting of
the Assembly should
strengthen the resolve of Member States not to place in
jeopardy the fundamental
tenets of our much-revered
institution.
the debate at
The Foreign Ministers of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) States and their representatives met at a
special meeting in New York last month and discussed
the question of the United States embargo against Cuba
in the light of the new Helms-Burton legislation. There
was strict unanimity on the undesirability of the new
provisions and a concerted decision to renew the call for
an end to the Cuban blockade. Saint Lucia has repeatedly
discussed with our Cuban colleagues concerns about
questions relating to human rights and democracy in
Cuba; we are convinced that there is a strong mood for
change and reform in Cuba and the impact of the
economic blockade might well be counter-productive in
slowing down the process of economic liberalization
rather than accelerating it.
Unbiased observers of the Cuban economy must note
a tremendous swing of the pendulum in the direction of
liberalized trading and fiscal and monetary reform in the
Cuba of the nineties, as opposed to the Cuba of the
sixties. In the sixties, foreign commerce in Cuba was
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
in
commercial
operations. The
centralized in 20 companies. Today, 225 Cuban companies
and 595 authorized representatives of foreign firms are
engaged
original
concentration of land and cooperatives in large State
agricultural companies averaging 12,000 hectares each has
given way to 4000 cooperatives with an average size of
1000 hectares each. Private markets have also been
established for the sale of agricultural products. In the
employment sector self-employment, which was previously
eliminated in the sixties, has been re-established and there
is now a healthy small trading sector in Cuba which is
further stimulated by the relaxation of foreign currency
restrictions.
Adversity sometimes brings its share of positive
benefits and the Cuban economy has been seriously
challenged in terms of down-sizing and structural change.
There has been a serious dismantling of unwieldy State
apparatus and a welcome reduction in the number of
personnel and functions of State organizations which a
number of United Nations Member States, and even the
United Nations itself, might envy. In 1992 the Cuban
Parliament approved a constitutional amendment which
modified existing laws in respect of the Cuban State’s
acknowledgement of property rights, the rights of joint
ventures, and economic associations with foreign capital
investments. This freeing-up of joint-venture activity is one
of the effective routes to Latin American and Caribbean
integration resulting in the signing of 50 joint ventures with
Mexican, Argentinean, Venezuelan, Chilean and Caribbean
companies.
This is clearly not the time to alienate and isolate.
This is a time to embrace and consolidate. My delegation
to the fiftieth anniversary Special Commemorative Meeting
of
the Assembly was disappointed when a certain
delegation vacated its seat whenever a country which it
perceived to be its enemy took to the podium. This protest
action inside the very sanctuary of free speech is a clear
violation of
the spirit of San Francisco. The entire
raison d’être of the United Nations is threatened when
countries which disagree refuse to listen to each other.
In the same vein, Saint Lucia makes a special plea for
the adoption of draft resolution A/50/L.10, in deference to
the cumulative wish of the international community that this
attack on the impoverished women and children of Cuba
should stop and the courage and creativity of the Cuban
people be allowed to blossom and bear the fruit of total
assimilation into the international community.
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Mr. Surie (India): I will be very brief. Consistent
with the position of my Government on this issue, my
delegation supports the draft resolution contained in
document A/50/L.10. The position of my Government is
in conformity with the established position of the Non-
Aligned Movement, wherein the Movement has called
inter alia upon the United States of America to settle all
its differences with Cuba through negotiations on the
basis of equality and mutual respect. We believe that
there is great merit in this approach.
Mr. Jele (South Africa): My delegation is pleased to
have this opportunity to express its views on the necessity
of ending the economic, commercial and financial
embargo by the United States of America against Cuba.
My delegation speaks on behalf of the ordinary people of
South Africa when we record that we are deeply indebted
to the Government and people of Cuba for the selfless
contribution they made to the anti-colonial and anti-
apartheid struggle in southern Africa. It is therefore not
surprising that in recent months a number of prominent
South African corporations have joined European and
other companies in fostering trade and industrial joint
ventures with Cuba.
The economic embargo against Cuba is a product of
the cold war.
Innocent civilians have suffered, and
continue to suffer, immensely as a result of this policy.
My delegation rejects the notion that the people of Cuba
should be starved into ideological submission.
In this new post-cold-war era, highlighted by a
recent re-commitment
to the purposes and principles
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, Member
States should encourage and promote policies of free and
unhindered engagement in the global economy. We are
particularly concerned that additional measures, which
will expand the extraterritorial scope of the embargo, are
being considered. These measures will have the counter-
productive effect of infringing on the sovereignty of other
States and the legitimate interests of their nationals.
It is our fervent hope that a process of open and
constructive dialogue between the relevant parties will
result in this item being removed from the agenda of the
General Assembly in the near future. My delegation
therefore expresses support for the resolution before us.
Ms. Durrant
(Jamaica): The item before us,
“Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo imposed by the United States of
America against Cuba”, has been discussed at all sessions
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
of the General Assembly since 1991. In those sessions,
Jamaica,
through its votes, expressed its views on
resolutions similar to draft resolution A/50/L.10 now before
us.
Jamaica’s national policy of peaceful engagement has
followed a different course to the one advocated in the
embargo. We, of course, believe our way to be the correct
one if Cuba is to be peacefully reintegrated into the
community of nations of the Americas. All evidence
indicates that
this process is under way, and we are
encouraged by the extent of the progress that has so far
been achieved. We therefore reiterate our concern,
previously expressed in this very Hall and on other
occasions, at any initiative that would further complicate
regional trading arrangements through national legislation
which has an overwhelming extraterritorial character.
It is our hope that, in the very near future, the parties
most directly involved will find an amicable solution to the
problem which draft resolution A/50/L.10 seeks to address.
National development, bilateral relations and, indeed, the
very far reaching initiatives now under way in the Americas
will then not be inhibited by the constraints imposed by
such an embargo. My delegation will therefore vote in
favour of draft resolution A/50/L.10.
this embargo is a bilateral
like other nations, has the sovereign right
Mr. Marrero (United States of America): The United
States deeply regrets that the General Assembly is again
considering a resolution on the United States economic
embargo of Cuba. My Government has consistently taken
issue not
the position that
the United
properly considered by this body, and that
States,
to
determine its bilateral trading relationships. Nevertheless,
my Government recognizes that many countries disagree
with this aspect of United States policy towards Cuba. We
are confident, however, that the delegations supporting this
resolution share the objective of United States policy
towards Cuba — a peaceful
transition to a democratic
system in which human rights are fully observed.
This policy of my Government towards Cuba has
evolved considerably since the General Assembly last
considered this question. The United States, responding to
a wave of dangerous and uncontrolled migration between
Cuba and the United States, and to the mutual desire of
both countries to regularize migration relations, reached
accords on migration which provide for legal migration to
the United States of at least 20,000 Cuban citizens per year.
In addition, Cubans seeking to enter the United States
illegally are no longer automatically allowed to do so, but
14
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
important measures aimed at
are returned to Cuba. In another significant step, my
Government announced on 6 October of this year a series
of
fostering increased
contacts and heightened communication with the Cuban
people. These measures include the authorization of the
reciprocal
establishment of news bureaux, greatly
increased academic, cultural and scientific exchanges, and
facilitation of emergency family visitation. They should
contribute to the development of that civil society so
noticeably lacking in Cuba, which in turn could provide
a basis for the peaceful
transition to democracy we
believe the international community desires.
In other, related developments, the United States
Government has licensed, since 1992, over $100 million
worth of private humanitarian donations
from the
American people and United States non-governmental
organizations to the Cuban people, making the people of
the United States the Cuban people’s largest donor during
this period. Direct telephone communications between our
improved,
two
facilitating better communication between our
two
peoples. Finally, the Government of the United States has
indicated repeatedly over the past year that
it is not
wedded to indefinite continuation of the embargo, but is
prepared to reduce its sanctions in carefully calibrated
ways should there be significant political and economic
reform in Cuba.
dramatically
been
countries
have
These are positive, constructive developments in
United States policy toward Cuba, steps in a direction we
believe the international community welcomes. They are
not, however, reflected in this draft resolution. At the
same time, there has been little, if any, progress in Cuba
that would justify increased international support for the
position of the Cuban Government. The human rights
situation in that country, which has been rightly
condemned by this body at each of the last several
sessions of the General Assembly, remains deplorable.
There are no indications from the Government that a
political opening is being considered. To the contrary, the
leader of the Cuban regime made clear, during his recent
attendance at the commemorative meeting on the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, the intention of his
Government to maintain the repressive status quo. Such
economic measures as have been introduced have been
carefully designed to preserve the Government’s control
over the population and to avoid any commitment to
thoroughgoing economic reform, let alone any movement
towards free elections.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Cuban Government seeks to convince many
Member States that the United States embargo is the cause
of all of Cuba’s problems, economic and otherwise.
Dispassionate analysis, however, reveals that the real cause
of these problems lies with the Government’s misguided
economic policies and the suppression of private initiative.
What is lacking in this unbalanced draft resolution is any
mention of the context of United States policy, which is the
urgent need for meaningful political and economic change
of the island. It has been the hope of many nations that
such change could come about merely by virtue of
increased contact between Cuba and the international
community, without pressure of the kind supplied by our
economic embargo. Sadly, the hopes of these nations have
not been realized. We have therefore concluded that,
unpopular as our economic sanctions may be in this body,
their continued application is necessary.
The United States recognizes that the people of Cuba
must decide their own destiny. We have no hostile intent
towards them. Rather, we wish to help, not only by
reaching out directly to them through the measures I have
outlined but also by continued pressure on the Cuban
Government to effect long-overdue changes. We want, as
we know most of the other Members of the United Nations
want, to give the Cuban people hope for a better future. In
this sense, the United States embargo stands as a symbol of
our faith, together with the faith of the Cuban people, that
the trampling of their basic rights and freedoms has not
been forgotten.
For these reasons, the United States cannot vote in
favor of the draft introduced under agenda item 27.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
Having heard the last speaker in the debate on this item, we
shall proceed to consider draft resolution A/50/L.10.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
explain their votes before the voting. May I first remind
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10
minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
(China)
Ms. Yang Yanyi
(interpretation from
Chinese): In its resolutions 47/19, 48/16 and 49/9, the
General Assembly reiterated such principles as equality of
national sovereignty, non-intervention and non-interference
in the internal affairs of another country, and the
international freedoms of navigation and trade, and called
on all countries to fulfil their commitments and obligations
under the United Nations Charter and to abide by these
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
principles and by international law. This reflects the just
aspirations of the international community.
The cold war is over, but it does not follow that its
results will disappear of their own accord. The economic,
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba by a
certain country, which has lasted for more than three
decades, is a classic example. The embargo has caused
enormous difficulties for Cuba’s economy and great
suffering for the Cuban people. It has also gravely
impeded Cuba’s attempts at opening up and at reform and
has hampered its normal economic and trade relations
with third countries. The international community cannot
but continue to express its utmost regret and grave
concern over this.
The Chinese Government has consistently held that
all countries have the right to choose their own social
systems, ideologies and roads to development in the light
of their respective national conditions, which cannot be
infringed upon by any other countries. To impose an
embargo or blockade or to resort to power politics in any
other form runs counter to the principles of international
law and the basic norms governing relations between
States.
We strongly appeal to the country concerned to go
along with the trend of the times and — in accordance
with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the
United Nations, the norms of international law and the
relevant General Assembly resolutions — immediately to
repeal its laws and measures aimed at blockading Cuba’s
economy, commerce and finance. We urge it to enter into
negotiation and dialogue with Cuba on the basis of
equality and respect
independence and
sovereignty, so that the Cuban people, free from external
interference, can revitalize their economy and social
development and enhance their economic and trade
contacts and cooperation with other countries.
for Cuba’s
In view of
these considerations,
delegation will vote in favour of draft
A/50/L.10.
the Chinese
resolution
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (interpretation from
Spanish): I am speaking on behalf of the European Union
in explanation of vote on the draft resolution contained in
document A/50/L.10.
The European Union strongly favours a peaceful
transition to democracy in Cuba. We are concerned about
the negative effects of the embargo on the situation of the
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Cuban population. However, this is not the only reason for
the difficult situation in Cuba. Because of its economic and
political choices, the Cuban Government is also responsible
for the deterioration of the situation in the country.
The European Union cannot accept the United States
unilaterally determining or
restricting the European
Union’s economic and commercial relations with any
State.
The European Union condemns the repeated violations
of human rights in Cuba, particularly in the political sphere.
The European Union considers it supremely important to
scrupulously respect human rights
and fundamental
freedoms in Cuba and to deepen the institutional and
economic reforms in the country.
The Cuban Government has embarked on a process of
economic reform that we hope will enable the country to
overcome the present economic crisis and pave the way
towards a more comprehensive plan to move to a market
economy. In the political sphere, the Cuban regime retains
a firm monopoly on political power. Additional efforts to
promote dialogue and cooperation at all levels are required
to make possible
the necessary evolution towards
democracy and pluralism, as in other parts of Latin
America. In this context, the European Union believes that
stepping up contacts is the best way to give impetus to the
transition to a democratic system. The European Union has
decided to enter into a political dialogue with Cuba in order
to identify the most appropriate framework for future
relations between the Union and Cuba for promoting the
acceleration of the internal reform process.
The European Union’s opposition to the extraterritorial
application of restrictive domestic legislation is well known.
Accordingly, we have always rejected the United States
actions intended to involve third States in the application of
commercial measures that fall exclusively within the scope
of the foreign or security policies of the United States. We
have therefore opposed legislative initiatives designed to
tighten even more the unilateral commercial embargo
against Cuba by the extraterritorial enforcement of United
States domestic law, in particular through extraterritorial
provisions designed to discourage companies from third
countries from maintaining trade relations with Cuba. We
believe that such measures violate the general principles of
international law and the sovereignty of independent States.
The European Union therefore takes a negative view of the
passing by both Houses of the United States Congress of
their
the Cuban Liberty and
Democratic Solidarity Act and reiterates its opposition to
the adoption of any measure of extraterritorial scope or in
contravention of international norms, in particular those of
the World Trade Organization.
respective versions of
16
to be
The European Union believes that the United States
commercial embargo against Cuba is primarily a matter
that has
resolved bilaterally between the
Governments of the United States and of Cuba. The
States members of the European Union will have these
concerns in mind when voting on the draft resolution
before us.
Mr. Chulkov (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): The delegation of the Russian Federation
will vote in favour of the draft resolution on the necessity
of ending the economic blockade of Cuba because, as a
matter of principle, we cannot accept attempts by States
to extend their domestic jurisdiction beyond the borders
of their own territory. In our opinion, such actions are a
violation of existing international legal norms and are
damaging to third countries.
The Russian Federation believes that attempts to
strangle Cuba economically by means of an embargo are
counterproductive and likely only to exacerbate the
economic situation of most of that country’s people.
Moreover, such efforts could also retard democratic
changes and economic reforms already under way in
Cuba. In this connection, the attempt to legislate further
measures to tighten the economic blockade against Cuba
and to give international scope to such measures is very
disturbing to us — as,
is to many other
countries. Here, we make specific reference to the well-
known Helms-Burton Bill, called the “Cuban Liberty and
Democratic Solidarity Act of 1995”. It is our belief that
the lifting of the economic, trade and financial embargo
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba
and a general easing of tensions in Cuban-American
relations would in fact help to move Cuban society
forward towards further democratization and greater
openness.
indeed,
it
relations with
The Russian delegation believes that mutually
acceptable settlements in the whole range of issues in
Cuban-American
their
sought primarily through
normalization should be
constructive bilateral dialogue and a broadening of the
negotiating process between the two countries. In this
connection we view certain measures recently taken by
the United States Administration as very timely and
reduction of
useful. Those measures
view to
a
include
the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
restrictions on travel to Cuba, the provision of humanitarian
assistance,
information
exchanges.
increased
cultural
and
and
Russia, for its part, has always been guided by the
the sovereign equality of States, non-
principles of
intervention in their
internal affairs and freedom of
international trade and navigation — points mentioned in
the draft resolution before us today. Russia continues to
develop and maintain normal trade and economic relations
with Cuba on the basis of the principles of common benefit
and mutual advantage. We have trade ties with Cuba that
are
strictly in accordance with generally accepted
international norms, without any type of discrimination
whatsoever, and we use world prices.
At the same time, we would emphasize that our policy
on lifting the economic blockade against Cuba does not in
any way imply any change in our position of principle on
the issue of respect for human rights in that country.
Mr.
Izquierdo
(Ecuador)
(interpretation
from
Spanish): The delegation of Ecuador will vote in favour of
the draft
resolution on the necessity of ending the
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by
the United States of America against Cuba because of
Ecuador’s opposition to discriminatory unilateral economic
practices that go against the principles of free trade and
circulation of goods, darken the atmosphere of international
relations,
impede the peaceful resolution of differences
between States, hamper the economic and social integration
of peoples and harm innocent civilian populations.
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Mr. Lamptey (Ghana): Ghana will vote in favour of
the draft resolution before us, as it has in the past, on the
draft resolution on this item, and as it will in the future
should this item still come before the Assembly.
Whatever the circumstances, whatever the fears that
form the basis of the institution of an embargo against
Cuba by the United States more than 30 years ago, the
world has undergone tremendous changes today. Cuba
itself has changed.
I have listened carefully to the
statement of the representative of the United States. We
do not share these views. Whatever the analysis, it is the
will of the Cuban people that should determine the order
of that society. The suffering of the Cuban people must
be brought to an end. Even if one accepts the thesis that
the Cuban Government contributes to the hardship of its
own people, the fact remains that without the embargo
things would have been easier on the people of Cuba.
We appeal to the United States to bow to the will of
the international community, to listen to the voices of its
own allies and its neighbours and lift the embargo on
Cuba so that the people of the martyred nation that is
Cuba can have peace to make progress in social and
economic development.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the last speaker in explanation of vote
before the voting.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/50/L.10.
Allow me to recall that in the Final Declaration of the
Ninth Meeting of Heads of State and Government of the
Rio Group, held in Quito on 4 and 5 September of this
year, our leaders expressed their concern
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
“at attempts
to enforce domestic laws beyond
territorial boundaries in violation of international law
and the fundamental principles governing coexistence
in the region. Such actions violate the sovereignty of
other States and are contrary to unanimously accepted
transparent trade practices”. (A/50/425, para. 13)
Lastly, my delegation wishes to say, as it did at the
forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, that Ecuador
has never established any legal or political measure that
might impede relations with Cuba, as it has communicated
officially to the United Nations Secretariat.
Brazil,
Bolivia,
Botswana,
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua
and
Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin,
Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Denmark, Dominica, Ecuador, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gambia, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Kazakstan,
Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russian
L u c i a ,
F e d e r a t i o n ,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
San
Marino, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe
S a i n t
Samoa,
Against:
Israel, United States of America, Uzbekistan
Abstaining:
(Federated
Albania, Armenia, Bhutan, Czech Republic, Egypt,
El Salvador, Estonia, Georgia, Germany, Guatemala,
Hungary,
Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania,
Islands, Mauritius,
Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Micronesia
States of), Morocco,
Netherlands, Niger, Oman, Palau, Poland, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda,
Swaziland,
Saudi Arabia,
Tajikistan,
of
Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
former Yugoslav Republic
Slovakia,
Slovenia,
the
Draft resolution A/50/L.10 was adopted by 117 votes
to 3, with 38 abstentions (resolution 50/10).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Kuwait advised the
Secretariat that it intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
explain their vote.
May I remind delegations that explanations of vote are
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations
from their seats.
(Argentina)
Mr. Cárdenas
(interpretation from
Spanish): In previous years, the delegation of Argentina
abstained in votes on draft resolutions similar to that just
adopted by the Assembly because it understood that the
content created problems of a bilateral nature, between two
Member States with which we have deep relations of
friendship.
18
Nevertheless,
the measures
referred to in the
resolution seem not to have had what was certainly the
desired effect. Furthermore,
the starting-point of any
sanctions should be their application for a reasonable and
limited amount of time, depending on each individual
case.
We would like to point out that Cuba is introducing
a series of major reforms in the economic sphere. These
are designed to increase openness and a degree of
freedom in its economy. Hence, these measures should
not be discouraged. The Government of Argentina trusts
that the Government of Cuba will broaden these reforms.
Furthermore, it hopes that Cuba will gradually extend
these reforms to the political and human rights spheres.
We attach fundamental importance to human rights. Thus,
values that are essential to the peoples of the continent
will be affirmed — that is, democracy, respect for human
rights and the fundamental freedoms of the human being.
For those reasons, my delegation voted in favour of
the resolution just adopted, although we would like to
make it specifically clear that we will continue to press
for the need for greater democratic reform in Cuba.
Mr. Fukushima (Japan): I have asked to speak in
order to explain, for the record, Japan’s position in
abstaining in the voting on the draft resolution contained
in document A/50/L.10.
Japan continues to have the doubts it has indicated
in the past three years, as to whether a discussion at the
General Assembly may actually be conducive to
resolving,
the question of the
United States embargo against Cuba.
in a constructive way,
This question is very complex in nature. Japan
wonders if the resolution that has just been adopted can
in fact properly address the question in all its complexity.
If it cannot, the question will remain unsettled until a
better way is found to achieve an appropriate solution.
Mr. Vivas
(Venezuela)
(interpretation
from
Spanish): In recent years, the international community
has,
through dialogue and direct negotiation, made
significant progress with regard to economic and trading
cooperation.
It has also taken major steps towards
universal peace and democracy and solidarity.
Any discriminatory trading practice, any imposition
of unilateral economic measures or extraterritorial
application of domestic laws hampers this process and is
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
unacceptable and incompatible with the standards of
international law and the principles embodied in the Charter
of the United Nations.
It
is impossible to conceive of a just social and
economic international order in which one State imposes
commercial, economic and financial restrictions on another.
It is unacceptable to seek solutions to bilateral political
differences through military or economic coercion or
through any other kind of pressure that infringes on the
sovereignty and independence of nations and has a
detrimental effect on the well-being of peoples.
The adoption of measures of this kind in no way
contributes to the resolution of differences. Quite the
contrary, it provokes unnecessary confrontations that affect
the population without changing the regime against which
they are imposed. My Government rejects this type of
measure and considers that
the embargo against Cuba
should end.
On the basis of these considerations, we decided to
vote in favour of the resolution. This, however, should not
be interpreted as an expression of
support by the
Government of Venezuela for any particular political
regime. We believe that the arguments presented against the
embargo are valid, regardless of a particular country’s
political situation. The promotion of democracy, which for
us is fundamental, should not be mixed up with coercive
unilateral measures of indefinite duration. The result of the
voting confirms our collective desire to condemn any
unilateral act of aggression against the integrity of any
nation or its right to self-determination.
Mrs. Teo-Jacob (Singapore): This year Singapore
changed its vote on the resolution on this issue from one of
abstention to one of support. In doing so, we take no
position on the specific bilateral problems leading to the
imposition of the embargo against Cuba many years ago.
This is a matter for the two countries to settle bilaterally.
the
the primary consideration for
However, our view is that international relations have
evolved to the point where the principle of free trade should
be
international
community. Our view is that sanctions should be used only
in extremely serious cases, and then only upon the authority
of the Security Council. The unilateral
imposition of
sanctions with extraterritorial applications is a dangerous
trend that will distort free trade, to the ultimate detriment
of the entire international community. All nations should be
able to trade freely and openly with any other nation,
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
regardless of political views. Openness and engagement
are the best ways to build a true community of nations.
Mr. Malik (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): The
delegation of Iraq regrets being unable to vote on the
draft resolution just adopted because of the conditions of
the embargo imposed upon it, which deprive Iraq of the
right to vote. Had we had the opportunity, we would have
voted in favour of the resolution.
The embargo imposed against the Cuban people is
a flagrant violation of the principles of the Charter of the
United Nations, since it aims at achieving political
objectives which have nothing to do with international
peace and security. Furthermore,
the embargo runs
counter to the most basic of human and moral values.
Iraq calls for an end to such practices whose aim is to
strip peoples of their right to life, freedom and dignity
and to deprive nations of the opportunity to achieve social
and economic development.
Mr. Fowler (Canada): Canada once again supported
the resolution on this issue. Canada has followed its own
policy on Cuba, believing that engagement rather than
isolation is the best means of encouraging reform in
Cuba. Canada’s primary concern with respect
to the
embargo remains its intended extraterritorial reach — the
way in which the laws and regulations governing the
embargo seek to constrain the freedom of trade of third
countries such as Canada.
Canada has always taken a vigorous stand against
these and similar measures. At
the
embargo cannot be blamed for all of Cuba’s problems. In
our view, economic and political reform in Cuba is
needed for Cuba to overcome its current difficulties and
achieve its potential.
the same time,
In addition, I would like to mention our continuing
concerns over the state of human rights and democratic
development in Cuba, which fall short of internationally
accepted standards. We will continue, both bilaterally and
in the forums offered by the United Nations, to press for
improvement in these areas.
Mr. Jallow (Gambia): My delegation voted in
favour of the draft resolution contained in document
A/50/L.10, which asserts some of the cherished principles
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, because
it serves as a relevant reminder of the importance of the
status quo of sovereign equality and interdependence of
States, particularly States Members of the United Nations.
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
The continued imposition of the commercial and
financial embargo by the United States of America against
Cuba contradicts the spirit and letter of
the guiding
principles on which our Organization is founded. The
Gambia joined other countries in voting in favour of lifting
the embargo because the embargo runs counter to principles
of international cooperation and development.
concerned that there should perhaps have been a fuller
exploration of the extent to which this draft resolution has
bearing upon, and relates to, the established regulations of
the United Nations, established pursuant to Article 101 of
the Charter, under which the terms of employment and
conditions of the staff of the Organization are settled and
conducted.
areas, as well as
Justification for continuing the embargo has been
in social,
dimmed by three decades of development
economic and human rights
in
international relations, both in Cuba and globally. Cuba and
Cubans remain in control not only of their destiny but also
of the socio-economic welfare of Cubans. In spite of the
hardships imposed by the embargo, Cuba continues to
develop at a progressive rate, even assuming a major
international role in medicine and genetic engineering. In
addition, Cuba continues to enjoy a period of stability and
consistent development, which is critical to the welfare of
its people.
It is for these reasons that the Gambia decided this
year to vote in favour of the resolution just adopted.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the last speaker in explanation of vote after
the vote.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 27?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 156 (continued)
Multilingualism
(a) Draft resolution (A/50/L.6/Rev.1)
(b) Amendments (A/50/L.8 and A/50/L.9)
Mr. Butler (Australia): My delegation has given very
to the issues addressed in draft
considerable thought
resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1. Let me say immediately that this
is an important subject. It is an important subject to the
United Nations. It is an important subject to Australia.
Under those circumstances we have shared the view of
the many who have thought that this draft resolution would
be best adopted by consensus. We doubt that there has been
a sufficient amount and quality of consultation to make that
in that context, we have been
possible. In particular,
20
in draft
Having made these points, I now come specifically
to the text
resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1. My
delegation could look upon it with favour if it were to be
amended in two places. I am well aware of the rules of
the General Assembly with respect to oral amendments.
Nevertheless, I hope that what I am now going to present
can be given favourable consideration.
First, in the fourth preambular paragraph, there is
regrettably no reference to one of the principal organs of
the United Nations, an organ the range of which and the
work of which are very extensive and are therefore of the
deepest interest to so many Member States. I refer, of
course, to the Economic and Social Council. I propose
therefore to complete this preambular paragraph by
adding a reference to the rules of procedure of the
Economic and Social Council after the words “Security
Council”. The words that would be added would be as
follows:
“and Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and
Spanish shall be the official languages and English,
French and Spanish the working languages of the
Economic and Social Council”
and then superscript 3 with a footnote reading “Rule 32
of the rules of procedure of the Economic and Social
Council”. Thus we would follow precisely the same terms
as are used in this preambular paragraph in reference to
the General Assembly
and
subcommittees and the Security Council, and would
simply repeat the exact words that are found in rule 32 of
the rules of procedure of the Economic and Social
Council, with a footnote reference to that effect.
its Committees
and
Very interestingly, in addition to the points I have
made about the extreme importance to so many of us of
the work of the Economic and Social Council,
the
Council, unlike the other organs cited in this paragraph,
provides that Spanish shall also be a working language of
that body.
My second proposed amendment is in paragraph 3.
Here I would propose that a reference be made to the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Charter of the United Nations. I point out that nowhere in
the draft resolution is reference made to the fundamental
provision of the Charter under which the staff of the
Organization are recruited and the regulations to that effect
are drawn up. There is a reference to the Charter — not by
way of a citation,
to its title — in the second
preambular paragraph, after which a contention about
there is no precise
multilingualism is advanced. But
reference to the Charter
resolution. My
delegation considers that to be a deficiency that we can
readily remedy by adding to paragraph 3, after the words
“to ensure that”, words referring to Article 101 of the
Charter, as follows:
in the draft
just
“appointment of the staff of the Organization shall be
carried out strictly in accordance with the terms of
Article 101 of the Charter and regulations established
48th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
by the General Assembly pursuant to Article 101,
and that”.
I am aware that these are oral amendments. They
may need reflection. I would urge all representatives to
recognize that
they derive directly from the rules of
procedure of the Economic and Social Council and from
the Charter of the United Nations. With amendments such
as these I believe the draft resolution would be much
improved and would certainly then commend itself to my
delegation and, I would hope, to others.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I
thank the representative of Australia. His oral
amendments will be taken into account and decided upon
when we proceed to the vote on draft
resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1.
In view of the lateness of the hour, the General
Assembly will continue its consideration of agenda item
156 this afternoon.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
21
