United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
37th plenary meeting
Monday, 23 October 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.37
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 29 (continued)
Commemoration of
United Nations
the fiftieth anniversary of
the
Special Commemorative Meeting of the General
Assembly
occasion of
fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations
on the
the
The President: This morning we hold the third
meeting of the Special Commemorative Meeting of the
General Assembly on the occasion of
fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations.
the
Before I call on the first speaker I should like to draw
the attention of members to the report of the Preparatory
Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United
Nations, document A/50/48. The draft resolution which
appears
the
Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the United Nations.
in paragraph 2 of
contains
the
report
I am glad that yesterday we were able to complete
work on time and I should like to remind all delegations
again of the five-minute limit for each statement.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta
Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda
The President: The Assembly will first hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni,
President of the Republic of Uganda.
His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni,
President of the Republic of Uganda, was escorted
to the rostrum.
President Museveni: I tried to see whether I could
read my statement in the stipulated five minutes and I
found that I could not, so I have decided to summarize it
instead of attempting to read it and breaking the rule.
First I wish to inform the Assembly that about nine
months ago I was invited to Buenos Aires to address a
seminar. The topic I was given to speak on was “Does
Africa Matter?” That means that in the minds of some
people the question whether Africa matters is being
raised. Of course Africa matters. Africa covers an area of
30 million square kilometres. It is the second largest
continent in the world. It now has 700 million people.
Obviously it matters.
The reason some people are wondering why Africa
matters is because of the backwardness of its economies
and population. The main reason for that backwardness is
the structure of society. I recently carried out a study and
found that in the United Kingdom 52 per cent of the
people are members of the middle class; 46 per cent of
the people in the United Kingdom are members of the
skilled working class; 2 per cent of the people are what
is called the upper class — which I think means the
aristocracy.
95-86401 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
What is the picture in Uganda? In Uganda 92 per cent
of the people are peasants. The characteristic of peasant
societies is that, first, they are parochial and, secondly, they
base themselves on a subsistence economy. A characteristic
of middle-class societies is that the middle class is the most
enterprising social group in the history of man. Therefore
the absence of the middle class in Uganda — and I
presume in other African countries — is the source of the
many problems we have in Africa.
Who caused this social distortion? Why is it that in the
United Kingdom 52 per cent of the people are members of
the middle class and there are no peasants? There are no
longer any peasants in Europe. There were peasants in
Europe 300 years ago. By the time of
the French
Revolution the peasant class was a strong class in Europe.
What happened? Why is it that in Europe there is no longer
a peasant class yet
in Africa the peasant class is the
dominant class? What are the reasons?
The main culprit is colonialism, because colonialism
stopped the emergence of the middle class. Yet the middle
class is a cosmopolitan-minded group. It consists of people
who think about the whole world because these people are
businessmen. They want to do business in the whole world.
Therefore, when Africa is deficient in a middle class it
means it is deficient in entrepreneurship and cosmopolitan
ideas.
What do we do to redress the situation? There are five
points to which we are addressing ourselves in Uganda.
First, democratic governance — to have democracy;
secondly, a liberalized economy, an economy that makes it
easy for people to do business;
thirdly, universal and
compulsory education — sending everybody to school
whether or not
fourthly,
expanding the infrastructure — especially roads and power
so that those who are doing business have the means to
take their products to the markets; and, fifthly, regional
integration — which means the integration of markets
because one cannot produce unless there are markets to
absorb what one produces.
to go to school;
they want
Those are the five points that we in Uganda propose
in order to eliminate the bottleneck of having a society
without the very modern force that has been responsible for
development in other areas, that is, a middle class.
I have been hearing talk that apart from wondering
whether or not Africa matters, people are worried that
Africa is being marginalized. When I ask, “What do you
mean by saying that Africa is being marginalized?”, they
2
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
It
say that Africa is being forgotten by Europe. I am not
worried about that. Africa will develop whether or not
Europe’s forgets Africa.
is my opinion that our
development does not depend on Europe’s remembering
us. It does not matter if we are forgotten or marginalized
but if members read my short statement they will see that
it is crucial that we in Africa solve these bottleneck
problems and the endogenous factors — the factors within
Africa that have stopped us from developing. The
exogenous factors, those from outside Africa, are only
secondary, not primary.
Even if we get aid from the West, if we do not solve
these internal bottlenecks and endogenous factors within
our own countries there will be no development. On the
other hand, even if we do not get any help, provided we
solve the endogenous bottlenecks I am sure we shall
develop.
Does that mean that Europe should not help us? No,
Europe should help us. First, the Europeans owe us debts.
They caused us many problems. They came and
plundered our economies. They used our economies to
build themselves up so it is a moral requirement that
Europe should help us if only to pay for past mistakes.
But in the case of Uganda we will develop, it is in
our hands and does not depend on whether or not they
help us. That is why we fought for freedom. We now
have freedom and we will develop one way or any other.
it has been doing so without
I come now to the United Nations. I commend the
United Nations for maintaining peace over the past 50
years but
resources.
Therefore I appeal to States that owe money to the United
Nations to pay up. I was looking at the list and found that
Uganda was not so bad when it came to paying its dues
to the United Nations but it is important that the more
powerful States should pay their United Nations dues.
However there is one problem I have found in
United Nations programmes. It seems that we do not
clearly define the circumstances in which the United
Nations should be involved.
In the case of Haiti, it was easy for the United States
the legitimate authorities to
to come in and support
assume power. But when the United Nations went into
Somalia, who was the legal force there and who the
illegal force? As far as I am concerned, all the groups in
Somalia were illegal. There were groups that had emerged
as a result of an explosion that was a consequence of long
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
periods of disenfranchisement of the people. In such a
situation, who is the good boy and who is the bad boy? We
must be very careful there.
That
is why in such a situation I would rather
concentrate on reconciliation, which would give us an
interim Government. Then we could have elections in order
to re-establish legitimacy, and then we could support the
legitimate force. But simply coming in as we did in
Somalia, I think, was a mistake in the first instance. We
just came in and tried to take sides with one of the groups
when, in fact, all of the groups were illegitimate.
In some other situations we have had elections on the
basis of one man, one vote. This is a good beginning.
However, one needs to be very careful, because if the
principle of one man, one vote is on a sectarian basis, what
you will get
is not
necessarily a national Government, but a Government of
just one of the sectors. And if you simply back it without
looking closely at the problems, you may find that you are
backing a sectarian majority in an effort to monopolize
power. So I think that there you need a little flexibility.
is a majority Government
that
Therefore, finally, one of the remedies we have
applied in Uganda is always having a broad-based
Government. In Uganda we do not believe in the principle
of winner-take-all. Our country was torn apart by criminals
such as Idi Amin, but when we came in we were able to
put our country together by using the formula of everybody
being in power instead of some people being in power and
others out.
Everyone must have heard about the bad situation in
Rwanda. Uganda had suffered similarly. When such
problems arise in Africa, I am sure many people in Europe
think to themselves that this is African barbarism. When
they see children being massacred and women being
slaughtered, I think that people in the world thin to
themselves that this is African barbarism. But I would like
to end my short speech here by saying that this is not so.
Before colonialism, we used to have tribal wars. I can say
that in spite of those wars, women, children and captives
were never killed. Africans do not kill women. When there
are too many women, you marry them — you have three,
four, five or six wives. You do not kill them. I have never
seen an African killing a woman. So this phenomenon of
killing women and children is not African barbarism. It is
another kind of barbarism: a barbarism created by the
confluence of some foreign meddlers in our affairs with
some local traitors. They are the ones who kill women,
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
children and captives. Africans do not kill women and
children.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic
of Uganda for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni,
President of the Republic of Uganda, was escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Sir Ketumile Masire,
President of the Republic of Botswana
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Sir Ketumile Masire, President
of the Republic of Botswana.
His Excellency Sir Ketumile Masire, President of the
Republic of Botswana, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Masire: Botswana congratulates Portugal
on its assumption of the presidency of the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session. We salute the Secretary-
General for his inspiring stewardship of the United
Nations at this critical moment in its history.
The presence of so many world leaders in New York
bears witness to the success of the United Nations during
its half century of existence. For Botswana and the
African continent, this is a particularly historic moment.
When the Organization was born in San Francisco in
1945, only four African countries were able to adhere as
independent countries to the Declaration of the United
Nations. The rest of the continent was still under colonial
domination.
Today the United Nations boasts of African States
among its 185 Members. On this fiftieth anniversary of
the United Nations, Botswana pays a warm tribute to a
great Organization which has touched the lives of millions
across continents.
The United Nations has served us well. Small States
such as my own have found in the United Nations a vital
forum for collective bargaining. It has contributed to the
advancement of
international cooperation in solving
economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems. It
is a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the
attainment of these common ends. That is why, in our
view, we need a more balanced, but effective and
efficient, Security Council to act as our common tool in
the pursuit and defence of these common objectives.
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Africa’s importance to the world is fully recognized.
Most recently, we have seen the international community,
through the United Nations, score major successes in peace-
keeping and peacemaking in Africa. In my subregion,
Mozambique has been rescued from the clutches of a
monstrous war, South Africa has been delivered from the
evil of apartheid, Namibia is now an independent country
and in Angola the peace process has entered a promising
phase.
One of the milestones of the last session of the
General Assembly was the return of South Africa to the
family of free and civilized nations as a democratic and
non-racial country.
to understand how
institutionalized racism was allowed to exist for so long in
the aftermath of the victory of democracy over Nazism and
fascism.
is difficult
It
In West Africa, fortunately, Liberia is slowly moving
back to peace after six years of bloody conflict. Elsewhere
in Africa, we have seen tragedies of unspeakable
proportions. Only last year, genocide was visited upon the
people of Rwanda. Somalia is still bleeding, seemingly
remote from the concerns of the world. Sierra Leone is
being consumed by a bitter civil war. These are painful and
troubling situations for the Governments and the people of
Africa.
While it is obvious that Africa needs to strengthen its
capacity to predict, prevent and contain conflict situations,
the fact remains that
the United Nations has primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security. The Organization of African Unity stands ready to
play its part, as envisaged in Articles 52 and 53 of the
United Nations Charter.
On behalf of my country and my people, I reaffirm
our binding faith in the Charter of this, our United Nations.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic
of Botswana for his statement.
His Excellency Sir Ketumile Masire, President of the
Republic of Botswana, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Maréchal Mobutu Sese Seko,
President of the Republic of Zaire
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by His Excellency Maréchal Mobutu Sese Seko,
President of the Republic of Zaire.
4
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
His Excellency Maréchal Mobutu Sese Seko,
President of the Republic of Zaire, was escorted to
the rostrum.
President Mobutu Sese Seko (interpretation from
French): It is a great honour for me and for Zaire, my
country, once again to address this distinguished General
Assembly as we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the
founding of the United Nations.
First of all, may I warmly congratulate a man who
is himself a symbol, on the one hand, of the universalism
of the United Nations, and on the other hand, of an Africa
which has come of age to the extent that it has made an
indelible mark on the United Nations by bestowing on it
one of its best talents. I refer to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a worthy son of whom Africa
is particularly proud and who is, with competence and a
spirit of self-sacrifice, fulfilling the difficult and delicate
mission which is his.
In my capacity as one of the elder statesmen among
African heads of state, I wish, on behalf of my colleagues
and of the peoples of Africa, to congratulate you warmly,
Sir, on the honour which the international community has
conferred upon you by electing you to the presidency of
this regular session which coincides with the fiftieth
anniversary of our Organization.
For us Africans, the United Nations is first and
foremost a synonym of re-found dignity and freedom. The
flag of the United Nations represents, above all,
the
universal emblem of the decolonization of the States of
our continent. Indeed, members will recall that when the
Charter founding the United Nations was signed in San
Francisco, only eight African countries were among the
first 51 States to be admitted. From 1960 to 1990, that is,
from the first proclamations of independence to the
independence of Namibia, all the other African States
have progressively won their seat within the United
Nations.
Like any human endeavour, the United Nations is far
from having reached perfection. A forum for dialogue and
for debate, an instrument
the prevention and
management of conflicts and a guarantor of international
law and of the integrity of States, it remains the only
global meeting point where each people can make its
voice heard.
for
This privilege, which places large and small on an
equal footing within the United Nations, has strongly
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
characterized the links between my country, Zaire, and the
Organization. In this respect, I would just like to recall two
dates that are symbolic of this relationship. First of all, 20
September 1960, the date when Zaire was admitted to the
United Nations, together with 12 other fraternal States from
our continent.
The second date is 14 July 1960 when, in response to
the appeal by Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba,
the
Security Council authorized the establishment of a military
and civilian assistance operation in my country, which was
then shaken by an armed conflict during which the
Secretary-General of
the United Nations, Mr. Dag
Hammarskjold, on a peace mission to Zaire, died on
African soil.
The United Nations may, it is true, fall short of our
expectations. It sometimes fails. None the less, Zaire
believes that recognition of this fact should first and
foremost prompt Member States to seek further cohesion at
higher levels and, in particular, at the regional level, as
Article 52 of the Charter of the United Nations invites us
to do.
In order to restore peace and stability in Africa, the
United Nations should endorse the option chosen in 1963
by the founding fathers of the Organization of African
Unity, that is, the inviolability of the borders inherited from
colonialism. The political translation of this principle lies in
safeguarding multi-ethnic States within which the rights of
minorities are guaranteed.
It is desirable, in view of the new shape of the world,
that the adaptation of the United Nations be extended to all
its organs, including the Security Council.
Those who won the last world war conceived the
Security Council as an organ within which their viewpoints
were to prevail. While the geopolitics of that time might
have justified such a state of affairs, today it must be
recognized that, given the new international situation and
the role expected of the United Nations, the exclusion of
Africa and of certain powers is no longer justifiable and is
an intolerable injustice. Hence, a revision of permanent
representation on the Security Council is a logical demand
and is necessary for the harmonious functioning of the
United Nations system.
At
this particular point
in the history of our
Organization, a courageous decision by the international
community in this direction can only strengthen the role of
the United Nations and will be recorded forever in the
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
annals of our Organization for the greater good of present
and future generations.
In the text of my statement which I have deposited
with the Secretariat, I have provided a complete overview
of the major problems of the day affecting Zaire, Africa
and the world. I place special stress on the need to
respect the sovereignty of Member States and draw the
attention of our Organization to the emergence of a
dangerous phenomenon, cynically termed the right of
intervention.
I draw the attention of the United Nations to the
tragedy that the phenomenon of refugees represents today
and reiterate the proposal made at
the Copenhagen
Summit regarding the organization of a world conference
on refugees.
Lastly, I could not fail to mention the distressing
problem of Rwanda and Burundi, which is a dangerous
threat to the peace, stability and development of the entire
central and eastern regions of Africa. Initiatives are under
way to find rapid solutions to this tragedy. These
initiatives deserve the attention and support of
the
international community.
Bearing in mind the situation now prevailing in my
own country, I dwell at length in my statement on the
ways and means of resolving it. That is why I invite the
international community to support our efforts with a
view to the rapid organization of free, democratic and
transparent elections.
On the threshold of the second 50 years of the
United Nations and the eve of the third millennium, an
affirmation of peace and cohesion among peoples must,
more than ever before, constitute the prime legacy to
bequeath to future generations. More than ever, it befits
the United Nations to be the guarantor and the depository
of this legacy.
As regards Africa more specifically, with its mosaics
of ethnic communities, with its economic lag, with its
social handicaps, I affirm that, both within and outside the
continent, we must make solidarity,
security and
development our watchwords for action and the spearhead
of the fight against discord and injustice in the world.
The President (interpretation from French): I thank
the President of the Republic of Zaire for his statement.
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
His Excellency Maréchal Mobutu Sese Seko, President
of
the Republic of Zaire, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Nelson Mandela,
President of the Republic of South Africa
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Nelson Mandela, President
of the Republic of South Africa.
His Excellency Mr. Nelson Mandela, President of the
Republic of South Africa, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Mandela: When distinguished leaders came
together half a century ago to consign to the past a war that
had pitted humanity against itself, the ruins and the smoke
from the dying fires were the monument to what should not
have been.
Fifty years after the formation of the United Nations
we meet to affirm our commitment to the founding ideal
and the common desire to better the life of all human
beings. What challenges us who define ourselves as “states-
persons” is the clarion call to dare to think that what we are
about is people — the proverbial man and woman in the
street. These — the poor, the hungry, the victims of petty
tyrants, the objectives of policy — demand change. What
challenges us is to ensure that none should enjoy lesser
rights, and none be tormented because they are born
different, hold contrary political views, or pray to God in a
different manner.
We come from Africa, and South Africa, on this
historic occasion to pay tribute to that founding ideal and
to thank the United Nations for challenging with us a
system that defined fellow humans as lesser beings. The
youth, at whom we have directed most of our awareness
campaign on this golden jubilee, should marvel at
the
nobility of our intentions. They are also bound to wonder
why it should be that poverty still pervades the greater part
of the globe; that wars continue to rage; and that many in
positions of power and privilege pursue cold-hearted
philosophies which terrifyingly proclaim “I am not my
brother’s keeper”. For no one, in the North or the South,
can escape the cold fact that we are a single humanity.
At the end of the cold war the poor had hoped that all
humanity would earn a peace dividend, enabling this
Organization to address an expectation it was born to
address. And they challenge us today to ensure their
security, not only in peace but also in prosperity.
6
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
The changed world circumstances permit of neither
the continued maldistribution of resources nor the related
maldistribution of decision-making power within this
Organization itself. Indeed, the United Nations has to
reassess its role, redefine its profile and reshape its
structures. It should truly reflect the diversity of our
universe and ensure equity among the nations in the
exercise of power within the system of international
relations
in
particular.
in general, and the Security Council
We raise this matter to make the fundamental point
that the agenda of the next century and the programme of
action to promote it can be true to the purposes of this
Organization only if they are set by all of us. We must,
without delay, constitute a new leadership for the new age
and bring sunshine into the hearts of billions, including
women, the disabled and children.
Circumstances may tempt us to bend to the pressures
of realpolitik. However, like the founders, we are faced
with the task of ensuring the convergence of word and
deed. But we are unlike them in that the obstacles we
face are fewer and the conditions more auspicious.
As the United Nations matures into the new
millennium, it is called upon to facilitate the birth of a
new world order of peace, democracy and prosperity for
all. Thus we can honour the memory of those who
perished in pursuit of the founding ideal and protect
future generations from the pestilences of war, hunger,
disease, ignorance and environmental degradation.
The time to act is now.
The President: I thank the President of South Africa
for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Nelson Mandela, President of
the Republic of South Africa, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Jacques Chirac,
President of the French Republic
The President (interpretation from French): The
Assembly will next hear an address by His Excellency
Mr. Jacques Chirac, President of the French Republic.
His Excellency Mr. Jacques Chirac, President of the
French Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
President Chirac (interpretation from French): The
world needs the United Nations.
Fifty years after the founding of the United Nations,
at a time when there are questions and doubts in some
quarters, I want to express France’s confidence in our
Organization and the high esteem that
it has for the
Secretary-General.
Confidence and, therefore, commitment. France has
always been a leader in the search for peaceful solutions to
the crises of our times. From Cambodia to Bosnia, it has
become the leading contributor of United Nations troops.
too
in
the
for
search
Commitment
genuine
disarmament. No one disputes France’s major role in the
negotiations to ban chemical weapons, to eliminate anti-
personnel mines and to extend the Non-Proliferation Treaty
indefinitely. Let no one doubt France’s determination to
ensure, in 1996, the success of the negotiations on the
definitive, comprehensive and verifiable ban on nuclear
testing. It was the first to speak out for the zero option.
Today I wish to confirm that, once its final series of tests
is completed next spring, France will sign the Protocols to
the Treaty of Rarotonga establishing a South Pacific
nuclear-free zone.
Commitment, too, in the affirmation at the United
Nations of a universal conscience,
reflected in legal
instruments and in programmes of action. It is in the vast
area of human rights and solidarity among peoples that the
irreplaceable nature of our Organization is most marked.
The world has changed in 50 years. In the past six, it
has undergone a mutation that is perilous and yet brings
hope. Let us help the United Nations adapt to this new
world and play its role there effectively.
Let us make the Security Council more representative
by enlarging the circle of its permanent members to include
Germany, Japan and some large States from the South. Let
us learn from our successes, as from our failures, by
developing preventive diplomacy at the regional level and
by increasing the rapid response capability of our
Organization in the humanitarian and military spheres.
Let us seriously reflect together on the multilateral
institutions of development aid:
the
International Monetary Fund and the United Nations
agencies and programmes. France, which will preside over
the Group of 7 in 1996, will make the effectiveness of such
aid a major theme at the summit in Lyons.
the World Bank,
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
The world has changed. So, too, has the third world.
Let us take into account
the differentiation that has
gradually become more marked between the countries that
enjoy strong growth and attract foreign investment and
those that are in difficulty and at
risk of being
marginalized. The struggle against exclusion must be
taken up at
level as well. Let us
concentrate a greater share of bilateral and multilateral aid
on the least developed countries, particularly those in
Africa. Today, as we have all seen, Africa is making
progress. Let us help it to succeed.
the international
Let us do better in addressing problems that are
becoming more serious: movements of populations,
environmental degradation, major endemic diseases,
drugs. Without neglecting emergency aid, let us restore
greater emphasis on the search for long-term solutions by
assigning a central place to structural policies and their
financing.
Concentrating official development assistance on the
least-developed countries and refocusing on long-term
policies are the two main areas which the necessary
adaptations must address. Increasing the effectiveness of
development assistance means pursuing these reforms
with all the actors — multilateral and bilateral, public and
private. We will succeed only if we are ambitious,
determined and, above all, united in a comprehensive and
coherent approach.
The proposals which France is presenting today, as
contained in the statement that we have distributed, will
be developed in the months ahead at the United Nations
and with all our partners, especially those in the European
Union and in the Group of 7, our partners in the French-
speaking world and those which are emerging as pillars
of tomorrow’s world. For the new approach needs to be
based on a real consensus, which we must build together.
Fifty years after it was drafted, the aims set forth in
our Charter have lost none of their relevance: peace and
disarmament, democracy and development, the promotion
of human rights and the fight against the great scourges
that
threaten mankind. In these 50 years, a body of
common values has gradually come to be asserted, thanks
to the United Nations.
Today, we must focus our efforts on the adaptation
and renewal of our Organization, above all by giving it
the resources to operate. The temptation to disengage
threatens the very existence of the United Nations. It is
not acceptable that many countries, particularly the
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
foremost among them, should let their arrears pile up,
thereby bankrupting an Organization to which all
the
world’s Heads of State and Government have come, in an
unprecedented event, to affirm its irreplaceable nature on
this, its anniversary day. The world needs solidarity, and
yes, it needs the United Nations.
The President (interpretation from French): I thank
the President of the French Republic for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Jacques Chirac, President of the
French Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Thomas Klestil, Federal
President of the Republic of Austria
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Thomas Klestil, Federal
President of the Republic of Austria.
His Excellency Mr. Thomas Klestil, Federal President
of
the Republic of Austria, was escorted to the
rostrum.
President Klestil: The fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations is marked by a fascinating yet irritating
contradiction. Many of the States Members of the United
Nations believe that this jubilee is taking place at one of the
most difficult moments of its history. Crisis is the word of
the day. At
the same time, more heads of State and
Government are assembled here than ever before and more
human beings, watching this gathering from every corner of
the world, are convinced that
the United Nations is
indispensable to the very survival of mankind.
Ever since the first moments of its existence, the
United Nations has been torn between idealism and power
politics, between solidarity and egoism. It has always
mirrored the state of the world, but at the same time it has
been much more than the sum total of national interests.
But the most fateful contradiction was already present at its
creation. It was to be a community of nations, but the
famous opening words of the Charter read: “We the
peoples”.
The history of the United Nations is the perpetual
attempt to bring the world Organization closer to the people
and to forge it into a genuine community of humankind. On
the Organization’s fiftieth birthday,
the United Nations
Members assembled here today sense more than ever the
growing need to transcend the confines of the nation-State.
8
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
The experience of the first half-century of our
Organization has shown, time and again, that people are
ahead of their Governments. And the burning problems
on the eve of the twenty-first century — the environment,
development, human rights, population growth — force us
to go beyond our traditional methods of international
cooperation and crisis management. Thus, the time has
come for a new beginning.
As the only instrument for global action, the United
Nations has to accomplish a swift transition. Its primary
role is to be open — open to new realities in a
multifaceted world, open to new social and cultural
aspirations and open to a dramatic change in paradigms.
The profound transformations of our time, the rapidly
growing importance and power of non-State actors —
such as
religious groups or business
communities — and the growing role of civil society
demand a new dimension of international cooperation.
the media,
that
Wherever this process of reform may lead us we
the creation of the United
should never forget
Nations, 50 years ago, was an act of faith — and its
renewal also has to be an act of faith. There is, however,
a significant difference:
today’s faith in the United
Nations is based not only on the values and principles we
all share, but also on the record of half a century of
remarkable achievements — and, of course, of numerous
shortcomings.
We can, and we must, learn the lessons from the
tragedies that have occurred — and still continue to
occur — in many parts of the world. We have to make it
clear that no country, no one, shall be allowed to hide
behind a wall of sovereignty and silence when human
rights are violated — and no offence against humanity
must remain unpunished.
The more we are ready to pool our sovereignty —
and the European Union is a shining example of this
development — the better we achieve these goals. And
the more nations unite, the better for national and for
human security.
Growing unity, to last, requires the eradication of
misery, poverty and social
injustice — and equal
opportunities for all. Only a strong world Organization
will be able to meet these challenges.
There is no better way to celebrate the founding of
our Organization than to make it efficient and financially
viable. It is most urgent that we recognize the need for
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
reform — and it is most vital that we act quickly. For this
we need political will and determination; we need a United
Nations system that is universal and competitive; and we
have to give it the necessary financial means.
All Member States must shoulder their obligations
under international law to contribute to the expenses of the
Organization. The money we devote to peace-keeping,
preventive diplomacy, resettlement of refugees and the
monitoring of human rights helps to prevent
future
catastrophes whose cost would be far greater.
My country, Austria, is one of the three headquarters
of the United Nations. From Vienna the world Organization
fights against drug abuse and organized crime, controls
nuclear energy and assists development for people in need.
We are proud to host such important United Nations
activities in our country.
We stand ready to join others in preparing our
Organization for a new era on this planet. We trust, Mr.
President, that under your guidance, with the continued
assistance of all United Nations staff, and with the
unrelenting energy of our Secretary-General, this gathering
will give a decisive impetus to this undertaking. History
and the future are on the side of the United Nations.
The President: I thank the Federal President of the
Republic of Austria for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Thomas Klestil, Federal President
of the Republic of Austria, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address
Stephanopoulos, President of the Hellenic Republic
by His Excellency Mr. Constantinos
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
Constantinos
address
Stephanopoulos, President of the Hellenic Republic.
Excellency Mr.
by His
His Excellency Mr. Constantinos Stephanopoulos,
President of the Hellenic Republic, was escorted to the
rostrum.
(interpretation
President Stephanopoulos
from
French): I still vividly recall the founding 50 years ago of
the United Nations.
It was an event which strongly
impressed all of us, and we placed many hopes in the new
international Organization which was the successor to the
League of Nations.
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
My country, Greece, was emerging from the war,
and from triple enemy occupation which followed,
emerging destroyed and bloodied. Its people wanted to
look to the future with optimism and with the certainty
that a new era would dawn for it and for all of mankind.
We wanted to believe that the era of wars, of bombings,
executions, famines, and the other ills plaguing men were
consigned to the past. The great Powers had taken firm
and definitive decisions. Security and peace were going
to prevail at last. Democracy was going to govern the
destiny of nations, and the new international Organization
was going to settle the disputes which could emerge
among them.
Through its authority, the United Nations would
make good the principles of international law throughout
the world, as well as respect for human rights, which
were to be the subject of a Universal Declaration. The
Organization would
economic
development and cooperation between peoples, and would
take all necessary measures to avoid falling into the errors
of the past, thus avoiding the weaknesses of the League
of Nations. What great hopes we cherished at the time!
contribute
also
to
Since then, 50 years have elapsed, and we have
become more realistic. Wars have not ceased — nor have
the crimes which come in their wake, and misfortunes of
peoples have resulted. International norms, if they are
deprived of the possibility of implementation, have turned
out to be unable to impose themselves — and democratic
principles as well as human rights are often deliberately
ignored and are replaced by interests and by opportunism.
But then one might wonder: Has nothing been done
over these 50 years? No, it would be wrong to assert that.
For indeed, many things have been achieved — although,
perhaps, not as much as we would have hoped.
The primary objective — which is that of preserving
new generations from the scourge of war — has been
partially achieved. Thanks to what has been called the
balance of terror among the Powers — but also thanks to
the existence of the United Nations — it has been
possible to avoid having the cold war transformed into a
new global conflict. The United Nations has always been
a forum for discussion and conciliation, and has been able
to adopt significant
resolutions which have not all
remained a dead letter — quite the opposite.
Nevertheless, it is true that it has been impossible to
avoid regional wars which were unleashed throughout the
world. It is true that the responsibility for this does not
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
fall on the United Nations — which did not have, and still
does not have, the possibility to ensure the implementation
of its own resolutions unless the great Powers reach
agreement and give it the necessary means to do so. That
said, one might perhaps note that the Organization has been
lacking in firmness in the application of the just decisions
which it has taken. However, insisting on its resolutions
would have constituted strong moral pressure, which would
have been all the more effective if the Organization had
persevered consistently and firmly.
Cyprus is a striking example of the inability of the
Organization to firmly and decisively condemn an act of
military aggression that was followed by occupation, which
still continues. The initial resolutions of the Security
Council and of the General Assembly were not applied, and
we have had to endure a military occupation which has
been continuing for over 20 years.
We must in the most absolute and firm terms condemn
not only the use of force but also the threat of its use,
which also constitutes a flagrant violation of the principles
of the Charter of the United Nations. Unfortunately, such
cases have occurred quite recently. I refer, in saying this, to
the threat of war which a Member State, through a decision
of its National Assembly, made to Greece if it were to
apply the provisions of the Convention on the Law of the
Sea. What is astounding and totally inadmissible here is
that this threat was not formulated to ward off an illegal
act, but to prevent a perfectly legitimate act.
The efforts made by the United Nations have been
more effective for economic development and cooperation
between peoples — efforts which in many cases have been
crowned with success. It also goes to the credit of the
United Nations that it has made a firm proclamation of the
need to respect and protect human rights, which, thanks to
the policy followed by the United Nations, have been
recognized and respected even in countries where they were
in the past flagrantly violated. Doubtless, a great deal
remains to be done — even in this area.
Strengthening the effectiveness of the United Nations
would be to the advantage of all
the members of the
international community, which would then be acting within
the framework of a system that would have full respect for
the norms and principles of international law and in which
the rule of the strongest would not be able to prevail.
In conclusion, I should like most sincerely to express
this
the great and noble objectives of
the hope that
10
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
Organization, the fiftieth anniversary of which we are
celebrating, will be realized as soon as possible.
The President: I thank the President of the Hellenic
Republic for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Constantinos Stephanopoulos,
President of the Hellenic Republic, was escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Mircea Ion Snegur,
President of the Republic of Moldova
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Mircea Ion Snegur,
President of the Republic of Moldova.
His Excellency Mr. Mircea Ion Snegur, President of
the Republic of Moldova, was escorted to the
rostrum.
President Snegur (spoke in Romanian; English text
furnished by the delegation): The important international
event
that has brought us together has a profound
historical significance. Shaken by the horrors of the
Second World War and guided by the firm conviction that
such apocalyptic cataclysms should never happen again,
the free nations and their spiritual
leaders laid the
foundation of the United Nations 50 years ago.
From this perspective,
the
Charter — “We the peoples of the United Nations” — are
a natural expression of the world community’s feeling of
shared responsibility for the destiny of humankind.
the first words of
At the present time, the international community is
at a crossroads. An imperative on its agenda is the
conception of a new world. It is probably the first time in
history that we perceive the world as the common
heritage of humankind and war as a crime, inequality as
an injustice, and ecological degradation as a joint
responsibility.
Among the objectives of the world community,
priority is given to those that aim at the creation of a new
international system of political and economic relations.
In this context, a fundamental role is attributed to the
United Nations. Is the United Nations ready to assume
such a role? This is a question every Member State has
to answer.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the last
The end of the cold war has given rise to hope in this
respect. The United Nations has achieved remarkable
results, especially over
few years: peaceful
environments
introduced in Cambodia, Namibia, El
Salvador and Mozambique; assistance in democracy-
building to a number of States in different parts of the
world; and the adoption, by consensus, of a significant
number of documents and resolutions, to name but a few of
these successes.
To do away with the structural and organizational
deficiencies within the United Nations and to increase its
positive impact,
the Member States have introduced a
number of initiatives aimed at revitalizing the United
Nations and its capacity to adapt to the new realities. The
Republic of Moldova supports the Organization’s efforts to
reform the Security Council and the restructuring of the
United Nations Secretariat,
the Economic and Social
Council, the Trusteeship Council and so on. We hope that
these initiatives will be successful and that as a result the
United Nations will be stronger and more efficient.
framework for
In another line of thinking, we consider it necessary to
consolidate international
law and to establish a new
international legal order. At the same time, the need for a
new legal
the post-cold-war period is
becoming more and more evident. In this respect, it would
be useful, we think,
to deepen some of the existing
concepts of international law, such as sovereignty, statehood
and the competence of international organizations in general
and, in particular, in correlation with the principle of self-
determination. In our opinion,
if these objectives are
achieved, international law in the twenty-first century will
become the language of international relations and will
contribute to overcoming explosive situations such as those
created artificially, and sometimes inspired and supported
from abroad, around minority problems.
The Republic of Moldova became a Member of the
United Nations immediately after gaining its independence.
We took this step with the deep conviction that in the
company of peace-loving nations and within the United
Nations, we would succeed in building, faster and on a
more solid foundation, a democratic and prosperous
country, an independent and indivisible one, without foreign
armies deployed on its territory.
After more than three years of membership, we find
with satisfaction the advantages of our cooperation with the
United Nations. We continue to count on the support that
the United Nations can give us in urging the withdrawal,
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
and in monitoring the withdrawal, of foreign troops from
the territory of our country.
In conclusion, I should like to assure the Member
States of our Organization that, in pursuing the complex
task it has assumed — to build a peaceful, prosperous and
democratic world — the United Nations will find in the
Republic of Moldova a partner with conviction, true to
the international responsibilities it has taken on.
The President: I thank the President of Moldova for
his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Mircea Ion Snegur, President of
Moldova, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Ion Iliescu, President
of Romania
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Ion Iliescu, President of
Romania.
His Excellency Mr.
Romania, was escorted to the rostrum.
Ion Iliescu, President of
President Iliescu (interpretation from French): Half
a century of existence would seem to be an occasion for
laudatory statements, even in the life of an international
organization such as the United Nations. However, I
believe that a gathering of more than 150 Heads of State
and Government should be the occasion, not just for
festive speeches, but also for framing clear answers to the
fundamental questions that billions of citizens of this
planet ask themselves each and every day, expecting us
statesmen to come up with concrete solutions.
Are we to live in peace, or is the scourge of war still
fiendishly lurking over our fate?
Shall we live in a more prosperous world, or shall
we plunge deeper and deeper into the abyss of poverty?
Shall we live in a world capable of restoring to
human beings their full dignity and creative powers, or
shall we continue to watch impotently the waste of new
generations, undermined by disease, famine, promiscuity,
hatred and the lack of moral perspective?
Shall we all be contemporaries of the twenty-first
century, or will history and civilization on Earth
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
irreversibly
development?
splinter
along
the
dividing
lines
of
Certainly, such questions are disconcerting. However,
no one has a ready-made answer to them. That is why,
perhaps, voices may be heard arguing that this is not the
time to even ask these questions, here in the United
Nations, as they do not fall within the purposes of our
Organization.
To see that they really are wrong, we need only recall
the hopes that animated the spirit and the work of the
founding fathers of the United Nations.
In 1945, when we emerged from the inferno of the
Second World War, the creation of a world in which the
experience of total war could never be repeated was by no
means an idealistic goal but
the very essence of the
endeavour to set up an organization with a universal
vocation.
prosperity
of
The
through
peoples
cooperation was not merely the
some
daydreamers, but the rationale behind an international body
meant to constitute an orderly space for moral and legal
values to govern the manifestation of the freedom of
creation of human civilization in all its diversity.
achieved
formula of
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
contemporary world, such as the regime of nuclear non-
proliferation and disarmament, the identification and legal
condemnation of armed aggression, the conservation of
the cultural heritage of humanity and the building of the
basis for cooperation in the name of development.
Certainly, the results do not yet respond to all needs
and expectations. That is why I believe that our most
important duty now, on the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, is to make the chance of a new beginning
come to fruition.
Released from the fetters of bipolarity and of the
cold war, the international system has regained its natural
freedom of movement. Instead of ending, history is in fact
starting again.
Concomitantly, however, all
the problems that
seemed forgotten or
that had long been ignored,
apparently at no cost, have emerged anew, such as the
painful and ever growing gulf between “those who have
and can” and “those who cannot have” created by the
unequal development of the different regions of the
world, by the accelerated destruction of the planetary
environment, the sharp reduction in vital resources and
the resurgence of violence nurtured by intolerance and
disregard for fundamental human rights and freedoms.
International order based on legal norms, even if
administered under the authority of the privileged club of
the permanent members of
the Security Council,
represented the embodiment of reason and of the hope that
the world would never again fall prey to the demons of
hatred and destruction.
In supporting the draft Declaration proposed for
adoption by our General Assembly, I should like to
emphasize the importance of the chapter devoted to
development and, above all, to the measures required to
fill
the
fundamental problem of global stability.
the gap between rich and poor countries,
Fifty years later,
the relevance of those original
questions remains unaltered.
Is this a reason to proclaim the failure of the United
Nations?
Perhaps those who are rushing to proclaim it as such
should recall, before pronouncing verdict, how much the
experience of the past 50 years of the United Nations
existence has mattered for the legitimacy of these questions;
how much it has meant to the newly emerged States on the
world map that there existed a forum for the assertion of
their identity and for the establishment of standards for
civilized behaviour in international relations; how much the
United Nations has meant for the formulation of discourse
and for the practical achievement of the communication,
the
negotiation and discussion of crucial
issues of
12
We have the chance of a new beginning. The United
Nations has a very full agenda for the twenty-first
century. What we can do, even as of today, is to review
its functional structures, mechanisms and architecture in
order to render them capable of addressing those issues.
Therefore, I propose for the coming year a special
General Assembly session to be dedicated to the structural
preparation of the Organization for the agenda of the
twenty-first century.
The President (interpretation from French): I thank
the President of Romania for his statement.
His Excellency Mr.
Romania, was escorted from the rostrum.
Ion Iliescu, President of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
Address by His Excellency Captain Valentine E. M.
Strasser, Head of State, Chairman of the National
Provisional Ruling Council and Secretary of State for
Defense of the Republic of Sierra Leone
These are remarkable achievements though, sadly,
they have been restricted to the richer nations in the
North; the ripples have yet to make a significant impact
on the poorer small nations in the South.
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Captain Valentine Strasser, Head
of State, Chairman of the National Provisional Ruling
Council and Secretary of State for Defense of the Republic
of Sierra Leone.
His Excellency Captain Valentine E. M. Strasser,
Head of State, Chairman of the National Provisional
Ruling Council and Secretary of State for Defense of
the Republic of Sierra Leone, was escorted to the
rostrum.
Captain Strasser: Fifty years ago, after the guns fell
silent, 800 delegates from 50 States, assembled in San
Francisco, recognizing that future generations must never
again face the lessons of 1945, signed the United Nations
Charter document.
Securing a safer future and promoting the rights and
freedoms of every living individual were the visions of
those founding leaders.
Today, 135 additional States are members of this
democratic organ, embracing almost every single State on
this planet. Five decades on, the dreams of those delegates
to the original San Francisco Conference are still shared by
every single delegate here in New York.
The world has changed; giant nations are no longer
confronting each other with deadly weapons;
the iron
curtain has given way to closer cooperation and the threat
of nuclear annihilation has receded. Giant economic blocs
are emerging and one-time arch enemies are today close
allies.
These developments are parallel with the struggle for
peoples under colonialism. Hardly any former colonial
territory had achieved complete independence 50 years ago.
But
there is not a single State under colonial
domination as the United Nations turns 50.
today,
The resolution of ancient and emerging new conflicts
and the provision of humanitarian aid to the millions of
hungry and dying peoples of the world are problems that
the United Nations, through its agencies, has grappled with.
enjoys
economic
prosperity,
the wealthier North
and
stability,
While
democracy
increased
productivity, expanded markets and job opportunities, the
under-developed poor wallow in debt, famine, instability,
disease and death. Unfairly depressed commodity prices
and a huge debt overhang threaten recovery for third-
world developing economies. Capital and investment
diversions to newly liberated Eastern Europe has left the
crippled economies of the world’s poorest starved.
Africa’s debt alone has moved from a staggering
$200 billion in 1993 to $211 billion in 1994. Real per
capita aid has fallen since 1991 and sub-Saharan Africa’s
share of direct foreign investment for developing nations
has hit a mere five per cent. The level of overseas
development cooperation is at
its lowest ever. These
imbalances are creating new tensions and divisions in
Africa.
From Kigali
to Monrovia,
the dark continent
is
armed
beleaguered with armed conflicts. Africa’s
movements, coups toppling democracies, are the results of
acute poverty. Insurgencies threaten democracies and
today armed guerrillas are a threat
to the envisaged
democracy in Sierra Leone. Democratic elections are
billed for
there is
speculation that armed activities may disrupt the entire
process.
the first half of next year but
Early in March last year, noting the serious security
situation which had the potential
to complicate the
Liberian peace process and destabilize the entire
subregion, the Secretary-General appointed Ambassador
Dinka, an Ethiopian, as his Special Envoy to Sierra
Leone.
Five hundred thousand people are displaced and
200,000 more have fled their homeland. Disease and
hunger in the camps kill many daily. Refugees and
displaced persons are desperate for relief.
Rural community dislocations have left the entire
electoral process with technical complexities and made
free and fair democratic elections a lot more expensive.
With a dreadful guerrilla campaign confronting an
International Monetary Fund adjusted economy, an
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
absence of substantial donor funding will kill democracy in
Sierra Leone. Guerrillas who kill peasants in remote
villages, shoot cattle, set huts on fire, use drugs and teach
12-year-olds to carry AK47s are today’s terrorists; they are
a threat
to Africa’s democratization and they must be
isolated. Insurgents who sit and talk with Governments
must be urged to drop their lethal weapons and make peace.
Mr. President, I salute, through you, the Secretary-
General, the Secretariat and all earlier Secretaries-General
for 50 years of dedicated service.
Let us make the United Nations leaner and stronger
and keep alive the vision of its founding leaders.
The President: I thank the Head of State, Chairman
of the National Provisional Ruling Council and Secretary of
State for Defense of the Republic of Sierra Leone, for his
statement.
His Excellency Mr. Valentine E. M. Strasser, Head of
State, Chairman of the National Provisional Ruling
Council and Secretary of State for Defense of the
Republic of Sierra Leone, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Fernando Henrique
Cardoso, President of the Federative Republic of Brazil
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Fernando Henrique Cardoso,
President of the Federative Republic of Brazil.
His Excellency Mr. Fernando Henrique Cardoso,
President of the Federative Republic of Brazil, was
escorted to the rostrum.
President Cardoso (spoke in Portuguese; English text
furnished by the delegation): Let me say how proud Brazil
is to see a distinguished representative from Portugal
presiding over this historic session.
Fifty years ago, the delegates who signed the San
Francisco Charter hoped to be creating a better world, one
in which peace would be made possible through institutions
capable of ensuring a high spirit of cooperation among
peoples.
Like any other human endeavour, the United Nations
has witnessed both success and failure. Throughout its
existence, however, something very precious has been
preserved: a feeling of hope. It is now time to renew it.
14
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
What do our peoples expect of us today? What
would they want us to do for the United Nations?
they would want
I am sure that the answer to these questions is
unequivocal: they would want the United Nations to be
the guardian of the principles and rules that govern
the United
relations among States;
Nations to enforce them and guarantee that
they be
complied with, thereby providing a firm basis for the
international order. They would want the United Nations
to have effective instruments
to promote conflict
prevention and resolution as well as equitable forms of
development.
It is an aspiration of all mankind that the United
Nations be permanently engaged in the protection of
human rights and in the fight against all forms of
discrimination and tyranny.
We are living in better times than 50 years ago. By
freeing the international agenda of the tensions generated
by ideological confrontation, the end of the cold war
created the conditions for a growing convergence of
values, with democracy, economic freedom and social
justice at centre stage.
New opportunities for international cooperation have
emerged. The world conferences that the United Nations
has been sponsoring — on environment, population,
women, human rights, social development — have as a
unifying theme the search for decent standards of living
for all peoples and for each individual human being.
Human advancement
the core of the
international debate.
is therefore at
Beyond the issues addressed by these conferences,
contemporary life presents challenges worthy of the
attention of the United Nations.
This is a forum in which we should, within the
complex context of globalization, work to overcome a
persistent situation of social and economic inequalities
giving rise to hopelessness and a feeling of exclusion.
The goal of sustainable development must not be
abandoned.
We must go from words to action so that peoples
may be able to confront their divisions and so that people
may be able to find in the United Nations a symbol of hope.
We must also work to make it possible for the
extraordinary progress brought about by science and
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
technology to be disseminated, for the benefit of all
peoples.
Regarding international peace and security, the role of
the United Nations will always be irreplaceable. In other
issues, the United Nations will help us think together, guide
decisions and create new patterns of legitimacy.
In all areas, our peoples expect from their respective
leaders that we be able to maintain a constant dialogue
based on truly universal values, a dialogue that can inspire
the
various
nations
individually,
to work towards peace, development and
cooperation.
institutions,
regional
and
all
Each one of our countries should contribute to
ensuring that our Organization has the material means to
carry out the tasks with which we ourselves have entrusted
it. It is inadmissible that the United Nations is undergoing
its worst financial crisis precisely when the leaders of the
whole world are gathered to reaffirm their commitment to
the United Nations Charter.
Let us be frank. We are celebrating this fiftieth
anniversary with an underlying feeling of ambiguity, as we
see the United Nations forced to resort to expediency in
order to cover its huge deficits. This situation can paralyse
our Organization just when its prospects look the brightest.
We must find a lasting way out of this impasse.
I have come here today to reaffirm the Brazilian
commitment to fight for a stronger, more active United
Nations. This is not a new commitment, but one that
reflects
the history of Brazil’s participation in this
Organization. It has been a history of engagement, a history
of the pursuit of peace and development, a history that
makes us willing now to assume greater responsibilities in
the deliberations of the United Nations.
This is the time to commemorate the renewal of the
ideals of justice and peace which 50 years ago, led to this
great creation of the human spirit
is the United
Nations.
that
The President thanked the President of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for his statement; His Excellency
Mr. Fernando Henrique Cardoso, President of the
Federative Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Le Duc Anh, President
of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Le Duc Anh, President of
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
His Excellency Mr. Le Duc Anh, President of the
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, was escorted to the
rostrum.
President Le Duc Anh (spoke in Vietnamese;
interpretation provided by the delegation): It
is my
particular pleasure, on behalf of the State and the people
of Viet Nam,
to attend the Special Commemorative
Meeting for the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.
Over the past 50 years the United Nations has steadily
grown. Its growth has been closely linked with the
struggle of peoples for the right to self-determination and
for the fundamental purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter, namely international peace and security,
development and prosperity for all nations, freedom and
equality among nations whether
small,
sovereignty, territorial integrity, non-interference in the
internal affairs of States and the peaceful settlement of
disputes. These purposes and principles of the United
Nations constitute common values of all mankind; all
nations and peoples hold the same responsibility to
preserve and uphold them. Today, when international
exchanges and interactions are taking place with an ever
growing intensity, scope and complexity, adherence to
these fundamental purposes and principles takes on
particular importance.
large or
Paradoxically, just when mankind has acquired the
technology in effect to reduce the distance between the
Earth and other celestial bodies, the gap between the rich
and the poor has widened alarmingly. Every day, we
continue to witness the human tragedy of countless
innocent people who are victims of wars, conflicts,
economic embargoes, epidemics and the scourge of drugs.
As a nation that experienced the horrible famine of 1945
and several decades of the ravages of war and embargo,
the Vietnamese people know all too well the sorrow and
pain of war as well as the harshness of economic
embargo and the deprivations of poverty. We therefore
feel deep empathy with the sufferings and losses of other
peoples and individuals. From this rostrum, let me join
my voice to the earnest call
the international
community to do its utmost for the enjoyment by all
individuals and nations in the world of their fundamental
rights to a life in peace, equality and development and to
good economic and social relations among States and
peoples.
for
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The urgent tasks before us are to eradicate hunger,
alleviate poverty and create jobs; to uphold the right of
women to equality and implement the right of children to
care and protection; and to ensure respect for fundamental
human rights alongside respect for the sovereignty, security
and development of every nation. We also need to
substantially cut down military expenditures, eliminate
weapons of mass destruction, decrease the trade in arms
and move towards the termination of arms production and
trade, reduce and write off the debt of poor countries, and
increase investments for development and for the protection
of the environment.
friendly relations
What has been achieved by the United Nations over
the past 50 years in the fields of the maintenance of
international peace and security, assistance to the process of
decolonization, promotion of
and
cooperation for development among nations, and promotion
of environmental, cultural, educational and humanitarian
activities is indeed remarkable. However, the shortcomings
of our Organization are by no means small. In order to
discharge its mission successfully, the United Nations itself
should be revitalized. First and foremost,
it should be
turned into a democratic organization in which relations
among Member States as well as between the United
Nations and each Member State are based on democracy
and equality. The General Assembly must truly be the
highest authority of the United Nations, responsible to
mankind for all questions related to international peace and
security, cooperation for development and other global
issues. Agencies affiliated with the United Nations also
need to be renewed, and should be made to operate more
effectively, with greater dynamism and transparency, within
the framework of the United Nations Charter and General
Assembly resolutions.
It is a felicitous coincidence that 1995 is also the year
when we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the
founding of the Democratic Republic of Viet Nam, today
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. Over the last 50 years,
the Vietnamese people have brought to bear their tradition
of unity, self-reliance and resilience, enduring untold
suffering and overcoming countless hardships and sacrifices
to defend the independence of their motherland, gradually
building for themselves a life of well-being, freedom and
happiness. We are committed to the implementation of an
independent, self-reliant and open foreign policy guided by
the credo that Viet Nam wishes to befriend all countries in
for peace,
the international community, and strives
independence
achieved
encouraging results in this regard.
and development. We have
16
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
On this occasion, allow me to express my sincere
gratitude to all countries and international organizations,
to His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali and to the
specialized agencies for
their sympathy and valued
assistance to Viet Nam. Viet Nam is committed to doing
its utmost to make a worthy contribution to the lofty
cause of the United Nations for peace, development,
equality and justice, and for a finer world, as expressed
in the motto of this special commemoration: “We the
peoples of the United Nations ... united for a better
world”: a world without hatred or violence; a world of
love and happiness.
The President: I thank the President of the Socialist
Republic of Viet Nam for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Le Duc Anh, President of the
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, was escorted from
the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Teodoro Obiang
Nguema Mbasogo, President and Chief of State of the
Republic of Equatorial Guinea
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema
Mbasogo, President and Chief of State of the Republic of
Equatorial Guinea.
His Excellency Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema
Mbasogo, President and Chief of State of
the
Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted to the
rostrum.
President Obiang Nguema Mbasogo (interpretation
from Spanish): Mr. President, I am deeply honoured to
congratulate you on the high distinction that has been
conferred upon you: that of directing the work of this
important session of
the General Assembly on the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.
This session will not only study current problems, but will
evaluate the role of the Organization over the last 50
years.
We are at a crucial moment
in the life of the
Organization, which is now marking its
fiftieth
anniversary. A half century of existence means a great
deal for an organization which was created to impose the
will of mankind, after sufferings caused by war, injustice,
discrimination, poverty, underdevelopment
and the
undervaluing of the individual.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The creation of the United Nations was, accordingly,
an act of conscience and an intention to reform on the part
of nations which decided to stop trying to take the upper
hand, in order to build a new world based on friendship,
understanding, freedom, justice, tolerance, cooperation and
love.
After 50 years, it is natural that a work created by
man should be examined to see if it continues to respond to
the evolution of man and the times. Due to this, this session
should provide an opportunity to evaluate in depth the
history of the Organization, with regard to what it has done,
what
it has not done, and whether its purposes and
principles continue to be valid in this dynamic and
constantly evolving world.
In our opinion, the United Nations has not changed its
philosophy, after 50 years, nor has man, like his own
Creator, stopped being man since he was created.
We believe that the United Nations is the reflection of
human integrity, and is inspired by the humanitarian spirit
of man, because its purposes and principles are to guarantee
the freedom and dignity of man, his well-being, and the
security, justice and peace of nations.
No one has been opposed to or will oppose these basic
goals because this would mean that man was denying his
very self.
What we need to question here is man’s behaviour
regarding his own work. What have the States led by us
men done with respect to our own post-war commitments?
What is the attitude of man towards society, and what
methods have we adopted to implement the spirit of the
United Nations?
We must look at ourselves in the mirror to answer this
question, because the United Nations, in its capacity as an
international
institution, has no need to blame itself,
because it represents, as an example, the Bible or the Koran
for the inspiration of the Member States. The successes of
the United Nations cannot be attributed to its officials. We,
each Member State, make up the United Nations. It was
thus understood by its founders when they decided that the
Charter would begin with the sentence, “WE THE
PEOPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS, DETERMINED
TO ...” Hence, to the extent that we respect this Charter, we
can add up the successes or failures of the United Nations.
Therefore, responsibility lies entirely with the Member
States.
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
it
Along the same lines,
is appropriate that we
should ask ourselves the following questions: Can we say
that we have ended wars between nations? Can we say
that we have done away with colonialism, when there is
still a great desire on the part of some to dominate
others? Have we really been able to ensure the freedom
of man and respect for his rights? Do we respect the
independence, sovereignty, and equality of all nations?
After 50 years, can we say that the nations of the world
live in peace, that individuals have their dignity and that
there is well-being for humanity?
Our overall reply is that a fair amount has been
achieved but much remains to be done because we can
see in various parts of the world that there are large
groups of human beings living in poverty, due to the
egoism of the wealthy or the irrational behaviour of
Governments. Racial, ethnic and social discrimination
prevail, as does terrorism and the degeneration of man
through drugs, alcoholism, and sexuality, which, in his
despair, lead to evil.
Relations among States and economic blocs are
unequal, and reforms cannot be proposed in the present
unjust economic world order. Blatant interference in the
internal policy of other States has been observed, showing
disdain for their sovereignty. Today the voices of the
third-world countries can scarcely be heard because they
are not given answers to their request
that science,
technology and the financial resources that are squandered
be dedicated to the development of the world.
has
been
Decades have gone by in which the attention of the
United Nations
towards world
disarmament, in order to guarantee international peace
and security when,
to this end, we must ensure the
freedom and dignity of man, as well as his material and
moral well-being.
turned
Let us make the United Nations more realistic and
change the attitudes that contradict the spirit of its Magna
Carta. We must replace interference in the internal affairs
of other countries with respect
the freedom,
independence and sovereignty of other States. No one is
the policeman of
the other. Let us substitute the
intolerance and superiority or inferiority complexes in our
relations with dialogue, understanding and love. Let us
replace the present mechanisms that strangle our relations
with other mechanisms that involve more equality, reduce
dependence and promote the interdependence of States.
for
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
There is no one who can better fulfil the obligations
imposed by the Charter than us, because we have all
learned the lesson — but do not practise it in the proper
way. However, some wish to put themselves forward as the
best defenders of human rights and as exemplary
democrats. No one is against human rights or democracy
because these principles do not harm anyone. Human rights
and democracy must be the result of natural and orderly
development in each society, which must conform to the
morality or the cultural heritage of each nation. Democracy
and human rights should not become a passport
for
legalizing interference in the internal policy of other States.
Democracy and human rights are difficult to apply in
underdeveloped societies which suffer from poverty, hunger
and illiteracy. In short, the phrase “United Nations” exhorts
us to unity, solidarity, mutual and sincere support, and not
to confrontation or distrust.
While presenting the congratulations of the people of
Equatorial Guinea to the international community, which
today celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment
of the United Nations, I cherish the hope that the present
session of the General Assembly will herald new moves to
strengthen the role of our Organization to create a better
world with greater prosperity and solidarity.
The President: I thank the President and Chief of
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for his
State of
statement.
His Excellency Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema
Mbasogo, President and Chief of State of the Republic
of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency General Maung Aye, Vice
Chairman of the State Law and Order Restoration
Council of the Union of Myanmar
The Acting President: The Assembly will next hear
a statement by His Excellency General Maung Aye, Vice
Chairman of the State Law and Order Restoration Council
of the Union of Myanmar.
His Excellency General Maung Aye, Vice Chairman of
the State Law and Order Restoration Council of the
Union of Myanmar, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Aye: It gives me great pleasure to address this
fiftieth anniversary Special Commemorative Meeting of the
United Nations. I would like to congratulate His Excellency
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election to the high
18
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
office of President of the General Assembly. On this
historic occasion, I wish to pay a special tribute to the
successive Secretaries-General for their selfless efforts to
promote international peace and security and the well-
being of the peoples of the world. I would also like to
express our appreciation to the dedicated men and women
who have contributed to the cause of the United Nations.
Anniversaries offer not only occasion for celebration
but also provide opportunity for reflection. This fiftieth
anniversary marks a unique opportunity to review the
achievements as well as the limitations of the United
Nations. The new international situation in which we now
find ourselves makes it all the more urgent to strengthen
the Organization to meet the evolving challenges and
problems.
The
has
territorial
integrity,
community
international
changed
considerably in the past 50 years; yet the Charter of the
United Nations framed in June 1945 continues to be valid
to this day. The principles enshrined in the Charter — the
equality of sovereign States,
the
political
independence of States and the peaceful
resolution of conflicts — must remain inviolate and be
faithfully observed in international relations. Erosion of
these fundamental principles will undermine the aims and
purposes of the Organization. Any attempt to weaken the
time-honoured and universally accepted principles of
sovereignty, of non-interference in the internal affairs of
States and of self-determination would be cause for
serious concern. In the process of restructuring the United
Nations, utmost care must be taken to ensure that the
effectiveness of the Organization will be preserved and
strengthened. It must not be allowed to become a tool of
a few to impose their agenda on the international
community.
As responsible Members of the United Nations we
pledge ourselves to cooperate with the Organization to
maintain international peace and security. We recognize
that the security of each and every Member State is
important. Seen from our perspective, security entails
non-interference in internal affairs and freedom from
external pressures. Security is synonymous with the basic
right freely to choose one’s own political, economic and
social systems and to determine one’s future at one’s pace
and in accordance with cherished values and ideals. Only
strict adherence to the fundamental principles of the
Charter can assure nations of their security.
Myanmar
fully subscribes to the purposes and
principles of the Charter. We are of the view that the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
international
order. Notwithstanding
United Nations must remain the central element of the
evolving
its
imperfections, the United Nations as a global organization
represents the aspirations of the peoples of the world to a
better tomorrow. It has generated in the people of Myanmar
a sense of belonging to the global community. Myanmar
attaches particular importance to the celebrations of the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. A high-level
National Committee
coordinate
commemorative celebrations on a national scale has been
active throughout the year.
established
to
The United Nations today stands at a crossroads.
Voices are being raised questioning the effectiveness of the
Organization. The United Nations needs strong support and
understanding if it is to weather the political and economic
storms that batter and erode its foundations. There is no
better alternative to the United Nations. In an increasingly
interdependent world, the United Nations is the only forum
for increased multilateral cooperation.
The anniversary is an opportune moment to rededicate
ourselves to the purposes and principles of the Charter and
to the spirit of the theme of the fiftieth anniversary, “We
the peoples of the United Nations...united for a better
world”. I would like to reaffirm Myanmar’s abiding faith in
the United Nations as a centre for harmonizing the actions
of nations in the attainment of universal peace and
cooperation.
I have come here to renew Myanmar’s
commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter
and to pledge Myanmar’s continued cooperation with the
United Nations.
I deem it appropriate to conclude my address with a
quotation from the preamble of the Charter of the United
Nations which advises us all
“to practice tolerance and live together in peace with
one another as good neighbours”.
The President: I thank the Vice Chairman of the
State Law and Order Restoration Council of the Union of
Myanmar for his statement.
His Excellency General Maung Aye, Vice Chairman of
the State Law and Order Restoration Council of the
Union of Myanmar, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency The Right Honourable John
Major, M.P., Prime Minister and First Lord of the
Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
The President: The Assembly will next hear a
statement by His Excellency The Right Honourable John
Major, Prime Minister and First Lord of the Treasury of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.
His Excellency The Right Honourable John Major,
M.P., Prime Minister and First Lord of the Treasury
of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Major: The United Kingdom was present at the
birth of the United Nations. Throughout its 50 years we
have stood by the Organization and by our responsibilities
in the Security Council. The United Kingdom today as we
meet here is the largest contributor of troops to United
Nations peace-keeping operations. British forces are
serving in blue berets from Angola to Georgia, with over
8,000 British troops in Bosnia alone. So I speak to you
this morning as a strong supporter of the United Nations,
but also as a candid friend. I want the United Nations to
be more successful in the future. It will be needed in
tomorrow’s world, and so change is necessary.
The General Assembly first met amid the rubble and
gloom of war-damaged London. But since then the world
has been transformed. The United Nations has grappled
with aggression. It has helped either to make or to keep
the peace. It has worked for arms control, and only days
ago the United Kingdom, France and the United States
agreed to sign the Protocols to the Treaty of Rarotonga.
An end to nuclear testing is now in sight as we move
towards a comprehensive test-ban treaty in 1996.
Throughout the past 50 years the principles of the
Charter have stood the test of time. But now I believe we
need to look ahead. The world is changing, and I believe
it is time for the United Nations to change with it. We
need to confront challenges to peace and deal more
effectively with the roots of crises. We need to encourage
democratic and accountable government and protect the
rights of the individual. We need to reduce poverty and
protect the environment, and we need to tackle the evils
of international crime, drug trafficking and terrorism.
That is a demanding agenda. To achieve it, we need
a properly financed and efficient United Nations. I want
change because I want the United Nations to succeed. Let
me emphasize that point: I want change so that the United
Nations can succeed. Some reforms have begun; many are
needed. What is clear is that inaction is no longer an
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
option. The threat to the future of the United Nations will
not come from change: it will come from inertia.
countries, for it is they who pay the subscriptions to the
United Nations.
There are questions that we must address: Is the
United Nations spread too wide? I believe it is. Is there too
much waste and duplication between different bodies? I
believe there may be. Are the priorities right for the 1990s?
I am not convinced yet that they are. As we form new
bodies for new problems, do we close down those no
longer needed? Not enough, I think — there are some
bodies we could usefully scrap. Can we improve the
planning, managing and financing of peace-keeping? I
believe that we can. Is our machinery for preempting
conflicts and disasters as good as it should be? I believe
not.
There are other questions as well: Should the Security
Council be enlarged? I believe that it should. The subject
has been on the agenda for too long. It raises difficult
questions, but the issues are clear and the decisions are
needed.
Is the United Nations being efficiently managed? I am
sure more could yet be done to apply the best modern
practices, with funding allocated to the most efficient
programmes.
Is perhaps too much time and energy being spent on
ritual verbal battles brilliantly interpreted into six languages
and then printed on the world’s highest paper mountain? Of
course it is — we know that is the case.
Last, but most urgent of all, financial reform. The
United Nations is in a financial crisis. It is not sustainable
for Member States to enjoy representation without taxation.
Contributions should be paid promptly and in full, and
arrears should be cleared. But this must be accompanied by
a new focus on efficiency, and by modernizing assessment
to reflect the changing capacity of Members to pay their
dues.
I agree very strongly with the Secretary-General that
we should have a special session of the General Assembly
next year to address these issues.
I ask these questions because they need answers. I
dare say some of them are controversial, but we need frank
and honest answers now because the world needs the
United Nations as much today as at any time in the past;
but a United Nations that works; a United Nations using
today’s methods to address tomorrow’s needs; a United
Nations that shows its worth to the taxpayer in all our
20
In that way I believe we can capture and can justify
popular support for our Organization.
Today we face difficulties that we must overcome.
At this commemoration, my hope is that we will find the
will to do so.
The President: I thank the Prime Minister and First
Lord of the Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland for his statement.
His Excellency The Right Honourable John Major,
M.P., Prime Minister and First Lord of the Treasury
of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency The Right Honourable
Sher Bahadur Deuba, Prime Minister of the Kingdom
of Nepal
The President: The Assembly will now hear a
statement by His Excellency The Right Honourable Sher
Bahadur Deuba, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Nepal.
His Excellency The Right Honourable Sher Bahadur
Deuba, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Nepal,
was escorted to the rostrum.
the
and Government,
Mr. Deuba: To this great assembly of Heads of
State
Secretary-General,
distinguished representatives and to you, Mr. President, I
bring the greetings of the Government and people of
Nepal, as well as the best wishes of His Majesty King
Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev for the success of the
fiftieth anniversary session of the United Nations.
On this historic occasion, allow me first of all to
reiterate my country’s deep and abiding commitment to
the principles and purposes enshrined in the United
Nations Charter, whose ideals of peace,
justice and
progress continue to sustain the hopes of humanity. For
a country which is the birthplace of the Buddha, the
foremost of the apostles of peace and non-violence for
over two and half millenniums, these ideals, together with
the concept of tolerance, understanding and equality, are
values which are rooted deep in our national psyche and
culture. It is a tribute to the vision of the founding fathers
of our Organization that the seminal ideas which have
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
guided the United Nations in its first half-century should
also prepare us for its second.
Sir Anerood Jugnauth (Prime Minister of Mauritius),
Vice-President of
took the
Chair.
the General Assembly,
Perhaps the greatest achievement of our Organization
has been its ability to adapt to the changing conditions and
work towards its goals even in the face of an inhospitable
international environment. As a result, there is greater room
for hope in the world today. The spectre of a global nuclear
catastrophe which has haunted humanity since 1945 is less
threatening now with the end of
the cold war. The
abhorrent practice of colonialism that once justified the
subjugation of nations and peoples is no longer acceptable.
The novel
concepts of preventive diplomacy and
international peace-keeping introduced by the United
Nations have helped defuse international crisis situations
and prepare the groundwork for peacemaking, the rewards
of which are becoming increasingly visible in the once
conflict-prone
the
Organization’s functional approach to peace has provided
economic relief to the less privileged regions of the world
and restored human dignity to the neglected segments of
our global society.
the globe. Similarly,
regions of
As we seek solace in these achievements during the
Special Commemorative Meeting, we would not be casting
aspersions on the abilities of
the United Nations by
suggesting that much more needs to be done as we
approach the dawn of the next century. While we are
currently caught in a dilemma between our efforts to forge
a new world order and face the reality of global disorder,
there is a strong need to reinforce some of its mechanisms
to cope with the demanding times. These relate to
expansion of
the Security Council, a more efficient
management of the Secretariat, and greater democratization
of international relations by extending the authority of the
General Assembly, truly the representative body of the
United Nations.
There is also an equally palpable need to better
coordinate the activities between our Organization and its
programmes, funds,
the specialized agencies and other
international development institutions, particularly with an
eye towards enhancing the role of grass-root movements
and citizen groups. Lately these movements, focusing on
social, gender, population, environment and human rights
issues, have not only become a strong international force in
their own right, but have also been justified in expecting
more from this global institution. For its part, Nepal will
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
support a coordinated examination of studies aimed at
strengthening
those
measures which also seek to free it from the vagaries of
its insecure financial base.
the Organization,
particularly
Ever since Nepal joined the United Nations, it has
supported and participated actively in the peace-keeping
and peace-building efforts of the Organization. Our efforts
in this direction will continue as we look forward to
participating in the new initiative for a stand-by United
Nations force designed to enable it to respond to any call
for assistance in time.
of
the
current
preoccupation
Nepal sees no substitute for a United Nations that is
both robust in standing and responsive to the needs of
global security and the progress of its individual member
nations. With
the
Organization in many new civil and regional conflicts, its
activities on the development side have been weakened.
The much-talked-about peace dividend in a post-cold-war
era has proved so far to be elusive, as the condition of the
least developed and land-locked countries continues to
decline. It would be unfortunate if things were to be left
in their present state, especially when the developing
countries with their weak economic base have to cater to
the dictates of market mechanisms alone.
seek
and
social
Today,
nations
economic
development within a framework of political freedom and
justice in which the rights of individuals to live in dignity
are respected. It is therefore not enough for Governments
to pay lip service to these principles: they have to deliver
the goods to the people by lifting them up from dire
economic conditions and providing them with political
stability to enjoy the fruits of freedom and prosperity.
The United Nations exemplifies a global dream and
has no peer in matching the aspirations of men and
women everywhere. It is a dream of a world in which the
strong and the well-to-do are comfortable with their
power and seek to act with confidence and magnanimity.
It is a dream in which the weak and the less fortunate can
feel secure when seeking to work for greater international
harmony. For this collective vision of our world, we in
Nepal continue to remain committed to the ideals of the
United Nations.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister
of the Kingdom of Nepal.
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
His Excellency The Right Honourable Sher Bahadur
Deuba, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Nepal, was
escorted from the rostrum.
including the
in economic stature by new countries,
vanquished of the world wars and other States, some of
which had not come to political maturity in 1945.
Address by His Excellency The Right Honourable
Hubert A. Ingraham, M.P., Prime Minister of the
Commonwealth of the Bahamas
The Acting President: The Assembly will next hear
a statement by His Excellency The Right Honourable
Hubert A. Ingraham, Prime Minister of the Commonwealth
of the Bahamas.
His Excellency The Right Honourable Hubert A.
Ingraham, M.P., Prime Minister of the Commonwealth
of the Bahamas, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Ingraham: We are now 50 years removed from
that historic day when nations assembled for the purpose of
uniting to address concerns over the human condition. Half
a century later, we are presented with an appropriate
opportunity to examine how well the United Nations has
fulfilled its purpose.
In its 50 years, the United Nations has gained vast
experience in virtually every field known to man, and its
storehouse has served well those nations whose needs and
desires
the common
programme of purposes and principles enshrined in its
Charter.
fall within the parameters of
Our theme, “We the Peoples of the United Nations ...
United for a Better World”, emphasizes that people, and the
human condition,
remain the highest priority of our
civilization.
The Bahamas feels honoured to be an integral,
contributing and well-served Member of
the United
Nations. For our part, we would wish for all of our sister
States to enjoy, as we have been privileged to do, a strong
commitment to parliamentary democracy and freedom from
strife,
tyranny and genocide. We further wish for all
Members of this Organization to enjoy freedom from the
social ills of abject poverty, disease and unemployment,
upon which distress is wont to feed.
The United Nations was born out of the ruins of war
and the determination of the great Powers of the day to
insulate the world against a repetition of the disregard for
life and property resulting from two world wars in the first
half of this century. Fifty years later, the world is a very
different place. The great Powers of 1945 have been joined
22
Today we are threatened more by regional conflict
than by global confrontation, and frequently the threats do
from
not come from sovereign States but,
religious
hatred,
international criminal cartels, natural disasters and
development gone awry.
intolerance,
instead,
and
racial
ethnic
Indeed, as we celebrate our fiftieth anniversary, we
must face squarely the threat of a new great war in which
we are all engaged. The war of which I speak is that
which is being fought in defence of the environment. This
is of particular concern to small island developing States
such as the Bahamas, a fragile, service-based, archipelagic
ecosystem of global environmental significance.
It is useful to articulate the many achievements for
which the United Nations has been responsible. Notable
are the tremendous advances made in world health,
including immunization and disease reduction, improved
food production and delivery,
improved shelter and
general living standards for the poor and higher literacy
rates in the world. Notable too, are initiatives to safeguard
and promote the rights of women and children.
In our region, where the nefarious traffic in illicit
drugs and the insidious erosion of society by powerful
drug cartels are well known, we fully appreciate the
importance of the United Nations role in galvanizing wide
international support for the fight against the demons of
avarice and death.
In supporting democracy, political freedom and
respect for human rights, the United Nations has become
the champion of millions of people everywhere. The
democratization of Haiti and the dismantling of apartheid
in South Africa are not only notable triumphs of the
human spirit, but also testimony to this Organization’s
success
in positively influencing even seemingly
intractable internal crises in individual Member States.
Where terrorism, tyranny and genocide have been
perpetrated against individuals, States and Governments,
the United Nations has strengthened its resolve to take
positive action. Permit me here to express special
appreciation for the Blue Helmets and the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees
(UNHCR). Their untiring efforts to meet the urgent needs
created by political persecution, civil war and regional
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
conflict have been phenomenal. Today, greater and greater
numbers of people are being displaced by famine, natural
disasters and economic hardship, creating severe strains on
the resources of receiving States, such as the Bahamas. It
is appropriate — and I so recommend — that this body
revisit the mandate of UNHCR with a view to providing
assistance to those affected by these agents of displacement
and misery.
founded after a terrible world war in the middle of this
century. The goal was “to save succeeding generations
from the scourge of war”, to enable mankind to live in
peace and security with the common aim of striving for
development and progress. The United Nations has had its
share of successes and failures, but, there can be no
thought of abandoning it because there is no alternative.
The Bahamas is pleased to reiterate its commitment to
the further strengthening of this Organization. It is our
desire that the next five decades bear the fruit of our theme
today: “We the Peoples of the United Nations ... United for
a Better World”. And in that regard, we hope for a world
freed from the scourge of illicit drug traffic, relieved of the
burdens created by uncontrolled migration, protected by
greater environmental consciousness, enhanced through
increased literacy and health standards
everywhere,
strengthened by Member States that fully honour their
financial obligations to this body, encouraged that each
organ and Member of this Organization will strengthen its
symbiotic
the benefit of mankind
everywhere and, finally, we hope for a world liberated from
poverty,
religious
persecution, tyranny and strife.
relationship for
unemployment,
disease,
racism,
Our
commitment
to the United Nations
is
unswerving. We have always upheld and resolutely
pursued the United Nations mandate for peace and
development. As we salute the United Nations flag and
pay tribute to those who wear the blue helmets of peace-
keepers throughout the world, we take great pride in our
record of being among the foremost troop-contributors
dispersed over many conflict areas. We are ready to serve
the United Nations cause through standby forces closely
linked to both early-warning and preventive systems.
the
reforms
fully
supports
Bangladesh
and
restructuring of the main organ of the United Nations. I
feel it is indeed ironic that when so many world leaders
have gathered to solemnly pledge their commitment to the
Charter of the United Nations, when it comes to making
crucial decisions affecting the destiny of mankind, such
decisions are made by a handful of countries.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister of
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas for his statement.
His Excellency The Right Honourable Hubert A.
Ingraham, M.P., Prime Minister of the Commonwealth
of the Bahamas, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Her Excellency Begum Khaleda Zia, Prime
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
The Acting President: The Assembly will next hear
a statement by Her Excellency Begum Khaleda Zia, Prime
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh.
Her Excellency Begum Khaleda Zia, Prime Minister
of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh, was escorted
to the rostrum.
Begum Zia (spoke in Bengali; English text furnished
by the delegation): The United Nations has turned fifty. We
are celebrating this landmark anniversary of the signing of
the United Nations Charter to reaffirm its goals and
rekindle its ideals.
As we observe this anniversary, we may pause to
reflect on the circumstances in which this august body was
Strengthening the rule of law is critical to preserving
the security of smaller and weaker States. The enhanced
role and contribution of the International Court of Justice
(ICJ)
relevance. Measures for
compulsory jurisdiction or arbitration through the ICJ or
third-party mediation are therefore important.
thus assumes greater
While we are assembled here to celebrate the
founding of this august body, over 40 million people in
my country are facing poverty and destruction owing to
deprivation of our rightful share of the waters of the
Ganges River by India through unilateral withdrawal at
Farakka. While withdrawal of water during the dry season
causes serious drought, the release of excess water during
the rainy season creates severe floods in a vast area of
Bangladesh. Besides the colossal loss in economic terms,
this is causing serious degradation to the environment and
to the ecology.
The Farakka Barrage has become an issue of life and
death for us. Owing to obstruction of the natural flow of
water upstream, a process of desertification is evident
throughout the northern and western parts of Bangladesh.
Vegetation is dwindling, salinity is spreading in the south,
threatening industry and agriculture with ruin. Fish and
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
animal resources are facing extinction. Innumerable people
of various occupations who depended on the River Padma
for their living are becoming unemployed. Many are being
uprooted from their homes and hearths. As the whole world
voices concern for the protection of the environment and
human rights, at
that very moment a big part of the
population of Bangladesh is being pushed over to the
threshold of poverty and destruction. This is a gross
violation of human rights and justice.
I had mentioned this acute problem before this world
body in 1993. Unfortunately, in spite of our best efforts, the
problem still remains unresolved. I would like to call upon
all of you gathered here today to help resolve this problem.
If we look around the world today at the numerous
conflicts, big and small, at aggressions perpetrated against
small States, at genocidal conflicts and “ethnic cleansing”,
and denial of the right of lower riparian countries to the
water of common rivers, there are many who may question
the justification of this world body.
Despite these drawbacks, mankind has not been able
to evolve a more effective forum. The fiftieth anniversary
offers the ideal opportunity to review its achievements and
to look forward — to look forward to a strengthened and
reinvigorated United Nations, a United Nations that has
been restructured, attuned and democratized to meet the
challenges of the next millennium.
The Acting President: I thank the Prime Minister of
the People’s Republic of Bangladesh for her statement.
Her Excellency Begum Khaleda Zia, Prime Minister
of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh, was escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Klaus Kinkel, Vice-
Chancellor and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of
Germany
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency
for
Mr. Klaus Kinkel, Vice-Chancellor and Minister
Foreign Affairs of Germany.
His Excellency Mr. Klaus Kinkel, Vice-Chancellor and
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany, was escorted
to the rostrum.
Mr. Kinkel (spoke in German; English text furnished
by the delegation): Fifty years ago, delegates from 51
nations, meeting in San Francisco to found the United
24
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
Nations, gave the world a portent of reason, solidarity and
hope. That same portent brings us together here today.
In looking back we have to admit that, unfortunately,
history does not always follow the straight paths of
reason, but it does give us opportunities for progress
which sometimes border on the miraculous.
One such unique gift was the removal of the Berlin
Wall and the barbed wire in Germany and throughout
Europe. The ending of the East-West conflict freed the
world from the fear of a nuclear inferno. It has relieved
us of the burden of the arms race and given all nations
new opportunities — for self-determination, peaceful
cooperation
economic
development. Yet many of the renewed hopes of peace
attaching to those opportunities are still unfulfilled. Above
all, we have been unable to bridge the gap between North
and South, between rich and poor.
sustainable
global
and
a
Today, on the threshold of a new millennium, we
must learn the right lessons from the experiences gained
over the last 50 years. We cannot change what lies behind
us, but we can do better in the future. We must influence
and shape what lies ahead. What is the challenge we are
facing? Nothing less than to keep the Earth habitable for
our children and grandchildren; to make sure that eight or
ten billion people can live in humane conditions.
The German astronaut Thomas Reiter and his
Russian colleague went for a five-hour-long walk in space
last weekend. “The Earth is incredibly beautiful”, both of
them said after their walk. And I believe that it is our
responsibility to see to it that the Earth continues to be
incredibly beautiful.
Never was it so abundantly clear that the only choice
open to mankind is to succeed together or to fail together.
And that
is why we must renew and strengthen the
covenant of San Francisco, the covenant for peace, human
rights and development, for the joint survival of the
human race.
Only if it charts its course by this compass will
mankind be able to survive. For the world, the United
Nations is without alternative. That is the truly important
fact we have to grasp in the world Organization’s jubilee
year. Only then will we also muster the strength to carry
out the necessary reforms. These reforms will have to
succeed now. The United Nations must overcome its
financial and structural crisis. However, if it is to do so
it needs our support, and not just destructive criticism.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Let us settle our conflicts peacefully. Peace must
finally be restored to the former Yugoslavia. Let us scrap
and destroy weapons of mass destruction and other
weapons, such as anti-personnel mines, which, day in and
day out, kill or maim innocent civilians,
including,
unfortunately, many women and children.
We must not allow people to be murdered, tortured,
violated or persecuted and expelled on grounds of race,
faith or political conviction.
Let us combine our strength for the economic and
social progress of the nations in a new partnership for
development. Children all over
the world must be
immunized against disease, and they should be able to
attend school. Let us protect the Earth, the oceans and the
rivers from pollution.
Finally, let us pay our contributions, without which the
United Nations cannot perform its vital functions. Here I
should like expressly to welcome what President Clinton of
the United States and others said yesterday on this subject.
Since the Second World War Germany has pursued
the cause of peace and human rights. We have tied our
destiny to that of a united Europe and have participated in
the global campaign against poverty and underdevelopment.
The ending of the East-West conflict brought us the unique
gift of reunification. This imposes upon us a special
responsibility for the concerns of the world Organization.
The United Nations can continue to count on
Germany.
The Acting President: I thank the Vice-Chancellor
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany for his
statement.
His Excellency Mr. Klaus Kinkel, Vice-Chancellor and
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany, was escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Désiré Vieyra, Minister
of State for Coordination of Government Action of
Benin
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency
Mr. Désiré Vieyra, Minister of State for Coordination of
Government Action of Benin.
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
His Excellency Mr. Désiré Vieyra, Minister of State
for Coordination of Government Action of Benin,
was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Vieyra (interpretation from French): It is a
great pleasure for me to participate in this Special
Commemorative Meeting on the occasion of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, and to express the
appreciation of the people and Government of Benin to
those men and women whose historic vision made it
possible, through the creation of the United Nations, to
lay the foundations for the international legal order on 26
June 1945 in San Francisco.
This is a fitting time to pay a well-deserved tribute
to successive Secretaries-General, whose determination
and dedication to the cause of peace and the progress of
humanity have contributed to the triumph of noble ideas,
and to all the Secretariat staff for their commitment and
dynamism.
I particularly wish to congratulate Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, the first son of the African continent to
occupy the position, both exacting and exciting, of
Secretary-General, for his courage and his humanism,
which have commanded the admiration of all.
The President returned to the Chair.
In Benin, where the values of democracy and
political pluralism have prevailed since 1990, we have
accorded this event all the importance that it merits,
taking into account the hopes that the peoples of the
whole world place in the capacity of the United Nations
to meet the major challenges confronting humanity. For
us, this celebration is an opportunity, above and beyond
the festivities and the various events, to evaluate the 50
years of operations of the United Nations, with a view to
making it more useful and more effective.
In spite of the long period of tension and the global
rivalries of the cold war — fortunately a thing of the
past — the universal Organization has stood the test of
time and, during this turbulent century, has been able to
take significant initiatives. States continue to exchange
views on very diverse questions involving all sectors of
human activity.
The United Nations, as it reaches the half-century
mark, must commit itself with resolve to the fight against
poverty. In this respect, we cannot fail to be pleased that
at the World Summit for Social Development we finally
25
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
that a
overturned a sacrosanct principle to the effect
country’s social action must be determined by its economy.
We shall now base our economies on the social sphere.
In this respect, I am gratified at the proclamation of
1996 as International Year for the Eradication of Poverty.
Today Benin is striving, with the help of its development
partners, to reduce the rate of infant and maternal mortality
and to reduce illiteracy by placing particular emphasis on
health and education.
achieved, we must
In order that the United Nations may always be able
to serve the peoples of the world, and in order that lasting
peace may be
strengthen the
Organization’s capacities with regard to the prevention of
conflicts, the maintenance and strengthening of peace, and
we must provide it with the means to accomplish its
mission. In my view, the action of our Governments cannot
succeed without the support of all the members of the
international community, including civil society, the private
sector and non-governmental organizations.
for
We must also support the vital role of the United
Nations in mobilizing support
the well-being of
humanity. It is especially in our interest to enable the
Organization effectively to tackle the specific problems of
the developing countries — in particular, those of Africa
and the least-developed countries, whose recovery requires
substantial efforts and resources.
Indeed, Africa, in spite of its human resources and its
immense economic potential, is undermined and ruined by
different afflictions. It was in recognition of the magnitude
of
the challenges to be met, both individually and
collectively, that the Organization of African Unity adopted
at Abuja the resolution that was to lead to the establishment
of the African Economic Community, with a view to the
integration of members’ fragile national economies. This
resolution cannot be implemented successfully without the
unfailing support of the United Nations.
To speed up the development of that continent, so
many times plundered and pillaged, there is a need to
establish without delay the sort of Marshall Plan for which
the Heads of certain African States, with Benin in the lead,
are constantly calling. I believe that this plan should be the
culmination of a series of measures to be taken by the
international community with a view to ensuring not only
that
the commitments regarding Africa made in the
framework of summits and conferences organized by the
United Nations since the beginning of this decade are
26
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
respected, but also that the Agenda for Development is
implemented.
In 1945, Franklin Delano Roosevelt
told his
colleagues:
“Friends, our goal is peace — not only the end of
this war, but the end of all wartime.”
The world has certainly evolved, but the United Nations
Charter has lost none of its timeliness. We therefore
remain confident in the Organization’s capacity to realize
the aspirations of all peoples to a world of solidarity,
justice and peace.
The President: I thank the Minister of State for
Coordination of Government Action of Benin for his
statement.
His Excellency Mr. Désiré Vieyra, Minister of State
for Coordination of Government Action of Benin,
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Datuk Abdullah bin Hadji
Ahmad Badawi, Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Malaysia
The President: I now call on His Excellency Datuk
Abdullah bin Hadji Ahmad Badawi, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Malaysia.
His Excellency Datuk Abdullah bin Hadji Ahmad
Badawi, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Malaysia,
was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Abdullah: The United Nations is 50 today, yet
it remains an Organization beset with problems, both
substantive and organizational. The United Nations has
achieved much in the past, but confidence has waned in
recent years in its ability to discharge its functions as
mandated by its Charter.
If the United Nations is to proceed into the next
millennium and remain relevant
to the needs of its
Members and the international community, and if it is to
address in a comprehensive manner all issues relating to
war and peace, economic growth and responsible
governance,
then restoring confidence in itself and
rebuilding its image must remain its priority task and
responsibility. While it is our right to expect the United
Nations to achieve this objective, giving support and
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
commitment to the United Nations must be our unshirkable
responsibility.
Malaysia strongly believes that the United Nations
should be the body to promote globalism and pluralism. It
must stand clearly on the side of universal values in
combating genocide
the world
approaches the next millennium, the United Nations must
continue humanity’s struggle against the elimination of
nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. Nuclear
testing, above all, must cease immediately.
and aggression. As
Peace and security cannot be built on arms reduction
alone. Development focused on the eradication of poverty
and the removal of bottlenecks towards global prosperity
must remain the priority task and responsibility of the
United Nations. In this role, the United Nations should not
become an instrument for disciplining developing countries
while allowing for power politics and global domination by
a few powerful countries.
The buzz word during the general debate at the fiftieth
session of the General Assembly and at this meeting since
yesterday has been “reform”, with the focus on the reform
of the United Nations. In our view, there is a need for a
comprehensive agenda for the reform of the multilateral
system. Indeed, it is time for us to forge a new framework
for multilateralism for the twenty-first century. This agenda
should encompass the principal organs of the United
Nations,
the
International Court of Justice, as well as the Bretton Woods
institutions and the World Trade Organization.
the Security Council
including
and
The agenda must also acknowledge the important role
and contribution of science and technology, the business
sector and the non-governmental organizations. They have
enriched multilateralism, contributed to the maintenance of
international peace and security, and promoted the
economic and social advancement of all peoples.
Scientists and businessmen have made immense
contributions to the emergence of a global village. They
have set up a network, a super-information highway, and
facilitated financial and trade flows, which have made
borders porous. As the scientists lead us into the era of
cyberspace, we need to put in place a code of conduct that
would regulate the flow of information. The United Nations
must be in the forefront of cooperation in cyberspace to
ensure the full involvement of the international community.
Yet, at the same time, the current activities of the
United Nations have suffered as a result of financial
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
constraints. The financial constraints have set in motion
an exercise drastically to reduce
expenditure on
development in an arbitrary and rushed manner. While we
welcome the convening of an emergency special session
to address this issue, we would appeal to all Member
States to honour their commitments by paying their
subscriptions in full and on time.
In order to achieve these objectives, appropriate
institutional changes are required. These include, first, the
democratization of the Security Council
through the
expansion of its membership and a review of the veto
with a view to its total elimination. Secondly, the General
Assembly should play its rightful role as a forum in
which sovereign equality prevails, including providing
policy guidance to the Security Council. The Trusteeship
Council could be disbanded. Thirdly, the Bretton Woods
Institutions should return to their original mandates and
take on board the new Powers on the geo-economic
scene. Fourthly, the International Court of Justice should
be revitalized with changes in its composition, including
the discontinuation of allotting automatic seats to the
veto-wielding Powers.
While countries recognize the reality of power
politics and their application, particularly in the bilateral
context, the reformed and restructured United Nations
must no longer be the tool of any one country,
irrespective of its power. Humanity must find succour and
sustenance in this global institution, which must become
the true vehicle for the promotion of multilateralism.
The President: I thank the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Malaysia for his statement.
His Excellency Datuk Abdullah bin Hadji Ahmad
Badawi, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Malaysia,
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Amre Moussa,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Egypt and Special
Envoy of the President
The President: I now call on His Excellency Mr.
Amre Moussa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Egypt and
Special Envoy of the President.
His Excellency Mr. Amre Moussa, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Egypt and Special Envoy of the
President, was escorted to the rostrum.
27
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Mr. Moussa (interpretation from Arabic): I have the
honour to make the following statement on behalf of
President Hosni Mubarak, President of the Arab Republic
of Egypt.
Fifty years ago, Egypt joined 50 other countries in
witnessing the birth of the United Nations which was the
birth of a new international order that was to be founded on
the principles and the goals enshrined in the Charter we
signed in San Francisco. One of the most important goals
of that new international order was to save succeeding
generations from the scourge of war, in the wake of the
horrors of
It also aimed at
achieving justice, equality, economic prosperity, social
advancement and the protection of the sovereignty of
States, as well as the realization of the aspirations of
peoples after freedom and self-determination.
the Second World War.
Today, we are gathered together here to celebrate the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. This is a unique
opportunity to assess our successes and our failures and to
glean from our experiences the object-lessons which would
shed light on the reasons behind such successes and failures
and, thereby, help us chart, together, the road to the future.
The very preservation within the realm of the possible,
of the principles and goals of the United Nations Charter
was an achievement unto itself. The Charter remains
today — as it has been throughout the past 50 years — true
to its goals,
in its
principles. To the credit of this Organization is that it has
been a source of hope, a torch-bearer and an element of
construction.
lofty in its expression and clear
have
brought
On the basis of the Charter and within the framework
of
about
the United Nations, we
decolonization and put an end to racial discrimination in its
most brutal form, apartheid. We have been able to promote
new theories for economic and social development and
initiate international specialized action in a varied range of
fields, such as agriculture, industry, science, health, the
environment and many others. Together, we have started to
organize international activities on land, in the air and at
sea.
So, let us not be unfair in our assessment of the past
50 years. Much has been achieved.
However, the bright image is overshadowed by dark
and murky clouds, the most ironic of which is that the
United Nations stands on the verge of bankruptcy even as
we celebrate its fiftieth anniversary.
28
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
rich
and
poor,
However, this alone is not where the tragedy lies.
The real tragedy is that despite our success in achieving
decolonization, hegemony and policies of aggression
continue to afflict the international scene. Despite our
success in ending apartheid, racial discrimination and
religious intolerance are still rife in many parts of the
world. Despite our success in promoting many theories
for development, economic imbalances persist due to the
widening gap between North and South — a gap that
portends the division of the world, for decades to come,
into
entailing migration,
discrimination, terrorism, social ills, and a myriad of other
adverse political
in
establishing political and security frameworks on the
international and regional levels, to deal with issues such
as disarmament and human rights, we still suffer from the
proliferation of nuclear weapons and persistence in
nuclear practices on the one hand, as well as from the
lack of resolve when it comes to dealing with human
rights, on the other hand. In fact, it is in these two areas
specifically — nuclear disarmament and human rights —
that serious political imbalances appear in the present and
the emerging world orders alike. Very succinctly, we can
put this down to the existence of double standards.
effects. Despite our
success
thus
Such political and economic imbalances have led to
a social imbalance that, undoubtedly, will lead, at the
international level, to psychological aberrations that will
impact negatively on future generations the world over.
While we celebrate 50 years of the world order that
was established in the aftermath of World War Two and
move closer to the beginning of the twenty-first century,
mankind is sitting atop a volcano that is beginning to
spew its lava.
Nevertheless, let us not slide into the quagmire of
despair. Let us not waste our scientific achievements by
our political misconduct. Let us build up the credibility of
the international order, in a manner that instills confidence
amongst people. When we speak of peace, let us truly
mean peace; when we speak of development, let us put it
into effect; when we talk about human rights, let us
refrain from resorting to double standards; and, when we
speak of disarmament, let us do so without excepting
anyone.
As we look to the future, let us arm ourselves with
courage, with integrity and with fair play; let us free
ourselves from double standards and from bias. As we
celebrate the United Nations fiftieth anniversary, let us
not blow out any candles, but light candles so that they
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
may illuminate our path in these murky and dangerous
times and enable us to reach the prosperous and stable
future in which peace may reign supreme.
The President: I thank the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Egypt and Special Envoy of the President for his
statement.
His Excellency Mr. Amre Moussa, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Egypt and Special Envoy of the
President, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Ernesto Leal, Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua.
The President: I now call on His Excellency Mr.
Ernesto Leal, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua.
His Excellency Mr. Ernesto Leal, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Nicaragua, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Leal (interpretation from Spanish): The United
Nations emerged 50 years ago from the rubble of the
Second World War. On this fiftieth anniversary we must
strive for the resurgence of a renewed United Nations, with
its principal aim, which is “to save succeeding generations
from the scourge of war”, as stated in the Charter — but its
principal aim should also be to contribute to development,
to eradicate the poverty that affects many of our countries.
This Commemorative Meeting should not be simply
one more anniversary of our Organization. It must mark an
important step in the history of mankind. Anniversaries can
be nothing more than commemorative dates if we do not do
something concrete that would truly measure up to our own
aspirations.
We should therefore, on this occasion, make a solid
commitment to consolidate peace. I therefore wish, in this
forum which has so often witnessed the horrors of war and
human suffering, to make an appeal for the cessation of all
international conflicts and controversies both current and
potential.
A new era of peace in the world demands the
development of a United Nations plan of action, with the
full participation of the Secretary-General, aimed especially
at promoting a peaceful solution to all of the controversies
and differences that still persist and that can affect
international peace or security. Every conflict resolved in
the world will be a victory for peace.
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
The best
tribute that we can pay to the United
Nations Decade for International Law is to arrive at the
centennial of the 1899 Peace Conference in The Hague,
where the Convention for the Peaceful Settlement of
International Conflicts of 1899 was agreed with a
humanity in which dialogue will have prevailed over
differences. All States Members of the United Nations
must work for a humanity free of disputes or conflicts so
that we can arrive at that third peace conference — which
was referred to and proposed yesterday by the President
of the Russian Federation — free of disputes, free of
conflicts — so that we may enter the twenty-first century
as the century of peace.
The time has also come to faithfully fulfil
the
commitment established in the Charter to promote the
economic and social advancement of all peoples. We
must, therefore, begin the United Nations’ largest peace-
keeping operation, that is, placing the human being at the
centre of economic and social development. I wish also
to call for a re-orientation of the structures of the United
Nations towards the topic referred to yesterday by the
Prime Minister of Japan — the subject of human security.
Development should be the other phase of the work
of the next 50 years of the United Nations — a United
Nations that looks towards the South, which is still poor
and without resources, so the twenty-first century may
also become the century of development. We face the
great challenge of turning into reality the results of the
world conferences on children, the environment, social
development, population, human rights and women.
Like the United Nations, Nicaragua too, with the
invaluable support of this Organization, has emerged from
the ashes of war. Today we are advancing successfully
towards a new order of democracy and freedom in a spirit
of national reconciliation. In that context, we have already
requested the United Nations to observe the election that
will take place next year in Nicaragua.
Nicaragua is also resolved to continue to participate
in the decision-making process in the United Nations,
which will define the direction of the Organization.
Democracy is today a universal value that should guide
our agenda permanently. We must be aware that without
freedom, nothing will be possible.
Lastly, I believe that this fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations is the appropriate time for us to reaffirm
our active commitment to the Charter of the Organization,
for us to work towards a United Nations that is efficient,
29
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
renewed in its values and reformed in its structures. It is
time for us to allocate, at last, the well-known “peace
dividends” to the progress of the emerging democracies and
least developed countries — time for us to strengthen
democracy with the fruits of sustainable development and
not to leave the new or restored democracies alone in their
fragile process of transition. This is the time for us to make
of
true universal
representation, without exclusions of any kind — for us to
forge, not only a preventive diplomacy, but also a true
to
preventive
anticipating
and
strengthening democratic institutions, so that we can form
could
eliminating
contribute
poverty
the United Nations
a place of
democracy, which
problems,
37th plenary meeting
23 October 1995
a peace operation, but this time against terrorism and
drug-trafficking.
I do not wish to conclude without reiterating that if
we are able peacefully to resolve the disputes that still
persist, and if we transform the United Nations into a
great force for economic and social progress, we will
have sealed for the twenty-first century the indivisible
alliance between peace and development.
The President: I thank the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Nicaragua for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Ernesto Leal, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua, was escorted from the
rostrum.
The President: Before adjourning the meeting, I
should like to inform delegations that, owing to the
lateness of the hour, it will not be possible to hear all the
speakers scheduled for the meeting this morning. The
remaining speakers will
therefore be moved to this
afternoon’s meeting at 3 p.m. as first speakers in their
respective categories.
I should like to ask all delegations to be present
punctually at 3 p.m. so that we can begin our afternoon
meeting on time.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
30
