United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
28th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 11 October 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Obadi (Yemen),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
call on the first speaker on our list
the
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Swaziland, His Excellency
Mr. Arthur R.V. Khoza.
this morning,
Mr. Khoza (Swaziland): I bring with me the warmest
greetings and good wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III,
Her Majesty the Indlovukazi,
the Government and the
people of the Kingdom of Swaziland, to all our friends and
fellow Members of the United Nations.
Swaziland extends its congratulations to Mr. Freitas do
Amaral on his election to the presidency of this historic
fiftieth session of the General Assembly, and commends his
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for his
leadership and direction as President of
the General
Assembly at
its forty-ninth session. The Kingdom of
Swaziland would also like to take this opportunity to
express its deep appreciation to our distinguished Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his relentless
efforts in directing the affairs of our vast Organization, and
whose skill and diplomacy have contributed so much to our
achievements over the past twelve months.
Each year since 1945 the General Assembly has
provided us with a chance to reflect on our achievements,
as well as on our failures over the preceding twelve
months; the goals we have met and others which, for a
variety reasons, have been missed. This process of self-
assessment is an essential element of any organization;
and for the United Nations there is a special significance
to our deliberations this year as we mark fifty years of its
existence.
Perhaps the most important development of the last
five decades has been the emergence of a new world
order, in both political and economic terms, brought about
by the transformation of many parts of the world through
new-found freedom and independence from both colonial
domination and oppressive ideologies.
in a strengthened commitment
Hopes continue to be raised that this new world
to
order would result
achieve common development objectives on a truly global
basis. Never before have the nations of the world been
given this opportunity to work together, with collective
responsibility, towards achieving real global security —
social, economic and political — for all our peoples.
There have undoubtedly been many encouraging
signs that we are taking our responsibilities towards one
another seriously, but we remain a long way behind in
realizing the ambitions of those ideals on which the
United Nations was established.
95-86286 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The foundations of our Organization were built on the
ruins of a world torn apart by war. "Never again" was the
cry of all mankind, and our structures and principles were
focused on the equal development of all nations, and on the
prevention of the occurrences of such destruction ever
again.
And yet, with all the commitment and promises, it
seems that only very recently have we seen any progress
towards global peace in this century. Certainly, the end of
the cold war did not bring the world-wide stability
envisaged by all of us at that time. Events such as the Gulf
War, the tragedy in the former Yugoslavia and the genocide
in Rwanda have shaken our belief that human beings could
ever live peacefully, side by side, with one another.
Recent developments have shown, however, that there
is a new mood abroad — one that is based on a spirit of
reconciliation and a desire for peace that gives us all reason
for hope that real progress towards lasting global stability
may be possible after all. Swaziland recognizes the role of
the United Nations in bringing about this new climate of
promise, and our Organization deserves great credit in its
continuing commitment to this noble aim.
The Kingdom of Swaziland joins the rest of the
responsible world in welcoming the recent signing of the
agreement with a view to the extension of autonomy to the
Palestinian people in the West Bank. This latest agreement
confirms the commitment of the Israeli and Palestinian
peoples to a lasting settlement of the problem that has hung
like a dark cloud over the Middle East for so long. We
congratulate all who have been involved in the process
leading to the agreement, but most of all, we applaud the
spirit of reconciliation of the leaders and both peoples and
their commitment to peace. We appeal to all in the Middle
East region to embrace the same spirit so that future
generations will never have to experience the instability and
uncertainty of the past.
There are encouraging signs, too, evident in recent
developments with regard to the situation in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Last month the world witnessed the first steps
towards the prospect of a settlement in the Balkans. The
Kingdom of Swaziland prays that
the momentum will
continue until a solution may be found that is acceptable to
all in that troubled area. Swaziland welcomes the recent
initiative leading to the signing of an agreement
in
Washington and agrees that the first priority, now, must be
to ensure a lasting cease-fire and to create an atmosphere
in which the people who have suffered so much in recent
2
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
years may at last begin to bring some order into their
broken lives.
The past
twelve months have seen major and
welcome progress in a number of troubled areas on our
own continent of Africa, while other regrettable situations
have surfaced to threaten the stability of the continent as
a whole.
Clearly, the commitment of all African countries to
the establishment by the Organization of African Unity of
a mechanism for
the prevention, management and
resolution of conflicts is central to Africa’s efforts in
accepting responsibility for its own problems. Swaziland
strongly supports this initiative and joins its brother
African States in calling for the support of the United
Nations in this important enterprise.
Swaziland has been especially heartened by the
developments towards a lasting settlement in Angola,
engineered to a large degree by the efforts of our United
Nations Special Envoy. The signing of the Lusaka peace
accord has brought real hope that the two sides to the
conflict are now committed to peace and that the Angolan
people will now be given the chance to make a new start
in a country that has the potential to play such a vital role
in the development of the subregion as a whole. The
Kingdom of Swaziland stands ready to support and to
encourage the development of Angola and its people.
Swaziland commends the efforts made by the
international community and the neighbouring countries
of Rwanda and Burundi in bringing about an atmosphere
of relative calm to the two countries after a time of great
suffering and hardship.
Of particular note has been the role of
those
countries playing host to so many refugees from the
conflicts in the area. Swaziland knows full well — and
with recent
firsthand experience — the problems
associated with such a task. It is an obligation to one’s
fellow human beings to offer refuge in times of conflict,
but however willing a country may be to welcome
refugees from conflict and strife, the strain on the host
country’s resources may be too great for them to cope
with alone, and outside help is absolutely critical. The
role of
for
Refugees is essential in this regard, and we commend the
work of that Office wherever it is needed.
the United Nations High Commissioner
In the course of the 50 years of its operation, our
Organization has learnt many valuable lessons, including
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to
adapt
realization
that we must
changing
the
circumstances and to the varying needs of all our Members.
The challenges facing us have grown and spread into areas
on a scale perhaps not
imagined by our founders —
challenges such as international security and peace-keeping,
the promotion of justice and democracy, and the fight
against economic and social
inequalities among the
Members of our family of nations.
And as the roles of the United Nations expand and
develop, so should our capacity to undertake them. Reform
and adaptability are the key imperatives for us as we
approach the new millennium, and in this spirit, we
welcome the new agendas for peace and development
which have been initiated under the guidance of our
Secretary-General.
These initiatives, which are at the heart of what we are
trying to achieve here, create particular obligations for all
our Members and for the Organization itself: we all have a
responsibility to demonstrate real commitment towards the
principles we all have accepted. Thus, our calls for
extended United Nations peace-keeping must be supported
by full and timely contributions to the relevant budget by
all countries, and by a commitment to global peace, which
has clearly been lacking in many areas of the world.
This commitment embraces the issue that has posed
possibly the greatest threat to global security in the second
half of this century: that of containing the spread of nuclear
weapons and, ultimately, achieving a nuclear-weapon-free
world.
In this context, Swaziland enthusiastically supported,
earlier this year, the application to extend indefinitely the
Treaty on nuclear non-proliferation, and we look forward to
a
conclusion to the negotiations on a
comprehensive test-ban treaty.
successful
that
Swaziland is confident
the Secretariat of the
United Nations, under the wise and able leadership of His
Excellency the Secretary-General, is all too aware of its
own responsibilities to adapt and reform elements of the
Organization’s structures, in line with the wishes of its
Members
and with regard to achieving efficiency,
adaptability and full representation of the global community
in order to meet its requirements.
Certainly, we all must feel represented in the key
decision-making bodies of the Organization, and Swaziland
therefore supports the proposals aimed, in the first place, at
making the Security Council a more credible body by
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
introducing wider representation among the permanent
members.
The principle of full representation within the United
Nations is an extension of the founding principle of
universality — to ensure, as much as possible, that all
peoples of the world feel that they are represented in the
one truly global Organization with the resources and
influence to effect developments for the good of mankind.
The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to have a
strong and happy partnership with a country whose people
believe that they are denied the opportunity to make their
contribution to the rest of the world through the agencies
of our Organization, and who maintain that they are
excluded
international
decision-making, to which they have a right to contribute.
The Republic of China and its 21 million people have
shown themselves to be committed to global peace and
development, and ready to share with the rest of the
world their knowledge, expertise and resources.
from the
processes
of
it
In the fiftieth year of the existence of United
Nations, and as we celebrate the historic signing of our
Charter,
is surely fitting that we live up to our
founders’ belief that the credibility of our Organization is
dependent on the principle that all mankind is represented
here. The declaration by a people that it believes itself to
be denied representation is surely incentive enough for us
to at least consider the case, whatever the outcome. The
Republic of China, as one of the original signatories,
believes that its appeal deserves to be heard. Swaziland
therefore encourages
the
establishment of an ad hoc committee to look into the
issue of the renewal of membership of the United Nations
for the Republic of China.
the growing support
for
The Kingdom of Swaziland has welcomed the far-
sighted Agenda for Development, including the Africa-
specific development
initiatives for the 1990s, which
contain the Organization’s operational priorities in the
area of economic and social development, and aims to
ensure sustainable growth for our economies. As we
approach the mid-term review of
the continent’s
development plan, it is clear that we still lag far behind
the other regions of the world in terms of achieving our
development targets.
round of
Swaziland has been conscientious in attending the
recent
summit
conferences, which have focused on key social and
including those on the
economic development
important United Nations
issues,
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
and
development,
and
environment
development, and this year’s social summit and Conference
on Women. In each case, we have committed ourselves to
the plans of action and are doing our best to implement the
recommendations.
population
on
it
is clear
A side effect of these meetings was that once again
they highlighted our continent’s limitations. While the
countries of Africa recognize our responsibilities to our
own people,
technical
knowledge and all-round expertise do not yet allow us to
progress as fast as we would like. Undoubtedly, we will
continue to require the support and understanding of the
developed world if we are ever
to rid ourselves of
dependency on outside assistance, and, certainly, the United
Nations has a major role to play in the process.
resources,
that our
for
The Kingdom of Swaziland has not been standing still
in its own efforts to promote economic measures aimed at
improving the living standards of its people. As is our
custom, we have consulted directly with the entire nation to
give the Swazi people themselves the opportunity to
determine priorities
and social
development. The focus of our people’s concerns has been
on much of what has been discussed at the recent United
Nations conferences, and there is a direct parallel between
the recommendations of the various Summits and those of
our own consultation process. The value of this national
exercise, in a United Nations context, is that it confirms
support for what the Organization is doing at the level of
those who matter most.
economic
their
Included among the issues raised in our national
economic exercise were concern over
the continuing
drought and the realization that any plans we may have to
improve our economic performance will still depend to a
large extent on the inconsistencies of nature, unless we can
offset the effects of poor rainfall by large capital projects
to harness our water resources.
An increase in cross-border illegal traffic in drugs and
weapons continues to present a threat to our socio-economic
stability, and as a sign of our commitment to overcome this
growing danger
the Kingdom of Swaziland and the
Republic of South Africa recently signed a joint agreement
to work together to combat cross-border crime. It is clear,
however, that what is needed is international support to
overcome what is certainly an international menace.
The Swazi nation has confirmed the importance of
increasing environmental awareness amongst our people,
and the need to protect our natural heritage is recognized as
4
priority
target. Land
agricultural
a
diversification are important elements of this vital issue
and we will need to acquire technical support to achieve
improvement.
usage
and
Another key element of the nation’s concerns is
centred on the role of women. Swazi women are
identified as the backbone of the economy and it has been
recommended that steps be taken to bring the legal rights
of our women onto an equal basis with those of our men.
Once more,
the traditions and culture of our
Kingdom have been reaffirmed as the main contributing
cause of our stability and peace. Our national identity is
important
is, after all, what makes us
unique — and Swaziland feels strongly that there should
be recognition of and respect
for each country’s
distinctiveness in the way we each approach an issue and
in the solutions we find to our own problems.
to us — it
development with
As the world’s leaders gather here later this month
to reaffirm our collective commitment to our founding
Charter, let our fiftieth anniversary celebration also signal
a new start for our Organization, a new beginning in
which we will address the challenges to global security
and
equal
responsibility and duty and with new structures in place
to achieve our united goal of improving the world we live
in for all our peoples. The Kingdom of Swaziland
confirms its own commitment to our founding Charter
and declares its pride in the Organization in which the
hopes of all mankind are placed. May God bless these
proceedings with the success they deserve.
sense
fresh
of
a
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Guyana,
His Excellency Mr. Clement Rohee.
Mr. Rohee (Guyana): In another two weeks we will
be commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of
this
Organization. We shall do so with much ceremony. I
would hope, however,
that we will go beyond the
ceremonial to take the opportunity which the occasion
provides us to reflect
the
Organization and on the ways and means by which its
performance can be enhanced to serve better the needs of
its Members in the coming twenty-first century.
further on the role of
We offer Mr. Freitas do Amaral our warmest
congratulations on his election. We are confident that,
with his demonstrated ability and skills, he will advance
us even further in our task of reforming and restructuring
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the Organization so that it may successfully confront the
challenges which the post-cold-war era has brought. He
may be sure that we will fully cooperate with him to make
the deliberations of the fiftieth session of this Assembly as
constructive as possible.
My Government is grateful to the outgoing President
of the Assembly, Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the
initiatives which he took during his term of office to
improve the functioning of the institution at this critical
time of its existence.
to
for
the
We would also wish to say a special word of
distinguished Secretary-General,
appreciation
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
their
continuing devotion to the servicing of our many
requirements. Their support for our efforts will undoubtedly
guarantee our ultimate success.
and his
staff
It
that
is vitally important
the dynamism and
effectiveness of the United Nations be increased if it is
adequately to discharge its many tasks. Since the
Organization was founded almost five decades ago, the
world has changed considerably and international problems
have become much more complex. The United Nations
today bears a heavier load of responsibility than ever
before. Ironically, at the same time, it is saddled with a
deepening financial crisis which makes its effectiveness and
its very future highly uncertain. This situation cannot
continue without adverse consequences for
the world
community.
The
the United Nations, but
expanding nature of many peace-keeping
operations not only places an added financial strain on the
finances of
especially
burdensome for small developing countries, such as mine,
which are finding it
to fulfil our
financial obligations to the Organization. Support for these
operations represents a continuing drain on our limited
resources and hampers our own efforts at development. Yet
as conflicts multiply the United Nations will be called upon
to mount more operations to keep the peace.
increasingly difficult
is
Given the urgency of these demands, we have no
choice but to try and meet them. The time has therefore
come for us to put the financing of these undertakings on
a more reliable footing. We urge all States, especially the
major defaulting countries, to honour fully their obligations
to the Organization.
It must be a matter of growing concern to the
the peace and prosperity
international community that
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
expected in the aftermath of the cold war have not
materialized. The world continues to face some of the
worst threats to international stability. Violent conflicts
arising from resurgent nationalisms
and religious
intolerance between and within States have proliferated.
The unresolved situations in Afghanistan, Rwanda, parts
of the former Soviet Union and the former Yugoslavia
have caused severe loss of life and destruction to property
and have given rise to humanitarian crises of immense
proportions.
The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina remains
uncertain. The suffering of the Bosnian people, the total
disregard for the safe havens and the constant threat to
the international peace-keeping force demands that the
international community take effective measures to end
this senseless conflict. We welcome the prospects of a
peaceful settlement which have resulted from the latest
diplomatic initiative. With the international Tribunal for
the former Yugoslavia now established, we hope that
those responsible for the atrocities committed against the
Bosnian people will be brought to trial.
We are equally concerned with the situation in
Cyprus which, despite the efforts of
the Secretary-
General, appears to be worsening. There are reports of
escalating tensions. We urge both sides to the dispute to
respond urgently to his call for a negotiated solution
which would preserve the island’s sovereignty and
territorial integrity.
should serve as a catalyst
Although the Middle East continues to be volatile,
we have reason today to believe that a comprehensive
peace can be a reality in the not-too-distant future. The
accords already signed between Israel and the Palestinians
on the one hand and Israel and Jordan on the other show
a willingness to reach a just and lasting solution. These
achievements
for new
initiatives. Many issues such as the refugee problem,
security arrangements and borders, fundamental to the
Palestine question, remain to be settled. The recent high-
level negotiations between the Prime Minister of Israel
and the President of Palestine must be considered a
positive development. We hope that all
remaining
difficulties can be resolved in good faith by both sides
with the help of this Organization and the international
community.
In our own region we are pleased to see that peace
and stability have been restored to a large degree in Haiti.
Much has been accomplished since the return of the
democratically elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
October 1994. We note in particular the practical steps
taken by the Government of Haiti to organize free and fair
legislative elections, as called for in Security Council
resolution 940 (1994). The first of these elections has
shown that more has to be done in terms of establishing an
effective electoral machinery. The role of the International
Civilian Mission and the United Nations Mission in Haiti
(UNMIH) in assisting the Haitian authorities to reinforce
democracy remains crucial. The sustained commitment of
the international community is
indispensable to the
prospects for long-term progress in Haiti. My Government
is ready to provide whatever assistance it can to achieve
this goal.
Today more than ever, the people of the world are
making the United Nations the repository of their hopes.
The Organization must therefore do its utmost to satisfy
these expanded expectations. It must undertake whatever
institutional reforms are necessary for adapting itself to the
new international context. The urgency of our agenda
makes it imperative for us to conclude as early as possible
the work under way in the many Working Groups to secure
the rationalization of our agenda, as well as the reform of
the major organs of the United Nations. These reforms,
which we believe to be essential and urgent, must be
carried out with transparency and on a consensual basis.
They must be realistic and be aimed at
increasing
efficiency. Above all, they must be in full accordance with
the democratic purposes and principles of the Charter.
the principle
In so far as the reform of the Security Council is
concerned, my Government supports an appropriate increase
in membership. Such an increase should take account of the
size of the current membership of the Organization and be
reflective of
of equitable geographical
representation. The discussions in the Working Group that
was set up in accordance with resolution 48/26 have
produced several interesting proposals for reform. These
should now be more closely examined and evaluated to
determine their feasibility. It is possible, we believe, to find
an arrangement that would respond satisfactorily to the need
for
to preserve
international peace and security in the post-cold-war era.
enhancing the Council’s
capacity
A major responsibility of any reformed Council should
be to give further impetus to the disarmament process. The
decision taken by the 1995 Review and Extension
Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons
agreement
indefinitely reflects the commitment of all parties involved
to work towards the elimination of nuclear weapons. The
extension of the Treaty, however, is not an end in itself. It
to extend the
(NPT)
6
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
must be followed by further steps towards complete
nuclear disarmament, the dissemination of nuclear know-
how for peaceful purposes, adequate security assurances
to non-nuclear-weapon States and the establishment of
nuclear-weapon free zones. Especially important is the
need to conclude a comprehensive test-ban treaty in order
to preclude nuclear-weapon States from undertaking
further hazardous experiments. We urge the Conference
on Disarmament to proceed as expeditiously as possible
to the elaboration of a universal and effective treaty
within a fixed time frame.
on Environment
The nuclear threat, as well as other hazards to which
we are exposed, must make us all actually aware of our
obligation to protect our fragile environment. Since the
United Nations Conference
and
Development, we have made some progress in a number
of areas with regard to the implementation of Agenda 21.
We have seen the coming into force of the Convention on
Biological Diversity, the Convention on Climate Change
and the Convention to Combat Desertification, as well as
the holding in Barbados of the Global Conference on the
Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States and the adoption of the Barbados Programme of
Action. Much more, however, remains to be done if we
are adequately to honour the commitments made in Rio.
The
terrible destruction inflicted recently by
powerful hurricanes on several sister States in the
Caribbean Community shows how vulnerable small States
are to environmental disasters. Only two months ago my
own country suffered major ecological damage as a result
of severe leakages from the tailings pond dam at the
Omai Gold Mines in the Essequibo region, causing some
1.2 million cubic metres of cyanide slurry to be
discharged into the environment. Aquatic life in the river
was endangered, while the inhabitants of nearby villages
were exposed to serious health hazards. Fortunately, the
Government of Guyana was able, with the assistance of
friendly Governments and agencies of the United Nations
to contain the danger. These disasters, both
system,
natural and man-made, point
to the need for urgent
international action to protect small countries such as
ours.
Yet,
three years after
the Rio Conference,
the
commitments to provide financial resources to implement
Agenda 21 remain largely on paper. The target of 0.7 per
cent of official development assistance is still
to be
realized. New resources have simply not been available to
undertake some of the programmes specified in the
Agenda. Nor have we witnessed any significant transfer
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
are
of suitable technology to developing countries. While the
developing countries
their
obligations, developed countries balk at making their
contribution. The global partnership, which was so highly
advocated and praised at the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, is yet to be formed.
ready to discharge
We are nevertheless encouraged by the adoption last
August of the Draft Agreement for the Implementation of
the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the
Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks
and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. We hope that
this
Agreement, which will be opened for
signature on
4 December 1995, will ensure the long-term conservation
and sustainable use of the living resources of the high seas
identified in Agenda 21. This Agreement and the larger
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which
came into force in November 1994, are important to the
sustainable development of the fishing industry in small
States such as ours. We urge their full observance and
implementation.
Overall economic development remains the single
most
important challenge facing Member States and,
consequently, the United Nations. At various conferences,
including the World Summit for Social Development, which
was held in Copenhagen, Denmark, last March, we have
repeatedly expressed our political will
to address our
diverse economic and social problems. We came away from
Copenhagen ready to act, but we remain uncertain as to the
way forward. Now that the Beijing Conference on women
is behind us, the international community needs to summon
even greater determination if it is to translate into action the
bold decisions we have taken in this series of important
should now be
summit meetings. These decisions
consolidated, and specific machinery set up for
their
implementation. It would indeed be a great pity if the
painfully negotiated results of these high-level deliberations
were left to evaporate.
The great divide between rich and poor, both among
and within nations, must be considered a threat to world
peace. The plight of developing countries, particularly the
least-developed countries, compels urgent action. The
problems of development, or rather of underdevelopment,
can no longer be dealt with adequately on an ad hoc and
piecemeal basis or
structural-
adjustment measures. What
is required is fundamental
reform of
the international economic system, which
continues to marginalize developing countries into a
position of perpetual dependence. It is necessary to define
through questionable
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
new strategies and to agree on new modalities to reverse
the present inequities in international economic relations.
flows,
financial
investment
they urgently need significant debt
The developing countries are willing to do their part
favourable to growth.
in providing an environment
relief,
However,
the transfer of
greater
appropriate technology,
the elimination of tariff and
non-tariff barriers and just remuneration for commodities
and raw materials. These are not new prescriptions; they
are generally known to be essential for development.
Thus far, however, developed countries have evinced
notable reluctance to follow them, preferring instead to
dispense small amounts of bilateral aid. Most of them
have now further reduced this limited assistance. The root
problems therefore remain unresolved.
The signing, in Marrakesh in 1994, of the Uruguay
Round agreements has provided some hope that
the
playing-field for international trade will be levelled to
induce the participation of developing countries. The
recently created World Trade Organization, if properly
oriented, may be able to provide a rule-based system that
could encourage such participation. There is much to be
said for the introduction of predictability into international
economic relations, and we should therefore work to
ensure that it is provided in whatever agreements we
reach. The “Agenda for Development”, which we are in
the process of elaborating, must embody the rights and
obligations accepted by the parties.
In this context, Guyana attaches great importance to
the conclusion of work on the Agenda. We view the
Agenda as an overarching framework for international
cooperation for development. We are therefore concerned
that, while we work to establish the framework, we
should also secure the necessary commitment of resources
for effective implementation. In this regard, we believe
that South-South cooperation should be considered as an
integral
international
cooperation for development. International support for
greater South-South cooperation cannot but enhance the
prospects for world development, thereby increasing the
potentialities of interdependence and partnership.
important
element
and
of
Economic growth cannot be sustained for long
unless each individual citizen and each individual
community has a stake in that growth and is empowered
to take an active part
in the development process.
Moreover, economic growth would be meaningless if it
were not equitably distributed. A society cannot find
fulfilment in growth. Indeed, the development process
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
take
itself is severely hampered if a society does not
adequate care of its vulnerable groups: women, children,
ethnic minorities,
the handicapped and the homeless.
Development must therefore have a social dimension.
Conscious of this need,
the President of Guyana,
His Excellency Mr. Cheddi Jagan, has advanced the concept
of a new global human order. An essential feature of this
order would be the consensus that has now emerged in
respect of development and governance, the role of the
State and the market and sustainable environmentalism.
While this consensus is to be welcomed, it is attended by
new social, economic and political problems which will
effectively prevent it from taking us forward. The solution
of these problems calls for a new global commitment to
human ideals and universal human development. In his own
address to the Assembly, President Jagan will expand on
this proposal with a view to securing an appropriate
declaration on a new global order to which all States can
subscribe.
As I said at the outset of my statement, we must not
be content with merely celebrating the fiftieth anniversary
of the United Nations. The critical situation in which the
world now finds itself demands from us a supreme effort to
make full use of the opportunities which this historical
conjuncture offers. The possibilities of interdependence and
international cooperation have never been greater. We owe
it to ourselves and to future generations to grasp the chance
we now have for creating a truly just and humane society
of nations.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
now call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Solomon Islands, His Excellency
Mr. Danny Philip.
distinguished
Mr. Philip (Solomon Islands): It is indeed fitting that
this historic fiftieth session of the General Assembly is
being presided over by Mr. Freitas do Amara of Portugal,
a
experienced
parliamentarian, and the founder of one of the major
political parties that helped to return vibrant democracy to
his homeland. He will meet the challenges of this office
with the intellect and skill that have marked his service to
his country and region.
teacher
law,
an
of
His Excellency, Mr. Amara Essy, who presided over
the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly, has my
warmest appreciation of his leadership through a complex
agenda.
8
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
I salute the Secretary-General as well as the women
and men of the Secretariat, the specialized agencies and
other bodies of the United Nations for their extraordinary
work during this difficult
time in the Organization’s
history.
I embrace the representatives of Palau, the newest
Member State — our sister in the South Pacific region.
We of Solomon Islands, a politically stable
democracy, live in peace, but we have known the cruelty
and havoc of modern war. Not only did the Battle of
Guadalcanal in the Second World War inflict damage on
our natural environment, leaving behind untold numbers
of dangerous armaments, but it caused adverse effects on
human and economic development as well. We number
less than 400,000 people of diverse ethnic origins, speak
some 87 distinct languages in various dialects, and live
together on hundreds of islands spread over 1600 square
kilometres of ocean. We live in a part of the world of
exquisite beauty with a delicate marine and forest ecology
that is critical to our well-being and survival.
From the perspective of my country, peace and
development are inextricably linked. The Agenda for
Development and the Agenda for Peace make this as clear
as the brilliant and pollution-free waters of our sun-
drenched lagoons. In his latest report on the work of the
Organization,
that
development:
the Secretary-General
observed
“the foremost and most far-reaching task of our time
... must be seen in its many dimensions — in the
contexts of peace,
the economy, environmental
protection, social justice and democracy”. (A/50/1,
para. 182)
Each is critical for development, but without peace the
other dimensions shrink like characters in stories for
children.
for
the
planning
coordinating
We applaud the Secretary-General’s efforts
to
implement the Agenda for Peace. The development of a
framework
and
implementation of complex field operations is welcome.
In its efforts to broker peace, the United Nations has
wrestled with seemingly intractable problems. Solomon
Islands, one of the least developed countries, living in
peace, gladly contributes its financial share to peace-
keeping and supports initiatives to protect United Nations
personnel and to aid civilian populations.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
suffering
and
devastation
Yet, ethnic strife and armed conflict rage in many
places with
beyond
comprehension. The violation of human rights continues.
Poverty saps the creativity and vitality of thousands of
millions. Vast numbers of children, especially female
children, do not have their basic needs met and many do
not survive infancy or early childhood. Solomon Islands,
which reaffirms its commitment to the Convention on the
Rights of the Child, applauds the work of the United
Nations Children’s Fund. Minimal education,
illiteracy,
labouring in unspeakable conditions, prostitution and life on
the streets are the conditions of many children. The mass
media with an educational purpose have a powerful role in
changing all of
this as Solomon Islanders living in
communities separated by the sea have learned. Moreover,
many of the world’s women continue to face serious
economic and social discrimination as the 1995 Human
Development Report to the United Nations Development
Programme demonstrates. The education of women in
Solomon Islands is critical to them, their children, their
families and the nation. Without it, sustainable development
and the levelling of population growth are unattainable
goals.
Solomon Islands applauds the steps taken by the
United States of America and the Russian Federation to
reduce their nuclear arsenals in accordance with Start I, on
the reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms. We
look forward to agreement on and implementation of the
Treaty on Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic
Offensive Arms (Start II).
Solomon Islands and its sister States in the Pacific
region fearfully watch the ominous nuclear-weapons tests
of France and the People’s Republic of China. We
especially deplore the fact that France is conducting them
in the South Pacific with its fragile marine ecology
essential to the lives of island peoples. Recent reports in the
French media indicate that the potential danger of these
tests is far greater than we have been led to believe. The
threats to people, animals and plants — even the genetic
foundations of
life — are terribly real. Do we need
additional evidence of this after Hiroshima and Nagasaki?
Why are more nuclear tests really required? How valid is
the concept of nuclear deterrence now? If, as France claims,
nuclear-weapons
and
Fangataufa Atoll in French Polynesia are so safe, why not
set them off in the soil of the mother country? Its presence
in Polynesia and New Caledonia makes France our
neighbour in the Pacific where a post-cold-war redefinition
of the region is well under way. Do good neighbours
endanger the environment that sustains them? Are we not
explosions on Mururoa Atoll
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
gambling away the future of humankind at the nuclear-
weapons dice table? To the nuclear-threshold States, these
tests send the wrong signal. The Pacific is certainly the
wrong place; now, today, is the wrong time; and for
international cooperation, this is the wrong policy.
Global warming, as the intergovernmental climate-
change experts are now confirming, continues. The
consequences for the small island States are most serious,
including the potential impact of sea-level rise. They
threaten our agricultural and fish production,
thereby
endangering our economy and undermining our ability to
develop. Clearly, this global problem requires a global
solution, but the industrial countries must take the lead if
joint solutions are to be successfully implemented.
Solomon Islands is contributing to the quest for
international peace and security in a number of ways.
Towards disarmament, we have ratified the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), and we
took an active part in the NPT Review and Extension
Conference, joining in the consensus to extend the NPT
indefinitely. We ratified the Treaty of Rarotonga
establishing the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone.
Establishing nuclear-free zones is an important initiative
towards creating a non-proliferation regime in cooperation
with other States. Solomon Islands, along with others,
made two submissions to the International Court of
Justice on the legality of the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons, a matter now before the Court.
Solomon Islands is participating in the process for
the completion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty by
September 1996. We believe that a comprehensive test-
ban treaty is the fulcrum upon which nuclear disarmament
will be raised from dream to reality. Ultimately,
disarmament is a question of courage and overcoming
fear. It begins within, and its achievement must come
from within as well — inside them and us, inside you and
me.
As for environmental issues, Solomon Islands is a
State party to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change and fully supports the Berlin mandate,
which includes the Alliance of Small
Island States
protocol. With so much of our present and future
economy based on our forests and marine life, we
embrace the Convention on Biological Diversity, which
Solomon Islands acceded to this year,
the Barbados
Programme of Action, the Nouméa Convention, and the
International Coral Reef Initiative. We support a global
programme of action to protect the marine environment
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
from land-based activities. Concerned about the shipment
and importation of hazardous and radioactive wastes in the
South Pacific region, Solomon Islands endorses the Waigani
Convention recently adopted at
the twenty-sixth South
Pacific Forum, held in Papua New Guinea, and calls for the
rehabilitation of former nuclear-weapon test sites and
assistance to the peoples who were forced from those
places.
We live in a world of disturbing, often cruel, contrasts.
These, sustainable development has to address. In his report
on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General
states that
and
ensuring
ignorance,
“development at its core must be about improvement
of human well-being, the removal of poverty, hunger,
disease
productive
employment and the satisfaction of priority needs of
all people in a way that can be sustained over future
generations; ... the emerging consensus on the priority
and dimensions of development should find expression
in a new framework for international cooperation”.
(A/50/1, para. 182)
Solomon Islands views this emerging consensus as the
beginning of a new diplomacy that puts people at the heart
of development. The new diplomacy should work
vigorously to implement the programmes of action crafted
at the World Summit for Children, the Earth Summit, the
World Conference on Human Rights,
the International
Conference on Population and Development, the World
Summit for Social Development, the Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States and the Fourth World Conference on Women. After
Habitat II, in Istanbul next year, we do not require more
large conferences, for the time being at least. Rather, we
need
political
commitment, and thoughtful, decisive action to ensure that
these programmes of action are implemented.
international will
partnership,
and
As the Declaration of Barbados affirms,
“Small island developing nations are particularly
vulnerable to natural as well as environmental
disasters and have a limited capacity to respond to and
recover from such disasters.” (A/CONF.167/9, annex
I, part one, section III, para. 1)
Limited in size and with vulnerable economies, they must
depend on a narrow resource base and upon international
trade, without the means to influence its terms. Solomon
Islands and the other small island developing States require
10
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
international partnership and cooperation to achieve and
maintain sustainable development.
The new diplomacy based on people-centred
development has at its heart a spiritual dimension which
embraces the ideals of democracy, tolerance, peaceful
coexistence, justice and the rights of persons and peoples.
It cares for
the environment and rejects greed and
intolerance. This new diplomacy will be a reflection of an
agenda for democracy and tolerance, which Solomon
Islands believes should be formulated to complete the
triad of agendas. Such an agenda ought to be a basis for
reforming the United Nations in general and the Security
Council in particular. For Security Council reform to
work,
the centre instead of a
dominating nation, group of nations or region.
it must put people at
Committed to democracy and tolerance, Solomon
Islands calls for renewed consideration of the exceptional
situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the
international context, on the basis of the principle of
universality and in accordance with the established model
of parallel representation of divided countries at
the
United Nations. The Republic of China’s standing as the
fifteenth largest trading nation in the world, with the
twentieth highest gross national product and the largest
foreign-exchange holdings, its continuing assistance to
many developing countries and its efforts to strengthen
international economic cooperation are obvious and
cannot be ignored by the world’s highest forum. In
addition, the Republic of China’s contribution to world
peace and its unfailing support of United Nations
activities are undeniable evidence of its qualifications to
receive proper consideration for having a seat at
the
United Nations. Solomon Islands therefore calls for a
renewed focus on the issue of readmitting the Republic of
China as a Member of the United Nations.
Solomon Islands believes in a United Nations that
calls for tolerance and works to practise it, a United
Nations that promotes the values of diversity, tolerance,
pluralism, peace,
justice, solidarity and responsibility
towards others and unknown future generations. Here,
language and political
differences in race,
doctrine
not
to
understanding, compassion, insight and patience.
religion,
obstacles,
challenges
but
are
The only hope for humanity is world peace, to be
achieved by a change in attitude from one of “mine and
my world” to one of “we and our world”.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Madagascar,
His Excellency Mr. Jacques Sylla.
Mr. Ould Ely (Mauritania), Vice-President, took the
Chair
Mr. Sylla (Madagascar) (interpretation from French):
I must begin my statement by echoing the words of
previous speakers who have congratulated Mr. Diogo
Freitas do Amaral on his election by acclamation to the
presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly.
On my own behalf and on behalf of the delegation of
Madagascar, which I have the honour to head, I have
pleasure in saying that we rely greatly on his experience
and wisdom in ensuring that our work will be crowned with
success at the conclusion of our debates. Whilst assuring
him of the cooperation and support of my delegation, I
would also like to congratulate the other officers of the
Assembly.
It gives me particular pleasure to pay tribute to our
colleague, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Mr. Freitas do
Amaral’s distinguished predecessor, for the enthusiasm and
dynamism he demonstrated in the service of the General
Assembly, which under his presidency carried out
its
mandate well and always to the satisfaction of countries
like my own.
Lastly, may I express our appreciation for the efforts
made by the Secretariat to ensure the efficient organization
of our work, under
the
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Boutros Ghali.
the competent
leadership of
current
Since our
session coincides with the
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations Charter,
it goes without saying that, as the
Secretary-General stressed in his report on the work of the
Organization, it is an occasion not only to take stock of the
first half-century of our Organization and to prepare for the
second, but also to seek ways to keep up the momentum of
the first years of the decade in world affairs.
After the collapse of the Berlin Wall, a true symbol of
the cold war, history has witnessed a series of events that
strengthen confidence in the principles and agreements
enshrined in the Charter: the independence of Namibia; the
formation of the first democratic multiracial Government in
South Africa; the holding of democratic elections marking
the end of a long period of civil strife in Mozambique and
one-party rule in Malawi; the promising steps taken by
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
several southern African countries towards reconstruction;
the process of reconciliation in the Middle East, recently
added to by the agreement — welcomed by Madagascar,
along with all other peace-loving nations — extending
autonomy in the West Bank; and,
lastly, certain
encouraging signs with regard to the situation in the
former Yugoslavia.
accelerating
the end of
confrontations, while
Paradoxically, however,
the era of
ideological
the
integration of world society, has also promoted an
increase in conflicts, sources of outbursts of violence and
savagery, resulting not only from conflicts between States,
but also, unfortunately, from ethnic, civil, religious and
other deep-rooted causes within a collapsing State or
States. This trend, one of the most marked of the post-
war period, seems to be growing, in the context of an
international community that is powerless, disarmed and,
above all, disillusioned.
As regards Africa, to which Madagascar belongs, I
refer in this regard to the genocide in Rwanda, whose
impact is still felt by international public opinion; the
continuation of civil war in Liberia, in Sudan and Angola;
and the spiral of violence and violations of human rights
in Gambia, one of the oldest democracies in West Africa,
following a coup d’état.
Other conflicts
still continue in Europe and
elsewhere.
At the risk of offending some, I must say that most,
if not all, of these hotbeds are fuelled in particular by
sales of illicit weapons — I should rather, say “authorized
sales of weapons”. Their proliferation shows
the
ineffectiveness of the relevant international conventions
and of
the measures enacted by the international
community. They also run counter to the efforts made to
reduce worldwide expenditures on armaments since 1987
in order to obtain the peace dividend.
International public opinion was also deeply shocked
by the coup d’état carried out by mercenaries against the
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros. Madagascar
strongly condemned that putsch, and congratulates France
on the happy outcome of Operation Azalea to re-establish
institutional legality in the Comoros.
The
disillusionment
described,
disillusionment bordering on hopelessness, has other
aspects which are even more threatening to the world’s
security. Indeed, both in the North and in the South we
have
that
I
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
of
collective
are witnessing an upsurge of intolerance, of xenophobia —
in brief, of fear or the rejection of difference, of all
differences. These feelings are exacerbated by individual
born
and
frustrations
of
marginalization and of social
injustice. This picture is
complemented by environmental degradation, a sluggish
economy,
the
disintegration of the social fabric, the spread of drug use,
international
terrorism, pandemics, natural disasters,
unemployment and famine. To sum up, there is a whole
range of global threats which are no longer confined within
national borders.
resources,
depletion
poverty,
natural
the
of
It would be a truism to assert
that solving these
problems calls for us to be farsighted, to step back so as to
get a global view and go beyond the outdated approach of
resolving the challenges facing us case by case. That is why
Madagascar must support all the efforts to implement the
globalizing structural approach in the Agenda for Peace.
However, we must recognize that any initiatives in this
field will be in vain if there continue to be contradictions
between the diplomacy of States and the diplomacy of the
United Nations, because it is quite obvious that the future
of today’s societies lies within a space that is broadening to
encompass the dimensions of the universe.
This fundamental refocusing must be the purpose of a
rational reorganization of our organs and institutions, which,
given the social, political and economic conditions
prevailing when they were
established, now have
limitations, gaps and shortcomings when it comes to
responding to the expectations of today’s world.
to
in
order
ensure
distribution
In Madagascar’s view, what is needed is, first, to
enlarge the Security Council on the basis of equitable
geographical
the
democratization of international relations. Secondly, the
General Assembly must be given greater means, and
especially more powers, to put an end to the old cliché that
this organ is merely a forum for rhetoric and orotund
speechmaking. Thirdly, as indicated in “An Agenda for
Peace,” there must be a considerable strengthening of the
mechanisms for the pacific settlement of disputes set forth
in Chapter VI of the Charter, which would seem in practice
to have become the poor relation of Chapter VII, with its
authorization of the use of force as a last resort. Indeed, in
this connection, I would make so bold as to say that any
and all reform of the United Nations must also entail more
careful attention to the provisions of Chapter VII.
12
for
This
in the
example,
strengthening should include giving first
priority in United Nations bodies to the prevention of
violence by developing a policy and strategy centred on
development. There, the General Assembly could play a
more important role, in conjunction with the Security
Council, by,
framework of
re-establishing peace, strengthening the role of United
Nations forces used as buffers in international, ethnic or
civil conflicts. Paragraph 7 of Article 2 of the Charter
expressly excludes any intervention in matters which are
essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State.
The settlement of national conflicts, which falls within the
competence of the United Nations and which still requires
the support of the country concerned, must be viewed as
the carrying out of efforts to establish democracy and the
rule of law and to inculcate a spirit of tolerance and non-
violence.
of African Unity
There is also the question of strengthening regional
structures for the peaceful settlement of disputes, such as
those that already exist within the United Nations, the
Organization
the
Non-Aligned Movement. Lastly, there is the question of
strengthening regional cooperation in the sphere of
disarmament so as to block the uncontrolled movements
of weapons and the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction.
(OAU)
and
It is in this spirit that Madagascar supported the
indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and is about to ratify various
international conventions, such as the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling
and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction
and the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the
Use of Certain Conventional Weapons.
In the economic and social sphere, there is no need
to stress that world development also presents a scenario
of contrasts and disparities, whereas there had been
reason to hope that the post-cold-war period would see a
de facto mobilization of the international community in
support of development. Even worse, the outlook is far
from encouraging. Poverty and hardship have become
endemic in the so-called fourth world — the “storm
zones”, to use an expression borrowed from the jargon of
today’s experts — which is also prey to natural disasters
in addition to its internal problems,
resulting from
political
instability and imbalanced economies. The
balance of payments continues to show a deficit because
of
the crushing burden of external debt and the
fluctuations in the prices of raw materials, accompanied
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
by — to cap it all — a stagnation and even a decline in
development assistance.
We are also witnessing various forms of protectionism
in the countries of the North, while the countries of the
South are being urged to liberalize trade. The result is
increased marginalization of the poor countries, which are
deriving absolutely no benefit from the globalization of the
world economy, and increased social disparities both
between and within nations. That adverse trend is leading
to the formation of an international social apartheid.
recovery, but
the establishment of
In the United Nations,
it has become clear that
the
Economic and Social Council embodied the poor countries’
hopes for
its
administrative machinery is still cumbersome and unsuited
to its task. It has gradually become paralysed by the
multiplication of its organs, without any real follow-up or
control, and its high operating cost. At last July’s session of
the Council in Geneva, emphasis was put on the need to
give it greater vigour by strengthening its competencies and
powers.
between
economic
If development is today recognized as a human right,
Madagascar believes that that it is largely thanks to the
United Nations, which has advanced the notion of
interdependence
development,
democracy and respect for human rights. Therefore, one of
the United Nations primary duties is to create and
strengthen the institutional structure needed to implement
the norms
the promotion of
connection, Madagascar will
development.
participate with attention and interest
in the General
Assembly’s debate on An Agenda for Development.
identified for
it has
that
In
interest
follow with
shall
the proposals
the
Similarly, we
implementation of
contained in the
Communiqué of the G-7 Summit held last June in Halifax,
proposals designed to promote sustainable development and
better share the fruits of growth. We welcome the G-7’s
express offer to cooperate in formulating a new approach
to international cooperation and in defining the contribution
expected of the United Nations system, which is seeking
through a series of world conferences — recently in
Beijing, previously in Rio, Copenhagen and Vienna, and
next year in Istanbul — to engage, beyond national borders,
in
poverty,
unemployment and social disintegration. Those conferences
are part of the attempts to renew and improve United
Nations methodologies and strategies in the sphere of
cooperation for development.
combined,
effective
against
action
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
by
coordinated
I cannot fail to refer to the beneficial activities in
Madagascar
the United Nations
Development Programme and carried out through the
United Nations system of operational activities and
especially by the United Nations Children’s Fund. Nor
must I forget the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization and the United Nations
Population Fund, whose mid-term review of the third
country programme with Madagascar was completed at
the end of August.
In the same context we welcome the Secretary-
General’s initiative on a steering committee to prepare
specific short-term and medium-term projects for the
development of Africa in such priority areas as food
security, the strengthening of institutions, the development
of
social
development.
desertification
private
sector,
and
the
The viability and survival of our planet depend,
beyond cooperation, on our ability to adapt to the new
realities and constraints we face. As we approach 1996,
declared by the General Assembly as the International
Year for the Eradication of Poverty, my delegation
wanted today briefly to outline some of the proposals my
country is presenting to contribute to making the dreams
of the founding fathers of the Charter come true, although
we know full well that our proposals are incomplete and
that even an improved and ideal United Nations would be
unable on its own to solve all the problems before it.
The building of a better world, to which we all
aspire, remains dependent on establishing international
relations based on the principle of cooperation and
solidarity and on respect for the principles and norms that
govern international relations.
In that connection, let me conclude by noting a great
step forward in international relations: on the occasion of
the fortieth anniversary of the Organization, speakers in
this Hall stressed the concept of the balance of forces in
general and of strategic nuclear parity in particular, while
today, 10 years later, we all recognize that security and
peace cannot exist without cooperation and solidarity, and
in the absence of all violence.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I call next on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs
Excellency
Mr. Abdulkarim Al-Eryani.
of Yemen, His
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Mr. Al-Eryani (Yemen) (interpretation from Arabic):
Permit me at the outset warmly to congratulate Mr. Diogo
Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at this session, which
coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of
the United Nations. His election to the presidency of this
important session reflects special appreciation for his
well-known diplomatic skills. It also reflects his country’s
role in and contribution to the international community and
to consolidating its security and stability in line with the
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
Nor can I fail today warmly to thank His Excellency
Mr. Amara Essy for his judicious management of the work
of the General Assembly during its last session, and for his
tireless role in restructuring the United Nations and
democratizing its practices.
Similarly, I should like to reaffirm my country’s
appreciation of the role played by the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and of his
indefatigable,
invaluable work for international peace and security. We
particularly commend the Secretary-General’s two reports,
the Agendas for Peace and for Development, which
constitute central pillars of the new international relations.
This session takes place half a century after the
founding of the United Nations. It therefore behoves us to
pause for reflection on how the Organization has developed
over the past five decades, for identifying positive and
negative developments over that period and for working
towards promoting the positive elements. We must steer the
Organization in new directions that would spare us the
negative elements which accompanied the progress of the
Organization in the past.
Proceeding from this, the Republic of Yemen supports
the efforts aimed at developing the Organization’s
machineries and principal organs in order for it to be able
to rise to the challenges of the twenty-first century. My
country, therefore, welcomes the introduction of structural
reforms, especially with regard to expanding Security
Council membership to reflect more accurately the new
realities and recent changes in international relations, while
observing the principles of equitable representation and
geographical distribution and ensuring transparency in the
Council’s work. My country is confident that these required
reforms, when introduced, will contribute to the emergence
of
be
characterized by right, justice and equality.
new international
relationships
that would
14
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
a
new,
There is no doubt that the international conferences
the World has witnessed since the end of the cold war on
social, environmental and women’s issues, have been
important steps taken by the United Nations towards
shaping
human
development as its goal, in order to develop a new way
of life, ensure the future of the human race, establish the
foundations of equitable and sustainable development and
work towards eliminating the spectres of poverty,
ignorance and disease, dangers which continue to threaten
hundreds of millions of the world’s inhabitants.
system with
integrated
In this context, my country wishes to express its
satisfaction with the work carried out by the Committee
on the Indian Ocean to make that region a zone of peace.
We call upon States members of the Security Council,
maritime users of the Indian Ocean and littoral countries
to participate in the work of the Committee in view of the
positive contribution it is making towards strengthening
peace, security, stability and cooperation in the region, in
the light of General Assembly resolutions 48/82 and
49/82.
There is no doubt that the world at the end of the
twentieth century is vastly different from what it was in
the past. Many fundamental
concepts of peace,
development and security are changing, side by side with
the developments that are taking place in international
relations. In the light of these changes, everyone is
becoming increasingly aware that human development
should become the focus of the activities of the United
Nations systems with a view to narrowing the gap
between North and South, and to promoting economic and
social integration on the basis of the common interests of
States.
If any achievement is to be made in this area, we
will need to rely upon international economic cooperation
in facing up to such international problems as mitigating
poverty and eradicating famine from developing countries,
In this
especially the least developed among them.
context, my country calls upon the
international
to implementing the
community to commit
Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries
for the 1990s,
in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 45/206 of 1990. My country also welcomes the
establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO),
and the conclusion of the 1994 GATT agreements, which
aim at enhancing integration, promoting equitable
cooperation in trade relations and reducing the intensity
of unfair competition between different societies.
itself
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
It
has
clear
become
attention.
The tragic situation of the people of Bosnia and
the international
Herzegovina has been the focus of
community’s
that
international efforts in that region have not succeeded due
to the absence of a genuine desire to put paid to the horrific
massacring of defenceless civilians in the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Bosnian Serbs, in open
defiance of the international will. Therefore, my country
considers it imperative that the Security Council should
hasten to lift the weapons embargo in order for the people
of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to exercise the right
of self-defence enshrined in Article 51 of the United
Nations Charter. It is not acceptable, in today’s world, that
we should stand as spectators under whose eyes a
tyrannical minority is allowed to impose by force its will
over the majority’s legitimate rights. While the Republic of
Yemen welcomes the peace efforts that are being deployed
with a view to putting an end to the suffering of the
Muslim people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it hopes for a
concerted international effort to find a just solution, which
would guarantee the freedom, sovereignty and territorial
integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
ensure the continued provision of humanitarian assistance.
The Middle East has witnessed developments which
could represent an historical turning-point in the lives of the
peoples of
the region, and could thereby reduce the
intensity of hotbeds of tension that threaten international
security and stability. Special mention should be made of
the positive gains made on the Palestinian-Israeli track,
which resulted in the signing in Washington last year of the
Agreement on the transitional period, and the recent Taba
Agreement on the expansion of Palestinian autonomy. My
country looks forward to the day when the Palestinian
people will enjoy their full rights and establish their State
on their own territory, with Holy Al-Quds as its capital.
Despite the tangible progress made on the Palestinian and
Jordanian tracks, we stress that just and lasting peace will
remain contingent upon complete Israeli withdrawal from
all the occupied Arab territories, particularly the Syrian
Golan and South Lebanon,
in accordance with United
Nations resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978),
and in line with the principle of land for peace, on the basis
of which the Madrid conference was held in October 1991.
The civil war in Somalia and the tensions in the Horn
of Africa which have exceeded the bounds of logic and
reason, have caused serious trouble to the neighbouring
countries, and will cause endless social problems. The
perpetuation of the situation of disruption, confusion and
infighting in Somalia is a source of grave concern to us all.
humanitarian
Given Yemen’s Arab,
regional
and
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
obligations, it has suffered and continues to suffer the
consequences of the war in Somalia. We have borne the
burden of receiving and accommodating tens of thousands
of refugees, but our ability to continue to do so will
depend on whether or not the concerted efforts of the
international community and the international and regional
organizations will put an end to the suffering of the
Somali people and stop the infighting between the
warring factions. A solution to this tragic situation must
be found and what has been destroyed by the war must be
rebuilt, in order for the Somali people to resume a normal
way of life.
Mr. Jaddoo (Mauritius), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
of
the
While my country affirms that Iraq should complete
relevant Security Council
implementation
resolutions, and cooperate fully with the International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to clear up the
problem of missing persons and prisoners, it reiterates
that Iraq’s unity, sovereignty and territorial
integrity
should not be infringed and that there should not be any
interference in its internal affairs under any pretext.
Yemen also repeats its call for the lifting of the economic
sanctions against Iraq, in order to mitigate the suffering
of the Iraqi people. This should be done without any
devious interpretations of the resolutions of international
legality and without the imposition of any new conditions
relating to the nature of the political system, as this is a
purely Iraqi matter that should be decided only the Iraqi
people themselves. The Republic of Yemen wishes to
express its satisfaction with the declaration made by Iraq
to the Security Council,
and made during the
Organization’s Envoy’s recent visits to Iraq, that Iraq is
prepared to cooperate with the international inspection
team.
The Republic of Yemen urges the international
community and the Security Council to push for an end
to the air blockade and other measures imposed against
Libya, in response to the resolutions and decisions of the
regional Organization in relation to the dispute, and in
response to the positive initiatives calling for dialogue and
negotiations.
The Republic of Yemen also renews its appeal to its
brethren in the Islamic Republic of Iran and the United
Arab Emirates to reach a peaceful settlement
to the
problem of the three islands — Greater Tunb, Lesser
Tunb and Abu Moussa — in accordance with the Charter
of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), the
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
principle of good-neighbourliness and the precepts and
principles of international law.
The continued acquisition by the world of weapons of
mass destruction, endangers international security and
stability and obstructs the search for solutions to the
problems of development. Disarmament and the channelling
of a portion of military expenditure to development must be
as
towards
consolidation of
international security and stability.
fundamental
steps
the
Peace and development are two concomitant essentials
for the life of man and should lie at the heart of United
Nations future activities at the threshold of the twenty-first
century.
In
this
country
commends
context, my
the
achievements of the Review and Extension Conference of
the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons in April 1995. However, the success of
the resolutions adopted by this Conference will depend on
the extent of commitment by all States to the contents of
those resolutions, the affirmation of the universal dimension
of the treaty and its full, not its limited implementation on
the regional level, particularly in the Middle East. That will
strengthen the legal force of the Treaty, and create the
appropriate climate for the functioning of the institutions
and mechanisms which will play a principal and important
role in the process of its implementation.
The Republic of Yemen, having achieved reunification
on 22 May 1990, and having firmly consolidated the
foundations of this unity through the triumph of our people
over the separatist conspiracy on 7 July 1994, is now
engaged in strengthening its democratic approach of
political pluralism, respect for human rights and freedom of
the press. Yemen is also engaged in effecting economic
reforms that would enable it to achieve the qualitative
transformations
required by Yemeni Society in the
economic life of the country, such as restructuring the
national economy. This will make Yemen a force for peace
and stability in the region, and enable it to contribute more
effectively to the maintenance of international security and
stability.
As Yemen is one of the least developed countries, and
in view of the damage done to its national economy by the
separatist attempt, we hope that the international community
will increase its support and assistance, in order to enable
us to rebuild our social and economic structures and rid
ourselves of the effects of the failed attempt.
16
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
In the context of our foreign policy approach of
dialogue and the settlement of problems by peaceful
means, my country has resolved its border question with
the fraternal Sultanate of Oman, and is in the process,
with the same degree of sincerity and seriousness, of
seeking a settlement
to the border problem with the
fraternal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, through the work of
joint committees, on the basis of the principles contained
in the Memorandum of Understanding signed in Holy
Mecca on 26 February 1995.
effectively participating with
The Republic of Yemen, as a member of the
international community, has always performed and will
continue to perform its humanitarian role in the
framework of the United Nations. It will spare no effort
international
in
community
of
international peace and security. Let us then make this
session a new point of departure, towards the renewal of
the concepts of inter-State relations, and towards making
our Organization a universal arbiter.
the maintenance
in working
the
for
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Eritrea,
His Excellency Mr. Petros Solomon.
first
Mr. Solomon (Eritrea): Allow me
to
congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election as the
President of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly.
My Government
the wealth of his
experience and abilities will prove vital at this crucial
crossroads as we search for new and innovative
mechanisms and structures to enhance the effectiveness of
our Organization to meet the challenges of the coming
century.
is convinced that
Allow me also to pay tribute to his predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for the ability and commitment
that he showed in presiding over the forty-ninth session
of the General Assembly.
We
further wish
profound
appreciation of
the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, and to commend him for his untiring
efforts to ensure the effectiveness of our Organization.
express
our
to
The multifaceted challenges
that our global
community will continue to face in the period ahead, and
the opportunities that exist — more than at any time in
the past — to promote equity and justice in a more
harmonious world will require a thorough review of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
paradigms, methods and institutions that have functioned
for the past 50 years. Indeed, different realities from those
now prevailing inspired the founding of the United Nations
in 1945 and shaped its operational mechanisms in the
subsequent decades. The situation now is very much
changed, if not altogether new.
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing, aimed at environmental
preservation, the reduction and elimination of poverty,
and the empowerment of women, cannot be realized
enhanced
without
these
institutions. The new drive towards their
increased
integration is therefore both appropriate and timely.
concerted efforts of
the
The membership of
the Organization itself has
undergone phenomenal change to increase almost fourfold.
Moreover, while the threat of a major
international
confrontation has receded with the end of the cold war, a
host of other problems, including an upsurge in inter-State
conflicts,
terrorism, growing poverty and
marginalization of vast segments of humanity in the
developing countries as well as within affluent societies, are
coming to the fore. It is apparent that these problems and
realities will require novel
theoretical and institutional
approaches.
international
None of these ideals can come to fruition without
the essential prerequisite of peace. Representing a nation
and people that have suffered the agonies of war and
conflict for almost the entire lifetime of this Organization,
my Government cannot underrate the efforts and priorities
that the United Nations must accord to the prevention and
resolution of conflicts. Past failures and inadequacies can
only reinforce the collective resolve of our global
community
and
destabilization and not to let down wronged parties.
aggression
of
to
check
forces
It is in this context that my Government welcomes the
debates that have been provoked by the recommendations
of the independent working committee and other interested
parties on the future of the United Nations. Let me further
underline that, as one of the new Member countries of the
United Nations, we are gratified to rejoin the world
community of States and impart our views on its future,
especially as we have had the added advantage of gauging
its operations from without for most of the past 50 years.
We share the view of many Member States on the
imperative of restructuring the decision-making bodies of
the United Nations — particularly the Security Council, in
a manner that ensures adequate representation of its diverse
components and interests. The process of restructuring
should not, moreover, consist of mere enlargement through
the inclusion of a number of potential candidates as
permanent members through some selection criteria of
financial and economic clout, population size and other
similar factors. As we all agree, the issue is more profound
and transcends a simple numbers game. We hold that
serious thought must be given to devising a suitable
arrangement that guarantees the proper representation of our
global community in its rich diversity and that is amenable
to periodic adjustments to accommodate inevitable changes
in a dynamic world.
In the same vein, we welcome the emerging consensus
over rationalizing the development agencies and institutions
of the United Nations by eliminating overlapping functions
and mandates, and integrating these institutions into more
powerful and authoritative bodies. The numerous platforms
unanimously adopted at the international Summits in Rio,
And yet we cannot hide our disappointment at the
indecision and wavering we see over sending clear signals
to defuse potential time-bombs and conflicts that are
brewing. The age-old folly of arming belligerent and
aggressor States in pursuit of narrow commercial and
other mundane
continues unabated. This
anomalous left-over of the cold-war years must surely be
rectified, as it is the first step that we must take in our
quest
for global peace and as we devise elaborate
mechanisms for conflict prevention, management and
resolution.
interests
If I have dwelt somewhat at length on what we
aspire to see in the invigorated Organization in the
decades to come, this is due to my sincere belief that the
tone we set here collectively will have far greater
influence in shaping the future of our planet than the
isolated measures and endeavours we undertake in our
individual countries.
Allow me now, to briefly touch on issues of direct
importance to my country and our subregion. After three
decades of agonizing war, my Government is today fully
engaged in healing the wounds of war, rehabilitating a
devastated country and institutionalizing the rule of law.
The constitution-drafting process, hinged on popular
participation in all
is progressing at a
satisfactory pace and according to the schedule envisaged.
its phases,
We are also doing our utmost to contribute, together
with our sisterly partners, to the creation of a climate
conducive to subregional cooperation and collective
security on our part of the continent, which has seen
much turmoil and commotion in the past. The precarious
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
situation in Somalia and the problems posed by the
destabilizing policies pursued by the National Islamic Front
(NIF) regime in the Sudan only indicate the enormity of the
tasks, which need persistent and concerted efforts by all
regional and international actors concerned.
28th plenary meeting
11 October 1995
the second phase of
The recent document signed in regard to the
implementation of
the peace
agreement between the Palestinian and Israeli parties can
only inspire confidence in all of us that this long-drawn-
out conflict is heading towards a satisfactory resolution at
long last. We trust that these measures will contribute
towards a comprehensive settlement of the conflict in the
Middle East.
In conclusion, I wish to restate our firm belief and
hopes that our Organization will find the insight and inner
strength to reinvigorate itself to meet the challenges of the
next century. I can only reiterate my Government’s firm
commitment to play its small and modest part to advance
the ideals that bind us together.
The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m.
18
