United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
31st plenary meeting
Monday, 16 October 1995, 10.30 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.45 a.m.
Agenda item 120 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/50/444/Add.4)
The President: In a letter contained in document
A/50/444/Add.4, the Secretary-General informs me that,
since the issuance of his communications dated 19 and
22 September and 2 and 4 October 1995, the Gambia has
made the necessary payment to reduce its arrears below the
amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes
note of this information?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 157
Cooperation between the United Nations and the Agency
for Cultural and Technical Cooperation
Draft resolution A/50/L.4
The President: I call on the representative of France
to introduce draft resolution A/50/L.4.
Mr. Dejammet (France) (interpretation from French):
I am honoured, as Chairman of the francophone Group at
the United Nations, to introduce draft resolution A/50/L.4.
The draft resolution, which is particularly dear to the
hearts of all the members of the francophone family,
relates to cooperation between the United Nations and the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation.
The Agency is the cornerstone of the institutional
edifice of the francophone movement. It is composed of
44 countries from the five continents, representing 400
million human beings, in Europe, sub-Saharan Africa,
Asia, the Pacific, the Americas, the Caribbean, the Indian
Ocean, the Maghreb and the Near East, that share, to
varying degrees, use of the French language.
But, above and beyond the use of the French
language,
the francophone peoples share a common
culture, marked by the diversity of their roots, but always
based on the principles of tolerance and respect for the
individual.
More than a regional organization or a community
of interests,
the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation, therefore, shares one basic feature with the
United Nations: affirmation of unity and common
membership, with respect for plurality. The Agency
represents, in effect, a group of countries that draw on
their will to act together with respect for others and their
attachment to the values of dialogue, complementarity and
solidarity. That was how the founding fathers of the
francophone movement — the eminent Heads of State,
Presidents Léopold Sédar Senghor of Senegal, Hamani
Diori of Niger and Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia — saw in
the 1970s the future of the francophone community. And
95-86322 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
is in this spirit
this community strives today,
it
alongside the United Nations and other organizations, to
make its contribution to world peace and development.
that
the Agency for Cultural
Allow me briefly to remind the Assembly of the
nature of
and Technical
Cooperation. A unique, intergovernmental institution for
francophone countries, it was founded in Niamey in 1970,
charged with laying the foundation for cooperation and
solidarity between all francophone countries. In addition to
being the major
francophone
cooperation, the Agency has also, since the Chaillot Summit
in 1991,
the
francophone movement’s institutions. Employing today
more than 2,500 people,
the Agency has a budget of
approximately $100 million. It has an office at United
Nations Headquarters in New York.
taken on the role of secretariat for all
in multilateral
actor
The Agency has many recent achievements to its
credit; I shall mention just a few. In the cultural area, the
Agency has provided outstanding support to the intellectual
output of countries of the South. Through the television
channel TV5 Afrique, the Agency has contributed to the
development of francophone television on a world scale.
Through its fund to support audiovisual productions by
countries of the South, the Agency significantly assists the
creative talents of that part of the world.
The Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation
has also had many successes in technical cooperation,
responding to the expectations of the countries of the South.
In particular, the Agency has developed a vast network of
service centres
technical and
professional information. Likewise, some 3,500 trainees
received support
from the Agency to follow training
courses in 1992-1993.
the circulation of
for
In recent years the Agency has developed its support
programmes for democratization; its participation is assured
in monitoring elections, establishing consciousness-raising
and training programmes in respect to human rights and
supporting parliamentary and judicial institutions. These
activities, particularly desired by many countries, now make
the Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation a
leading institution.
Strengthening cooperation between the United Nations
and the Agency is now seen by both sides to be a necessity.
This is above all true of the United Nations, which in
recent years has constantly affirmed its desire for
coordination with international actors outside the system
and its desire to strengthen its work of coordination. For
2
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
their part, the francophone States have voiced at their
highest forums, the Chaillot Summit in 1991 and the
Mauritius Summit in 1993, their desire to give a more
political dimension to their work and to boost their active
presence on the international scene.
The francophone community has thus decided to
involve itself in the family of nations and to participate in
all the major debates. First and foremost, the francophone
countries of the South and of the North need to establish
a relationship designed to institute consultations —
possibly negotiations — on the political and human
problems that arise around the world.
on Environment
in Rio de Janeiro in 1992;
Thus, active francophone consultations took place on
the occasion of recent major international conferences: the
and
United Nations Conference
Development,
the World
Conference on Human Rights, in Vienna in 1993; the
International Conference on Population and Development,
in Cairo in 1994;
for Social
Development, in Copenhagen that year; and the Fourth
World Conference on Women, which has just taken place
in Beijing. On all
the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation helped organize and
coordinate the participation of the French-speaking States.
the World Summit
these occasions,
With the same aim of strengthening the francophone
presence in international cooperation,
the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation opened liaison offices
in Geneva in 1991 and with the European Union in
Brussels in 1994. As I mentioned earlier, it has just
opened an office in New York as well, thus manifesting
its desire to forge closer ties with the United Nations and
to play a more active and concrete role as an Observer, a
status it has enjoyed since 1978.
Lastly, I wish to stress the clear complementarity of
the activities of the United Nations and those of the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation in the
promotion of economic, social and political development.
The rich and diverse programme of activities of the
Agency in the
communication,
education,
technical assistance and the promotion of
democracy parallel in every way the concerns of our
Organization.
fields of
culture,
In this context,
the Agency for Cultural and
Technical Cooperation has of course already been
working with
international
organizations. Hence, its close relations with the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
regional
several
and
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
have helped to lay the basis of a joint commission of these
two organizations. Similarly, joint programmes have been
developed with
the United Nations Development
Programme and the United Nations Children’s Fund.
hopes that were largely shared by sovereign States and
Governments linked by their use of the French language,
which greatly helped the Agency first to be recognized
internationally and then to grow.
We are convinced that the draft resolution now before
the General Assembly will pave the way for even more
fruitful cooperation between our two organizations, and we
therefore call on the Assembly to adopt it.
Mr. Boisson (Monaco) (interpretation from French):
The Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation was
founded 25 years ago in Niamey to promote multilateral
cooperation between countries that use French as a common
language. At
the beginning it had 21 States and
Governments as members; it now has 44, nearly one quarter
of the States Members of the United Nations, distributed
throughout the five continents.
The international cooperation which the Agency
engendered has lasted 25 years and the number of States
and Governments which it has brought together has more
than doubled in that time. This is proof that its founders,
three great Heads of State — President Léopold Sédar
Senghor of Senegal, President Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia
and President Hamani Diori of Niger — accurately foresaw
the need to affirm the ties of cooperation and solidarity
between countries that history or geography had once
linked, but
that history and the passage of time now
threatened to drive apart for ever.
for
With the end of colonialism and the restoration of
independence to many countries, a new historical dynamic,
based on the values of equality among peoples, justice and
equitable economic cooperation, sought to exert itself. The
magnitude and originality of the vision of these three great
African wise men — confirmed by a quarter of a century
of success and increasing vigour
the Agency —
probably lay in their understanding that culture could be a
source
of
rapprochement between peoples. This culture, in the larger,
anthropological sense, included not only artistic expression
and common languages and vernacular languages, but also
the ways of life, social organization and technology that
arise from the creativity, ability to adapt and intelligence
that men and women have had accumulated over time
across the five continents. Their vision was the founding
inspiration of the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation.
fruitfulness,
of mutual
enrichment
and
Moreover,
this initiative fell within a favourable
context of human dimension and a framework of values and
Twenty-five years
later, when the world and
societies have profoundly changed and broad political,
economic and social upheavals have shaken our era, these
exceptional qualities have allowed the Agency to maintain
the same desire for cooperation in a spirit of respect for
cultures and dialogue between civilizations.
Because their wealth and their complementarity
result from their differences, the States and Governments
that are members or associates of the Agency for Cultural
and Technical Cooperation naturally strive to bring them
into play in the regular exchange of their experiences. In
our opinion,
this complementarity and sharing lend
multilateral
original
francophone
dimension based on respect for its participants, equality
of its undertakings and balance in its political and
economic relations, which perfectly reflect the principles
proclaimed by the United Nations in the San Francisco
Charter and in the many texts, resolutions, declarations
and conventions adopted since 1945.
cooperation
an
The observer status in the General Assembly which
the Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation has
enjoyed since 1978 is confirmation — if confirmation is
needed — that the values of the United Nations are also
those of the francophone Agency. Its participation in
important international meetings organized by the United
Nations on significant social issues are also an expression
of
its mission. The Agency has participated in
international debates and exchanges of view, to which it
has brought its own way of thinking and the abilities of
its own member States and Governments.
The Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation
attended the Rio Earth Summit, United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, in 1992.
It prepared carefully for this, with the encouragement of
its own organs, particularly the summit of Heads of State
and Government held in Dakar in May 1989, and further
enriched by the work of its own experts, who carefully
monitored the preparatory work for
this important
conference.
The Government of the Principality of Monaco,
having a particular interest in the topics under discussion
at the world summit, was closely associated with it and is
results. The Ministerial
pleased
to welcome
its
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Conference on the Environment and Development, meeting
in Tunis in April 1993, furthermore adopted a five-year
programme intended to contribute to the implementation of
the decisions that emerged from the Rio de Janeiro
Conference, and of its Agenda 21.
The same concern and the same careful attention were
devoted to the preparations for the World Conference on
Human Rights organized by the United Nations in Vienna
in 1993. The Agency’s general delegation for legal and
judicial cooperation contributed to the preparation of that
important Conference, with the involvement of specialists
from Monaco. The Agency is now striving to provide for
follow-up activity on the part of its member States that
would strengthen and complement the initiatives taken by
the United Nations Centre for Human Rights.
In endeavouring to place the law at the service of
development
French-speaking
institution is determined to develop a spirit in which the
rule of law can be expressed on a daily basis.
democracy,
this
and
Along these lines,
it has for some years been
increasing the number of observer missions in countries
where the multiparty system is being developed at their
request, thus associating itself with the activities of the
United Nations in this area.
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
well as on the programme of action adopted by the
conference of Francophone Ministers of Education.
In a spirit of cooperation and partnership among its
members, scientific and technical information is also one
of the Agency’s priorities. In the view of my delegation,
such information can play a part in any action aimed at
human development.
In the areas of energy and agricultural development,
the role of the Agency is constantly growing and being
strengthened, primarily to the advantage of the least-
developed countries. Sustainable development and lasting
growth are crucial to the programmes in this field. We
particularly appreciate and approve of this approach.
As for cultural exchanges,
the Agency plays an
exemplary role. I would just mention by way of example
the Market of African Performing Arts (MASA), which
regularly brings together in Côte d’Ivoire the best artists
of four continents in an encounter that is increasingly
successful every year.
The World Amateur Theatre Festival, organized
every four years in Monaco, benefits from the assistance
of the Agency, which has always made a remarkably
high-quality contribution to the selection of African
theatre troupes invited to attend.
to
and
that
relate
economic
In many other fields, too, the Agency is lending its
support
to activities being carried out by our world
Organization
social
development. It often takes its inspiration from the major
conclusions of world conferences in which it has taken an
active part alongside States and Member Governments or
associate bodies, such as the International Conference on
Population and Development at Cairo, the World Summit
on Social Development at Copenhagen and the Fourth
World Conference on Women, which has just concluded in
Beijing.
in
the media,
Inter-personal communication is also one of the
Agency’s major concerns. The challenges that multilateral
cooperation faces as a result of technical advances and
changes
and
computerization, have been very seriously taken into
account in the French-speaking world. The mastery of
modern communication tools in the service of
the
Francophone community has always been encouraged by
my Government, which welcomes
recent
achievements in this field.
telecommunications
the
The Principality of Monaco is pleased to note that the
Agency has established cooperation with a number of
United Nations specialized agencies which, by virtue of
their fields of competence, have mandates that are close or
complementary in nature. This is the case with the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) in the area of education and training, for
example.
In this respect, its initiatives are based broadly on the
the United Nations Conference
recommendations of
organized by UNESCO in 1990 in Jomtien, Thailand, as
The support fund for the audiovisual productions of
the countries of the South, the exchange of radio and
television staff, the development of TV5 in Africa and
local radio are among the methods being developed to
meet these challenges, and which we are always happy to
encourage.
The promotion of live arts, theatre, dance, music and
public readings through the medium of reading and
cultural animation centres in rural areas, as well as
assistance in publishing and the granting of literary prizes,
are also activities devoted to this same end. The Agency
4
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
is doing very original and innovative work in this area,
which we are happy to highlight, and which we feel should
be encouraged by this Organization.
Finally the Agency, in one of its more important
responsibilities, has since the summit of Heads of State and
Government in Chaillot in 1991 provided the secretariat for
all
the bodies of the French-speaking movement. That
includes the summits themselves with their preparation and
follow-up, the annual ministerial conference, the general
conference and the governing body of the Agency itself, as
well as the standing council on Francophonie, which plays
a leading political and coordinating role in these matters.
The Agency is performing its new functions skilfully
and meticulously, thus strengthening its role as a major
institution for the execution of the decisions of the political
bodies of the French-speaking movement.
For all these reasons, and for many others that we will
refrain from mentioning here because of time constraints,
Monaco, which was represented at Niamey in 1970 when
the Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation was
founded, welcomes and appreciates the opportunity thus
granted to it today to encourage cooperation, which I would
describe as natural, between the Agency and the United
Nations.
The debate which the General Assembly is devoting
to this question and to the draft resolution which, I very
much hope, we will be able to adopt, and of which Monaco
is a sponsor, gives me grounds to hope that more and more
joint initiatives may be taken in the future in the areas of
competence common to the Agency and the United Nations.
The opening in New York of a permanent office for
the observer mission of the Agency to the United Nations
symbolizes this desire to strengthen cooperation between
the two multilateral institutions, while at the same time
offering encouragement
in that closer
geographical proximity should facilitate such cooperation.
the future,
for
Mr. Dorani (Djibouti) (interpretation from French):
I should like first to welcome the important initiative taken
by 44 States and Governments in the francophone world,
stretching from America to Asia by way of Europe and
Africa, of submitting to the General Assembly a draft
resolution entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation”.
The delegation of Djibouti endorses what the delegation of
France said on behalf of our Group. In that statement the
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
Ambassador of France was kind enough to explain the
background to the draft resolution.
it
religions
Keeping a sense of proportion and intending to
offend nobody, may I say that the Agency is a United
Nations in miniature, since a quarter of the countries
present here are represented in it. Apart from the United
is the only organization where all races,
Nations,
colours,
the world are
represented; in other words, every characteristic of the
world’s peoples is represented. Its mandate is to affirm
and develop among its members, and beyond, multilateral
cooperation on matters
ranging from education to
economic development, as well as ensuring a State of
law.
and cultures of
However, the Agency is not confined to these areas,
however important they may be. It has already begun to
develop a political dimension, using its own methods, by
contributing to the maintenance of international peace and
security. In addition, conflict prevention is essential, and
the French-speaking community — by which I mean the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation — has
already committed itself to this kind of role, and will do
so increasingly in the future.
Let me mention the tragedy of Rwanda as just one
example. It was a very serious blow to the heart of the
francophone community. Happily, a great country in our
large family — great above all because of its values —
had the wisdom to take positive action, saving hundreds
of thousands of lives. As a member of the Security
Council at the time, Djibouti welcomed that initiative and
the noble task that was undertaken. The African continent
as a whole will always be grateful to all the countries that
have taken humanitarian measures to help.
The francophone movement is now trying to define
the contribution that it should and can make to conflict
prevention. Our movement will not develop parallel
conflict-prevention measures, and it will not in any way
set itself up as a rival to any international or regional
organizations. On the contrary, we shall support their
efforts.
believes
that
Finally, Djibouti
the General
resolution will
Assembly’s adoption of
demonstrate that the international community respects the
ideals of
the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation. My country is keen to see such recognition
of the Agency.
this draft
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Mr. Reyn (Belgium) (interpretation from French):
Belgium is one of the sponsors of the draft resolution on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation. In introducing the draft
resolution, the Ambassador of France, as Chairman of the
francophone Group, highlighted the Agency’s important
contribution to our work here, and the Ambassadors of
Monaco and Djibouti have added to the information that he
gave.
Belgium welcomes the fact that the Agency now has
an office at the United Nations. We believe that reinforcing
this presence is the beginning of a new partnership,
strengthening the Agency’s participation as an observer, a
status that it has had for more than 17 years.
The draft
resolution is an effort
to strengthen
is not new, having already been
cooperation that
demonstrated. I am thinking especially about the Agency’s
active participation in recent major
conferences —
participation that my delegation in particular welcomed.
This cooperation can only strengthen,
through a new
partnership,
the dialogue and communication that our
organization aims to promote between countries which,
through a common language, have cultural elements in
common.
The francophone community is a reality which can
only benefit us, given the wealth and diversity of its
member States, as we seek solutions to the challenges
facing us in today’s world. The desire to help solve
political problems is expressed here. Belgium is glad that
this partnership between the Agency and the United
Nations, can be a catalyst to give substance to that desire.
We trust
the draft resolution will be adopted by
consensus.
that
Mr. Adechi (Benin) (interpretation from French):
Benin was very honoured to join the delegations of many
other francophone countries in taking the initiative of
submitting to the General Assembly this draft resolution on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation. The delegation of
Benin endorses the statement made by the representative of
France in his eloquent introduction of the draft resolution.
Like those representatives who have already spoken,
I pay tribute to the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation and testify to its tireless action in the cause of
development and peace. Indeed, the Agency, which is the
sole intergovernmental organization of the francophone
world, has been able, on the basis of a common language,
6
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
to establish a dynamic solidarity between countries of
Africa, America, Asia and Europe.
Reflecting many different cultures, the Agency is
increasingly recognized as an important meeting point for
the strengthening of cooperation and solidarity between
peoples. Here I pay it a well-deserved tribute for its
valuable participation in all
the major conferences
organized by the United Nations since 1990, as well as
for
to facilitate the participation of
representatives, Governments
and non-governmental
organizations of member States of the Agency.
initiatives
its
The Agency’s sphere of operation, which includes
such varied fields as education, communications, energy,
environment and agriculture, among others, is well in
keeping with the spirit of the relevant provisions of the
Charter envisaging resort to international institutions to
foster economic and social progress for all peoples. It was
precisely
this
complementary relationship between the Agency’s
activities and those of the United Nations that the Agency
has enjoyed observer status since 1978.
underscoring
purpose
of
for
the
Cooperation between the Agency and the United
Nations, then, is nothing new. None the less, the new
challenges facing the community of nations today call for
the establishment of broader consensuses, a concerted
effort and increased coordination of development policies
in a spirit of fair competition and with respect for
diversity.
The strengthening of cooperation between the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation and the
United Nations can only be a positive contribution. For
this reason, I strongly recommend this draft resolution to
the Assembly and am sure that it will choose to adopt it
by consensus.
Mr. Diabate (Côte d’Ivoire) (interpretation from
French): Côte d’Ivoire is a sponsor of the draft resolution
on cooperation between the United Nations and the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation (ACTC).
Allow me, on behalf of my delegation, to join earlier
speakers in stressing the importance of this subject, as
well as the keen interest my country takes in it.
It is fitting to recall that since its creation in 1970,
the Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation,
which at that time had 21 members and now has 44, has
pursued objectives similar to those set by the United
Nations. The Agency’s most important areas of activity
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
cover education and training, culture, communications,
agriculture, energy, environment, promotion and protection
of human rights and support
the democratization
process.
for
The concurrence between the purposes of the United
Nations and those of the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation is perfectly illustrated by the repeated mention
of these topics by a number of speakers in the general
debate of the last three weeks and the fact that they have
been studied extensively. This concurrence also indicates
the need for strengthened and increased cooperation
between the two organizations in order to bring their
common ideals to fruition.
Furthermore,
in recent years, within the ACTC a
number of activities have been developed that are worth
mentioning because of the genuine benefits derived from
them by the francophone countries involved. I am referring
in particular to assistance and logistical support provided by
the ACTC to the francophone countries of the South for
their participation in world summits organized under the
auspices of the United Nations, such as the World Summit
for Children, held in New York in 1990, the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio
in 1992, the World Conference on Human Rights, held in
Vienna in 1993, the International Conference on Population
and Development, held in Cairo in 1994, the World Summit
for Social Development, held in Copenhagen in 1994, and
the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing
in 1995. At such summits and conferences, the ACTC
organizes consultative meetings for francophone countries,
makes necessary arrangements for certain governmental
delegations
and
publishes
in French.
Furthermore, the ACTC provides francophone delegations
with a logistical-support secretariat. Thus, the significant
role played by the ACTC at the Beijing summit continues
to have an impact, not simply because it was so recent, but,
rather, because of the magnitude of its role and the extent
to which it was appreciated by those whom it served.
and non-governmental organizations
information
a
daily
bulletin
All these ACTC initiatives, the scope of which we are
now taking the measure, are intended to facilitate the
participation of some States in these summits. They are
francophone States, to be sure, but they are also Members
of this great family of the United Nations, and they are
States that without such logistical support would find it
difficult to participate effectively in such important world
summits. There can be no question that such initiatives are
in keeping with another ideal shared by the United Nations
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
and the ACTC: solidarity between Member States,
between nations and between peoples.
In conclusion, in order to enable the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation to continue and
further strengthen its cooperation with the United Nations,
the delegation of Côte d’Ivoire recommends that
the
General Assembly unanimously adopt the draft resolution
on cooperation between the United Nations and the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation.
(Tunisia)
Mr. Abdellah
(interpretation
from
French): The consideration of
the agenda item on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Agency
for Cultural and Technical Cooperation (ACTC) gives me
the opportunity to expound Tunisia’s viewpoint on the
potential role of regional and supraregional organizations,
such as the ACTC, in bringing peoples together and in
contributing to the renewal of multilateralism.
this
With specific regard to the Agency for Cultural and
Technical Cooperation (ACTC), I am pleased to recall
that
intergovernmental organization, based on
common ideals of dialogue, solidarity and cooperation, is
composed of 44 States and Governments whose peoples
share the French language as a cultural vehicle, a carrier
of civilization and a tool
for access and technical
advancement. Those are the hopes of the founding States,
including Tunisia, for achievement of the objectives of the
Agency, which was established in 1970 as a catalyst for
development and mutual enrichment.
is why, despite all
Over the past 25 years,
the Agency, despite its
youth, has carried out a wide variety of supraregional
activities, transcending ideological rifts at a time when the
cold war was raging. That
the
obstacles, the Agency has been so successful, with the
number of its member States and Governments rising
from 21 at the beginning to 44 today. Over the same
period,
the Agency has responded to changes both
internationally and within its member States by
diversifying its activities and increasing the number of its
operations and initiatives, thus meeting the hopes it has
aroused since its creation and revitalizing its patterns of
cooperation on a dynamic and reinvigorated basis.
Here I wish to touch on the main focuses of the
Agency’s work. Apart from education, training, culture
and communication, the ACTC has created specialized
training programmes in the areas of agriculture, food
production, environment and energy. In the latter sector
this intergovernmental organization has
in particular,
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
helped set up a support programme for energy capability
and transfer of
technology in the area of new and
renewable sources of energy.
Another area in which the Agency has played a
leading role is that of the environment; here the ACTC has
contributed to national environmental plans of action, to
natural-resources management, and to the management of
national parks and preserves.
The expansion and intensification of the Agency’s
activities have been designed to reflect its leadership’s
concern for efficiency and effectiveness, and aim to
formalize cooperation with other regional and international
organizations. Through that approach, the Agency has tried
to avoid dissipation of
from
complementarity among organizations dealing with similar
or related issues, and thus to create the synergy needed for
the success of development programmes for the South, and
for the prospects for partnership among the States members
of the Agency.
its efforts,
to benefit
In that spirit,
the ACTC has signed framework
agreements with the Organization of African Unity,
covering such areas as the legal sphere and human rights.
The ACTC has joined with the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization in creating a support programme
for small agro-industrial enterprises in least-developed
countries. Moreover,
the Agency has begun promising
cooperation with the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization and with the Islamic Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization. Those programmes
involve the production of
literacy material and the
cofinancing of training operations. And along with the
World Bank, the Agency has contributed to the financing
of programmes in the areas of energy and the environment.
Drawing on that experience, the Agency wishes now
to expand its cooperation to justify the hopes placed upon
it, by making its relationship with the United Nations an
official one. As a founding member of the ACTC and as an
active participant among countries that share the French
language, Tunisia supports the formalization of cooperation
between the Agency and the United Nations. The
cooperation we wish to see between the two organizations
is in keeping with the reforms the United Nations is
undertaking towards involving regional institutions more
closely in its activities. The involvement of such institutions
in development endeavours increases their responsibilities
and could also reduce the heavy administrative and
financial burden borne by the United Nations.
8
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
The ACTC, whose States members come from all
five continents, with their consequent wealth of culture
and civilization, and whose peoples belong to both the
North and the South, will certainly be able to make an
active contribution to the renewal of
international
cooperation.
Mr. Ould Ely (Mauritania) (interpretation from
French): As this is my first statement before the General
Assembly at this fiftieth session, let me begin, Sir, by
saying how pleased my delegation is to see you presiding
over our work. We know your experience and personal
qualities, and are certain that under your leadership our
work will yield positive results.
Formalization of the cooperation between the United
Nations and the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation (ACTC), which will be approved this
morning, could not be taking place at a more historic or
a more auspicious moment. The celebration in a few
days’ time of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations will mark the Organization’s coming of age, and
will also be an opportunity to lay the foundations for
forms of
from the
ideological confrontation of the past, and directed firmly
towards global challenges. These challenges include
economic
strengthening
democracy and respect for human rights, promoting
sustainable development while bearing in mind the need
to protect the environment, fighting the scourge of drug
abuse, and promoting equality for men and women.
cooperation free
development,
international
social
and
and
among
understanding
It is fortunate that in all these areas the work of the
United Nations has been supported by the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation, which has the same
objectives and defends the same ideals of peace and
cooperation
peoples.
Established on 20 March 1970 as a joint project of the
countries that use French as a common language,
to
establish the expression of a new solidarity and an
additional factor for rapproachment between peoples by
a permanent dialogue of different cultures, the Agency
has always carried out its activities with due respect for
the identities of each of its members, while participating
constructively in the world dialogue. From Rio to Beijing,
it has participated actively in the deliberations which led
to the adoption of various programmes of action, and it
encouraged participation by its members.
The Heads of State of the countries that use French
in the
as a common language, gathered together
francophone community, decided at their recent Summit
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
in Mauritius to establish a new partnership with all the
institutions that are members of the United Nations family,
thereby emphasizing the complementarity between the
United Nations and the francophone movement. In so
doing, they gave concrete expression to Chapters VIII and
IX of the United Nations Charter, which encourages close
cooperation between regional bodies and the United Nations
in order to create the conditions of stability and prosperity
needed to ensure peaceful and friendly relations between
countries and thus maintain peace and security.
In this regard, the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation plays a positive leading role within the
francophone community by guiding multilateral cooperation
between its members in areas of interest to the United
Nations, such as the place of law in the service of
development and democracy, education and training, and
technical cooperation in vital sectors, such as energy,
scientific information and the environment.
The Islamic Republic of Mauritania, which has always
based its policy on dialogue and friendly agreement, can
only be proud to be involved in an initiative which
encourages understanding between nations and peoples.
Both an Arab and an African country that has inherited
many different cultures, Mauritania feels at home in an
organization which, respecting cultural diversity, advocates
fruitful dialogue, to the benefit of all its members, for the
preservation of peace and stability. This is why we are
happy to sponsor the draft resolution, and trust that it will
be adopted by consensus.
Mr. Osseyi (Togo): My delegation is speaking on this
agenda item in order to draw attention to the interest that
the Government of Togo takes in the activities of the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation and the
importance we attach to it as the one intergovernmental
organization of the francophone world. I would also like to
highlight the capacity of the Agency, because of the nature
of its activities, to contribute to resolving the political and
economic problems of the world today through a structural
partnership with all the agencies that are members of the
United Nations family.
On 27 October 1994, in Bucharest, the Secretary-
General told the Romanian Parliament:
“The United Nations should ... be able to provide
Member States with technical assistance to help them
adapt their institutions, assist their citizens and train
their personnel.
to create
independent judiciaries, establish armies that respect
is vitally important
It
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
the rule of law, train police to be the guarantors of
people’s freedom, and to set up systems designed to
educate the population in the field of human rights.”
To carry out this mission of peace throughout the
world, and particularly in the developing countries, it is
clear that the United Nations system, however willing,
cannot alone measure up to what is at stake and meet the
challenges the Organization faces. The United Nations
alone cannot cope with the problems of all States, or
groups of States, and do the detailed elaboration of
programmes to promote the desired development. It is
essential to have the involvement of other structures,
which I would describe as taking up the baton from the
United Nations.
as
and
training,
culture
and
education
for Cultural
The Agency
Technical
Cooperation’s mandate is to maintain and develop
multilateral cooperation between its members in areas
such
and
communications, energy,
the environment, agriculture,
economic development, economic information and the
promotion of
and we believe
wholeheartedly that it is one of the agencies that can lend
support to the United Nations.
the
rule of
law,
government
representatives
For example, since the United Nations began its
series of conferences focusing on the essential aspects of
change and development at the global level, the Agency
has stood steadfastly at its side to help define the goals to
be sought. Beforehand, it prepared for the conferences by,
the francophone
inter alia, organizing meetings of
countries, either at
the fringes of
the preparatory
committee meetings or on an ad hoc basis to harmonize
positions, ensuring the participation in large numbers of
francophone
and
representatives of non-governmental organizations in the
conferences and non-governmental organizations’ forums.
Afterwards, the Agency contributed to the implementation
in the francophone world of the programmes of action
adopted by the conferences. For example, in the follow-up
to the Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, to
give just one example,
the Agency was involved in
providing education and training in human rights for
magistrates, others involved in the administration of
justice, educators and journalists. At the same time, it was
active in preparing, editing and distributing teaching
materials on human rights, while supporting the processes
of democratization and improving conditions for the
administration of justice.
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
For all these reasons, the Government of Togo, which
greatly appreciates the Agency’s support for development
efforts in Togo, joined other Governments in calling for the
inclusion on the agenda of the item entitled “Cooperation
between the United Nations and the Agency for Cultural
and Technical Cooperation” and co-sponsored the draft
resolution.
We did so because we are convinced that the United
Nations and the Agency share the same ideals and pursue
the same objectives of peace through human development,
and that strengthening their cooperation by having close and
regular relations can only speed up the attainment of these
objectives.
My delegation trusts that draft resolution A/50/L.4 will
be adopted by consensus.
Mr. Moubarak (Lebanon)
(interpretation from
French): My delegation is pleased to be one of the sponsors
of the draft resolution on the Agency for Cultural and
Technical Cooperation. Lebanon is one of the 37 member
States of the Agency, the intergovernmental organization of
the francophone movement, which is, above all, a meeting
point formed around an ideal. This year it celebrates its
twenty-fifth anniversary, at a time when it is experiencing
renewed vigour.
The multilateral cooperation that the Agency seeks to
develop among its members is broad-ranging, affecting
education, training, culture, communications, energy, the
environment and much more. We believe that support for
educational systems, the promotion of literacy, preservation
of our heritage, the development of the creative potential of
audiovisual products, support for national plans of action on
the environment, the management of national parks and
other protected areas and inter-parliamentary cooperation
are all matters that should be steadily developed and that
have an increasingly tangible and specific impact now that
the Agency is seeking to cooperate more fully and more
systematically with the United Nations system. As the
Agency is increasingly involved in the United Nations
system, its impact will be enhanced.
that
There is no question but
the francophone
movement plays an important role in the community of
nations, both on the political level and on the cultural level.
And, since 1990, we have seen the Agency playing a
growing role in world conferences and summits organized
by the United Nations. It
is therefore natural for the
Agency’s activities to be coordinated with those of the
United Nations system and for there to be increased
10
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
cooperation between the Agency, the United Nations and
the specialized agencies.
Lebanon is one of the Agency’s oldest and most
active members. It considers that the Agency performs a
function which is fully in accord with the spirit and the
letter of international life. Our delegation is therefore
anxious to see the unanimous adoption of the draft
resolution.
We should now be able to look forward to the
Agency’s playing an increasing role in harmony with
international programmes. Much is at stake. This means
a fresh start, rejuvenation. This interaction should succeed
in harmonizing our complementarity and our differences
to the benefit of the members of the Agency and of the
international community. This is why we are eager to see
this objective achieved. We would convey once again to
the Permanent Observer of the Agency our best wishes
and assure him of the full support of our delegation.
The President (interpretation from French): In
accordance with resolution 33/18 of 10 November 1978,
I now call on the Observer for the Agency for Cultural
and Technical Cooperation.
Mr. Bouabid (Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation) (interpretation from French): This is the
first time that, as Permanent Observer of the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation, I have spoken here
in the General Assembly. I am particularly pleased to do
so at an anniversary session of the General Assembly on
an item concerning cooperation between the United
Nations and the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation. I am also particularly pleased to be doing so
under your presidency, Sir. I extend to you my warmest
congratulations on your election to the presidency of this
particularly important session of the General Assembly.
Your personal qualities, your extensive knowledge of
international relations and your considerable political
experience give us all good reason to expect a successful
outcome to the work at this session under your guidance.
I would also like to pay tribute to your predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the Côte d’Ivoire, and a distinguished member
of
the francophone
movement. The manner in which he presided over the last
session was appreciated by everyone.
the Ministerial Conference of
Lastly, in this most memorable year in the life of the
United Nations, I would like to extend to the Secretary-
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, on
behalf of the Secretary-General of the Agency for Cultural
and Technical Cooperation, Mr. Jean-Louis Roy, and on my
own personal behalf, a message of congratulations, support
and commitment to him for his constant and tireless efforts
at the head of this Organization to promote the goals of
world peace, security and development. These are the same
goals of peace and development sought by the francophone
community, grouped together within our organization, the
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation. They are
the very foundation of the francophone ideal, as laid out by
the
francophone
movement in Niamey in 1970, when they established the
Agency.
intergovernmental
founders of
the
Since then, over 25 years,
this idea has brought
progress extending to five continents. It brings together a
community of more than 400 million persons, in Europe,
Africa, America and Asia, with one common goal:
to
provide a space for dialogue, cooperation and partnership
with total respect for diversity. Its unity is based on a
community of values and of language, devoted to the
promotion of peace,
solidarity and
democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms, which are universal and inalienable.
security,
justice,
issued at
These are the principles of the francophone movement,
as strongly reconfirmed in the statement
the
Summit of Heads of State and Government of countries that
use French as a common language, held in Mauritius in
October 1993. It was at that same Summit that our Heads
of State and Government, after studying the international
political and economic situation and recognizing the
importance of multilateralism in the new international
context, restated their desire to contribute actively to the
solution of the major political and economic problems of
today’s world and to begin a new partnership with all the
organizations that make up the United Nations family. At
the same time, they paid tribute to the historic role played
by the United Nations and reiterated their full support for
its Secretary-General, particularly in the implementation of
the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for Development.
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
mapped out for those fields. The francophone movement
also recalled that a common language can be a dynamic
vehicle for exchange and cooperation and a catalyst for
enriching world dialogue.
Among the duties assigned to the Agency by its
statutes is the responsibility of maintaining ties with
international organizations involved in the same areas of
activity and of ensuring the greatest possible level of
consistency and viability in initiatives that are undertaken.
In that context, the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation has been represented at the European Union
since 1994. Very recently, a permanent observer office of
the Agency was also opened at the United Nations. This
office, which I have the honour
is also
responsible for ensuring liaison with the World Bank and
the International Monetary Fund. These two new
arrangements strengthen our organization’s plans to
ensure permanent ties with international organizations, the
first phase of which was the establishment in Geneva in
1991 of representation at
the United Nations and its
specialized agencies in that city.
to direct,
These recent actions are simply an extension of the
Agency’s regular activities vis-à-vis the international
organizations. These activities have two goals. The first
is to offer our member countries responses that are more
relevant
to their development needs through external
technical and financial resources made available to them
jointly by the Agency and these organizations. The second
is to ensure, in close cooperation with the authorities of
the countries concerned, the coordination of activities
undertaken in a particular field by the Agency and other
organizations. This would rationalize the measures they
take and avoid duplication and concentrate existing
resources on specific targets.
In a world where the problems of development are
what they are, particularly in the countries of the South,
and where resources to address them are limited, logic
and realism require synergy, rationalization, collaboration
and solidarity.
They also defined a
strategy for multilateral
cooperation in the areas of development mentioned by
many earlier speakers: education and training, culture and
communications, energy, the environment, agriculture, the
economy, scientific information and the strengthening of the
State of law. They called on the Agency for Cultural and
Technical Cooperation to pursue
and intensify its
cooperation with international organizations, particularly the
United Nations, in the implementation of the programmes
Industrial Development Organization,
Specific measures of cooperation undertaken in this
spirit have been taken by the Agency with a number of
other international organizations, including the United
Nations
the
the United Nations
Organization of African Unity,
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
the
Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
the European Commission, the Indian Ocean Commission,
the African Development Bank and the World Bank. On
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the same model, we wish to develop our ties to the United
Nations.
The observer status which our Agency has enjoyed at
this Organization and the ever-increasing participation of
the francophone movement in world conferences organized
by the United Nations have, I believe, been at the heart of
the promising relationship between our two organizations,
particularly in recent years. I should like to cite certain
experiences that highlight
the
activities of the two organizations and, in some cases, the
synergy that has arisen.
the complementarity of
At the Rio Summit on environment and development,
the countries using French as a common language
participated as a group on the basis of a consensus reached
at their conference of environment ministers organized by
the Agency in Tunis from 19 to 23 April 1991.
During the preparations for the Summit, in order to
facilitate negotiations at the international level on two of
the most important items on the agenda, the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation carried out two studies
on financial resources and mechanisms and on transfers of
technology for environment and sustainable development.
These two studies were submitted to the fourth session of
the Preparatory Committee of
the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development as the
francophone contribution to the work of the Rio Summit.
As for the follow-up to that Summit, the Agency made
available to its member States — and in particular the
countries of the South — small groups of governmental
experts to strengthen their participation in the work on the
Conventions on climate change, biodiversity and the
struggle against decertification and drought.
The second example I wish to cite concerns the
preparations for, proceedings of and follow-up to the
Vienna World Conference on Human Rights. As part of the
preparations for the Conference, the Agency organized, in
Libreville in May 1993, a meeting of experts of its member
States, which produced an agreed francophone document
that was
the francophone
community’s contribution to the search for a world
consensus on the Conference’s final document.
submitted to Vienna as
In a statement he made in Brussels on 24 March 1994,
Francophone Day, the Secretary-General of the Conference,
Mr. Ibrahima Fall, said:
12
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
“Through their active participation in the work
of the Preparatory Committee of the Conference in
April 1993 in Geneva; through a special meeting of
French-speaking human rights experts in Libreville
in May 1993; and through the coordination of
collective
francophone
community during the Conference itself, with the
assistance of the Agency for Cultural and Technical
Cooperation, the representatives of the francophone
States made a significant contribution to the political
and diplomatic success of Vienna and to the quality
of the final document adopted by the Conference.”
participation
the
by
for
and
the United Nations
As follow-up to the Conference, joint meetings with
the United Nations Centre for Human Rights allowed us
to identify areas for cooperation between the Agency,
through its general delegation for juridical and judiciary
cooperation,
the
implementation in the francophone world of the plan of
action adopted at the international level. Among relevant
areas, I would mention the joint organization of training
seminars for the preparation of national reports to be
submitted by countries pursuant to international human
rights conventions to which they are party; human rights
training and education for magistrates,
justice system
administrators, educators and journalists; the establishment
of regional centres for human rights training; and the
conception, publication and distribution of teaching aids
for human rights.
I could also speak about the preparations for and
proceedings of the recent World Conference in Beijing,
where the francophone community had a stronger
presence than at any other world conference. This was
mentioned by the representative of Côte d’Ivoire. Three
follow-up activities are already planned jointly with the
United Nations, including a seminar to be held in Bangui,
Central African Republic,
in a few weeks — in
November — on the drafting of national reports pursuant
to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women. But I prefer to emphasize
other types of cooperation that have been undertaken with
the United Nations in the framework of our programme
entitled "Law in the service of development and
democracy", which should be one of the major axes of
future cooperation between the two organizations.
In the area of election monitoring, the Agency for
Cultural and Technical Cooperation, acting pursuant to a
decision by the standing committee of
the French-
speaking movement, has since 1993 sent about 25 election
observation missions to countries members of the French-
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
speaking movement that had so requested. With only a few
exceptions,
those missions are always preceded by an
exploratory mission to analyse the socio-political context
and environment of the election, as well as any measures or
arrangements, whether structural or technical and legal, that
might be taken or which are already under way to prepare
and organize the election, and then to collect all the texts
and documents relating to it.
This is a very important area, where our
two
Organizations should strengthen their cooperation further
and act in close collaboration, both during the preparatory
phase leading up to the election and during the actual
holding of the election, in accordance with the model of the
legislative elections in Benin in March 1995, where true
coordination was achieved.
In Rwanda, in response to a request by the Rwandese
authorities to a number of international organizations,
including the Agency for Cultural
and Technical
Cooperation calling for action to support the establishment
of a state of law and to aid national reconciliation, a joint
mission of the Agency, the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Centre for
Human
to
22 November 1994 on the basis of agreed terms of
reference. The report of that mission served as the basis for
the plan of action proposed to the round table of creditors
of Rwanda
and
19 January 1995.
Rights was
at Geneva
from 16
organized
organized
on
18
The French-speaking movement, in coordination with
UNDP and the Centre for Human Rights, provided support
for the arrangements by sending magistrates and human
rights observers, as well as by supporting the work of the
Special Rapporteur, in implementation of the plan of action.
These are just a few examples of the kind of pooling
of resources that can result in benefits for Member States
and promote the effectiveness of activities undertaken by
31st plenary meeting
16 October 1995
the various actors in multilateral cooperation. It is our
hope that these examples will be strengthened, multiplied
and broadened to all the activities and areas of common
interest between the United Nations and our Agency. This
was the desire of our Heads of State and Government, as
has been confirmed by the many delegations that have
asked to speak on this agenda item at the current session,
and which have also become sponsors of the relevant
draft resolution.
I should like to extend to those delegations, as well
as to all the member States of the French-speaking group,
the appreciation and thanks of the Secretary-General of
the Agency and on my own behalf for the statements they
have made this morning in favour of the actions and
operations of the Agency, and for the active support they
have thus shown for strengthening the cooperation
between the United Nations and the Agency for Cultural
and Technical Cooperation, thus injecting fresh vigour
into multilateral
international
cooperation. It is our hope that the Secretary-General, in
the report he is to submit to the General Assembly at its
fifty-second session in accordance with the draft
resolution now under consideration, will be able to note
significant progress in this area.
francophone
and
The President (interpretation from French): We
have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/50/L.4.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/50/L.4?
Draft resolution A/50/L.4 was adopted (resolution
50/3).
The President (interpretation from French): May I
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its
consideration of agenda item 157?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m.
13
