United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
50th plenary meeting
Monday, 6 November 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.50
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
TRIBUTE
TO THE MEMORY OF HIS
EXCELLENCY MR. YITZHAK RABIN, LATE PRIME
MINISTER OF THE STATE OF ISRAEL
The President: Before we take up the item on our
agenda for this morning, the General Assembly will pay
tribute to the memory of the late Prime Minister of the
State of Israel, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin.
As the leader of his country, Mr. Rabin,
in his
wisdom, chose to lead his people down the path towards
lasting peace in the Middle East, and for this he has made
the ultimate sacrifice.
It was only two weeks ago that the reaffirmation of
Mr. Rabin’s dedication to the course of peace resonated in
this very Hall. Today, as he is being buried, I have the very
sad duty to extend, on behalf of the General Assembly, our
deepest sympathy to the Government and people of Israel
and to the bereaved family in their tragic loss.
It is our fervent hope that Mr. Rabin’s life will not
have been sacrificed in vain and that
the international
community and peoples of the world will be inspired by
that life to abandon war and violence and to embrace peace.
I invite representatives to stand and observe a minute
of silence in tribute to the memory of the late Prime
Minister of the State of Israel.
The members of the General Assembly observed a
minute of silence.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Brunei Darussalam, who will speak on behalf of the
Asian States.
Mr. Abdul Momin (Brunei Darussalam): On behalf
of the Asian Group, I have the honour to express our
most profound sympathy and condolences to the family of
the late Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and to the people
of Israel.
Israel has lost an outstanding leader and a man of
peace. It is sad to witness once again a man and a leader
of such courage becoming a victim of the violence that
we have seen for far too long in the Middle East.
I am sure that I am expressing the feelings of
members of the Asian Group when I say that the sacrifice
of the late Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin will not have
been in vain. His untimely death should be a reminder to
all concerned of the urgency to achieve comprehensive
and lasting peace in that troubled region.
The President: I now call on the representative of
South Africa, who will speak on behalf of the African
States.
Mr. Jele (South Africa): The member States of the
African Group have learned with deep shock and sadness
of the assassination of Mr. Yitzhak Rabin, Prime Minister
95-86522 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
of Israel, over the past weekend. This criminal act, which
should be condemned in the strongest terms, must surely
have been committed by someone who has no interest in
the general welfare of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples.
The death of Prime Minister Rabin is a great loss to
the people of Israel and could threaten the peace process
now under way in the Middle East. The African Group
urges all the parties to the Middle East peace process not to
be deterred by this tragic incident, but to draw strength
from the firm belief that the legacy of Prime Minister
Rabin’s leadership would best be honoured by following the
course set by him.
The States members of the African Group convey their
condolences to the Rabin family and to the people and
Government of Israel.
May his soul rest in peace.
The President: I call on the representative of Albania,
who will speak on behalf of the Group of Eastern European
States.
Mr. Kulla (Albania): On behalf of the members of the
Group of Eastern European States, I want to express deep
sorrow at the perfidious assassination of the Prime Minister
of Israel, the late Yitzhak Rabin. At the same time, I wish
to express our most sincere condolences to his family and
to the Israeli people and Government, as well as to all the
peace-loving people of
the region, who saw in the
personality of the late Prime Minister a decisive and crucial
promoter of the peace process of paramount importance to
the Middle East and the whole world.
The unexpected and outrageous loss of Prime Minister
Rabin, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, constitutes a new
noble sacrifice — the high price that the civilized world is
paying to ensure that tolerance, good understanding and
coexistence prevail over hatred, disagreement and exclusion.
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
that the peace process in the Middle East will continue
unharmed. Contrary to the aims of those who killed him,
Prime Minister Rabin, through his sacrifice, will bring
new impetus to the contribution and awareness of people
who work in the region to achieve the much-desired
peace.
The President: I call on the representative of
Bolivia, who will speak on behalf of the Latin American
and Caribbean States.
Mr. Camacho Omiste (Bolivia) (interpretation from
Spanish): I should like, on behalf of the delegations of the
Latin American and Caribbean States, to express profound
sorrow at the tragic death of the Prime Minister of Israel,
Yitzhak Rabin.
to
the
cause
of world
The assassination of this distinguished statesman has
deprived the international community of a leader
committed
peace. The
circumstances of his death reveal intolerance and the
persistence of tendencies opposed to the building of a
society founded on the
solidarity and
understanding. The crime has shocked the whole world
because Yitzhak Rabin incarnated the search for ways of
rapprochement and reconciliation, with a view to securing
imaginative and definitive solutions in the Middle East.
ideals of
Therefore, the indignation and pain caused by the
passing of Prime Minister Rabin commit the political will
of the world to the process of transformation that he
initiated, in order to bring about a lasting peace in the
region and in the world at large.
The Latin American and Caribbean States extend
their condolences to the family of Yitzhak Rabin and to
Israel’s Government and people and its Permanent
Mission to the United Nations. May God give rest to the
soul of this illustrious statesman and inspire political
leaders to promote understanding among human beings.
The strike against Prime Minister Rabin is at the same
time an attack against the will of the large gathering which,
only a few minutes before the criminal act occurred, was
expressing clearly the support and hope that millions of
Jews and Arabs and millions of others around the world
saw in him and in other pioneers of peace in that part of
the world, where war has taken so many lives over several
generations.
The President: I call on the representative of
Norway, who will speak on behalf of the Group of
Western European and Other States.
Mr. Lian (Norway): Members of the Group of
Western European and Other States were deeply shocked
and profoundly saddened by the news of the assassination
of the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin.
However bitter this loss is, and however hard for the
long path of peace, we express again our unshaken belief
We all condemn this despicable act of violence.
Israel and the world have lost a great statesman and a
2
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
visionary leader. Prime Minister Rabin showed great
personal courage and determination in his search for a just
and lasting peace in the Middle East. He was a main
architect of the peace process, which he again praised and
promoted on the last day of his life, just minutes before he
was killed.
We all remember that, only a year ago, Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin received the Nobel Peace Prize for his
considerable efforts and for the considerable courage that
he showed in taking the peace process forward. He was
awarded the Prize because he brought hope and promise to
all people who have been working, openly or quietly, for
peaceful evolution in the Middle East.
And now, on the day of the burial of Prime Minister
Rabin, we all feel the necessity of continuing his work
towards peace. That
is our
responsibility.
is his legacy, and that
On this day our thoughts and sympathy go to his wife,
Leah, to his family, to the people of Israel and to all those
who had faith in Yitzhak Rabin’s abilities to create peace.
The President: I call on the representative of the
United States of America as the host country.
Mr. Gnehm (United States of America): A deep
sadness fills our souls — a blanket that stifles our smiles,
a sadness that forces us to face very starkly the troubled
world in which we live and die.
The tragic news of the assassination of the Israeli
Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, has deeply shocked and
saddened my nation. As Secretary of State Christopher said
on Saturday:
“History will record Prime Minister Rabin as one of
the towering figures of this century. He dedicated his
life to Israel, its security and the cause of peace.
Heroic in war and in the service of his country, he
pursued
and
determination.”
peace with
courage
the
same
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
United Nations peace-keeping efforts. In each of our
countries, small and large, the memorials to fallen peace-
keepers grow longer each year.
The world indeed has lost a leader and a statesman,
and it is indeed fitting for this Assembly, dedicated to the
cause of peace, that we should mourn the loss of a man
of peace. Israel has lost one of its finest sons. The United
States has lost a strong and true friend. But, my friends,
if history has taught us anything, it affirms that out of
such tragic times comes a renewed determination to seize
our own destinies and drive forward toward the goals of
peace which Prime Minister Rabin and his partners for
peace had set for themselves and us.
We will not be daunted. We will not succumb to
grief. We will pledge ourselves to work with even more
determination and dedication for peace in the Middle East
and elsewhere in our world. With this pledge we pay
tribute to Prime Minister Rabin and his vision for peace,
remembering the words from The Beatitudes:
“Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be
called the children of God.” (The Holy Bible,
Matthew 5:9)
country
Mr. Peleg
(Israel): My
very much
appreciates the warm words and expressions of respect,
sympathy and support which were said here this morning
about Prime Minister Rabin and his commitment to peace,
by you, Sir, and by the representatives of the geographical
groups and the host country.
The day of 4 November 1995 is one that will live
forever in the memory of Israel, its neighbours, and the
international community. On that day, an assassin’s bullet
killed the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin.
The bullet was not meant for the man himself. The
bullet was an attempt
to stop the courageous march
towards peace for all peoples of the Middle East. In the
words of Yitzhak Rabin himself, in his last speech at the
peace rally in Tel Aviv:
Our hearts today go out to the people of Israel and to
Mrs. Rabin and her family at this most difficult time.
How many times have we gathered together in this
Hall to mourn those who have fallen in pursuit of peace in
our world? We recall our own Secretary-General, Dag
Hammarskjöld, so many decades ago, and we recall the
many soldiers who have sacrificed their lives in various
“I was a military man for 27 years. I fought so long
as there was no chance for peace. I believe that
there is now a chance for peace.”
The Government of Israel is fully committed to
continuing its efforts towards reaching a comprehensive
and lasting peace with all of its neighbours. It is our
obligation — we in the Middle East and the international
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
community — to make sure that Prime Minister Rabin’s
vision will not be lost. An assassin’s bullet will not halt our
efforts to achieve what Prime Minister Rabin had so boldly
set out to accomplish.
In Prime Minister Rabin’s speech to the General
Assembly on 24 October 1995, he said:
“The road is still
long. However, we are
determined to continue until we have brought peace to
the region, for our children and our children’s children
and for all the peoples of the region. This is our
mission. We will fulfil it.” (Official Records of the
General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings,
39th meeting, p. 26)
Let these words inspire us in our journey towards
peace.
Agenda item 40
Building a peaceful and better world through sport and
the Olympic Ideal
Draft resolution (A/50/L.15)
The President: I call on the representative of the
United States of America, Mr. Bart Conner, Sports
Delegate, to introduce draft resolution A/50/L.15.
Mr. Conner (United States of America): My name is
Bart Conner. I was a member of three United States
Olympic teams, earning two gold medals
in men’s
gymnastics at the 1984 Olympic Summer Games in Los
Angeles.
It is my extreme honour to represent my country at
today’s consideration of agenda item 40, “Building a
peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic
Ideal”.
On behalf of the 103 listed co-sponsors of the draft
resolution “The Olympic Ideal” before us today, the United
States delegation is honoured to note the presence of
several Ministers of Youth and Sport, the President of the
International Olympic Committee, Juan Antonio Samaranch,
key figures of
the Olympic Movement, distinguished
Member State colleagues, and other dignitaries. We are
grateful for their participation in today’s activities.
As all competitors know, records were meant to be
broken. This draft’s co-sponsorship may well surpass that
4
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
of last year’s resolution — which was the second-most
co-sponsored in General Assembly history — of 141. If
159 Member States co-sponsor the draft,
this fiftieth
session would set a record: truly an Olympic feat of the
first order.
It is important to acknowledge the following 21
co-sponsors who have joined since the printing of this
draft: Angola, Bangladesh, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
China, Costa Rica, France, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia,
Mauritius, Mozambique,
the
Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, South Africa,
Sweden, Togo and United Arab Emirates.
the Netherlands, Peru,
Given many crises clamouring for United Nations
attention, why have so many delegations shown such
interest in this symbolic sports issue? The answer is
inherent: sport is a powerful motivating and unifying
force all around the world. It is a force going far beyond
inspires us in our endeavours.
mere final scores. It
Through it we witness — in personal drive,
team
sacrifice, angst and accomplishment — a devotion to the
cause, to a goal, to an ideal, to the pursuit of excellence
as an end in itself — and not merely to the reward.
Member States understand this unifying power of
sport — the drive to persist towards a shared goal — and
they rely upon it in their many efforts to build a peaceful
and better world.
In the spirit of Olympic ethics and of fair play, the
religious,
living
powerlessness of discrimination — racial,
political,
demonstration of the world as one.
otherwise — is
or
a
glorious
it
is the cultivation of the mind,
What is the Olympic Ideal? Taken from its ancient
origin,
the moral
conscience, and the body; it is the equilibrium of values,
forces and faculties. It offers the capacity to assimilate
neighbouring civilizations and to be a decisive factor of
progress within them.
In the modern era, for the last 101 years the
guardian and promoter of the Olympic Ideal has been the
International Olympic Committee. It serves the cause of
peace by assisting the development of sport and culture,
culminating in the global festivals that are the Games of
the Olympiad. Its five interlocking rings, found to be the
world’s most universally recognized symbol, represent the
union of the five continents and the meeting of athletes
from all nations.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
In the words of United Nations Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
“The Olympic Ideal
is a hymn to tolerance and
understanding between people and cultures. It is an
invitation to competition, but competition with respect
for others. In its way, Olympism is a school for
democracy”.
Regarding our question on why this symbolic debate
draws so much interest, the Secretary-General concludes
that
“there is a natural
link between the ethic of the
Olympic Games and the fundamental principles of the
United Nations”.
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Oklahoma, or a 15-year-old girl half a world away, sport
teaches all youth that they can share the same level
playing field.
But let us get more specific. What are the real
benefits of sport? People who are involved in sports better
themselves and society. It is proven that people who play
sports are more likely to join a team than join a gang;
they are more likely to stay in school; they are more
likely to make responsible decisions in favour of clean
lives away from drugs and other dangers; and they are
more likely to go on to higher education. The figures are
solid and impressive. Sport can help us meet
the
human-centred development goals proposed by recent
United Nations global conferences.
In this spirit,
the draft resolution supports further
cooperation between the International Olympic Committee
and the United Nations system in joint preventive education
programmes, such as anti-doping activities, drug-abuse
prevention,
and enhancing
women’s participation in all aspects of the sport movement.
The draft encourages ministries of youth and sport to join
in this collaboration.
environmental protection,
What a pleasure it is today to be here and to see so
many Olympic friends, people who have gone beyond their
sporting successes to serve the goals of the Olympic Ideal,
people who have taken what they have learned through
sports and who are applying it
to make the world a
peaceful and better place.
a
or
personal
They might agree with me that in this world you can
achieve money and fame through luck, but luck will not
turn you into an athlete who excels, be it through a world
record
and
self-knowledge are precious things well worth the effort.
The pursuit of a goal with excellence in mind is the shared
bond among athletes, and it might be most evident in those
who are physically or mentally challenged — all of whom
we celebrate for what they can do, not judge for what they
cannot do.
best. Self-improvement
I have seen first-hand how sport fosters unity. But I
also realize that it would be simplistic and naive to think
that practicing sport is synonymous with working for peace.
As I am learning from my friends here today, both sport
and diplomacy seek to reinforce friendship between
peoples, and fair play means involving players with various
interests and abilities rather than merely demonstrating
it be a 9-year-old boy in Norman,
power. Whether
Also,
is
these facts and figures have sparked the
to expand into
International Olympic Committee
humanitarian activities for underprivileged youth around
the world. Their efforts towards a peaceful and better
world are happening on a daily basis: stress in refugee
camps
basketball
tournaments; war-torn sports facilities are rebuilt; and
coaching clinics teach rules and fair play. As we can see,
the Olympic flame is a small package, yet how brightly
it shines, how far its warmth extends.
organized
handled
through
The International Year of Sport and the Olympic
Ideal (1994), proclaimed at the forty-eighth session of the
United Nations General Assembly, called on the
International Olympic Committee to support the peace
initiatives undertaken by the United Nations and other
regional political organizations.
The Olympic Truce, first sworn in Greece in the
ninth century B.C., called for
the cessation of all
hostilities during the ancient games. Its observance in the
modern era took effect only recently as a result of the
forty-eighth and forty-ninth General Assemblies. Member
States have agreed with President Samaranch that
“The Olympic Truce must
serve to promote
dialogue, reconciliation and the search for durable
solutions so that peace may reign throughout the
world and human suffering cease”.
Today’s draft reaffirms the Olympic Truce and
schedules its reconsideration in advance of each Summer
and Winter Games. Therefore,
the United States
delegation here and now affirms the observance of the
Olympic Truce during the Games of the XXVI Olympiad,
the Centennial Games.
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
It has been my country’s honour to have hosted the
Olympic Games in St. Louis, Los Angeles, Lake Placid and
Squaw Valley. And now, the United States looks forward
to welcoming the world to Atlanta in 1996, the opening
ceremonies being only 256 days from today.
We invite further co-sponsorship and the consensus
adoption of the draft resolution before us today, “The
Olympic Ideal”, in document A/50/L.15.
Mr. Peerthum (Mauritius), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
The Acting President: Before calling on the next
speaker, I should like to propose that the list of speakers in
the debate on this item be closed at 11.15 a.m.
I hear no objection.
It was so decided.
The Acting President: I therefore request
those
representatives wishing to participate in the debate to
inscribe their names on the list as soon as possible.
I now call on His Excellency Mr. Francesco Fulci,
Permanent Representative of Italy to the United Nations.
assassination of
Mr. Fulci (Italy): Before making my statement, I
should like to join the President and the representatives of
our geographical groups in expressing the shock and
profound sorrow of my country, Italy, at the tragic news of
the
Israel,
His Excellency Yitzhak Rabin, and to renew the sincere and
deep condolences of the Italian Government and people to
the Government and people of Israel. Yitzhak Rabin has
become a martyr of peace, for his tragic death is a loss not
only for Israel but for all true lovers of peace the world
over.
the Prime Minister of
Our sincere hope is that the courageous march to
peace in the Middle East will not be stopped by a
murderer’s bullet.
The XXVI Olympic Games will mark the centennial
of the revival of the Olympic Ideal. They will provide a
symbolic opportunity to pause and reflect on the role of
sport in today’s world. The United Nations cannot fail to
recognize the continuing, increasing relevance of sporting
societies. Sport
activities
in our
such a global
phenomenon that
it can certainly contribute greatly to
its
building a more peaceful and a better world. At
is
6
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
(IOC)
by
as
1994
proclaiming
forty-eighth session, the General Assembly considered
this item for the first
time and commemorated the
centenary of the founding of the International Olympic
Committee
the
International Year of Sport and the Olympic Ideal. On
that occasion, the General Assembly, in response to the
appeal of the International Olympic Committee, urged
Member States to observe the Olympic Truce from the
seventh day before the opening to the seventh day after
the closing of the Olympic Games. This was done for the
first time on the occasion of the Olympic Games in
Lillehammer, Norway, from 12 to 27 February 1994.
In view of
This year’s draft resolution calls again upon Member
States to observe the Olympic Truce during the upcoming
Atlanta Games.
recent developments in
attempts to reach a political settlement in the former
Yugoslavia, this appeal is especially relevant. In Africa,
from Liberia to Angola, prospects for a lasting peace have
been revived. May the Olympic flame bring hope also to
countries such as Somalia, where the darkness of hatred
and violence still prevails.
Italy has always been a strong, convinced supporter
of the Olympic Games and of the International Olympic
Committee. Our Secretary of State for
the Prime
Minister’s Office responsible for sports in Italy,
the
Honourable Lamberto Cardi, had planned to attend this
meeting to further underline Italy’s commitment to the
Olympic Ideal and Olympic activities. Unfortunately, last
minute difficulties prevented him from being here. So he
asked me to convey Italy’s support to the Committee and,
in particular, to its President, the Marquis de Samaranch,
support which I am glad to express also by co-sponsoring
the draft resolution before the General Assembly, as
already announced already by the representative of the
United States.
The International Olympic Committee has forged
many cooperation agreements with a number of organs,
organizations, programmes and specialized agencies of the
United Nations. In this connection, let me recall the very
strong relationship between the Committee and the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP)
through a cooperation agreement signed last February.
This translates into reality the commitment of both the
IOC and UNDCP to expand drug abuse prevention
programmes by including sports services aimed at
deprived communities and youth at risk. As a first step in
this cooperation, an international conference sponsored by
both organizations was held earlier this year in Rome,
during which athletes of international renown were invited
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to campaign against drug abuse. The conference provided
an opportunity to review the status of knowledge and
experience on the use of sports as a means of reducing
illicit demand for drugs. This is but one example. There are
many ways in which sports and the Olympic Ideal can
contribute to the building of a peaceful and better world.
Practising a healthy lifestyle, of which sporting activities
are very much a part, is of fundamental importance in the
development of the physical, intellectual and emotional
potential of young people in order
to make them
responsible adults at ease in society.
Allow me to conclude by expressing the hope that
today’s celebration of the Olympic Ideal in the General
Assembly will not remain a single event. May it instead
mark a deeper involvement of the United Nations in this
field, a field so close to people’s minds and to people’s
hearts.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency
Mr. Edgar Camacho Omiste, Permanent Representative of
Bolivia to the United Nations.
Mr. Camacho Omiste (Bolivia) (interpretation from
Spanish): Allow me to convey to the President of the
Assembly a message of friendship from my country’s
National Secretary for Sport and a warm greeting from the
youth of Bolivia. I would also like to greet the Ministers of
youth and sport attending the General Assembly at this
session and the President of the International Olympic
Committee.
Building a peaceful and better world through sport and
the Olympic Ideal is a lofty goal that Bolivia is pleased to
share, since it reflects the international conviction that sport
is a particularly apt means to promote reconciliation and
unity among peoples, beyond all differences of politics,
religion, ethnicity, culture and standards of living between
nations.
We are all a single species of rational beings and, as
such, enjoy the same rights, dignity and value, wherever we
may live and whatever our language, job or economic
standing.
to achieve physical and spiritual
fulfilment, human beings need the recreation, hobbies and
entertainment provided by games, competitions and
self-expression through art and sports.
In order
Sport teaches us to value and properly preserve the
environment. It promotes understanding of and respect for
the diversity of peoples, cultures and countries and the
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
national characteristics of each. Wherever human beings
live, artistic and sporting activities flourish.
Today it is unacceptable to segregate or discriminate
against human beings on the basis of the colour of their
skin, where they live or the altitude above sea level at
which they conduct their activities. Sport must serve to
unite peoples and promote peace and equality between
nations and the harmonious development of humankind.
The role of sport in promoting peace is one of the
best legacies of ancient Greece. Indeed, there is no other
human activity which possesses the same moral force and
can do so much to promote universal health. Sport
transmits lofty ideals, joy in living and the desire for free
expression. It stimulates a feeling of healthy competition,
it improves health and constitutes a factor for moral and
social education. It therefore contributes to the building of
a world of peace.
Sport must be a primary activity for young people
and should be practised at all ages, even by those with
physical limitations. In a time marked by violence, hatred
and drugs, sport is a sign of hope and solidarity. It is a
true pleasure for Bolivia to join in sponsoring the draft
resolution before the Assembly; we call upon the
Assembly to support it.
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Vilnis
Baltin¸š, President of the Latvian Olympic Committee.
Mr. Baltin¸š (Latvia): Today, on the eve of the one
hundredth anniversary of the revived Olympic Games in
Greece, with the passing of the one hundredth anniversary
of the founding of the International Olympic Committee
(IOC) and as we mark the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, Latvia speaks for the first time in our
history on “Building a peaceful and better world through
sport and the Olympic Ideal”.
Latvia’s admission to the United Nations
in
September 1991 was followed by the International
Olympic Committee’s decision to renew our participation
in the international Olympic Movement. We are honoured
to be part of the family of nations and of the Olympic
family.
Latvia has been included in the category of countries
which are commonly referred to as new and small. Our
statehood is not new. Rather it has been re-established.
Our road to independence began with a non-violent
the world witnessed
revolution
during which
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
unprecedented solidarity of hearts and minds after 50 years
of illegal occupation. During those 50 years, Latvia had 18
Olympic champions and received 66 Olympic medals. The
world did not know those champions as representatives of
Latvia, but rather as part of the Soviet team. The pursuit of
our identity and self-determination through sports was an
important element
the promotion of our national
self-confidence and our country’s quest to re-establish its
independence.
for
The pain of improper recognition in past Olympics is
still with us today. I speak from my own experience as a
member of the Soviet national team for eight years. But our
experience — be it living under a totalitarian regime while
dreaming of freedom and independence, or forming a new
sense of public awareness in a free State — allows us to
testify to the importance of sport and the Olympic
Movement as an integral part of the life of a nation.
set
for
sports, as well as
Latvia extends its gratitude to those who laid the
foundation of the modern Olympic Movement. The ideals
the Movement has
the
organizational framework that has allowed the Movement
to retain its independence and popularity, are noteworthy.
We can be thankful for the wisdom of the leaders of the
International Olympic Committee for developing the
Movement to a level sufficient to catch the attention of the
United Nations. However, we should not forget the goal of
Baron Pierre de Coubertin, namely that the International
Olympic Committee should keep the spirit of amateur sport
alive and exclude outside influences that could undermine
the spirit of the Games.
Over the past 50 years, the International Olympic
Committee has supported Latvian athletes as members of
the global Olympic family in spite of the subjugation of
sporting institutions
to political goals and repeated
politically motivated boycotts of the Olympic Games. For
Latvia,
of
harmonious communication and development.
international means
became
sport
our
Sport
is one of the important ways in which the
including Latvia, had an
peoples of Eastern Europe,
opportunity to begin a new and peaceful life. For small
nations, international sports provide a forum where one’s
own identity and the vitality of one’s nation can be
appreciated by others. Therefore, faith in the future is born.
We know that there are more small nations than large
nations, and perhaps through the ideals of sports the
differences between large and small nations will become
insignificant. A nation will be as great as its will.
8
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Sports is a gauge of democracy in society, especially
in a transitional period. In sports, everything is open and
on display. It is a mirror by which society can look at
itself. Any discrimination, whether nationally or racially
motivated, is immediately visible. Latvia has learned the
international language of sports, the language of fair play,
and we truly feel ourselves members of the global sports
family living up to the Olympic Ideal.
Because of present difficult economic realities, we
must find a balance between top sports and sports for all.
During this transitional period, we sometimes feel inertia
in our thinking; then we regain our strength from the
Olympic Charter. The Olympic Charter, the bible of the
Olympic Movement, was only available in Latvia after the
re-establishment of our independence and the advent of
democracy.
In conclusion, let me express the hope that in this
hour of darkness when a soldier of peace has been
assassinated, we will achieve a position in the world
where sports as a force for peace will facilitate the
resolution of global problems.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call next on the representative of France, Mr. Guy Drut,
Minister for Youth and Sports.
the Prime Minister of
Mr. Drut (France) (interpretation from French): We
came to this Assembly today to celebrate the contribution
of sports and the Olympic spirit to the ideals of peace and
United Nations solidarity. The tragic death on the evening
of 4 November of
Israel,
Mr. Yitzhak Rabin — a major architect of peace in the
Middle East — has cast a pall of sadness over this day of
hope and brotherhood. In the face of this crime, this
injustice, our first duty is to bow our heads to the
memory of Yitzhak Rabin and to associate ourselves with
the bereavement of his family and of the Government and
people of Israel.
It is of course as a Minister but also as an Olympic
champion that I am honoured today to speak from this
rostrum and to participate in the celebration of the
Olympic Ideal. Indeed, France, the homeland of Pierre de
Coubertin, is more than ever dedicated to promoting and
defending the Olympic values inherited from ancient
Greece. Having been honoured to host the Congress of
the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in Paris in
1994, 100 years after the announcement of the revival of
the modern Games, my country learned a great deal from
the tremendous work done there. I should therefore like
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to share with the Assembly a few brief thoughts on the
promotion and preservation of these Olympic values.
First of all, France wholeheartedly welcomes the ever-
growing importance of sport and the Olympic spirit at the
United Nations. My presence here today confirms the
priority which we attach to an Ideal of which one of the
fundamental principles is:
“wherever possible to place sport at the service of the
harmonious development of humankind with a view to
establishing a peaceful society that strives to preserve
human dignity”.
The French Government fully adheres to this principle,
which it applies in its own sports policies. I should like
personally to thank the President of the International
Olympic Committee, Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch, for his
tireless efforts over more than 15 years to ensure that the
Olympic Ideal enjoys its proper place in international
relations.
Today, sport is a fundamental element in the lives of
our societies. Hence, Governments cannot and must not
ignore it. In France, our organization is 50 years old, dating
from a 1945 order of the Government of General de Gaulle.
Ever since, particularly through the creation of a Ministry
for Youth and Sports and in close cooperation with the
sport movement, we have constantly striven to develop a
policy aimed at deriving the greatest possible benefit from
the virtues of sport. Sport is an integral part of a citizen’s
education. It is above all a school for democracy because,
as Coubertin said:
“It combines teamwork and competition, those two
essential pillars of democratic societies, without which
they are liable to become so weak that they finally
collapse”.
for
Sport
is also a school
tolerance and social
integration, particularly for young people. On the subject of
integration,
I should like to emphasize the concerns
surrounding the place of women in overall sport policies.
France supports the activities undertaken by the IOC on this
matter at the recent meeting in Beijing — where an entire
paragraph of the Platform for Action was devoted to gender
equality in sport — and at the meeting of the Executive
Committee on 26 September 1995, where precise goals
were set in this regard for the years 2000 to 2005. At the
national level, we have included such requirements in the
model statutes of sports federations.
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
Moreover, sport is essential to health and in the
struggle against certain scourges, such as drugs. Finally,
as Jacques Chirac, then Mayor of Paris, pointed out at the
most recent IOC Congress, sport
“can serve the great causes of our times, such as the
protection of the environment”.
is thus not surprising that
It
the major sport-related
themes of States’ policies should also reflect the recent
strengthening of cooperation between the International
Olympic Committee and the United Nations. France is in
favour of this.
My country is also eager to preserve these values, to
which we are deeply devoted. I wish to cite three
examples of aberrations that threaten the Olympic Ideal.
First, there are the violence and the lack of respect
for the sporting spirit, which constitute attacks on the
spirit of tolerance at the very time — 1995 — when that
value is being celebrated by the United Nations. Through
new national legislation and in close cooperation with its
partners in the Council of Europe, with which it signed a
convention in 1985, France is doing everything possible
to combat this scourge, but, above all, to nip it in the bud
through very active education campaigns aimed at
sportsmen and the public. The next soccer World Cup, to
be held in our country in 1998, will be a valuable
opportunity to glorify the sporting spirit. We will, of
course, support any initiatives taken on this subject at the
international level.
there
is
the
and the
Secondly,
IOC, we
sports movement
anti-doping campaign,
supported in France by appropriate and particularly
rigorous national legislation. In close liaison with the
national
are
intensifying our cooperation within the Council of Europe
and also with certain highly motivated States. Hence, this
year France joined the “memorandum of understanding”
group, which includes five other countries: Australia,
Canada, New Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdom.
The essential purpose of this group is to improve the
effectiveness and credibility of the anti-doping campaign
through
the
harmonization and standardization of control procedures,
reciprocal spot checks on athletes of member countries,
and the establishment of protocols for
international
research aimed at achieving in the near future the ability
to detect major doping agents in the body, such as certain
hormones, that are undetectable today.
targeted
certain
priority
actions:
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
I stress the need to involve States in these matters,
which have an altogether logical connection to the sport
movement within their sphere of competence. How can I
conceal our concern at the apparent passivity of certain
important countries whose national Olympic committees, if
I am to believe well-informed observers, seem to be
encountering serious resistance to their anti-doping policies?
This problem should be addressed clearly and solemnly.
France hopes that, inspired by the convention signed within
the context of the Council of Europe, the other States
Members of the United Nations will reinforce their mutual
cooperation with the competent agencies of the United
Nations in the anti-doping campaign. Such voluntary
actions on the part of our States, in close partnership with
the Olympic Movement, would affirm our common desire
to solve the very serious problem of doping and thus of
drugs in general.
Thirdly, for a number of years now France has raised
in many forums the delicate question of the relationship
between the world of sports and money. In this regard, it
has attempted to spell out the role of States and of the sport
movement, to which it has of course dedicated a branch of
its civil service. This guarantees strict respect for a number
of ethical rules.
The French system, as I have said, is 50 years old and
based on the principle of unity. This unity allows for
coherence in a policy that takes account of the financial
aspect of contemporary sport but is designed to correct its
excesses and aberrations.
We are also devoted to the universality of the Olympic
spirit so that
the trend towards a certain overweening
expansion does not exclude the less-developed countries.
For that reason, we also welcome the IOC’s policy of
Olympic solidarity and are developing a national bilateral
and multilateral
the
Conference of Ministers of Youth and Sports of French-
speaking countries, of which 43 francophone countries,
mostly from the South, are current members. In our
opinion,
sport must become a genuine element of
development assistance. We are working to that end by
using our diplomatic services to fully integrate the sporting
dimension into our foreign relations.
cooperation
strategy
through
I should like to stress the degree to which sport and
diplomacy have common objectives: the aim of both is to
strengthen friendship between peoples and to promote
dialogue. France cannot but rejoice at seeing the Olympic
Games become once again truly universal. Despite our full
awareness of all the breaches of this universality — which
10
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
were, unfortunately, all too frequent in the past — we
believe in the contributions sport and politics have to
make to each other.
The International Olympic Committee has been the
stimulus for this through its activities with the United
Nations to promote observance of the Olympic Truce
during the 1994 Winter Games. France, which has been
playing a leading part in re-establishing peace in Bosnia,
hailed the initiative by President Samaranch at that time
to go to Sarajevo, where those same Winter Games had
been held 10 years earlier, and my country was proud to
contribute to the success of his mission.
We are in favour of the notion that, during the
centenary Games next summer in Atlanta, the Olympic
Truce should once again be observed. This ideal of peace
was perceived by Henry de Montherlant, who, although
he was one of France’s most pessimistic writers,
described the inaugural ceremony for the 1924 Olympics,
in Paris, in the following terms in his “Third Olympics”:
the flags rose, mingled their
“All
folds, each
covering another with the motion of a great caress.
I admit it: it sent a tingle up my spine. Could it
really be so impossible for us all to put up with each
other? In the final analysis, was this not a promise
to humankind?”
As I am optimistic by nature, I do not ask myself
this question. To me it seems altogether desirable that
every two years, before the Olympic Games, we should
be able, at the General Assembly, to look at the problems
that bring us all here. I am convinced that the Olympic
spirit, that torch lit by Pierre de Coubertin and whose
splendour grows with every passing year, will, together
with the United Nations, grant and fulfil the promise of
peace.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
of Spain, Mr. Rafael Cortes-Elvira,
representative
Secretary of State for Sports.
Mr. Cortes-Elvira (Spain)
(interpretation from
Spanish): My first words are to express the sorrow of the
Spanish people and to transmit our condolences to the
Israeli Government and people, and to the bereaved
family, on the tragic loss of Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin. Although his physical presence is no longer with
us and his voice will be heard no more in this Hall, his
legacy of peace remains. It is up to us all to see that the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
house of peace that he was in good measure responsible for
building does not come tumbling down.
the International Olympic Committee’s steps in this
direction.
I should like to begin my speech proper by thanking
the General Assembly, and the Secretary-General
in
particular, for including the debate on the contribution of
sport to building a peaceful and better world in the fiftieth
anniversary events. We have a number of reasons for our
gratitude.
The first
is the recognition by this greatest of
organizations of the values of sport, so paving the way for
international politics to make one of
its fundamental
contributions, rapprochement between peoples and cultures.
Secondly, it has provided a magnificent meeting-point for
those in charge of sport worldwide, enabling us to
harmonize our ideas and exchange opinions in the quest for
common objectives. Thirdly, we are grateful because, in
this forum of peace and concord where the paths of
dialogue and agreement must always be open, sport has had
the opportunity to render
a
magnificent service by mitigating intolerance, radicalism,
xenophobia, violence, racism and discrimination, which are
blots on our society that give rise to marginalization,
tyranny and war.
international
relations
It is a duty on us all to foster and assist all activities
that promote peace and concord, and to use sport as much
as possible in improving the way the world lives together
through rapprochement between peoples — a task that is
incumbent on the public
and also the
international organizations that work for sport.
authorities
Resolutions 48/11 and 49/29, adopted by the General
Assembly in 1993 and 1994, are solid proof of the shared
responsibility of States and the International Olympic
Committee as they move forward in the relationship
between general and sports politics on an international
scale.
Modern sport has conquered the world: this is the
most important mass social phenomenon of the end of the
twentieth century, and is a source of social relationships
that transcend national groupings. Sport is an instrument of
rapprochement between nations
to
rediscover happiness, understanding, communication and
friendship, all of which go right to the world’s heart.
enables us
that
task,
In this noble
International Olympic
Committee has not hesitated to bring its best efforts to bear
to mitigate the suffering that afflicts so many countries. It
is therefore quite right and proper for me to recall some of
the
The Committee has brought down the political
temperature that until recently affected the Olympic
Movement, a fact that is shown tellingly by the fact that
169 countries took part in the XXV Olympic Games,
which my country staged in Barcelona, and by the
increasing number that are to take part in the next, in
Atlanta.
The International Olympic Committee has made an
outstanding contribution to modern sport’s conquest of the
world, which has enabled us to strengthen international
cohesion.
For sport
to be able to realize its full value in
promoting international understanding, the principle of
fair play must be adhered to, and here the International
Olympic Committee has been an example to follow and
a bastion of hope.
The Olympic Games, whose centenary we are
approaching, are milestones in the lives of an increasing
number of people which enable us to come up with new
ideas on international issues, a necessary precursor for
true and genuine political relationships.
We should also point to the International Olympic
Committee’s laudable cooperation with various United
Nations bodies, whether in food aid programmes for
children in war-torn areas or in rebuilding sports facilities
destroyed by war.
to
promote
Committee,
the founding of
We cannot forget the work accomplished in 1994,
the International
the centenary of
Olympic
international
understanding between the world’s young people through
sport and culture, with a view to advancing humanity’s
harmonious development. Nor can we forget the effort to
fulfil General Assembly resolution 48/11, which claims
the Olympic Truce as a motor for mobilizing the world’s
young people in favour of peace.
the reasons that
These are some of
justify a
rapprochement between Governments and the national
olympic committees, and, moreover, that between the
United Nations and the International Olympic Committee,
with the objective of achieving democratic societies made
up of citizens who are active in their defence of close and
lasting human relations.
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
It is my honour to address the Assembly, and it is
cause for special satisfaction to me that it is a Spaniard,
Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch, who is presiding over the
destiny of the Olympic Movement and is the real motive
force behind the noble task being carried out by the
International Olympic Committee today.
I should not like to fail to mention my country’s
sensitivity to the pain and suffering of those who are seeing
their lives and hopes rent by bombs and intolerance. Our
fortunate geographical situation makes us a meeting-point
for the races. The mixing of cultures that forms our history
forces us to be generous and sensitive in such situations,
participating in the various United Nations mandates in
areas where there is war or social crisis, where our men
and women have not hesitated to contribute their generous
efforts, and even their lives, in the cause of peace. It is
therefore right and proper for me to remember them before
those gathered here.
Spain, which has the honour of holding the presidency
of the European Union this second semester of 1995, has
not hesitated to back all initiatives in favour of peace, and
has therefore joined in sponsoring the draft resolution the
Assembly is preparing to adopt today.
The Consejo Iberoamericano del Deporte (the Ibero-
American Sports Council), a body in which all the Ibero-
American countries cooperate, and which works jointly with
the Olympic committees in those same countries, is a good
example of shared responsibility between the public and
private sectors that will be further strengthened by the draft
resolution which, I hope and wish, it will be possible to
adopt by consensus.
of
among
peoples;
understanding
Spain and its Government have backed sport as an
instrument
our
programmes of cooperation with so many other countries
are evidence of this. Here I would like to mention His
Majesty The King of Spain, Juan Carlos I, and his family
as firm promoters of this policy of active support for sport
who recognize the positive values it conveys, especially to
young people. For this reason the nation I have the honour
of representing considers it of primary importance for
developed
sport
programmes, directed towards the most deprived areas and
focused on: the promotion of the construction of sports
facilities and the reconstruction of those damaged by war;
the training of
to enable sport
promotion, programmes to be planned and developed,
especially for youth; and the promotion of campaigns aimed
at youth and adolescents, which will give further impetus
technical personnel
collaborative
countries
to
create
12
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
to the practice of sport and prevent violent or criminal
behaviour.
It is up to us to extend the beneficial effects of
sports as widely as possible, particularly in areas
devastated by violence or marginalization.
is an
obligation which Spain will live up to, an obligation in
which the International Olympic Committee has a part to
play, and thus its voice should be given appropriate
importance in this forum which I have the honour to
address.
It
the
activities,
The draft
humanitarian
involves
in
resolution we are about
to adopt
International Olympic
increasingly
Committee
ultimately
contributing through sport and the Olympic Ideal, to the
creation of a better world in which peace prevails. Thus,
the Spanish delegation sponsored this draft resolution in
the hope that it will be adopted by consensus, and with
the conviction that it will allow progress in building a
world which, inspired by sport, plays to win.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of Poland, His Excellency Mr. Stefan
Paszczyk, Minister for Sports and Tourism.
(Poland)
Mr. Paszczyk
(interpretation
representatives or
from
Spanish): Sport is struggle and competition. In sport, there
is confrontation between individuals and nations, which
identify with their
competitors.
However, the world would be much happier if struggles
were limited to the playing fields. The objective of sport
is, however, always the same: to overcome individual
limitations and weaknesses,
in open
struggle, competing in accordance with the principles and
rules of a particular sport. Sport brings us closer to each
other. At the same time, it is an activity of the masses,
not only at the national level. The International Olympic
Committee is an organization in which practically all
States are represented; and its contribution to the building
of peaceful relations and friendship in the world should
be underlined in this forum.
to beat a rival
In ancient times the period of the Olympic Games
was a time of peace. Today sport is one the best and most
effective instruments for promoting mutual understanding
and bringing nations closer together. On more than one
occasion it has opened the way for the improvement of
relations between States and societies.
At the same time, in an increasingly standardized
world, sport brings out differences. Through it, patriotism
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and national pride are openly expressed in a positive way.
This is an important element
in the education of new
generations. It creates possibilities and opportunities for
youth,
for peaceful competition, mutual knowledge,
understanding and respect, regardless of race, belief or
country of origin.
The positive effect of sport on young people and its
educational and socializing values were stressed inter alia
in the discussion and manifesto adopted this May by the
European Ministers of Sport at their meeting in Lisbon, as
well as a few weeks ago at the European Conference on
Sport. At these meetings, and in the work of the Council of
Europe, the important role sport can and should play in the
struggle against all forms of discrimination and intolerance
has been repeatedly stressed. This is an important challenge
for all of us in the world of sport. This can be our
contribution to healing social and international relations,
and to building an assuredly better and more peaceful
world. Such an understanding of the function and role of
sport is not valid only on the international scene; it must be
appropriately reflected in actions undertaken at the national
level.
in Poland, we are fully convinced of
We perceive sport and its role in a very broad
perspective in Poland today. Continuing and sustaining the
positive traditions of physical education and our Olympic
Movement
the
important role of sport in the life and social policy of a
modern State. We also see the role of sport and education
in the universal Olympic Ideal as an important element in
the development of the country, which is in a specific phase
of political, social and economic change and is opening up
to the world and different communities. The watchword for
us is the well-being of the individual and society — “health
through activity”.
The building of a better and peaceful world begins
with shaping the stances, attitudes and behaviour of the
youngest. We are carrying out a mass sports programme for
all children, which complements physical education classes
in school. We hope that in the year 2000 some 60 per cent
of the school population will belong to the sports clubs for
schoolchildren organized by fathers and their children, so
that they will be healthier and develop better. The most
gifted at sport will find places in sports schools and clubs,
where they will continue their education based on the
Olympic formula “Citius, altius, fortius” and compete in
two national events — the School Youth Games for
children and the Youth Olympics for young people. In the
very names of these competitions we see the symbols and
the spirit of the ideals of the Olympic Movement. We
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
would like to instil in our youth the principles of fair
play, not only on the sports field but in all facets of lives.
We want to educate them through sport and for sport.
We are on the eve of the XXVI Olympic Games, to
be held in Atlanta. Polish sportsmen and sportswomen
will take part in this sports celebration of the end of the
twentieth century. We are convinced that by both their
conduct and their
results they will demonstrate the
rightness and effectiveness of the programmes being
conducted in Poland.
We would like the ideals and examples of sporting
conduct learned in youth to remain strong and respected
in adulthood. Hence, our determined action to promote
universality and free access to the various kinds of
participation in sport for all, with the family,
in the
locality, both in the city and in the countryside.
Taking into account the unsatisfactory state of health
in Polish society, we are still not satisfied with the extent
to which Poles participate in sports for all. On the other
hand, in the light of the increasing awareness of and the
changing attitudes to the question of health in society, we
hope that by the end of this century more than half of
Polish people will be taking part in some form of sport.
In our view, sport and education through sport
provide great opportunities for the handicapped. The joy
of movement, of health and of the social role of sports
must be made accessible to this sector of society too. We
have embarked on specific action, including the creation
of infrastructures and special facilities, the number of
which will be doubled within the next five years.
On the other hand, Poland attaches particular
importance to integration through participation in sport,
bringing the able-bodied and the disabled together. We
see in this endeavour both the educational and the social
values of sport. These wide-ranging activities will
culminate in competitions for the handicapped, leading to
participation in the Paralympics and the Special Olympics.
It is with satisfaction that I stress Poland’s traditions in
this movement and the results that have been achieved in
popularizing the Olympic ideals among the handicapped.
Sport has a valuable personal and social dimension.
In Poland, it is also a feature of State policy. Thus, the
Polish Government
is responsible for the creation of
conditions for its practice. This is reflected by, inter alia,
in increase in the public funds allocated for sports.
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
In view of the extensive role of sport in modern
society and of the need for specific initiatives in this regard,
we wish to emphasize another of its functions — its role in
counteracting growing and important
threats.
Although sport itself is not faultless — I refer, for example,
to the illicit use of anabolic drugs — it can play a positive
role in combating certain diseases and pathological
conditions in our civilization, such as drug addiction and
alcoholism.
social
Sport
factor
is also an important
in fostering
humanistic attitudes towards all religious intolerance and
social or racial discrimination. A man brought up in the
spirit of the Olympic Ideal can identify himself as a true
member of the world’s community striving for well-being
and peace.
This is just a brief account of the policies and actions
being undertaken in Poland. These have as their aim the
development, health, fitness and increasing openness of
society. They derive from State policy and responsibility in
this area but, at the same time, are increasingly the result
of the attitudes and activities of individuals and local
communities.
they constitute a social
programme in which everyone can find a place.
In this sense,
I am convinced that, in this area, people can unite, in
accordance with the Olympic Ideal, for the common good,
striving, through sport, to create a better and more peaceful
life. This is just one current of the change that is under way
in Poland, which is becoming increasingly universal and
popular and, therefore, ever more important in the building
of a modern State.
I am convinced that this process will thrive and will
come to embrace more and more participants, creating in
our country a situation that will contribute to fulfilment of
the formula for a healthy life through activity common to
all the citizens of a well-organized and peaceful world.
At the same time, I should like, as a man of sport, to
express my great satisfaction that the question of sports has
found a place in this forum. For 50 years the United
Nations has been promoting the maintenance of peace in
the world and, through organizations such as the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
and the United Nations Children’s Fund, has been reaching
the young generations. It is my hope that sport, with all its
possibilities, will strengthen this endeavour and make its
own contribution to the process.
14
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of Guinea, His Excellency Mr. Ibrahima
Diallo, member of the International Olympic Committee
and Vice-President of the World Federation of United
Nations Associations.
Mr. Diallo (Guinea) (interpretation from French):
This prestigious General Assembly Hall still echoes to the
celebration of our Organization’s fiftieth anniversary, with
the presence of Heads of State and Government of
Member States. Throughout 1995, young people’s,
women’s and workers’ organizations have joined their
Governments to celebrate this event and to express their
hope for peace, security and development.
Today, the Olympic Movement, which was very
much involved in this celebration through its sporting
organizations and Olympic academies, is once again being
faithful to cooperative endeavour in the service of peace
and understanding between peoples and nations.
I should like to take this happy opportunity to
welcome the presence here of the President of the
International Olympic Committee (IOC),
the Marquis
Juan Antonio Samaranch — who is accompanied by a
large delegation from the IOC — in response to the
invitation issued through resolution 42/29, adopted by the
General Assembly at its forty-ninth session.
The increasingly close relations between the United
Nations, its specialized agencies and the International
Olympic Committee may be surprising to some. However,
a reading of the Preamble to the Charter of the United
Nations and of the fundamental principles of the Olympic
Charter will
reveal striking similarity and concord
between the objectives of
two international
organizations. The Charter of the United Nations — I
refer to the second paragraph of the Preamble — says:
the
“We the peoples of the United Nations determined
...
to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the
dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal
rights of men and women and of nations large and
small, ...”
Likewise,
the Olympic Charter 2 proclaims the
following as its second fundamental principle:
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
“Olympism is a philosophy of life, exalting and
combining in a balanced whole the qualities of body,
will and mind. Blending sport with culture and
education, Olympism seeks to create a way of life
based on the joy found in effort, the educational value
of
universal
fundamental ethical principles.”
example,
respect
good
and
for
of
our
nations
that are still
It is therefore clearly established that, on the basis of
these common objectives, the United Nations and the IOC
have given priority, first, to serving the peoples, athletic
the essential
organizations and others
components
respective
Governments. This cooperation did not begin yesterday.
Indeed,
it was on 15 November 1920 that Baron
Pierre de Coubertin, the then President of the International
Olympic Committee, in a letter addressed to the Belgian
Paul Hymans, the President of the Assembly of the League
of Nations, welcomed the birth of the League. In his letter,
Pierre de Coubertin said:
their
and
“For 26 years now,
in the field of sporting
activity, our Committee, the IOC, has been introducing
and applying those very principles which serve as the
foundation of the League of Nations and which, from
Olympiad to Olympiad, have been achieving ever
closer
international
and
cooperation.”
ever more
effective
More than 70 years later,
the
International Olympic Committee (IOC), Mr. Juan Antonio
Samaranch, declared:
the President of
in the future, as in the past,
“In this International Year for Tolerance, it is our
conviction that
the
Olympic Movement will be able to demonstrate its
conciliatory strength and its humanism on behalf of
peace and international understanding.”
We can add to this what was said by Secretary-
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali:
“In the International Olympic Committee, the
United Nations has a very valuable ally in its activities
for peace and rapprochement among peoples.”
This
is what explains and justifies
the close
cooperation between the United Nations system and the
International Olympic Committee. It is therefore desirable
for our Organization to give a more important place to its
relations with the Olympic Movement, which guides and
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
mobilizes the most precious resource of our countries —
our young people.
Indeed, while this session was celebrating the tenth
anniversary of International Youth Year last week, the
presence of a number of Ministers and others responsible
for youth and sport clearly indicated the need to give our
close attention to the crucial problems of the future and
the destiny of our young people. In these efforts, the
Olympic Movement, through its sporting and educational
structures,
is an indispensable and very appropriate
partner. The sporting spectacle of the Olympic Games or
the World Cups, which are nowadays a blend of both
sport and culture, can leave no Government or people
indifferent.
The exemplary value of high-level sporting events
relayed to the entire world through the mass media is the
best training for citizenship, fair play, respect for the
human individual, and friendship among peoples. One has
only to have experienced the popular fervour and the joy
of an entire nation — irrespective of views and feelings
— when one of its athletes wins an Olympic medal or
when a national
from a
continental or world competition.
team emerges victorious
It is such phenomena that enable us to gauge the
impact of sport on the social and cultural life of a people
or a nation. The United Nations and its specialized
agencies can not overlook these realities. It is precisely
because the future of the world depends largely on what
becomes of our youth that the delegation of the Republic
of Guinea believes that it would be highly desirable for
the United Nations and the specialized agencies,
in
cooperation with the International Olympic Committee, to
consider the possibility of creating a special committee to
study the holding of a world conference on the problems
of youth.
Returning to item 40 of our agenda, my delegation
is pleased to support
the request voiced by many
co-sponsors that the General Assembly adopt the draft
resolution which we have before us now in document
A/50/L.15 by consensus.
The better to mark the General Assembly’s solidarity
with the youth of the world and the international Olympic
Movement, I respectfully invite all Member States that
have not yet become co-sponsors of
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
this resolution to be kind enough to do so with the
Secretariat so that we can set an unprecedented Olympic
record.
on the pretext of the most primitive and backward
ideologies based on perverted and totally obsolete
concepts and ideas of race or ethnicity.
The Acting President:
the
representative of Monaco, His Serene Highness Crown
Prince Albert of Monaco.
now call
on
I
Crown Prince Albert (Monaco) (interpretation from
French): First and foremost, I should like to address the
Government and people of Israel and to express to them the
profound emotion felt in the Principality of Monaco when
we learned of the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin. On behalf of His Serene Highness, the Sovereign
Prince, on my own behalf and on behalf of all Monaco’s
people,
sincere
condolences to the people of Israel and to the bereaved
family, and assure them of our deepest sympathy. The
courage of this great statesman, this man of peace, has won
the admiration of all. May his example and his sacrifice
serve the cause of peace, not only in the Middle East but
also throughout the world, by strengthening the solidarity of
the just against the forces of obscurantism, extremism and
barbarity, fed by hatred and contempt.
should like to convey our most
I
In resolution 49/29 adopted at its forty-ninth session
last December, the General Assembly decided to devote a
debate to the theme “Building a peaceful and better world
through sport and the Olympic Ideal” at its fiftieth session,
which also marks
this
Organization.
fiftieth anniversary of
the
This initiative is fully in harmony with the desire
expressed for almost two years now by the International
Olympic Committee and its President,
Juan Antonio
Samaranch, to strengthen cooperation between the United
Nations and the world Olympic Movement. As Chairman
of the delegation of the Principality of Monaco to the
General Assembly, and as a member of the International
Olympic Committee and former participant in the Olympic
Games, I felt it was natural for me to speak in this debate.
It
ideal:
is my feeling that
the United Nations and the
Olympic Movement share a single universal
to
promote peace and understanding among nations and among
peoples, with all their differences and their complementary
features, by contributing to bringing cultures closer together
and to promoting friendship among human beings in this
world so often battered and torn apart. Recent and
distressing events have proven once again that nations and
their constituent populations are capable of confronting each
other, in the context of unheard-of violence and brutality,
16
Many of these struggles are fratricidal. Hatred rises
suddenly to the surface and gains sway in communities
that are close to one another, between neighbours,
between friends, and even within certain families who
until
then had been living in peace and deep-rooted
symbiosis, respectful of each other’s differences, and
enriched by the multiple links created through space and
time.
The international Year for Tolerance, which the
United Nations has placed under
the auspices of
UNESCO, that is to say under the aegis of education,
science and culture, is concluding in the intolerable. The
community of nations, like the community of athletes and
sportsmen, is wondering what the sources of these evil
manifestations are and the reasons for their malignant
nature.
Undoubtedly,
to be
they are multifaceted and too
numerous
analysed and for
their possible
consequences to be forestalled. Efforts to ensure peace are
sometimes successful in this respect, but never without
great difficulty. The rapid and often far-reaching changes
in the underlying causes of violence, the paradoxical
evolution of some societies, and technical progress make
such efforts ever more complex and their conclusions ever
more uncertain.
the United Nations in the political field;
All means available to eradicate these scourges
should be combined to enhance the effectiveness of our
efforts:
the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) in the field of education, science
and culture; and the Olympic Movement
in sporting
circles and among young people.
Such cooperation between the United Nations and
the international Olympic Movement was already evident
with the proclamation of the International Year of Sport
and the Olympic Ideal and with the reaffirmation of the
ancient tradition of the Olympic Truce. It should therefore
continue through long-term initiatives and actions to
promote the Olympic Ideal and Olympic principles and
values, in order to give rise to a culture based on peace
and respect for fundamental human rights, in particular
the right to life, to dignity and to health. It should be
based on an increased determination to protect and to
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
preserve a healthy and balanced environment, and to
combat doping, drugs and, above all, violence in sport.
In this respect, the International Association for Non-
Violent Sport, which is headquartered in the Principality of
Monaco, has, from its very inception, pursued this objective
with determination. With the help of others, it has made
possible the achievement of essential progress. Our
vigilance
and
unflagging.
nevertheless
constant
remain
should
The Pierre de Coubertin international
fair-play
trophies — awarded annually under the auspices and with
the assistance of UNESCO by an international committee
of eminent personalities — deserve mention here. Indeed,
they make possible the discovery and spotlighting of men
and women whose sporting spirit and tokens of friendship
have stood out at both the individual and the collective
levels. In this connection, I would recall the unforgettable
picture of the two African athletes who, hand in hand,
completed a lap of honour in the women’s 10,000-meter at
the last Olympic Games. That symbolic gesture, which
deeply moved the entire world, must have been inspired by
that moral code which we, as political and Olympic
leaders, must make better known and better respected.
Athletes, with the help of their national authorities,
surely can play, on a permanent basis, a greater and more
decisive role in bringing people together and in enhancing
global understanding. I believe very sincerely that this is
true. Regular cooperation between the two institutions —
the United Nations and the Olympic Movement — should
continue and should be strengthened in future in order to
increase understanding among peoples and to promote
peace.
Over and above the preventive and largely educational
duty — which has become clear to all — of sport and of
the Olympic Movement to combat hatred, violence, racism
and the conflicts that derive therefrom, the International
Olympic Committee,
in
particular, the national committees surely could help also to
provide humanitarian assistance by cooperating closely with
the United Nations and the International Committee of the
Red Cross.
federations and,
international
Olympic athletes, and I should like in particular to
mention several who are here today, such as the triple
Olympic champion Johann Olaf Koss and gymnastics
champions Nadia Comaneci and Bart Conner — who spoke
earlier in this meeting — have already taken the initiative
of pointing the way in this area by joining together in the
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
American association “Spirit of Hope”, determined to
devote their dynamism to the service of humanitarian
causes and to lend their energy, over and above field of
sport, to the building of a better world.
I believe that in these troubled times, which are
marked by indiscriminate violence against children, the
Olympic Movement should increasingly act, and play a
greater role, on behalf of children.
if
for
instance,
George Bernanos warned us that “the world will be
judged by children”. In this spirit, I should like to propose
that with the help of the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF), a body whose effectiveness
is deeply
respected, operations be undertaken to increase medical
assistance to children during armed conflicts. It would be
remarkable,
the forthcoming Atlanta
Olympic Games could be used as an opportunity to
undertake, in areas of armed conflict, campaigns for the
medical care and the general vaccination of children. The
Olympic Truce would then take on its full value, and its
practical and concrete consequences would be of
incalculable benefit to the children of the world. I am
convinced that warring countries would suspend their
hostilities so that
these vaccination and medical-care
campaigns could be brought to all those children in areas
of conflict.
Unarmed force in the service of the law, of the
protection of the weak and of disinterested humanitarian
activities would undoubtedly be one of
the best
contributions the Olympic Movement could make to
respect for human dignity, to the protection of human
rights, and, ultimately, to peace.
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Enrique
Otero Navarro, President of the National Sports Council
of Peru.
Mr. Otero Navarro (Peru)
(interpretation from
Spanish): My name is Enrique Otero, and I am President
of the National Sports Council of Peru.
My country has a rich tradition dating from the era
of the Inca empire, an empire which occupied a large part
of South America and which maintained its unity for
many centuries thanks to a system of communication by
which news and mail were transmitted from person to
person by runners who covered specific distances. History
tells us that each of them ran a quarter of a league, a
measurement of that time which is equivalent to 5,572
metres. These athletes were called “chasquis”. At each
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
stage of the run, there was a shed, in which the “chasqui”
could rest and wait for the next relay. In this way, the Inca
empire was able to maintain a constant communications and
supply line.
planning, by promoting proper training for professionals,
providing the proper infrastructure, using the applied
sciences in sport and fostering and decentralizing sporting
activity.
We are told by the principal historian of the epoch,
Garcilazo de la Vega, that news from the most distant
points took just four days to arrive in Cuzco, the capital of
the empire, located in the Andes mountains at an altitude of
3,400 metres. Orders were transmitted in the same way. He
also tells how the Incas enjoyed meals made from fresh
fish, which was possible because the route the runners used,
known as “the route of the Incas”, was a straight line
between the points they wanted to connect. Thus the
distances to be covered were smaller, but the effort of each
“chasqui” was greater.
Thus, as history shows, sport and physical prowess
have always been part of the development of peoples and
have been at their service.
Therefore I should like to state that in our own history
as well as in our common history we find the fundamental
concept of the Olympic Ideal, which promotes international
understanding through sport and culture with a view to
ensuring the harmonious development of humankind.
The Olympic Ideal, which spurs us to build a peaceful
and better world, is the spirit that animates the will and a
philosophy of life that should always be with us, inspiring
us to use sport for the comprehensive development of man
in order to promote the establishment of a peaceful society
committed to the preservation of human dignity.
I am from a country that was for many years racked
by terrorism and other social and economic problems.
Fortunately, that is now history. Now we are working to
build a better world for all Peruvians, and we believe that
physical activity and sport are the ideal crucible in which
to create the man of the future.
to use sport
Our one objective is
to promote
comprehensive and balanced human development as part of
our efforts to produce better Peruvians. This would raise
our sporting level in the major international disciplines so
that we could try to obtain significant results that would
improve Peru’s sporting image. We are pledged to attaining
that goal.
Our strategy is based on development in all social
sectors — in schools and universities and among the
workforce, the elderly and the disabled — with appropriate
18
One example of this is a programme called “poles of
development” which refers
to the search for and
identification of possible sporting talent among children,
between the ages of 7 and 13, with special aptitudes and
characteristics,
their
comprehensive training. Thus, when later on they compete
in high-performance events, they will do so in the best
possible physical condition and technical circumstances.
them in
order
in
to
help
This programme is being carried out across the
nation. We had to identify which specialized areas or
sporting disciplines
to develop, bearing in mind,
inter alia, young people’s traditions, Peru’s diverse
climatic zones — ranging from the high sierra to the
tropical coast and the Amazon forest — and, of course,
the biological characteristics of Peru’s inhabitants.
Highlighting a social aspect of sport, surveys carried
out in the outlying districts, known as “young towns”, of
Peru’s major cities showed that the third leading concern
of the inhabitants was access to sports complexes for the
area’s families.
I am sure that attention will be drawn by the fact
that families with difficult, important problems to solve
long for a sports complex. But the simple fact is that such
a complex would give them peace of mind with regard to
their children’s recreation and promote family unity, since
all its members could take part in various activities at the
weekend. This, then, becomes a factor of unity within the
family and the community. We should also consider that
sports events provide the best opportunity to show man’s
true behaviour, since competitive situations, because of
the dynamism and emotion involved, reveal spontaneously
the significant characteristics and features of man’s
personality.
I would like to state that it is an honour for me, as
a representative of Peru, to be among the sponsors of and
contribute to the development of such an important
subject as that of building a peaceful and better world
through sport and the Olympic Ideal. Naturally, I would
like to congratulate the International Olympic Committee
and its President, His Excellency Mr. Juan Antonio
Samaranch.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
I also wish to take this special opportunity to put
forward an idea that would no doubt promote motivation
and training through sports that are free of discrimination
of any kind and in keeping with the spirit of the Olympic
Ideal, which calls for mutual understanding and a spirit of
friendship, solidarity and, above all, fair play. My proposal
to the Assembly is to create an international United Nations
fair-play prize to be awarded every year to the student
athlete who, in the judgement of a special committee, has
acted most in a spirit of generosity and solidarity with his
or her team-mates and competitors and demonstrated the
true meaning of
fair play in student sporting events
throughout the year.
Candidacies would be properly documented and
submitted to the General Assembly by the highest official
responsible for physical education and sport of each
country. The prize would be the construction of a small
sporting complex in a place that needs and wants it, in
recognition of the winner of the United Nations prize, thus
converting a worthy act of good sportsmanship into an act
of great social benefit.
I hope the Assembly will find this proposal attractive.
In this way, a gesture of solidarity and generosity by an
athlete will be a contribution to the well-being and
integration of a better and more peaceful world.
Mr. Karayev (Azerbaijan): Inclusion of the item
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through sport
and the Olympic Ideal” on the agenda of the General
Assembly is a clear manifestation of the important role
played by sport in human development. The Olympic Ideal
of
solidarity and fair play without any
discrimination became a decisive factor in establishing
contact between the youth of various peoples throughout the
world and of different religious and racial affiliations.
friendship,
All of us, gathered in this body, deeply care about the
future of mankind in the third millennium as well as about
what kind of values will
then prevail. Maintenance of
international peace and security with the utilization of
adequate means, including sport and the Olympic Ideal, has
become the basis of the 50-year-old activities of the United
Nations which now bring together 185 States. The
delegation of my country is convinced that
today’s
discussion will make its contribution to the strengthening of
peace.
We are proud of the fact that right after Azerbaijan
independence the International Olympic
achieved its
Committee, embodying the world sporting community,
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
the Olympic Committee
of Azerbaijan
granted
membership in the International Olympic Committee and,
ever since, has been paying serious attention to the
sporting life of our country. Availing myself of the
presence here with us of the President of the International
Olympic Committee, His Excellency Mr. Juan Antonio
Samaranch, I would like to express to him our deep
appreciation for his visit to Azerbaijan in 1994, which, in
itself, was a concrete illustration of what I have just said.
It is with a sense of particular responsibility that my
country is preparing for the Centennial Games to be held
in 1996 in Atlanta, the United States of America, where
the Azerbaijani Republic, as an independent, sovereign
State, will be represented for the first time in the history
of the Olympic Games by its own national team. By
decree of the President of the Azerbaijani Republic, a
special State commission, headed by the Prime Minister,
has been set up to carry out all preparatory work on the
eve of the Games. Despite enormous economic difficulties
facing Azerbaijan today, my Government decided to
ensure the participation of Azerbaijani sportsmen in all
international competitions preceding the 1996 Olympic
Games.
Furthermore, we are deeply convinced of
the
extremely rich potential of sport which is not confined to
the achievement of good results and the broadening of
international contacts and youth cooperation. Sport
constitutes an important and effective part of the policy of
the Azerbaijani State in the field of bringing up a morally
and physically healthy young generation capable of
adequately responding to social challenges.
It
is hard, however,
to speak about either a
successful and broad application of
the educational
potential of sport or sporting achievements in a country
where the mass aspect of sport — one of its fundamental
principles — has been violated as a result of aggression
by the neighbouring Republic of Armenia. Instead we are
dealing with another mass — 1 million refugees, 300,000
of whom are children and adolescents. Words can hardly
describe all the moral and physical sufferings these people
are subjected to. One terrifying example of evidence of
that was the outcome of medical examinations of 250
children from the ages of 6 to 10 in one of the tent camps
in the Sabirabad province of Azerbaijan conducted with
the participation of experts from the United Nations
Children’s Fund and the World Health Organization. Two
of
physical
deficiencies and were ineligible to practise sports.
children
examined
had
every
three
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Ministry of Youth and Sport, together with the
above-mentioned United Nations specialized agencies, is in
the process of elaborating and implementing a number of
special programmes aimed at the physical and psychological
rehabilitation of this category of children by means of sport,
which are believed to bring about definite positive effects
in this respect.
In this connection I would like to emphasize that such
situations also prevail in many other regions faced with
armed conflicts, natural calamities and other phenomena
hindering due social development of children and youth. It
is evident that adequate assistance has to be rendered to this
particular category.
My delegation believes that Member States should
consolidate their efforts with a view to elaborating
necessary measures and creating conditions for utilizing the
rehabilitative abilities of sport
in dealing with stress-
affected children and adolescents. The United Nations,
together with the International Olympic Committee, could
play a coordinating role in this field.
Such assistance would, on the one hand, considerably
accelerate the process of society’s psychological recovery
after surviving the catastrophe of war, and, on the other,
would bolster joint actions by respective Governments and
their Olympic committees in the field of propaganda for
sport and its significance in bolstering the health of the
nation. In short, it would make the role of sport in building
a better world more significant.
For 17 months now the cease-fire has been holding in
the area of the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict. This is
50th plenary meeting
6 November 1995
direct evidence of Azerbaijan’s strong commitment to the
principle of peaceful settlement of disputes between
States. In his address to the Special Commemorative
Meeting of the General Assembly on the occasion of the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the President
of the Azerbaijan Republic, His Excellency Mr. Heydar
Aliyev, expressing the will of the people of Azerbaijan,
declared that:
“... we condemn all kinds of aggression in any part
of the world. We want peace: peace in the whole
world, peace in our
region, and peace and
good-neighbourly relations with all States”. (Official
Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session,
Plenary Meetings, 36th meeting, p. 6-7)
Further to this, we firmly support the idea of the
Olympic Truce, and appeal to the world community with
a proposal to go even further and proclaim the whole
period prior to the opening of the Centennial Olympics in
Atlanta a period of peace, and 1996 — the year of the
Centennial Olympics — a year of sporting and not
military competition.
The Acting President: Before adjourning the
meeting I should like to invite representatives to remain
seated, as immediately following the adjournment of this
meeting we shall hear an address by the President of the
International Olympic Committee.
The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.
20
