United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
35th plenary meeting
Sunday, 22 October 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
But what is to be done? Is this an Organization
worth preserving in view of its past? And what shall we
do with it in view of its future?
Agenda item 29
Commemoration of
United Nations
the fiftieth anniversary of
the
(spoke in French)
Special Commemorative Meeting of the General
Assembly
occasion of
fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations
on the
the
The President: I have the honour this morning to
open the Special Commemorative Meeting on the occasion
of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, pursuant
to General Assembly resolutions 48/215 B of 26 May 1994
and 49/12 B of 24 May 1995.
Distinguished Heads of State, Heads of Government
and other High Dignitaries of State, Excellencies:
It is my privilege to thank each one of you for coming
from all parts of the world to the Headquarters of the
United Nations in order to participate in the Special
Commemorative Meeting of its fiftieth anniversary and, by
doing so, to give public testimony of your praise for the
achievements of the last 50 years and of your strong
commitment
to preserve and reform this commendable
Organization.
This is your home, and the future of the United
Nations will be what you, Excellencies, decide it to be. The
destiny of the United Nations is in your hands.
During the first 50 years of its history, the United
Nations has not been able to achieve all of its ideals but
it has not been the sterile, ineffective, not-to-say harmful,
instrument which its detractors accuse it of being. We
humbly acknowledge the mistakes, omissions and faults,
but let us not forget the successes, the victories, the good
that has been done for the benefit of all mankind.
Should we regret having founded a universal
Organization to attempt to maintain peace among nations
and to affirm the primacy of law and justice? Do we
consider it a mistake to have adopted the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights to ensure that these rights
are
to the
democratization of an increasing number of countries?
and to contribute
respected by all
Do we deny the principle of self-determination of
peoples, decolonization, the end of apartheid?
Do we not recognize that development aid to the
poorest countries on the planet is essential?
Do we admit to being wrong when we set the most
recent priority to protect nature and the environment?
(spoke in Spanish)
95-86389 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
Excellencies, no. We have not been wrong — neither
in 1945 nor during the last 50 years. Our principles, our
values, our ideals were then and are now politically valid,
morally worthy and humanely just. We should be proud of
them.
Does this mean that everything is perfect at the United
Nations? Obviously not.
Let us take upon ourselves the noble and necessary
task of becoming, from today, the "reforming fathers" of
the United Nations.
If we do so, we will deserve the respect of future
generations, especially when they celebrate — surely in
this same Hall — the hundredth anniversary of the United
Nations.
But let us not be misled by criticism. There is, of
course, reason to rectify many things, but it would be a
serious mistake for mankind to allow the United Nations to
die.
If the goals and purposes of the United Nations are
positive and welcome, and if the Organization has been and
continues to be able to realize them even though with
limitations and shortcomings, we should not be ashamed of
our support to the United Nations. We must simply reform
it.
(spoke in English)
Supporting the United Nations — that should be our
collective pledge in this Special Commemorative Meeting.
Reforming the United Nations — that should be our
political commitment during these three days.
We must not allow this Organization to die at the
hands of its critics, nor to perish for lack of commitment of
its supporters. Therefore I ask you: Please tell the world
that freedom, justice, development and human solidarity are
magnificent values worth living and working for. Please tell
your peoples that we must all help each other for the
survival and benefit of humanity. Please tell your
Governments and Parliaments that, with the necessary
reforms and changes, the United Nations needs money to
function, support from Member countries to function well,
and wisdom and generosity from us all to save and help
those human beings most in need.
Excellencies, at the very beginning of these unique
and historic meetings, may I share with you these three
wishes:
Let us praise the United Nations and its "founding
fathers".
Let us fight the destructive critics of the Organization
and not allow them to be the United Nations "liquidating
fathers".
2
I now call upon the Secretary-General.
The
(interpretation
Secretary-General
from
Arabic): May I welcome you all, Kings, heads of State
and Government of the world. Welcome to your home,
the home of the world’s peoples. Welcome to the forum
of the United Nations, the forum of peace, concord and
development. Welcome to you all, and heartfelt greetings
for your leadership.
(spoke in English)
We meet to commemorate 50 years of the United
Nations. How can we shape the next 50 years to serve
people’s needs? The world of the twenty-first century will
confront two great opposing forces: globalization and
fragmentation. A new dialectic has already begun.
Globalization will generate a number of problems.
Financial flows of vast magnitude sweep across the
world. Alarming environmental events will expose the
planet to permanent damage. Transnational crime will
grow. The global communications revolution will generate
pressures which our national
institutions were not
designed to address.
Fragmentation also will characterize the future. The
remote and impersonal forces of globalization will cause
people to seek security in smaller groups. Fragmentation
can breed fanaticism, isolationism, separatism and the
proliferation of civil war.
The United Nations can help deal with the dialectic
of globalization and fragmentation and help solve the
problems it will create. It can do so because the United
Nations was designed to be both the world Organization
and the Organization of its Member States — designed,
therefore, to respond both to global concerns and to the
needs of Member States and their peoples. As if in
training for precisely this moment, the United Nations in
50 years has gained experience in dealing with both
globalization and fragmentation.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
In response to globalization,
the United Nations
defined human rights for the global community. It fostered
the progress of international law. It transformed the law of
the sea. Through a continuum of global conferences it is
promoting international consensus on new global issues of
disarmament, environment, population, social development
and migration.
In response to fragmentation, the United Nations has
been called upon to respond to civil wars: Katanga,
Cambodia, El Salvador, Angola and Mozambique. To
prevent fragmentation, the United Nations is promoting
democratization both within and among States. Within
States, issues of identity and ethnic separatism will be
decided by the ballot box, not by the gun. Among States,
democratization will promote the full participation of all
States in world affairs.
But the United Nations cannot play this role if the
present trend continues. The United Nations is trapped by
a second dialectic. The problems of globalization and
fragmentation have caused vast responsibilities to be given
to the United Nations, but the United Nations has not been
given the resources required to accomplish the tasks
imposed.
The financial crisis is a symptom of a deeper problem:
Member States simply do not regard the United Nations as
a priority. This is sad news to report to this Meeting. I
appeal to you to give the United Nations a firm financial
base. If steps towards this cannot be set in motion by the
end of this year, I urge you to give serious consideration to
calling a special session of the General Assembly to deal
with the financial crisis of the Organization.
This historic Meeting is a time for you, the leaders of
the world, to consider what you want from the United
Nations. I respectfully ask you to do this.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for his
statement.
Before I call upon the first speaker this morning, may
I again remind all delegations of the five-minute time limit.
I hope that if there are exceptions they will be as limited as
possible.
Address by His Excellency Mr. William J. Clinton,
President of the United States of America
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. William Clinton, President
of the United States of America.
His Excellency Mr. William J. Clinton, President of
the United States of America, was escorted to the
rostrum.
President Clinton: This week the United Nations is
50 years old. The dreams of its founders have not been
fully realized. But its promise endures.
The value of the United Nations can be seen the
world over:
in the nourished bodies of once-starving
children; in the full lives of those immunized against
disease; in the eyes of students eager to learn; in the
environment sustained; in the refugees saved; in the peace
kept; and, most recently, in standing up for the human
rights and human possibilities of women and their
children, at the Beijing Conference.
The United Nations is the product of faith and
knowledge: faith that different peoples can work together
for tolerance, decency and peace; knowledge that this
faith will be forever tested by the forces of intolerance,
depravity and aggression. Now we must summon that
faith — and act on that knowledge — to meet
the
challenges of a new era.
In the United States, some people ask: Why should
we bother with the United Nations? America is strong.
We can go it alone. Well we will act if we have to, alone.
But my fellow Americans should not forget that our
values and our interests are also served by working with
the United Nations. The United Nations helps the
peacemakers, the care-providers, the defenders of freedom
and human rights, the architects of economic prosperity
and the protectors of our planet to spread the risk, share
the burden and increase the impact of our common
efforts.
Last year I pledged that the United States would
continue to contribute substantially to the finances of the
United Nations. Historically the United States has been —
and today it remains — the largest contributor to the
United Nations. But I am determined that we must fully
meet our obligations and I am working with our Congress
on a plan to do so. All who contribute to the work of the
United Nations and care about its future must also be
committed to reform, to ending bureaucratic inefficiencies
and outdated priorities. The United Nations must be able
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to show that the money it receives supports saving and
enriching peoples’ lives — not unneeded overhead.
Reform requires breaking up bureaucratic fiefdoms;
eliminating obsolete agencies; and doing more with less.
The United Nations must reform to remain relevant, and to
play a still stronger role in the march of freedom, peace and
prosperity. We see it around the world. In the Middle East
and Northern Ireland, people are turning from a violent past
to a future of peace. In South Africa and Haiti, long nights
of
freedom.
Throughout this hemisphere every nation — except one —
has chosen democracy. And the goal of an integrated,
peaceful and democratic Europe is now within our reach for
the first time.
fear have given way to new days of
the
international
In the Balkans,
community’s
determination and the resolve of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) have made prospects for peace
brighter than they have been for four long years. Let me
salute the efforts of the United Nations on behalf of the
people of Bosnia. The nations that took part in the United
Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) kept the toll of this
terrible war — in lives lost; wounds left unhealed; children
left unfed — from being far graver still. Next week, the
parties to the war in Bosnia will meet in Dayton, Ohio,
under the auspices of the United States and our Contact
Group partners — Russia, the United Kingdom, France and
Germany — to intensify the search for peace. Many
fundamental differences remain. But I urge the parties to
seize this chance for a settlement. If they achieve peace the
United States will be there with our friends and allies to
help secure it.
All over the world people yearn to live in peace and
that dream is becoming a reality.
But our time is not free of peril. As the cold war gives
way to the global village,
too many people remain
vulnerable to poverty, disease and underdevelopment. All
of us are exposed to ethnic and religious hatred,
the
reckless aggression of rogue States, terrorism, organized
crime, drug trafficking, and the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction.
all
closer
together
The emergence of the information-and-technology age
and given us
has brought us
extraordinary opportunities to build a better future. But in
our global village progress can spread quickly, but trouble
can too. Trouble at the far end of town soon becomes a
plague on everyone’s house. We cannot free our own
neighbourhoods from drug-related crime without the help of
4
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
assistance
terrorists without
countries where the drugs are produced. We cannot track
down
from other
Governments. We cannot prosper or preserve our
environment unless sustainable development is a reality
for all nations. And our vigilance alone cannot keep
nuclear weapons stored half a world away from falling
into the wrong hands.
Nowhere is cooperation more vital than in fighting
the increasingly interconnected groups that
traffic in
terror, organized crime, drug smuggling and the spread of
weapons of mass destruction. No one is immune: not the
people of Japan, where terrorists unleashed nerve gas in
the subway and poisoned thousands; not the people of
Latin America or South-East Asia, where drug traffickers
wielding imported weapons have murdered judges,
journalists, police officers and innocent passers-by; not
the people of Israel and France, where hatemongers have
blown up buses and trains full of children with suitcase
bombs made from smuggled explosives; not the people of
the former Soviet Union and Central Europe, where
organized criminals seek to weaken new democracies and
prey on decent, hard-working men and women; and not
the people of the United States, where home-grown
terrorists blew up a federal building in the heart of
America, and where foreign terrorists tried to topple the
World Trade Center and plotted to destroy the very Hall
we gather in today.
These forces jeopardize the global trend towards
peace and freedom, undermine fragile new democracies,
sap the strength from developing countries and threaten
our efforts to build a safer, more prosperous world. So
today I call upon all nations to join us in the fight against
them. Our common efforts can produce results. To reduce
the threat of weapons of mass destruction, we are
working with Russia to reduce our nuclear arsenals by
two thirds. We supported Ukraine, Kazakhstan and
Belarus in removing nuclear weapons from their soil. We
work with the states of the former Soviet Union to
safeguard nuclear materials and to convert
them to
peaceful use. North Korea has agreed to freeze its nuclear
programme under international monitoring. Many of the
nations in this Hall succeeded in getting the indefinite
extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
To stem the flow of narcotics and stop the spread of
organized crime, we are cooperating with many nations,
sharing information, providing military support and
initiating anti-corruption efforts. Results are coming. With
Colombian authorities we have cracked down on the
cartels that control the world’s cocaine market. Two years
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
ago they lived as billionaires beyond the law; now many
are living as prisoners behind bars.
To take on terrorists we maintain strong sanctions
against States that sponsor terrorism and defy the rule of
law, States such as Iran, Iraq, Libya and Sudan. We ask
them today again to turn from that path. Meanwhile we
increase our own law enforcement efforts and our
cooperation with other nations.
Nothing we do will make us invulnerable. But we can
all become less vulnerable if we work together. That is why
today I am announcing new initiatives to fight international
organized crime, drug trafficking, terrorism and the spread
of weapons of mass destruction — initiatives we can take
on our own and others we hope we will take together — in
the form of an international declaration to promote the
safety of the world’s citizens.
systems
and financial
First, the steps we will take: Yesterday I directed our
Government to identify and put on notice nations that
tolerate money-laundering. Criminal enterprises are moving
vast sums of ill-gotten gains through the international
financial system with absolute impunity. We must not allow
them to wash the blood off profits from the sale of drugs,
from terror or organized crime. Nations should bring their
banks
into conformity with
international anti-money-laundering standards. We will
work to help them do so. If they refuse we will consider
appropriate sanctions. Next I directed our Government to
identity the front companies and to freeze the assets of the
largest drug ring in the world, the Cali Cartel, to cut off its
economic lifelines and stop our own people from dealing
unknowingly with its companies. Finally, I have instructed
the Justice Department to prepare legislation to provide our
other agencies with the tools they need to respond to
organized criminal activity.
But because we must win this battle together, I now
invite every country to join in negotiating and endorsing a
declaration on international crime and citizen safety.
That declaration should include, first, a no-sanctuary
pledge so that we could say together to organized criminals,
terrorists, drug traffickers and smugglers, “You have
nowhere to run and nowhere to hide”.
It should include, secondly, a counter-terrorism pact so
that together we would urge more States to ratify existing
anti-terrorism treaties and work with us to shut down the
grey markets that outfit
terrorists and criminals with
firearms and false documents.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
Thirdly, there should be an anti-narcotics offensive.
The international drug trade poisons people, breeds
violence and tears at the moral fabric of our societies. We
must intensify action against the drug cartels and the
destruction of drug crops, and we in consumer nations
such as the United States must decrease demand for
drugs.
law-enforcement
Fourthly, we should have an effective police-force
partnership. International criminal organizations target
nations whose
lack the
experience and capacity to stop them. To help police in
the new democracies of Central Europe, Hungary and the
United
International Law
Enforcement Academy in Budapest. Now we should
consider a network of centres around the world to share
the latest crime-fighting techniques and technology.
established
agencies
States
an
Fifthly, we need an illegal-arms and deadly-materials
control effort that we all participate in. A package the
size of a child’s lunch bag held the poison gas used to
terrorize Tokyo. A lump of plutonium no bigger than a
soda can is enough to make an atomic bomb.
Building on efforts already under way with the
States of the former Soviet Union and with our G-7
partners, we will seek to better account for, store and
safeguard materials with massive destructive power. We
should strengthen the Biological Weapons Convention,
adopt a comprehensive test-ban treaty next year and
ultimately eliminate the deadly scourge of land-mines. We
must press other countries, and our own Congress, to
ratify the Chemical Weapons Convention and to intensify
our efforts to combat the global illegal arms network that
fuels terrorism, equips drug cartels and prolongs deadly
conflicts.
This is a full and challenging agenda, but we must
complete it, and we must do so together.
Fifty years ago, as the conference that gave birth to
the United Nations got under way in San Francisco, a
young American war hero recorded his impressions of
that event for a newspaper:
“The average G.I. in the street doesn’t seem to have
a very clear-cut conception of what this meeting is
about”,
wrote the young John F. Kennedy.
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
“But one bemedalled marine sergeant gave the general
reaction when he said:
I don’t know much about
what’s going on, but if they just fix it so that we don’t
have to fight any more, they can count me in.'”
universal forum in which Ukraine could proclaim its
existence as a country. The support of the United Nations
promoted the realization of our age-old aspiration to have
a State of our own.
The United Nations has not ended war, but it has
made it less likely and helped many nations turn from war
to peace. The United Nations has not stopped human
suffering, but it has healed the wounds and lengthened the
lives of millions of human beings. The United Nations has
not banished repression or poverty from the Earth, but it
has advanced the cause of freedom and prosperity on every
continent. The United Nations has not been all that we
wished it would be, but it has been a force for good and a
bulwark against evil. So at the dawn of a new century so
full of promise yet plagued by peril, we still need the
United Nations. And so, for another 50 years and beyond,
you can count the United States in.
The President: I thank the President of the United
States of America for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. William J. Clinton, President of
the United States of America, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Leonid D. Kuchma,
President of Ukraine
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Leonid D. Kuchma,
President of Ukraine.
His Excellency Mr. Leonid D. Kuchma, President of
Ukraine, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Kuchma (interpretation from Ukrainian;
English text furnished by the delegation): Speaking from
this loftiest rostrum on the planet, I feel pride, gratitude and
hope. My pride is for the wisdom and far-sightedness of the
founders of the United Nations, who actually laid the
foundation of a new world order. Challenging history itself,
they attempted to establish peaceableness and mutual
assistance as forces to oppose hostility and intolerance, and
for the first time this was done successfully. Thus, the
peoples of the Earth received a unique instrument for
consolidating mankind as a single universal organism in its
efforts to survive and build a better world.
I am doubly proud of all that because representatives
of my people were among the founders of the United
Nations. The United Nations might have been the only
6
Finally, I place great hopes in the future of the
United Nations, which brings us closer to the moment
when we shall be able to say, “The United Nations means
a united world.”
With the era of great
ideological confrontation
behind us, mankind has managed to decrease the threat of
self-destruction by nuclear conflagration and to establish
sufficiently reliable mechanisms of international security.
I am pleased to point out that Ukraine has made a
special contribution to the cause of disarmament. Ours,
the third largest nuclear State, was the first in the world
voluntarily to renounce nuclear
status and nuclear
weapons. However, this has entailed enormous economic
and ecological losses for us.
I am certain that
the establishment of a special
status, with international security guarantees, consolidated
financial and technical assistance and moral incentives,
for countries that
renounce nuclear weapons would
provide a tremendous impetus for expediting the process
of nuclear disarmament. This could be implemented
through a new United Nations programme for a twenty-
first-century world without nuclear weapons.
United Nations peace-keeping activities require
constant improvement and increased efficiency. First and
foremost,
this would entail reorientation of conflicts
towards preventive diplomacy. This would also be
promoted by establishing United Nations trusteeship over
new States in the process of formation, in order to make
the use of force inadmissible and ensure adherence to
established norms of international law.
At
the same time,
the international community
should adapt
its attitude to separatism — which is
frequently the initial cause of local conflicts and which
could become the severest challenge to the world of the
twenty-first century — to present-day realities.
The disappearance of
a world divided into
antagonistic systems is related to profound internal
transformations in post-socialist countries. I am convinced
of the need to establish the most favourable regime
possible
integration into the
international community. The establishment of a new
countries’
for
those
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
United Nations council for economic security — on a level
in weight and
with the Security Council, equal
influence — would promote the drafting of
specific
proposals for international support for those countries’
development. Such a body could be used to identify
strategic prospects for mankind’s development and for
preventive efforts in the decades ahead.
to it
The United Nations was established by people who
realized that nations, peoples and States are interdependent
and complementary components of a single entity called
humanity. The presence of an unprecedented number of
world leaders here today is convincing evidence of their
support for the United Nations at this crucial stage of its
development. The most
task for the United
Nations today is to define itself under these new conditions
and to follow the road indicated by the real circumstances
of our existence. To do this would constitute a source of
strength, longevity and moral health for the United Nations.
important
The President: I thank the President of Ukraine for
his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Leonid D. Kuchma, President of
Ukraine, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Majesty King Hussein Ibn Talal, King
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Majesty King Hussein Ibn Talal, King of
the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
His Majesty King Hussein Ibn Talal, King of the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted to the
rostrum.
His Majesty King Hussein Ibn Talal (interpretation
from Arabic): It is with pleasure that I greet you all, and
express my great pride to be among you today, to represent
my country, Jordan, as we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary
of the creation of the United Nations Organization. As I
extend my sincere congratulations to you, I recall with
esteem and reverence the founders who worked with
diligence and sincerity to ingrain the principles of
international
this
Organization, and to safeguard its noble message.
legality to enhance
role of
the
I may not be the eldest head of State among you, but
God has willed that I should be the longest serving, and the
one who has dealt with the United Nations for the longest
period. This has allowed me to follow its development over
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
I
recall at an early age, witnessing the
decades.
endeavours of men like Trygve Lie, Count Bernadotte,
Ralph Bunche, Ambassador Pierre Spinelli,
the
outstanding man, Dag Hammerskjold, as well as Gunnar
Jarring and many others who have served the cause of
peace and stability in our region.
As we acknowledge our debt to the men and women
of the United Nations who have worked over the years to
preserve peace in our region, we Jordanians feel proud to
have contributed to serve the same lofty ideals in other
parts of the world. The number of Jordanians who
participated in United Nations peace-keeping missions
over the past years has reached almost 15,000 servicemen.
Jordan, in point of fact, ranked fifth among the countries
of the world in terms of troop contributions to those noble
missions.
in
an
of
their
plight
My country has suffered enormously from successive
wars in the Middle East region which resulted in the
tragedy of the Palestinian people. We absorbed the human
consequences
honourable,
unparalleled way in the region. Jordan became the
sanctuary and the homeland of all, regardless of their
origins. When the cold war ended and we had the
opportunity to end the Middle East conflict, we were fully
aware that the comprehensive peace which we sought
called for wisdom and courage on the part of all leaders.
It required confidence in the rule of international legality
to settle the differences amongst peoples. We have taken
this path with confidence, and we have achieved a great
deal.
Today we celebrate the first anniversary of the
Jordanian-Israeli peace treaty, which we hope will be a
principal underpinning of the process of comprehensive,
just and lasting peace in the region; that peace which will
enable all the region’s peoples to resume their quest for
development and to build a better
future
generations.
life for
Over the past year, we have been able to address
comprehensively all the terms of the treaty governing
future relations between Jordan and Israel. I am glad to
announce from this platform that young pilots from the
Royal Jordanian Air Force and the Israeli Air Force flew
the skies of their two countries today in joint formations
to honour their comrades who have fallen, to salute their
peoples and to embody peace and the commitment to
safeguard it.
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Peace, poverty, and underdevelopment cannot co-exist
in the same region. Hence, the Amman economic summit,
which, in a few days, will herald a new drive for the
comprehensive development of the region and underscore
the concept of cooperation amongst the peoples of the
region with a view to improving their standards of living,
and in consolidating peace and regional cooperation
amongst them.
Permit me, on this occasion, to thank this Organization
for announcing last Friday the establishment of the United
Nations University International Leadership Academy in
Jordan. This academy will be the first of its kind for the
promising leaderships in the world and the first branch of
the United Nations University in the Middle East.
Fifty years have passed since the United Nations was
founded. During this time, some of its Member States have
undergone fundamental changes. This is a good moment to
review the structure and systems of
the international
organizations and institutions. Of prime importance is a
review of
the Security Council and the nature of
membership in it so that
the Organization may reflect
today’s world. This is essential for the United Nations to
rejuvenate itself and meet its new challenges.
It
is high time that
Many regions of the world today continue to suffer
from tensions and conflicts. Others dwell in the shadow of
war and the resultant poverty, backwardness and abuses of
human rights.
the international
community moved to alleviate their suffering and help them
to overcome their difficulties and their plight. In this
respect, Jordan will continue to strive, propelled by its faith
and convictions, to be a living example of harmonious
pluralism in democracy, freedom and respect for human
rights. Once again,
I greet you all and I wish this
Organization every success and progress. God bless you all.
The President: I thank the King of the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan for his statement.
His Majesty King Hussein Ibn Talal, King of the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address
President
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga,
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
by Her Excellency Mrs. Chandrika
the
of
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by Her Excellency The Honourable Chandrika
8
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, President of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The Honourable Chandrika
Her Excellency
the
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, President of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was
escorted to the rostrum.
P r e s i d e n t C h a n d r i k a
B a n d a r a n a i k e
Kumaratunga: Your Excellency, permit me to express
my good wishes on your election as President. I am
deeply honoured to represent the people of Sri Lanka on
this historic occasion.
Sri Lanka has always reposed great hopes in the
United Nations for effective collective action to achieve
our central aim of socio-economic development and
thereby ensure social stability and peace for our people.
shifted the arena of conflict
The transition from the cold-war era to a new world
order has
from the
international to the national. Whatever the overlay of such
conflicts, whether they take on religious, racial or other
forms, they stem from poverty and social inequality. We
believe, therefore, that the foundations of peace must be
built on economic and social stability.
The new agenda of the United Nations, with its
heavy emphasis on peace-keeping operations, has
impacted adversely on the development process.
As a developing country, Sri Lanka attaches great
importance to the role that the United Nations can and
must perform in advancing the development process.
Unless the principles of the Declaration on the Right to
Development, adopted in 1986, are applied positively,
with the full commitment of both developed and
developing countries, the development process will not be
sufficiently advanced.
We believe that effective strengthening of the United
Nations system is an essential requisite for advancing its
goals. The Organization has, regrettably, sometimes come
to be seen by the more vulnerable States as primarily
serving the interests of the more powerful States. We
welcome the timely initiative of the President of the
General Assembly at last year’s session to strengthen and
empower the United Nations system.
Effective empowerment, in our view, requires: first,
that development priorities should not be sacrificed in the
pursuit of politico-military operations, which must be set
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
realistic — even modest — levels; secondly,
that
at
decision-making by the United Nations in all areas must be
based on the full engagement of all Members, and the
Security Council
in particular must become more
representative of and more responsive to the general
membership
that
commitments made for multilateral action in all fields must
be honoured and diligently pursued.
the
revitalizing process must enhance the capacity of the United
Nations, rather than merely effect economies and scale
down its scope.
the United Nations;
In short,
thirdly,
of
In the index of human development Sri Lanka rates
high among developing countries, but we have been
traumatized by ethnic tensions kept unnaturally high by the
forces of
terrorism and chauvinism. Nonetheless, my
Government is resolved to fulfil its mandate by seeking,
through political negotiations, solutions to our problems that
would enable our people to live in peace, security and
freedom.
There are, however, obstacles in our way. An armed
group which claims to represent an ethnic minority has
been engaged in violent acts against successive popularly
elected Governments, preventing them from ensuring peace
and justice for all in our land. This group, which also
operates on foreign soil, maintains an international network
for fund-raising based on coercion and blackmail. That
network has a close nexus with powerful commercial
interests engaged in narcotic trafficking, trade in illicit arms
and
immigrants. Concerted
international action is essential to combat terrorism and to
compel the terrorists to renounce violence and enter the
democratic process. Unfortunately, effective action to that
end has been frustrated through sterile philosophical debate
about the nature of terrorism.
smuggling
illegal
of
However, in the South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation (SAARC) we have overcome that difficulty by
focusing our attention on manifestations of terrorism. The
SAARC Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism
provides for a collective response. This centres on a
comprehensive legal regime and practical measures to
combat terrorism.
I urge similar action by the United Nations to give
legal effect to the obligations arising from the Declaration
on the Elimination of Terrorism, adopted last year. I was
happy to hear President Clinton’s statement in this regard.
I hope that our common realization of
the terrible
consequences of terrorism, drug trafficking and other such
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
antisocial activities will usher
international cooperation to combat these problems.
in a new era of
My Government
is committed to providing full
opportunities in Sri Lanka for the development of the
total human person. While promoting rapid economic
growth, we seek to distribute its benefits equitably. This
involves the maintenance of democratic institutions and
the preservation of human rights. It makes of politics the
discharge of a public trust, where decision-making is
transparent and free of corruption and everyone in public
life is accountable for their actions.
In the end, the United Nations will essentially be
what we the Member States make of it — not what
individual States seek to make from it.
On behalf of the Government and people of Sri
Lanka, I take this opportunity to wish the United Nations
success in its endeavours to transform the separate dreams
of all the nations into a multifaceted, yet harmonious,
reality.
The President:
the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for her
statement.
thank the President of
I
The Honourable Chandrika
Her Excellency
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, President of
the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Sam Nujoma,
President of the Republic of Namibia
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Sam Nujoma, President of
the Republic of Namibia.
His Excellency Mr. Sam Nujoma, President of the
Republic of Namibia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Nujoma: We are gathered here on this
historic occasion to praise the United Nations for its
outstanding achievements and, at the same time, to pay a
well-deserved tribute to its founders.
Celebration of the birth, longevity and performance
of the United Nations is proper and fitting indeed. The
world has been a safer place because of the United
Nations, and its continued relevance is beyond question.
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Yet our thoughts focus beyond the celebration, on the
future.
During the past 50 years, this Organization has served
humanity as a universal market-place of great ideas and
collective action. From its founding, the United Nations has
had its critics — among them, some prophets of doom. But
the truth is that after 50 years the Organization is alive and
well. Its misfortunes are exaggerated. Failures are those of
the Member States, and not of the United Nations.
The 50 years of the existence of the United Nations
have brought the peoples of the world closer together than
ever before. Indeed, today’s world is truly a global village.
During this period we have also witnessed tremendous
breakthroughs in the fields of science and technology and
information, as well as in respect for the worth of the
human person and in consciousness of the environment.
We are now more than ever aware that this is our one
world, belonging to all of us, rich and poor, developed and
developing, big and small. Let us,
together
commit ourselves to keeping our planet, oceans and space
safe and to developing the common heritage of humankind
which they offer on a sustainable basis for all.
therefore,
against
and
colonial
We in Namibia waged one of the last major battles in
Africa
brutality.
Decolonization is the most monumental accomplishment of
the United Nations and humankind. Namibia stands out as
a brilliant example of the decisive role played by the United
Nations in this field.
tyranny
The United Nations,
it can be said, has used the
Namibian experience to develop international norms of
peace-keeping and modalities for political transformation.
Let me, however, point out that the key to this success was
the readiness of the Namibians themselves to cooperate
with the United Nations Transition Assistance Group. This
is a success story our Organization should be proud of.
In Namibia, we have fully incorporated democratic
ideals, fundamental human rights, basic freedoms and the
protection of the environment into our Constitution. We are
now striving to imprint the ideals of the Constitution on the
minds and hearts of our people. Happily, today, the rights
of women, children, migrant workers and indeed all human
beings are respected and defended worldwide in the
constitutions and laws of many nations.
As we start the second jubilee of the United Nations,
we must abandon past misconceptions as well as the way
10
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
equitable
geographical
we conduct inter-State relations. Cold-war legacies must
be replaced by cooperation in the emerging world order.
A restructuring of the Security Council, which is long
overdue, should be carried out in a manner that upholds
the principles of democracy, the sovereign equality of
States,
and
transparency. Only then can the
legitimacy and
effectiveness of the Council be enhanced. There is no
shortage of workable ideas to bring about the necessary
reform that will accommodate the vital interests of Africa,
Asia and Latin America as permanent and non-permanent
members of the Security Council. Needless to say, the
authority and importance of the General Assembly should
not be compromised in the reform exercise.
representation
it
Granted, the United Nations is far from perfect, but
for us,
is the only truly viable forum in which
developing and small nations like Namibia can raise their
voices on the basis of equality. This Assembly stands at
the centre of multilateral diplomacy and cooperation as
originally envisioned by the Charter of
the United
Nations. Rededication, therefore, must start here.
During the next 50 years and beyond, the United
Nations should stress interdependence, equity and fair
play among nations and peoples in order to remove the
ever-widening gap between the rich North and the poor
South. The future belongs to the youth and children. Our
collective duty must be to reinforce their vision for a
peaceful, harmonious and prosperous future in the spirit
of brotherhood and cooperation.
The President: I wish to thank the President of the
Republic of Namibia for the statement he has just made.
His Excellency Mr. Sam Nujoma, President of the
Republic of Namibia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Frederick J. T.
Chiluba, President of the Republic of Zambia
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Frederick J. T. Chiluba,
President of the Republic of Zambia.
His Excellency Mr. Frederick J. T. Chiluba,
President of the Republic of Zambia, was escorted
to the rostrum.
President Chiluba: Let me happily congratulate
you, Sir, and pay tribute to you on your deserved election
to the high office of President of the General Assembly
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
its fiftieth session. We are sure of the successful
at
proceedings of the session under your able leadership.
and pay their financial subscriptions to the world body to
enable it to meet increased demands and challenges.
I wish to reaffirm Zambia’s abiding faith in the United
Nations.
further wish to reiterate my country and
Government’s commitment to the articles of faith of the
United Nations, to which we fully subscribe.
I
In a world of growing tensions and challenges, the
United Nations has performed well since its inception in
1945 and deserves a word of appreciation and thanks. Some
of its officers and personnel have made supreme sacrifices
in the execution of their selfless tasks. Among them was
the second Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Dag
Hammarskjöld, who died in a plane crash on 17 September
1961 on Zambia’s soil. We must always remember all of
them for their valour.
Zambia is fully convinced that the United Nations can
and must do even better. Its efficiency must be augmented
and fortified. Zambia therefore joins those countries which
have called for a restructuring of the United Nations to
enable it to cope with increased demands and challenges.
The United Nations today faces a crisis of confidence
and expectations. The structures of 1945, designed and
meant to service an almost homogeneous membership of 50
countries that has since increased almost fourfold, are no
longer capable of serving and servicing the bigger and
wider globe. Membership has increased in numbers as well
as in regional diversity, which calls for equitable, broader
representation.
In the spirit of genuine representative
democracy and good governance which the United Nations
embodies and personifies, in the spirit of the equality of
nations and in the search for genuine peace and security,
the United Nations has to reform to embrace broader
geographical representation.
The Security Council especially, we believe, can no
longer be maintained as a sanctuary of the holy of holies,
with only the original members acting as high priests and
deciding on issues for the rest of the world, which cannot
be admitted. Broader and geographical representation is the
answer.
We believe that a restructured and more representative
United Nations will be better equipped to respond to
growing demands and challenges which have become
multifarious in character.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic
of Zambia for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Frederick J. T. Chiluba,
President of the Republic of Zambia, was escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Süleyman Demirel,
President of the Republic of Turkey
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Süleyman Demirel,
President of the Republic of Turkey.
His Excellency Mr. Süleyman Demirel, President of
the Republic of Turkey, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Demirel: It
is an honour for me to
address this historic meeting, and on this solemn occasion
to renew our pledge to the global contract of humanity.
Fifty years ago, the United Nations was created to be
a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in
achieving a better world for all. The Charter of the United
to provide the road map to a new
Nations was
international order. However,
the initial hopes and
aspirations of the founders turned into disillusionment
during the dark days of the cold war. Now, there is a
widespread revival of the positive spirit that prevailed half
a century ago.
Some moments in history stand out as defining ones.
At times they can be new beginnings, in which courses
are set that shape decades, even centuries. Such should be
the fiftieth anniversary. We should seize this moment to
adapt
the United Nations to the new challenges and
demands of our times, and in this we must not fail.
This Organization was established to be a meeting
point of men and women who believe in shared dreams.
It is intended to be a forum in search of a collective
conscience.
Expectations from the United Nations are rising. So
are disappointments. We must improve our ability to
address problems globally.
Zambia also believes that efficiency may be a far cry
until and unless all Member States honour their obligations
No nation can be fully at peace while its neighbour
is not. With this awareness, we must base our actions on
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the interlocking concepts of democratic interdependence,
market rationale, economic cooperation, international and
legality, shared prosperity and solidarity.
constitutional
Together we must
those who try to
undermine our renewed hope and vision, those who openly
defy our common values and international law.
resolutely resist
Let us have faith in our strength. Let us not forget that
to go forward at all is to go forward together. Let us be
aware that the peoples of the world are strongly demanding
the helping hand of
the United Nations. Let us not
disappoint them. Let us fashion a new plan of action to
create a United Nations which will remain true to the ideals
of its founders.
enforcement;
redouble
our
efforts
and genuine
for
reform process of
To this end, we must place preventive diplomacy at
the top of our agenda; show resolve to thwart aggression in
all its forms; renew our commitments to peacemaking and
a
peace
comprehensive
the
Organization; create a Security Council which is more
representative, responsive, democratic and accountable;
revisit
increase the
cooperation between the United Nations and the regional
organizations; address the problems arising from United
Nations-imposed sanctions and set up a mechanism for the
effective implementation of Article 50 of the Charter; find
creative ways and means to secure new financial resources;
and maintain people-centred development at the core of our
agenda for development.
the idea of collective security;
With regard to the last point, I would like to invite all
Heads of State and Government to Istanbul in June 1996 to
take part in the City Summit, HABITAT II Conference, to
discuss how sufficient housing, a healthy environment and
social services can be provided for the billions of people
living in the cities, as well as other human settlements of
the world.
The future offers hope. Let us seize the opportunity
and be firm in our commitment to our common destiny.
Turkey has incurred the second highest loss of human life
in peace operations under the United Nations flag. I
solemnly reiterate Turkey’s determination to continue to
shoulder its share of global responsibility.
With these remarks, I would like to quote a great
Turkish humanist and poet-philosopher, Yunus Emre who,
seven centuries ago, made the following call to all the
peoples of the world:
(spoke in Turkish)
12
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
“Gelin tanis olalim,
Isi kolay kilalim.
Sevelim, sevilelim,
Dünya kimseye kalmaz.”
(spoke in English)
That means
“Come, let us get to know each other,
and make it easier for all of us.
Let us love and be loved,
For, this world is no one’s to own forever”
This is the message I have brought to this historic
meeting from the people of a country standing at the
crossroads of continents and cultures and a country that
stands dedicated to the noble principles enshrined in the
United Nations Charter.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic
of Turkey for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Süleyman Demirel, President of
the Republic of Turkey, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Piero Natalino
Mularoni, Captain Regent of the Republic of San
Marino
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Piero Natalino Mularoni
on behalf of the Captains Regent of the Republic of San
Marino.
His Excellency Mr. Piero Natalino Mularoni,
Captain Regent of the Republic of San Marino, was
escorted to the rostrum.
Captain Regent Mularoni (spoke in Italian; English
text furnished by the delegation): In the space of 50
years, a man and a woman come into the world, grow up,
obtain a diploma or learn a trade, get married and have
children. Sometimes they live long enough to see and
love their grandchildren.
Thus, three new generations have followed the first
50 years of the United Nations. A further one has to be
added,
if one considers the generation which
witnessed the establishment of the Organization after
then,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
having experienced the tragic and painful reality of the
World War.
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and
the Council of Europe, in the European area.
War can be avoided by resorting to peaceful means, to
negotiations and through the good will of those holding
power or armed force. Despite this message, however, wars
are still dramatic recurring events in every part of the
world.
Although the arrogant and ambitious desire for
supremacy remains the manifest, or concealed, cause of all
wars, it is evident that — at least to a certain extent — the
determining factors have changed.
No more wars! This is the strong and resolute appeal
that the Captains Regent of the Republic of San Marino
wish to reiterate to this Assembly. Over the years, this very
Hall has witnessed the celebration of many achievements,
the real sharing and resolution of peoples' problems, the
condemnation of unfair treatment and dictatorships, as well
as the admission of many peoples once exploited by
colonial regimes and oppressed by intolerant systems. Now,
this Assembly is looking forward to the admission of more
peoples, whose right to a homeland and to a territory must
be finally recognized.
No more wars! This is the appeal of a small country
which is also one of the newest United Nations Member
States. San Marino regards this condition as a privilege to
be proud of, and on this occasion it reaffirms its formal
commitment to contribute its own share, to the extent made
possible by its territorial dimensions and real possibilities.
The United Nations has also been able to elaborate
and to teach a second fundamental concept: a new law of
nations and a code of conduct for States.
Thanks to the true nature and to the consequences of
this new law of States, the international community has
started to reject the idea of a dangerous return to a division
into military, economic and political blocs and, at the same
time, to a new fragmentation. The contribution of all and
the setting of common goals are, in fact, the indispensable
foundations for the resolution of today’s problems.
The capacity and strength of the United Nations in
consolidating a third fundamental concept — a higher
recognition of all human rights — must be generally
acknowledged. In the achievement of this ambitious goal,
the United Nations has been assisted by the United Nations
Educational,
and Cultural Organization
in its sphere of competence, and by the
(UNESCO),
Scientific
This last concept entails, inter alia, respect for the
the principle of
human person and human dignity;
tolerance towards those who, despite all appearances, are
equal to us; and respect for life, which is constantly
endangered by wars, armaments, nuclear power, the death
penalty and hunger. It
includes respect for, and the
conservation and restoration of, the environment, as an
essential and primary component of life; the struggle
against poverty, underdevelopment and the exploitation of
peoples and of poverty-stricken areas; and, as a
consequence,
justice and
solidarity.
the commitment
to social
Today, solidarity must take new and more humane
forms. It can no longer be expressed through charitable
acts determined by exceptional circumstances. On the
contrary, solidarity has to be translated into a concerted
plan of assistance and be considered a common duty of
the entire international community. This assumption leads
to the consequent sharing of the problems of all and to
participation in their resolution.
Moreover,
this concept asserts respect
the
fundamental freedoms of all individuals and citizens and
the observance of their effective and full enjoyment, as
well as the participation of all citizens in the sharing of
power, through the democratic rules of representation,
transparency, control and alternation.
for
In particular, the Captains Regent wish to stress the
right of all peoples to land and to its natural and
inalienable use, and recommend the total elimination of
the aberrant practices of slavery, torture and the death
penalty. We encourage respect for, and the safeguarding
of, the rights of minorities and the possibility for any
people or minority to maintain and promote their cultural
identity. Finally, the Captains Regent wish to advocate
peace, the fundamental basis of which is the peaceful and
democratic coexistence of all citizens within States, with
full respect for the rights of every human person and of
all.
On behalf of the people and the Government of the
Republic of San Marino, the Captains Regent, through
this universal Assembly, express the wish that the United
Nations may continue its work for many, many years, and
wish it even greater success in accepting, meeting and
resolving the difficult challenges of the third millennium.
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
It
is our
sincere hope that here,
through the
universality of this Organization, the participation of all,
and the equal rights and opportunities granted to all
Members, the States may formulate with impartiality the
policies that will determine the future of each human being,
ensuring freedom, health, well-being and equality for all.
The President: I thank the Captain Regent of the
Republic of San Marino for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Piero Natalino Mularoni, Captain
Regent of the Republic of San Marino, was escorted
from the rostrum.
The President: The last few speakers have strictly
respected the five-minute time limit. I wish to express my
appreciation to them. I wish also to appeal to the remaining
speakers to exercise the same restraint. I thank them in
advance for their cooperation.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Lennart Meri, President
of the Republic of Estonia
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Lennart Meri, President of
the Republic of Estonia.
His Excellency Mr. Lennart Meri, President of the
Republic of Estonia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Meri: Our fathers, who fought in the First
World War and in the wars of freedom from colonialism
that
followed, which in turn inspired United States
President Wilson’s Fourteen Points on the rights of self-
determination, created the League of Nations.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
This is how, 50 years ago, the United Nations was
called into life.
Let us consider for a moment the numbers. When
the United Nations was conceived, there were 50 Member
States. Today, there are 185. The Republic of Estonia has
followed this development with great attention, for three
reasons.
because we
First, the occupation of the independent Republic of
Estonia by the Red Army pushed us for 50 years into the
ranks of colonized peoples. We are sympathetic to their
concerns,
self-
determination, independence and democracy. At the same
time, we are an old democracy. We are a State that was
born out of the decomposition of an empire, as was
Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and many other
States.
value
to
the
right
This is a unique state of affairs. We belong at the
same time to the first and the third worlds. We hold the
same values, principles and goals as the first world, and
experience the disappointments and concerns of the third
world.
Secondly, one result of the end of colonial empires
was the birth of new States. Most of those States, called
“new democracies”, are comparable with Estonia from the
standpoint of population and land mass. Today, and in
this Hall,
geographic than a political
attribute. Small States are, by definition, more easily
wounded, which means that in a security vacuum small
States are more sensitive to barometric changes than large
ones. Besides common ideals, we also have common
concerns.
this is less a
The League of Nations embodied much idealism and
little realism. It was not able to halt the game of division
played by Hitler and Stalin, nor was it able to stop the
agonized agitation of colonial dinosaurs or to break the
chain of anti-colonial wars that followed and cost between
60 million and 100 million human lives.
Thirdly, as I have noted, those States that have risen
from the end of colonialism and neocolonialism form a
majority in our world community. Unfortunately, this is
a silent majority. Its voice is weak and ineffectual in this
global forum; its voice is not present in the Security
Council.
President Roosevelt hoped to secure stability in the
world by a combination of realism and idealism. Idealism
reigned in this world parliament, where each State, whether
1 million or 1,000 million strong, was equal to the others.
Realism, on the other hand, was the dominant force in the
Security Council, in which the Allies of the Second World
War exercised the right of veto.
I speak of this here and now because hope springs
eternal. For this reason, I have two proposals: first, we
should consider the idea of a rotating member in the
Security Council chosen from among the world’s small
States. Secondly, I call upon the small States of the world
to gather in Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, to draft a
declaration: the Tallinn Declaration of Small States.
14
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
I make these proposals based on the hope that lies in
the silent majority of this world Organization. We, the
small nations, are easily wounded;
thus we are more
sensitive. Because we are more sensitive, we are able to
react more quickly. Because we are able to react more
quickly, we are consequently more idealistic. Small States
are more idealistic, so it follows that a more active hope
and a desire to remain true to our principles lives in our
midst. It was this hope, it was this dedication to principles
upon which, under other circumstances, this Organization
was founded 50 years ago.
receive a draft of
By next December, you, all the States Members of the
United Nations, will
the Tallinn
Declaration of Small States. This will allow us enough time
to consider it and, next September in Tallinn, to gather
together in order to work out a mechanism that will turn
this silent majority into a constructive majority, whose
decisions will help us to fulfil, in a constructive manner,
the purposes and principles upon which this Organization
is based.
Be well aware of the protocol of this historic meeting.
I await your reactions here and now to my proposals, and
I look forward to seeing you next September in Tallinn, the
capital town of Estonia.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic
of Estonia for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Lennart Meri, President of the
Republic of Estonia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Kim Young Sam,
President of the Republic of Korea
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Kim Young Sam, President
of the Republic of Korea.
His Excellency Mr. Kim Young Sam, President of the
Republic of Korea, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Kim (spoke in Korean;
interpretation
provided by the delegation): First of all, I would like to pay
tribute to the leaders who founded this world body half a
century ago and to the courage and the hope for the future
they shared after overcoming the despair and frustration
born of two world wars. Their dreams of a better world
have already changed our planet tremendously, and have
affected each one of us.
I would like to take this
opportunity to express my heartfelt respect for all those
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
who have spearheaded the effort to fulfil the provisions of
the United Nations Charter.
The world is undergoing drastic change. Riding the
crest of the information age and globalization, not only is
the international order undergoing an epochal change, but
human civilization itself is being radically transformed.
Change and reform in the United Nations are
necessary if the Organization is to create and maintain the
new world order. While welcoming a series of discussions
which have been held on reform of the United Nations, I
would like to express my views on this issue.
First, the United Nations has to be democratized and
made more efficient; and every region of the world must
be more equitably represented on the Security Council. In
particular, I agree with many other Member nations that
the number of Council members with veto power — a
power that has crippled the United Nations for a long
time — should not be raised.
Secondly, the United Nations function of preventing
conflict should be strengthened.
Thirdly,
to
the United Nations must respond more
actively
and
demands
environmental development. In order to attain true world
peace and security, economic and social conflicts in the
international community have to be resolved at all costs.
social
for
economic,
Fourthly,
the United Nations has
to actively
undertake activities that give priority to human beings and
families. The ideas of human security and family values
put forward at the United Nations World Summit for
Development last March will be the most important goal
for people around the world in the twenty-first century.
Fifthly, new plans must be established for burden-
sharing and for the administration of the additional budget
arising from the strengthening of United Nations
functions. I believe that the sooner the United Nations
undergoes change and reform, the better it will be for our
world. To that end, I hereby propose that a special session
of the General Assembly on United Nations reform be
held.
The Republic of Korea was
established in
accordance with a United Nations resolution in 1948. At
that time it was one of the poorest countries in the world.
Today, it is the eleventh-largest economy in the world and
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
a truly democratic nation. Our success has been a great
manifestation of the ideals of the United Nations.
anniversary of
Organization.
the founding of
the United Nations
We are now one of the Member nations most active in
United Nations activities around the globe. We are already
participating in United Nations peace-keeping operations in
Western Sahara,
the Republic of Georgia, Angola and
elsewhere. The Republic of Korea will also actively take
part
and
environmental projects, and will
increase its monetary
contributions. In order to help eradicate diseases among
children around the world,
the Republic of Korea is
building an International Vaccine Institute in Korea with
help from the United Nations Development Programme.
various United Nations
development
in
I am convinced that the Korean peninsula will surely
be unified in a democratic way in the not too distant future.
I humbly and sincerely ask you all
to become solid
supporters of the peaceful unification of Korea.
I sincerely hope that
this special United Nations
summit meeting will be recorded as a bright milestone in
world history. We share the cherished desire to turn the
twenty-first century into an age of a true global community
in which we can coexist and prosper together. Only through
our political will and participation in the United Nations
can we turn our hopes and dreams into reality.
I hereby respectfully propose that a United Nations
summit meeting be held regularly, every five years, and
that its first meeting be held in the year 2000.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic
of Korea for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Kim Young Sam, President of the
Republic of Korea, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Franjo Tudjman,
President of the Republic of Croatia
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Franjo Tudjman, President
of the Republic of Croatia.
His Excellency Mr. Franjo Tudjman, President of the
Republic of Croatia, was escorted to the rostrum.
So much power has convened today under the roof
of the General Assembly Hall, and yet, so little power to
provide the necessary solutions leading to a better
common future for our peoples and for our entire planet.
We are faced with a long and arduous road, but we can
look back with pride on the 50 years of our common
history.
The disintegration of colonial and ideological
empires has given rise to new, modern States, and the
number of United Nations Members has increased almost
fourfold since the founding of the Organization.
a
for
comprehensive
The historical process of democratization could not
stop at mere reform of political systems, but, rather, it
called
transformation. The
totalitarian Iron Curtain that cut across Europe was
brought down not only by the determined policy of the
Western democratic alliance, but also by the freedom-
loving aspirations of nations having small populations and
a great historical heritage.
Destiny has allotted to small nations the role of
promoters of great ideas. They are the leaders of positive
changes in the evolution of humankind that turn the force
of a struggle for national survival into a creative vision of
tomorrow’s world — no longer a world of the large and
small, the powerful and weak, but only a world of equal
nations and States committed to coexistence.
The boundaries of our
freedoms are set by
boundaries of the freedom of others. The affirmation of
human dignity and the universal rights of the individual
upheld by the Charter of the United Nations can be
for different ethnic,
achieved only through respect
religious, cultural and political
identities,
through an
efficient system of collective security, and through respect
for a law-governed State and international law. We have
to turn negative energy into positive momentum. Reform
of global relations and mechanisms must provide for
greater respect for civilizational differences, for their
creative blending and dialogue on an equal footing. A
multipolar world is more stable than a bipolar world and
it is the future of humankind.
President Tudjman (spoke in Croatian; English text
furnished by the delegation): On the threshold of a new
millennium,
is my privilege to address the greatest
Summit of world leaders, by which we mark the fiftieth
it
The global order can no longer be based solely on
the special position of the anti-fascist coalition or the
nuclear club, or on economic or military power; rather,
it should be based on the real
first and foremost,
16
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
contribution of individual countries to the prevention of
every form of totalitarianism and to the non-proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction; on their role within global
socio-economic
democratic
achievement; and on their regional importance. Thus, for
example, we must take into account the present democratic
and economic resources of Germany and Japan — countries
deserving a permanent seat on the Security Council on the
basis of all criteria.
development;
on
their
The United Nations must also be a garden of ideas
related to general human values, international solidarity and
an equitable international order. Our responsibility for
narrowing the gap in economic development and for
promoting coordinated development of all parts of our
planet is equal to our responsibility for global peace.
As one of
five successor States of
the former
Yugoslavia, Croatia also considers itself a founder of the
United Nations, a part of the heritage entered into the
Charter 50 years ago. Having followed a long tradition of
great humanistic visions — from pan-Slavic, pan-European,
non-aligned, ecumenical
to universal — the people of
Croatia have also incorporated the noble ideals of the
Charter into their culture.
sovereignty throughout
The citizens of Croatia appreciate the values of
multilateral United Nations mechanisms, through which
emancipation of the Croatian State and the establishment of
full
territory have been
internationalized and achieved. On this occasion, Croatia
expresses its gratitude to the United Nations, in particular
for the enormous humanitarian effort that alleviated the
suffering of hundreds of thousands of displaced persons
within Croatia and of refugees from neighbouring Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
its
full
We are entering into the new round of negotiations
with the hope that they will bring about the end of the
crisis in the former Yugoslavia and find a formula for a just
and lasting peace. To the citizens of Croatia and its
democratically elected Government, a just peace means
establishing Croatia’s
its
territory within its internationally recognized borders.
Croatia sincerely hopes that an agreement will soon be
reached on the peaceful reintegration of 4.6 per cent of
still-occupied Croatian land. At the same time, we remain
prepared to take other necessary steps as well, if timely
reintegration of Eastern Slavonia, Baranya and Western
Sreeyem is not incorporated into the final plan for the
region.
sovereignty throughout
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
We have shown that we have courage in war, but be
assured that we have even more courage for peace.
Excellencies, because of our responsibility for peace,
freedom and the well-being of our peoples, we, as
leaders, must rise above all our other interests and
differences. We, the leaders of the modern world, are
faced with a great responsibility: we must be united and
rise above our distinct personal, party and national
interests, and seek the vision of a new world which will
hold a future for every individual, every nation and State,
for the universality of spirit and for the tolerance of the
different. Let the noble visions of the new millennium
rest on peace and prosperity of all nations, on harmony in
the global family of sovereign States whose common
beacon is the United Nations.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic
of Croatia for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Franjo Tudjman, President of
the Republic of Croatia, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Boris N. Yeltsin,
President of the Russian Federation
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Boris Yeltsin, President of
the Russian Federation.
His Excellency Mr. Boris Yeltsin, President of the
Russian Federation, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Yeltsin (interpretation from Russian):
Half a century ago an event occurred that paved the way
for a new period in the history of mankind. Divided and
bleeding, the world understood that its only future was the
path of mutual understanding and interaction.
Only the United Nations will be able to realize the
perennial dream of a world without wars and violence; of
a world where controversial issues are settled through
negotiation; of a world worthy of the human being and
mankind.
But, while having won a world war, we have not yet
managed to win peace. The creative capabilities of the
world community were for decades hampered by the cold
war. It neither benefited any people nor made any people
any happier. The end of the cold war has become our
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
common victory. Democratic Russia has made
unquestionable contribution to its achievement.
an
Nuclear missiles are no longer targeted at each other.
But such threats as terrorism, aggressive nationalism, crime
and drug abuse are now aimed at each and every one of us.
Along with integration,
the rifts of estrangement and
distrust among States and peoples are emerging.
There is a dangerous tendency to play down the role
of the United Nations, to circumvent its Charter and the
collective will of the Security Council.
Today, the world more than ever before needs not
only equality and tolerance, but also respect for the identity
of each State and an understanding of the peculiarities of its
history. Each of them is able and willing to make its
contribution to the development of the world community
and to find an adequate place therein. We should not allow
the revival of the atmosphere of animosity and prejudice
against countries and peoples.
Does the United Nations have the ability to achieve
these goals? In the opinion of Russia, it does. The United
Nations can and should become the main instrument for
building new international relations. It has all the necessary
powers to do so. To carry out this mission it should be
provided with appropriate means,
including financial
resources. Russia meets, and will continue to meet, its
obligations to the United Nations.
Certainly, the United Nations has not been able to
achieve success in all areas, but the roots of its failure lie,
first and foremost, in ourselves, in the behaviour of States
and organizations.
Russia is concerned at the situation in which, as has
recently been the case in Bosnia, the Security Council was
relegated to the sidelines of events. It represents an obvious
and clear-cut violation of the basic principles of the world
Organization, laid down by its founders. It is inadmissible
for a regional organization to take decisions on the massive
use of force, bypassing the Security Council.
Russia has worked hard to bring peace closer in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are ready to support
the
operation on the implementation of a peace agreement with
the participation of multinational forces, including Russian
forces, but only under a clear-cut mandate of the United
Nations Security Council. Military force should never be
used in those cases where diplomacy has not been given
enough time to succeed. The effects of that would be tragic.
18
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
Recently there has been much discussion about the
difficult task of revitalizing the United Nations. A lively
debate is under way on the issue of the enlargement of
the Security Council. We advocate such a reorganization
provided only, of course, that the responsibility of the
Security Council is increased and the interests of different
regions of the world are taken into account.
The main concern of Russia is to achieve stability in
Europe and Asia. We are in favour of establishing a
security system based on compromises rather than on
pressure. European security is indivisible: there is no
alternative to that. It is precisely for this reason that
Russia supports
the earliest possible
establishment of a new system of all-European security
wherein all European States would be represented. And
this is precisely the reason why we are against
the
the North Atlantic Treaty
eastward expansion of
Organization. It will put a barrier in the way of the
establishment of a unified Europe.
the idea of
The question is an extremely acute one: either such
a system would be established for all of Europe or, as in
the past, only for a select few. The strengthening of one
bloc today means new confrontation tomorrow. This is
not the way to build a just world order. It should be
based on different principles.
Russia is in favour of a world order in which
priority is given to international law and international
cooperation.
Russia is in favour of a world order in which a
comprehensive security system is put into effect. Russia
is in favour of a world order in which steady advance is
ensured towards a world free of weapons of mass
destruction,
reduction of
conventional weapons is under way.
a world in which the
We are in favour of a world order in which the role
of the United Nations as an instrument for achieving
peace, settling conflicts and providing development
assistance is increasing.
Russia proposes the holding in 1999 of a third Peace
Conference. The first one took place in 1899 at
the
initiative of our country. The third one may be devoted
solely to developing the bases for the settlement of
conflicts emerging after the cold war.
It
is also necessary to find a solution to long-
such as nuclear
standing issues, especially issues
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
disarmament, the complete cessation of nuclear-weapon
tests and control over conventional weapons.
Today, as 50 years ago, we should unite once again to
eliminate the legacy of the cold war and to find worthy
answers to the challenges of our times.
The United Nations represents the common will of the
States of the world. Let us act in accordance with its norms
and principles. And then, peace, justice and international
law will prevail on Earth. Russia believes in the United
Nations, which was born in the middle of the twentieth
century and is making its way firmly into the twenty-first
century.
The President: I thank the President of the Russian
Federation for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Boris Yeltsin, President of the
Russian Federation, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Fidel Castro Ruz,
President of the Council of State and the Council of
Ministers of the Republic of Cuba
The President: The Assembly will next hear an
address by His Excellency Mr. Fidel Castro Ruz, President
of the Council of State and the Council of Ministers of the
Republic of Cuba.
His Excellency Mr. Fidel Castro Ruz, President of the
Council of State and the Council of Ministers of the
Republic of Cuba, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Castro Ruz (interpretation from Spanish):
Half a century ago the United Nations was born after the
conclusion of a monstrous war, at the peak of which an
average of 10 million lives were lost. At present, 20 million
men, women and children are dying of hunger and curable
diseases every year. In some wealthy nations there is a life
expectancy of up to 80 years while in other nations there is
an expectancy of hardly 40, so there are billions whose
lives are cut off. How long shall we wait for this carnage
to end?
The cold war is over but the arms race goes on, and
nuclear and military hegemonism perpetuate themselves.
How long shall we wait for the complete removal of all
weapons of mass extermination, for universal disarmament
and for the elimination of the use of force, arrogance and
pressure in international relations?
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
The obsolete veto privilege and the ill-use of the
Security Council by the powerful are exalting a new
colonialism within the very United Nations.
Latin America and Africa do not have a single
permanent member in the Security Council. In Asia, India
has a population of
almost one billion but it does not
enjoy that responsibility.
How long, how long shall we wait
for
the United Nations and for
the
democratization of
the
independence and sovereign equality of States to become
a reality? How long before non-intervention in the
internal affairs of States and true international cooperation
take their rightful places?
Breakthroughs
in science and technology are
increasing daily in number but their benefits do not reach
the majority of mankind and they continue essentially to
be at the service of a reckless consumerism which is
wasting limited resources and seriously threatening life on
Earth. How long shall we have to wait before rationality,
equity and justice prevail in the world?
Mr. Zeroual (President of Algeria), Vice-President
of the General Assembly, took the Chair.
and animals
soils
The forests are decreasing, the air is being poisoned,
the rivers are being contaminated. Countless species of
plants
are
impoverished. Old and new epidemics are expanding,
while the population grows and the legions of
the
dispossessed continue to multiply.
are perishing. The
Will the next generations reach the promised land
pledged half a century ago? How many hundreds of
millions have already died without ever seeing it? How
many have fallen victim to oppression, plunder, poverty,
hunger and unhealthy living conditions? How many more
will still die?
We lay claim to a world without hegemonism,
without nuclear weapons, without interventionism. without
racism, without national or religious hatred, without
outrageous acts against the sovereignty of any country, a
world with respect
the independence and self-
determination of peoples, a world without universal
models that totally disregard the traditions and culture of
all the components of mankind.
for
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
We lay claim to a world without ruthless blockades
that cause the death of men, women and children, young
and old, like noiseless atom bombs.
We lay claim to a world of peace, justice and dignity
where everyone, without exception, has the right to well-
being and to life.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
thank the President of the Council of State and the Council
of Ministers of the Republic of Cuba for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Fidel Castro Ruz, President of the
Council of State and the Council of Ministers of the
Republic of Cuba, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah
Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan
of Brunei Darussalam
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will next hear an address by His Majesty
Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah, Sultan
and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam.
His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin
Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei
Darussalam, was escorted to the rostrum.
His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin
Waddaulah: I am delighted to join you in celebrating the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. In doing so, I
convey the best wishes of my Government and the people
of Brunei Darussalam. We greet you in the spirit of peace
and international friendship.
We are commemorating a unique historic event. No
international organization has endured for five decades. The
League of Nations failed after less than three. That the
United Nations has survived the long and dangerous years
of the cold war is no small achievement. Among its many
other achievements is the way it eased the path from
colonization to independence for more than 100 countries.
It is fashionable to criticize the United Nations. Some
of the criticisms are valid. Bosnia and Rwanda represent
failures of will and policy that will haunt all Members for
a long time. We should also have more rigorous financial
controls over spending, and Members must honour their
dues so that the United Nations can have the resources to
carry out its mandates.
20
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
But let us not forget: it is we ourselves as Members
who must take the ultimate responsibility for its failures,
because as an Organization of sovereign States the United
Nations can do no more than its Members empower it to
do.
The shortcomings of some peace-keeping operations
should not obscure the honour due those who have
sacrificed their lives in many successful peace-keeping
and humanitarian operations. We owe much to them.
We must also give credit to the United Nations for
the sterling service rendered by its specialized agencies.
Health, education, agriculture and the work of other
specialized agencies may not have captured the headlines,
but they have contributed much to the making of a better
world. Many dedicated professionals and volunteers have
given valuable, if unpublicized, service.
The international environment
today is vastly
different from that of 1945. We face new global issues,
even while several old ones still remain to be solved.
Economics is high on the international agenda. Free
markets and open competition have become a basis for
economic cooperation. That most countries in the world
are now concentrating on economic issues is an advance
over a world preoccupied with ideological conflicts.
The United Nations is still the best Organization to
uphold a world order based on international law and the
principles of
integrity.
Interdependence between nations has increased but has
not displaced the sovereignty of nations as the basic
principle in international relations.
sovereignty and territorial
The United Nations gives all Members, large and
small, an equal voice. This is important for small States
like Brunei Darussalam. The United Nations must change
to meet new challenges, but I hope it will continue to
give small nations an adequate voice in its deliberations.
It is in this spirit that Brunei Darussalam pledges to
work with fellow Members to ensure that the United
Nations remains a force for peace and progress.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I thank His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin
Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei
Darussalam, for his statement.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin
Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei
Darussalam, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Hugo Batalla, Vice-
President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will next hear a statement by His Excellency
Mr. Hugo Batalla, Vice-President of the Eastern Republic
of Uruguay.
His Excellency Mr. Hugo Batalla, Vice-President of
the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, was escorted to the
rostrum.
Mr. Batalla (interpretation from Spanish): As the
representative of Uruguay, a nation with a deep-seated
democratic tradition and a founding Member of the United
Nations, I would not wish to make use of this lofty and
universal podium merely to engage in rhetoric celebrating
the first half-century of the San Francisco Charter.
It would be pointless for us to come here today to run
through the political successes the United Nations has
achieved over these 50 years, though successes it has had
indeed, on the basis of the universalization of the idea of
freedom and democracy,
to which it made a decisive
contribution. Nor shall we emphasize the aspects relating to
the sustainable development of mankind which over the
same period not only have remained unresolved but in large
areas of the world have become considerably worse.
Uruguay has for many years been actively and
increasingly involved in the maintenance of peace, a
fundamental task of the United Nations in which major
successes have been achieved.
Currently, in terms of our population and the size of
our armed forces, we are the world’s major contributor of
personnel to peace-keeping operations.
Nevertheless, these operations cannot be transformed
into the Organization’s priority objective;
the
essential part of the activities of the United Nations must
focus on preventing conflicts that affect international peace
and security, and to this end its role as a forum for ongoing
dialogue where disputes are discussed and resolved by
peaceful means needs to be strengthened.
rather,
Fundamental as it is, silencing weapons does not put
an end to the most serious scourge of mankind, namely the
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
hunger and abject poverty which hundreds of millions of
human beings are suffering.
Hunger, poverty and subhuman living conditions
have claimed more victims in the world than all wars
taken together. They have decimated and continue to
decimate entire peoples in various regions. At this very
moment, millions of children are dying of hunger, at a
time when hundreds of millions of square kilometres of
fertile land lie unexploited or underexploited as a result,
among other
the prevailing economic
conditions, inequitable international trading relations and
the crushing debt burden.
things, of
persistence
of
threat
environment.
The
Freedom and democracy are tender plants and their
stability is constantly threatened if nations do not at the
same time achieve an appropriate and just economic and
social
acute
manifestations of underdevelopment, apart from forcing
millions of people to live degrading lives — something
which the moral conscience of mankind cannot tolerate —
also constitutes a latent and persistent
to the
security of all. The success in silencing the guns in
various conflicts and the contribution to the elimination of
apartheid and to the tearing down of the solid edifice of
colonialism that had lasted almost five centuries are
undoubtedly — among others — great achievements of
the international community, and the United Nations can
justly feel proud of them. But the Organization now needs
to rethink itself in order to devote all its resources —
human, financial, institutional and technical — to the
great undertaking of redressing the unjust economic and
social
the
environment, in the conviction that this is not only a
moral
the ideal way of strengthening
peace.
imbalances and the related problems of
imperative but
The so-called underdeveloped world is not calling on
the international community for hand-outs or privileged
positions in trade; all it is asking for is fair, transparent
and egalitarian treatment, with terms of trade that are not
distorted by political pricing, hidden subsidies and
dumping — practices whose persistence in international
trade causes real havoc in the economies of a large
number of nations.
The demands of the new international situation also
make it desirable for the United Nations to establish
closer links of cooperation and coordination — especially
in the field of human rights — with the Inter-
Parliamentary Union, whose membership covers the
broadest political, ideological and philosophical spectrum
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
of nations,
democracy draws its strength.
thus ensuring the pluralism from which
from poverty and the scourge of war. Today we claim not
victory, but progress.
Unless the Organization effectively demonstrates its
ability to guarantee the international legal order over and
above "international policies" dominated by the most
powerful nations, under which economic and trade
embargoes are imposed and the principles of non-
intervention are violated,
the international system will
without doubt soon be in its painful and prolonged death
throes.
Today, as we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of
the Organization we are, for all the foregoing reasons,
living through an anxious and uncertain present in which
even human values themselves are called in question. It is
our responsibility to look ahead and, all of us working
together, to build on today’s anxiety a brighter tomorrow in
which all people, whatever their colour, their gender, their
religious creed or the place where they live, will have the
right, recognized as theirs by the international community,
to a life of dignity with access to all the benefits that
civilization affords.
The eyes of the world are on us today; we are being
called on to take up this challenge, to which Uruguay
pledges its best efforts. Time will tell if we have been able
to fulfil this hope which we must awaken in all our fellow
human beings.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
the Eastern Republic of
thank the Vice-President of
Uruguay for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Hugo Batalla, Vice-President of
the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, was escorted from
the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency The Right Honourable James
Brendan Bolger, Prime Minister of New Zealand
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will now hear a statement by His Excellency
The Right Honourable James Brendan Bolger, Prime
Minister of New Zealand.
His Excellency The Right Honourable James Brendan
Bolger, Prime Minister of New Zealand, was escorted
to the rostrum.
Mr. Bolger (New Zealand): Fifty years ago a vision
was bravely stated of a world with equal rights for all, free
22
Fifty years on the world is very different. The family
of nations is larger and more diverse. Communications
technology means that we live in a world without walls.
That brings a profound change in the way our global
neighbourhood operates. It is changing the dynamics of
politics and business. Small countries, as well as large,
can play a full part in a true global economy.
While aid is important in meeting immediate needs,
true independence and prosperity will only come through
genuine free trade, which enables each country to use its
resources to the best advantage. The new World Trade
Organization has much to do to achieve that goal. The
nations of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Council
(APEC) agreed in Bogor last year to free trade by 2010
for the industrial nations of this important Asia-Pacific
group, and by 2020 for the developing members. We now
need this sort of political courage on a global scale.
Global free trade is an idea whose time has come.
Equally, the time has come for a new commitment
to a world free of nuclear weapons. This Assembly, in its
very first session, grappled with the nuclear problem and
the elimination of atomic
asked for proposals for
weapons. New Zealand believed then, as now,
that
nuclear weapons should be eliminated. Some progress has
already been achieved. Several States have abandoned
their nuclear capability and some nuclear-weapon States
are making significant
to their nuclear
arsenals — an action which New Zealand applauds.
reductions
Against
testing
nuclear weapons. Continued
this background New Zealand finds it
inexplicable and unacceptable that China and France are
still
nuclear
explosions send all the wrong signals. What we need is a
strategy to achieve the goal of eliminating nuclear
weapons. It is not an impossible goal. All member nations
which are parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty are
already committed to a world without nuclear weapons.
It is only a question of how we achieve it.
The welcome announcement that the United States,
Britain and France will support the South Pacific Nuclear-
Free Zone Treaty is a positive step forward. Next year we
must complete the comprehensive test-ban treaty. Then
we must ban the production of uranium and plutonium for
nuclear weapons. And there must be further substantial
reductions in the nuclear arsenals of all five nuclear
Powers. Then the hope of the first session of this
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
Assembly, of a future without nuclear weapons, will be
within our grasp.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Jozef Oleksy, Prime
Minister of the Republic of Poland
In arguing for a world without nuclear weapons, I
wish to state with equal firmness that global security cannot
be separated from global prosperity and human rights.
Economic development and good governance will help to
eliminate those sources of tension which tempt States to
invest in arms, the infrastructure of death, rather than health
and education, which are the infrastructure of life.
Those who founded this Organization had a vision of
a better world. Some of that vision has been achieved. The
United Nations decolonization efforts are an important
example. The spread of human rights and democracy and
United Nations support for the role of women, for a fair
trading system, for the protection of the environment — all
these achievements must be recognized and celebrated.
Today the generation raised in the shadow of the cold
war has the opportunity to direct its energy to the protection
and enhancement of the planet, not its destruction, and to
use technology to share information, provide education and
enhance the wonders of medical science.
Let us put religious and other differences to one side
and learn to live with diversity. There is so much we can
accomplish by working together.
To achieve these goals, and more, we will have to
renew our Organization. The Security Council must be
reformed, and waste and duplication eliminated. Members
of the United Nations must break the bad habit of expecting
something for nothing. To make our Organization work, all
must pay their dues.
The United Nations is a bold concept. It brings the
nations of the world together in a grand coalition to share
the burden of building a better and more peaceful world.
Let each of us, in this fiftieth-anniversary year, renew our
commitment to achieving that goal, and in doing so pay
tribute to those who have pursued the work of the United
Nations these last 50 years.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
thank the Prime Minister of New Zealand for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. James Brendan Bolger, Prime
Minister of New Zealand, was escorted from the
rostrum.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will next hear an address by His
Excellency Mr. Jozef Oleksy, Prime Minister of the
Republic of Poland.
His Excellency Mr. Jozef Oleksy, Prime Minister of
the Republic of Poland, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Oleksy: The present
jubilee of the United
Nations is conducive to joint reflection on the state of the
world today, a reflection focused on concern for the fate
of what is only one Earth.
For several years now, the world order imposed by
the cold war, founded upon a confrontational, bipolar
power arrangement, a balance of terror and military
might, has passed into history. We must
therefore
participate soberly and imaginatively in a forward-
looking manner, refusing to be swayed by stereotypes,
complexes and old resentments, in the process of shaping
our mutual relations.
Let the evolution of my country’s relations with
Germany serve as an example. It was Poland which a
year ago proposed to the General Assembly that the
archaic enemy-States clause be removed from the United
Nations Charter. “Cold peace” is not an acceptable option
as a prescription for our post-cold-war times. We must
not allow new Berlin Walls, this time of an economic
nature, or Iron Curtains, cutting across the continent and
separating nations, to re-emerge in Europe. We need more
Channel Tunnels.
The message behind these observations reaches
beyond the old continent. Overcoming the development
gap between North and South, along with its grave social
implications, must become the overriding goal of this
Organization. It must at last spur us to action, not merely
provoke lamentations over supposedly inexorable trends.
Every State can and should take a critical and
creative view of its geopolitical situation. Let us seek
friends near and far and enemies nowhere. Let me again
refer to my own country. We have traditionally — and,
for that matter, not unreasonably — regarded Poland’s
geopolitical situation to be unfavourable, even disastrous.
More than once it was Poland’s lot to be caught in a vice.
Now we now have learned the lesson, and we know how
to make the most of our situation. Poland has a chance of
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Treaty Organization
acting as a keystone between Atlantic Europe and the east
of Europe. After all, it borders countries of both the North
Atlantic
the
Commonwealth of
Independent States. We seek to
contribute to uniting Europe. We have succeeded in
concluding treaties of friendship and good-neighbourly
relations with each and every one of our neighbours. After
all, not one of them is exactly the same neighbour that we
had only a few years ago.
(NATO)
and
The President returned to the Chair.
The cornerstone of the foreign policy pursued by the
successive Governments of Poland after 1989 has been a
determined “drive to Europe”, an orientation towards
integration with the European Union and entry into the
Euro-Atlantic structures. In no way does this mean turning
our back on others, whether in the East — especially
Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and the Baltic States — or the
South — the regions and nations of the third world,
including China, which is the largest and, in the last few
years, the fastest growing of them all. Despite the burden
of the radical reforms under way, we do not intend to shut
ourselves within our borders or those of the subregion.
Our rank among the nations committing Blue Helmets
to the various trouble spots around the globe is conclusive
evidence that we are capable of looking beyond our own
back yard. It is with this intent that we have resolved to
seek election to the Security Council, a supreme body
responsible for maintaining peace on a global scale.
Of a similar stamp is Poland’s active role in the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) and the Council of Europe, as well as our guest
status in the Non-Aligned Movement. All this is in tune
with and complements our striving to enter the European
Union, NATO, the Western European Union and, hopefully,
before very long,
the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD). That is how we
understand active sovereignty. Everyone should ask himself
the question, “What can I do to help others, to build a
better world?”
We often try to fend off charges levelled — fairly or
otherwise — at the United Nations, as if they had nothing
to do with us. Yet the credit or blame for its effectiveness
or inefficiency falls on us. That depends on the degree of
consensus in our midst and our readiness to contribute to
the Organization’s budget and support
its activities in
various fields. Both are crucial also to the fate of reforms
in the United Nations system, improved coordination of its
24
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
actions and a better harmonization of its objectives, as the
developing countries urge, not without justification.
The world needs devoted leadership, commitment
and far-sighted vision as much as it needs oxygen. It
needs perseverance in the promotion of trust between
States and their organizations, between nations and
between people. In developing these values and providing
enlightened guidelines, a reinforced United Nations can
and should play a special role with a view to transcending
global zero-sum games.
If we, the United Nations — united not, as 50 years
ago, against someone, but driven by the desire for
peaceful cooperation — show sufficient determination to
give effect to our own proposals at this Meeting and at
major conferences such as those held under United
Nations auspices in recent years,
the world stands a
chance of ensuring a better and safer life in the twenty-
first century. It stands a chance of ensuring lasting peace
and sustained development for all and ensuring respect for
the rights of the citizens of this globe. It stands a chance
of realizing the lofty purposes of the Charter, which
remains the Organization’s signpost in the service of the
United Nations.
The President: I thank the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Poland for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Jozef Oleksy, Prime Minister of
the Republic of Poland, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by Her Excellency Ms. Gro Harlem
Brundtland, Prime Minister of
the Kingdom of
Norway
The President: The Assembly will next hear a
statement by Her Excellency Ms. Gro Harlem Brundtland,
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway.
Her Excellency Ms. Gro Harlem Brundtland, Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Norway, was escorted to
the rostrum.
Ms. Gro Harlem Brundtland: To millions of
people, the United Nations has meant food where there
was none, vaccination where epidemics raged, a school to
attend, a new well in the village, and Blue Helmets who
kept belligerents apart, shielding civil life.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
To scores of new nations, access to this rostrum meant
sovereignty and self-determination. From this rostrum, for
50 years, all countries have been able to call for world
attention.
To the hundreds of thousands of good and dedicated
people who have served the United Nations, let us pay our
tribute. To the peace-keepers and field-workers who did not
return, among them our second Secretary-General, let us
pay our respect.
But let us not only commemorate the past. Let us also
chart a new beginning. Though the United Nations today
faces great difficulties, we,
the Member States, are
responsible.
The ploughshare that worked for five decades is worn.
Let us forge a new one.
Today I will address five pressing issues.
First,
there is the issue of finance. Some dozen
parliaments hold this Organization hostage by withholding
their membership fees. How unworthy. We must all pay our
fees in full and on time. We require some countries to pay
more than their fair share. Other countries voluntarily pay
more than their fair share. Many countries pay too little or
hardly anything at all.
Secondly, we must reform. Change and renewal is a
must
for every effective organization. Reform of
the
Security Council is needed, where the issue of a regionally
balanced enlargement now must be addressed — the most
obvious candidates being, of course, Japan and Germany —
while the Council’s decision-making efficiency must be
retained and its implementation ability greatly enhanced.
Responsibility for sustainable development, poverty,
population, education and the environment is spread out.
Mandates overlap. Let us draw up a schedule for
implementing what we have decided in Rio, Cairo,
Copenhagen and Beijing. We meant what we said. Now, let
us do it.
Thirdly, we must
coordinate our humanitarian
assistance activities better, allowing us to react more
quickly and more effectively. Funds, people and resources
often prove to be available only when human suffering has
worsened enough to dominate the evening news, while
other tragedies of famine, environmental degradation and
underdevelopment remain unnoticed.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
Fourthly, we must improve our peace-keeping and
conflict-prevention capacity to save more lives and to
save expenses. Delayed action is costly in terms of human
suffering and resources, and more countries must
contribute. We need better stand-by arrangements; we
need sharing of experience and training.
Fifthly, we must build the civilized world on law
and contract, an international society where the strong are
just and the weak secure, as President Kennedy of the
United States phrased it right here in this Hall. We need
affirmative action in the interest of our poorest members.
We need an international public or civic sector and a
conscientious human rights watch here in the United
Nations. We must bring justice where the limits are
overstepped and support the new international courts,
including an international criminal court,
to make a
civilized world.
A new step towards this civilized world will be
taken when the Middle East peace process is successfully
completed. A new step towards this civilized world will
be taken when anti-personnel mines are prohibited, so that
the children of war-torn areas can walk safely in the
fields. A new step towards this civilized world will be
taken when the new test-ban takes effect.
There can be no civilized world unless we unite to
strengthen multilateralism. In this endeavour, the United
Nations is our repository of hope.
The President: I thank the Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Norway for her statement.
Her Excellency Ms. Gro Harlem Brundtland, Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Norway, was escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Felipe González,
President of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain
The President: The Assembly will next hear a
statement by His Excellency Mr. Felipe González,
President of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain.
His Excellency Mr. Felipe González, President of the
Government of the Kingdom of Spain, was escorted
to the rostrum.
Mr. González (interpretation from Spanish): As
President of the Government of Spain and on behalf of
the European Union, I have particular satisfaction in
25
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
addressing the General Assembly in this solemn Special
Commemorative Meeting on the occasion of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, presided over by such an
eminent personality as Professor Freitas do Amaral and
with the presence of the Secretary-General, whose work
deserves our recognition.
The birth of our Organization, so closely linked to the
end of a tragic war, enshrined certain principles that formed
the basis of
to fulfil mankind’s
aspirations: peace, freedom, human dignity and economic
and social progress.
the common effort
The great suffering caused in Europe by the wars that
during this century pitted our peoples against each other
made us look upon the purposes and principles of the
Charter of San Francisco for the inspiration required to
bring together our wills.
The European Union is a common project for living
together in peace, for shared political, economic and social
values, which has enabled Europe to re-emerge from its
ashes and to establish itself as a focal point of stability and
progress in the international arena.
This project is driven by our solidarity in the task of
building an international community which is freer, more
just and safer.
The European Union salutes the achievements of the
Organization and reiterates its commitment to the purposes
and principles of the Charter. The universality of the United
Nations reinforces its role as a centre for harmonizing the
efforts to advance on this path. One cannot conceive of
today’s world without considering the contribution of the
to
United Nations to the process of decolonization,
environment
the
consecration of innovative concepts, such as the common
heritage of mankind. The fundamental contribution of our
Organization to the maintenance of international peace and
the
security,
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,
to the
codification of international law and to the protection and
promotion of human rights attests to the universality of the
United Nations and constitutes its legitimizing force.
to disarmament and the prevention of
development
issues,
and
and
to
These achievements do not conceal
the setbacks
suffered by the United Nations, nor its structural and
management problems. Its shortcomings, which we all share
with the Organization, must be surmounted through honest
and profound reflection, if it is to successfully confront the
challenges facing us at the close of this century.
26
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
The European Union has been able to express in
concrete terms its commitment to the United Nations. The
15 States members of the Union represent, collectively
and by far, the main contributor to the budgets of this
Organization, as well as the main contributor of personnel
to peace-keeping operations. The European Union is also
the principal donor of funds for humanitarian assistance
and for development cooperation.
Furthermore, the States members of the European
Union have submitted initiatives with a view to promoting
the ideals of
such as
disarmament, human rights and humanitarian assistance.
the Organization in areas
for
represent
The political commitment of the Member States to
the Organization and the contribution of adequate
resources
the European Union two
inseparable aspects of the support that the United Nations
needs. Only the existence of a viable financial basis will
allow for
the
revitalization of the United Nations system, to which the
European Union attaches great importance. Hence, the
Union hopes that all States,
large and small, will
contribute to this task through the full, punctual and
unconditional fulfilment of their financial obligations.
the success of
the efforts
towards
We need an effective Organization — one that
responds to the conflicts with an enhanced capacity for
preventive diplomacy and humanitarian assistance, for
peace-keeping and peacemaking and for rehabilitation and
reconstruction once conflicts have been overcome.
There is a need for the United Nations system to
intensify its work with a view to eradicating hunger and
poverty, unemployment and social marginalization; to
protecting human rights; and to promoting education,
health, and the equality of men and women. There is also
a need for the United Nations to coordinate the efforts
towards sustainable development that reaches everyone
and allows for the preservation of our environment and
the welfare of future generations. In this endeavour, we
need, finally, to commit and arouse the enthusiasm of all
sectors of our respective societies, especially the young,
so that their concerns may inspire our efforts.
Only thus shall we be able to secure the foundations
of peace for the better and more just world that we want.
This is the demanding task that continues to give a
profound meaning to our Organization. In the pursuit of
this collective task the United Nations can rely on the
active commitment of the European Union.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The President:
I
thank the President of
the
Government of the Kingdom of Spain for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Felipe González, President of the
Government of the Kingdom of Spain, was escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Tomiichi Murayama,
Prime Minister of Japan
The President: The Assembly will next hear a
statement by His Excellency Mr. Tomiichi Murayama,
Prime Minister of Japan.
His Excellency Mr. Tomiichi Murayama, Prime
Minister of Japan, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Murayama (Japan)
in Japanese;
interpretation provided by the delegation): It gives me great
pleasure to join this gathering on the occasion of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations.
(spoke
At the outset, I should like to convey two messages.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
poverty and social instability lie at the root of these
difficult problems. The United Nations has an increasingly
important role to play in addressing these issues more
effectively and in building world peace and prosperity.
What is required of us if the United Nations is to
play such a role is that we not limit our concern to the
nation State level, but also that we focus our efforts on
the well-being of each and every one of “Earth’s
citizens”. The part to be played by women and non-
governmental organizations continues to grow. Hence a
new concept — human security — in addition to that of
national security, has emerged as a major challenge for
the United Nations. This concept, which embraces respect
for the human rights of every citizen on Earth and the
protection of each of us from poverty, disease, ignorance,
oppression and violence,
is consonant with my own
political principles. Since I became Prime Minister, the
creation of a human-centred society, in which all citizens
are treated equally and are able to realize their full
potential, has been pivotal to my administration’s policy.
At the World Summit for Social Development last March
I emphasized people-centred social development as an
area of priority.
repeated,
First, I wish to express the gratitude of the people of
the time the
Japan to the international community. At
United Nations was founded Japan was striving to recover
from the devastation of the war and to engage in national
reconstruction. Firmly resolved that the scourge of war
must never be
Japan adopted its Peace
Constitution. Since then,
in accordance with its basic
philosophy as a peace-loving nation — including non-resort
to the use of force prohibited by its Constitution — Japan
has made cooperation with the United Nations an important
pillar of its foreign policy and has thus been contributing
actively to the peace and prosperity of the international
community. Japan has never
it
received from many members of
international
community in building the economic prosperity it enjoys
today.
forgotten the support
the
of
range
economic
cooperation,
As a leading donor country, Japan has been
supporting the concept of sustainable development, has
been providing assistance for the promotion of democracy
and economic reform and has been striving to extend a
broad
including
cooperation to meet global challenges. Japan is also
advocating a new development strategy that focuses on
combining various policy measures in a comprehensive
manner. It intends to play an even more expanded role in
these areas. Japan also stands ready to cooperate more
actively for peace in such areas as humanitarian
assistance; preventive diplomacy and peace-keeping
operations; and arms control and disarmament, in respect
of nuclear weapons as well as conventional weapons such
as anti-personnel land-mines and small arms.
Secondly, I should like to stress that the role of the
United Nations is growing and diversifying. As we
approach the next century, how humankind will deal with
the population explosion is becoming a serious issue. As a
result, securing a stable food supply and environmental
protection are becoming greater challenges. It is also of
increasing importance that we deal effectively with other
global
refugees and AIDS.
Moreover, we are witnessing with profound concern the
grave conflicts arising from religious and ethnic rivalries
transcend national boundaries. In many instances
that
issues, such as those of
The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is also
the fiftieth year since the tragedies of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki. It
is time for us to accelerate our efforts
towards the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons. I
thus find it all the more deplorable that nuclear testing
continues at
the
immediate cessation of nuclear testing. To this end, it is
extremely important that a resolution calling for cessation
be adopted during this session of the General Assembly,
with the support of as many Member States as possible.
I also believe that it is a most urgent task, as a major step
I strongly call
this juncture.
for
27
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
towards nuclear disarmament, to complete the negotiations
on a comprehensive test-ban treaty by next spring and to
sign it by next autumn.
In our statement during the general debate we outlined
Japan’s position on the reforms that are necessary if the
United Nations is to be able to fulfil its mission.
First, Japan, which has been playing a major role as
the second largest contributor, earnestly calls upon all
Member States to face up to the financial crisis of the
United Nations, to honour their financial obligations and to
urgently and seriously address the question of United
Nations financial reform.
Secondly, it is increasingly necessary to reform the
United Nations system in the economic and social fields.
Improving the efficiency and reviewing the mandates of the
Economic and Social Council and other related organs are
pressing tasks. From this perspective, Japan will continue
actively to participate in the discussions on an Agenda for
Development so that it can make its distinctive contribution.
Thirdly, with regard to the reform of the Security
Council, its functions must be strengthened by enhancing its
effectiveness and its legitimacy. This will necessitate an
expansion of the Council that includes an increase in its
permanent membership and improvement in its working
methods, for example through enhanced transparency. I
should like to urge that Member States work expeditiously
to reach an agreement on a broad framework of reform that
includes these elements by the time this General Assembly
session concludes next September.
We have only five years left
to the twenty-first
century. Humankind has reached the stage at which we
should all join hands and advance together so that the
coming century will be one of hope in which we can look
forward to the creation and development of a new global
civilization. On this occasion, I should like to reaffirm the
determination that the people of Japan made 50 years ago
to live in peace, trusting in the justice and faith of the
peace-loving peoples of the world.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
The President: I thank the Prime Minister of Japan
for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Tomiichi Murayama, Prime
Minister of Japan, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Jakob Kellenberger,
Secretary of State of Switzerland
The President:
In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 48/215 B,
I now call on His
Excellency Mr. Jakob Kellenberger, Secretary of State of
Switzerland.
His Excellency Mr. Jakob Kellenberger, Secretary of
State of Switzerland, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Kellenberger (interpretation from French): To
the United Nations, celebrating its fiftieth anniversary
today, I have the honour of addressing the congratulations
of the Swiss Government. Notwithstanding its observer
status, Switzerland feels very directly involved in this
event. Fifty years ago, the founding Members of the
United Nations decided to be the joint guarantors of
international peace and security and to promote human
rights and social and economic development in the world.
In the United Nations, we have today a sound tool for
global policy-making that enables us, day by day and year
by year, to build our future.
The expectations in this respect are as great as the
means and the instruments are modest. In spite of all this,
the United Nations stands at the heart of the international
order and will in the years ahead play a decisive role in
the establishment of a global system of human security.
Since the end of the cold war, the United Nations
has been called upon as never before to play its role of
guarding and promoting international peace and security.
This resurgence of activity has impelled the Organization
to seek new ways of optimizing the implementation of the
concept of collective security and of further developing
the underlying philosophy of peace-keeping operations.
I should like to conclude my statement today with the
assurance that, as the exploration of a new vision for the
United Nations continues, Japan will attach ever-greater
importance to and enhance its support for the Organization.
In order to bring about world peace and eradicate poverty
and inequality, Japan will do its utmost to contribute to the
international community on the basis of the universal ideals
of freedom and democracy.
Together with protection for the weakest in the event
of a disaster or conflict, respect for human rights has
become one of the basic principles of the United Nations.
Indeed, peace and security can be guaranteed within the
community of States only if citizens enjoy their
fundamental rights and freedoms. This is possible only if
the law stands above political power. Thus, by means of
numerous treaties, covenants and conferences, the United
28
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Nations has moved the international community to make
major strides in identifying shared priorities and principles.
The United Nations is deeply involved in managing
the socio-economic upheavals that characterize the end of
the twentieth century. The challenges affecting all mankind
have been or will be the focus of major United Nations
conferences that will have to help us identify solutions in
a certain number of areas, all relating to global human
security.
to the promotion of international
The objectives of the United Nations converge with
the priorities of Switzerland’s foreign policy. An active
commitment
law in
general and to the peaceful settlement of disputes in
particular is a constant of that policy. The strengthening,
implementation and verification of norms relating to human
rights, as well as the promotion of democracy and the
concept of a State based upon the rule of law, are all
priority areas of Switzerland’s international commitment.
In the same vein, Switzerland has been supporting
United Nations peace-keeping operations to the extent of its
capabilities. Just
like the United Nations, Switzerland
realizes that strengthened international cooperation is the
only way to meet the technological, economic, social and
environmental challenges facing mankind as the third
millennium draws near. Switzerland will in future seek to
enhance its cooperation with the United Nations and make
every effort
to provide the Organization with the
intellectual, operational and financial support one is entitled
to expect from our country.
This convergence of views prompts
the Swiss
Government’s desire to pursue membership in the United
Nations as an objective of
foreign policy. Our
Government
is thus striving to maintain an ongoing
dialogue with the Swiss people to enable them to become
aware of the changing face of international cooperation and
of United Nations activities.
its
In Geneva, Switzerland is the host country to the
United Nations and numerous other intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations. Switzerland deems the
presence on its soil of international organizations to be
highly important and is determined to spare no effort to
ensure
for
international organizations and conferences. To this end, it
will endeavour to contribute to enhancing the working
conditions of the bodies of the United Nations and of the
other international organizations established in Geneva.
special venue
that Geneva
remains
a
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
On the occasion of
these fiftieth anniversary
festivities, Switzerland wishes not only to extend to the
United Nations its warmest congratulations, but also to
thank the Organization for having created the conditions
for constructive international cooperation. The future that
the Swiss Government hopes to share with the United
Nations cannot but be built on intensive and fruitful
cooperation.
The President: I thank the Secretary State of
Switzerland for his statement.
His Excellency Mr. Jakob Kellenberger, Secretary of
State of Switzerland, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Yasser Arafat,
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Palestine
Liberation Organization
The President:
In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 49/12 A,
I now call on His
Excellency Mr. Yasser Arafat, Chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
His Excellency Mr. Yasser Arafat, Chairman of
the Executive Committee of
the Palestine
Liberation Organization, was escorted to the
rostrum.
Mr. Arafat (interpretation from Arabic): It gives me
great pleasure, Sir, on behalf of the Palestinian people and
its leadership in the Palestine Liberation Organization and
the Palestinian National Authority, to express to you and
to your friendly country our congratulations as you
preside over this historic meeting, which crowns 50 years
of international action.
I also wish to salute the Kings, Presidents and Heads
of delegations of
the countries participating in this
meeting. I also salute Mr. Boutros-Ghali for his principled
positions and tireless efforts. I salute the United Nations.
Our meeting today affords us
an important
opportunity to take stock of
the United Nations
experience and to reaffirm our commitment to its Charter
for a world of peace and security and a better future for
mankind.
The history of the United Nations is intertwined with
that of the question of Palestine. It was the United
Nations that adopted the resolution on the partition of
Palestine into two States: one Jewish and one Arab. Since
29
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
then, the United Nations has not ceased to deal with the
question of Palestine
and
developments.
ramifications
in all
its
The history of the United Nations and its resolutions
constitute an expression of its permanent legal, political and
moral responsibility, which makes the United Nations a
witness to the immense suffering of our people and their
sacrifices, their displacement and scattering to all parts of
the world, as well as the wars and massacres which have
been inflicted upon them. Nevertheless, they persisted in
their struggle and their intifadah for survival and for the
affirmation of their national identity.
Hence
importance of
It
cause,
the United Nations
the
should continue to sponsor our
continuing role.
Palestinian
alongside
Israeli-Palestinian
agreements, until the implementation of our inalienable
national rights, including the right of our people to return,
self-determination and national independence.
the
The initiative of President Bush for the peace process
and the Madrid Conference, and later the meetings in
Washington, was made on the basis of United Nations
resolutions, and the Palestinian-Israeli agreements in Oslo,
Cairo, Taba, Washington and others, were based on United
Nations
Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), as well as on the
principle of land-for-peace.
resolutions,
particularly
This means that the United Nations has an abiding
responsibility towards the cause of our people, particularly
because such fundamental issues as the questions of Al-
Quds, of refugees, of the settlements and of the final
borders, have been left to the final stage.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
In spite of all the difficulties we are determined to
press forward to complete the transitional stage and enter
into negotiations on the final status. I should like to seize
this opportunity to express our appreciation to the
sponsors of the peace process, the United States and the
Russian Federation, especially for the support of President
Clinton and his good efforts and that of his assistants, and
for the efforts of President Yeltsin. I should also like to
express appreciation for the efforts made by President
Mubarak of Egypt, in particular to give the process a
push forward, and the efforts of Their Majesties King
Fahd, King Hassan II and King Hussein, as well as those
of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, President Zeroual
and President Ali Abdullah Saleh,
the permanent
members of the Security Council, the member States of
the European Union and Japan and the efforts of Mr.
Boutros-Ghali, Norway and the Arab, Islamic, African
and Non-Aligned States.
We emphasize our need for their support in order for
our people to succeed in its endeavour, to rebuild its
infrastructure which
by the
occupation, to end its dispersal and to build its political
system on the foundations of democratic pluralism and
freedom.
been destroyed
has
The winds of change are blowing in our world. A
new world order is emerging. It is our responsibility in
the United Nations and in the international community to
make it a good order for the stability, security and peace
of the world, with the wider participation of the States
and peoples of the world. We therefore support the trend
towards the expansion of the membership of the Security
Council, which will give it new vigour and will ensure
justice and equality for all.
Our people have continued to affirm their support for
the peace process. When we embarked upon the peace
process, which was approved by our National Council,
Central Council and all other organizational units, the peace
option became an irreversible Palestinian decision.
It
springs from our people’s desire to turn over the leaf of
killing and destruction once and for all, so that
the
Palestinian people and the Israeli people may live side by
side, in two independent States on the basis of mutual
respect.
I came to this Assembly 21 years ago as a fighter
for freedom, liberation and independence, carrying with
me the torments of my struggling people. Today,
however, I come to you with a heart filled with love and
peace, now that the olive branch has been raised over the
peace of the brave.
Our people yearns for peace. The prophecy of good
tidings has been heralded. Help us bring it to fulfilment,
help us bring it to fulfilment.
This historic Palestinian-Israeli reconciliation must be
carried through as envisaged. It must be completed on all
the other Arab-Israeli tracks, particularly the Lebanese and
Syrian tracks, so that peace may be just and comprehensive
and include also the Iraqi and the Libyan peoples.
30
The President:
I
Executive Committee of
Organization for his statement.
thank the Chairman of
the
the Palestine Liberation
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
His Excellency Mr. Yasser Arafat, Chairman of the
Executive Committee of
the Palestine Liberation
Organization, was escorted from the rostrum.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1995
The President: Before adjourning the meeting, I
should like to inform Your Excellencies that, owing to the
lateness of the hour, it will not be possible to hear all the
speakers scheduled for the meeting this morning. The
remaining speakers will
therefore be moved to this
afternoon’s meeting at 3 p.m. as first speakers in their
respective categories.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
31
