United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
13th plenary meeting
Friday, 29 September 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.13
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tsaty-Boungou
(Congo) Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Abdellatif Filali, Prime Minister
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation
of the Kingdom of Morocco
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The Assembly will first hear a statement by the Prime
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation
of the Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr. Abdellatif Filali, Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of
Morocco was escorted to the rostrum.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I have great pleasure in welcoming the Prime Minister and
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Morocco,
His Excellency Mr. Abdellatif Filali, and inviting him to
address the General Assembly.
Mr. Filali (Morocco) (interpretation from Arabic): On
behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Morocco, I am
pleased
sincere
congratulations on his election to the presidency of the
fiftieth session of the General Assembly.
the President my
to
to
extend
I am convinced that his diplomatic experience,
excellent knowledge of international issues, and the many
responsibilities that were assigned to him will ensure the
success of our work and help us achieve the best results.
I also wish to assure the President that the delegation
of the Kingdom of Morocco will spare no effort
in
cooperating with him and in providing every support to
facilitate his task. I also salute in him the representative
of a country which shares strong ties of friendship,
cooperation and good-neighbourliness with Morocco.
I should like to avail myself of this opportunity to
pay tribute to the outgoing President, Mr. Amara Essy,
for his excellent conduct of the work of our previous
session.
I should like also to express my deep appreciation to
Mr. Boutros-Boutros Ghali, the Secretary General, for his
untiring efforts towards the promotion of peace and
security and for his constant endeavours in facing up to
the tremendous responsibilities shouldered by the United
Nations as a result of the developments that took place in
the world over the past few years.
Those efforts of
the Secretary-General acquire
greater importance at a time when our Organization faces
an unprecedented financial crisis.
This session stands out by the fact that it coincides
with the fiftieth anniversary of our Organization. We may
recall the day, 50 years ago, which gave rise to hope that
95-86154 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
we were embarking on an age of emancipation, liberty,
independence and the maintenance of peace and security.
That day heralded, for all humanity, the dawn of a new era
that was received with joy as it was to be the beginning of
a path of dialogue and cooperation that affected an
alternative to violence and confrontation.
The important changes in international
relations
witnessed by the world over the past few years did usher in
a new world situation. However, the fact that, in the new
situation, the
economic interests of the major Powers
continued to have the upper hand frustrated the hopes of the
developing countries that a new era of genuine solidarity
between the rich and the poor was about to emerge and
serve the legitimate interests of all the members of the
international Community.
As we see it, the economic and social situation in
most countries of the South gives no cause for hope or
optimism. The gap between developed and developing
countries is still widening, and the economic, commercial,
and social problems of the developing countries are only
worsening. This has thrown the doors wide open to such
phenomena
fanaticism and terrorism,
scourges that we must confront and curb.
extremism,
as
In order for us to do so, the world economy has to be
restructured in the context of genuine cooperation between
all nations and an earnest dialogue in which the rich
countries would shoulder their full responsibilities towards
the promotion of an international partnership whose aim
should be to find viable solutions to this problem that
would work in favour of men’s moral and material
interests, wherever they may be: North or South.
While we welcome the initiatives taken towards the
restructuring of the world economy since the ratification of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the
subsequent inception of the World Trade Organization, and
the steps taken by numerous developing nations, including
Morocco, to restructure their economies with a view to
integrating those economies into the world economy, we
believe that such initiatives, by themselves, will not be
sufficient to lead to solutions to the economic, trade and
financial problems that beset the third world. We hope that
the World Trade Organization will adequately and fully
discharge its responsibilities and that it will be provided
with the necessary means that would make it an effective
tool and enable it to translate into reality the commitments
made.
2
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
We hope that the current negotiations amongst the
various international organizations concerned will lead to
the desired coordination between monetary, financial and
trade policies and thereby lead to the laying of genuine
foundations for free international trade, wherein there
would be no deterioration in the terms of trade or any
decline in the prices of primary commodities. We also
hope that those discussions will mark the beginning of a
reconsideration of the concept of foreign debt from which
the developing countries suffer.
The African continent is in the grip of a disastrous
economic and social situation. Morocco views with
concern the deterioration of this situation as it is part of
the African continent, and is a member of the African
family that has a long history of shared struggle for
liberation and emancipation which binds it to all the
peoples of Africa.
Given the gravity of a situation, that portends untold
tragedies, Morocco calls on the international community
to make a concerted effort
to find a solution to the
worsening problems of Africa.
In our opinion, the strategic perspective and the
approach adopted so far in tackling those problems will
not lead to any improvement or substantial qualitative
change so long as the international community does not
commit
itself to a long-term strategy that embodies
concrete commitments in favour of Africa. Such a
strategy, as we see it, should be part of a comprehensive
perspective aimed at improving the level of social and
economic development
in Africa with a view to
integrating the continent into the world economy and
enabling it to benefit from its dividends. In this respect,
Morocco calls for a speeding up of the implementation of
the Convention to combat desertification in order to meet
the needs of our continent at both the national and
international levels.
In spite of the efforts made by the United Nations
and repeated calls from this rostrum to give pride of place
to dialogue, and to solve conflicts by peaceful means and
preventive diplomacy, some regions in the world continue
to be the scene of armed conflicts and civil wars which
crush our hopes of establishing lasting peace and security.
By the same token, the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction, especially nuclear weapons, still threatens our
world and should be addressed most earnestly in order to
avoid irreparable disasters.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
In this respect Morocco has effectively contributed to
the indefinite extension of
the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and hopes that all
countries will accede to this important Treaty and thereby
ensure its universality. Morocco also hopes that the Middle
East will be exempt from all weapons of mass destruction,
as has been the case for other regions of the world. This is
one of the noble objectives that the Organization should
work for so that all may channel the funds tied up in this
field to development and to combating all
forms of
underdevelopment.
It is indeed cause for optimism that progress has been
made in the negotiations on the test-ban treaty, especially
the pledge made by the Conference on Disarmament to
conclude a treaty concerning this issue before the end of
1996.
fact,
this has been one of
The era of colonialism is now a thing of the past. As
a matter of
the great
achievements of the past 50 years. Unfortunately however,
the two Moroccan cities of Sebta and Melilia and the
neighbouring islands are still under Spanish occupation.
These enclaves, which are part and parcel of Moroccan
territory, and which overlook the Mediterranean sea, are
thus the last remaining colonies in Africa. Such a situation
is indeed a strange anomaly which neither reason nor logic
can accept and which clashes head on with the spirit and
the letter of the United Nations Charter.
integrity. Since its
In this context, may I recall the major stages which
to complete its
Morocco has gone through in order
independence in 1956,
territorial
Morocco started negotiations with Spain in order
to
complete its independence, hence the withdrawal, in 1958,
from the region of Tarfaya, which is part of the Moroccan
Sahara, then the withdrawal from the region of Sidi Ifni in
1969. In 1975, after a period of alternating dialogue and
tension, Morocco recovered its other southern provinces.
The only parts that are still under Spanish colonization are
Sebta and Melilia and the neighbouring islands.
Morocco, which opted for dialogue as a fundamental
principle in its policy vis-à-vis its neighbours, propounded
that principle in international forums as the best means of
avoiding armed conflict and sought to settle all problems by
peaceful means, remains convinced that its historical ties
with Spain, coupled with the two countries’ common
economic interests, will help overcome the difficulties that
stand in the way of a solution to this dispute.
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Morocco considers Spain to be one of its most
important economic and political partners in view of the
size of Spain’s investments in Morocco, the volume of
trade between the two countries, the joint development
projects, such as the intercontinental link between Spain
and Morocco that would link the African and European
continents, as well as the burgeoning cooperation in the
areas of culture and tourism.
if all
We are convinced that
this is taken into
account, it would help resolve the disputes. We believe
that the best framework for the desired settlement is to be
found in the proposal made to Spain by His Majesty King
Hassan II,
to set up a reflection and consultation
committee with the aim of finding a solution to the
problem of Sebta and Melilia that would allow Morocco
to exercise its sovereignty over the two cities and the
neighbouring islands while preserving Spain’s economic
interests.
The Arab Maghreb Union has made considerable
progress on the road to Maghreb unity. Morocco, which,
like its neighbours, believes that the Union is a strategic
choice, is determined to overcome the few remaining
obstacles in the way of progress towards unity. In this era
of economic blocs, the creation of the Arab Maghreb
Union is an unavoidable necessity if regional integration
is to be achieved, if challenges are to be met and if we
are to ensure the progress and prosperity of our peoples,
who are united by the bonds of common language,
religion and history.
I am sure that idea of establishing the Arab Maghreb
Union, which reflects an ancient historical reality, will
come to fruition as have other regional blocs that have
achieved a high level of integration and unity even
without enjoying the bonds that unite the Arab Maghreb
Union.
In recent years, the Middle East has witnessed many
developments that have created an opportunity to achieve
peace and to end the Arab-Israeli conflict on the basis of
the principles of land for peace, respect for the national
and political rights of the Palestinian people and the
establishment of their own State, with Al Quds as its
capital.
One of the decisive events in the region was the
conclusion of the Israeli-Palestinian Agreement signed at
Washington D.C., which confirmed that the peace process
in the region is irreversible, notwithstanding the obstacles
it is encountering. The Jordanian-Israeli agreement also
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
confirmed that the logic of tolerance and coexistence in the
framework of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace based
on international legality is now an absolute necessity for all.
In this connection we welcome with satisfaction the
Taba Agreement
that was signed in Washington D.C.
between the Palestinians and the Israelis, an important
milestone on the road towards the establishment of peace
and security in the region. It is our fervent hope that the
two parties will be able to overcome existing obstacles and
show a firm determination to settle pending problems,
bearing in mind the legitimate interests of all and respecting
their commitments and the behests of international legality.
Optimistic as we are about the progress on the Israeli-
Jordanian and the Israeli-Palestinian tracks, we hope that
positive development will materialize on the Israeli-Syrian
and Israeli-Lebanese tracks which would lead to results
acceptable to all parties on the basis of the relevant
resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and
General Assembly, particularly Security Council resolutions
242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978).
Last year, in an attempt to promote the peace process
in the region, Morocco acted as host to the very first
Economic Summit for the Middle East and North Africa,
which stressed the need to establish economic programmes
as part of an effective partnership that would create better
living conditions for the peoples of those regions. The
Summit also emphasized the need to assist economic
development in Palestine to enable the Palestinian people to
promote their economic and developmental institutions and
to participate on an equal footing in the development of the
region.
We hope that the Amman Summit will be another
milestone in the mobilization of the potential of public and
private sectors
to consolidate the peace process by
promoting economic cooperation to help in the region’s
development and by meeting the aspirations of the peoples
of that region after progress, prosperity and just and lasting
peace.
The United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of
Iran have not yet arrived at a final settlement of their
dispute over the future of the islands of Abu Musa and
Greater and Lesser Tumbs. In light of our historical
relations with those two sisterly countries, and given the
relations of neighbourliness and friendship between the
peoples of the United Arab Emirates and Iran, we look
forward the day when there will be a final solution to this
4
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
dispute so that the region may revert to the spirit of
coexistence that once characterized it.
The tragedy of the Bosnian people is almost without
precedent in the history of mankind. It is even more
alarming in light of the international community’s failure
to stand up against murders, displacement of populations,
ethnic and religious cleansing, mass rape and the
destruction of
and
civilization.
culture heritage
the
country’s
It is regrettable that the world should be witnessing
such procrastination under the new world order, which
purports to be founded on respect for human rights. It is
also somewhat amazing that that new world order, which
had mustered all its resources to extinguish every hot spot
outside the Western world, should now fail to protect a
people in the very heart of Europe who are daily being
subjected to Serb aggression.
Morocco, which had been under the impression that
the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be settled
in 1992, was surprised at the deterioration of the situation
there and by the escalation of violence and massacres. In
this connection, Morocco has consistently discharged its
human and Islamic duty to defend the sovereignty and
territorial
the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, mitigate the agony of the Bosnian people
and provide humanitarian assistance to them.
integrity of
I am convinced that the meeting of the Islamic and
International Contact Groups in Paris on 7 September
1995 and the meeting that took place between the two
groups yesterday, 28 September 1995, are likely to open
the way to coordination and consultation to achieve the
expected objectives and strengthen the foundations for
peace in the region on the basis of
justice and
international law.
We welcome with hope the results of
the 8
September 1995 meeting between the Bosnian, Serb and
Croat ministers at Geneva.
We hope that the agreement in principle concluded
by the parties to the conflict last Tuesday, 26 September
1995,
in New York will be a decisive step towards
alleviating the sufferings of the people of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and that it will help them achieve their
hopes for peace, tranquillity, sovereignty, safeguard the
territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
and thus ensure peace, reconciliation and stability in the
region.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
With regard to the question of the so-called Western
Sahara, Morocco took the initiative of proposing the
organization of a referendum and accepted the settlement
plan presented by the Secretary-General. Morocco also
agreed on the criteria concerning voter identification and
made serious efforts in full cooperation with the Secretary-
the Security Council and the United Nations
General,
Mission
for
the Referendum in Western Sahara
(MINURSO). Morocco has also offered financial assistance
and the necessary support to overcome difficulties and
implement the settlement plan in good faith.
In view of the obstacles we are now encountering in
connection with the identification process with regard to all
persons of Saharan origin, we appeal
to the Security
Council to take the necessary measures and to mobilize all
the appropriate means that would safeguard the settlement
plan against collapse and remove the spectre of tension
from the region.
firm determination to continue our
I take this opportunity to renew our commitment and
full
stress our
cooperation with the Secretary-General in order to complete
all
the procedures and take all necessary measures to
organize the referendum early next year, as suggested by
the Secretary-General in his latest report to the Security
Council on the issue.
We hope that
the fiftieth anniversary of our
Organization will be an opportunity to study all the ideas
and suggestions put forth in order to improve and redress
the structures of our Organization so that, given all the
changes in the world, it can meet the actual needs of the
international community. I refer in particular to ideas
regarding the enlargement of the Security Council and
improvement of its working methods, which must be
carefully considered and given ample time so that results
can be achieved and a consensus can be reached.
We are confident that the perseverance and earnest
determination we have shown in taking up challenges will
be the best incentive for us to face up to the new challenge
and enable our Organization to fulfil its duties adequately
at the dawning of the twenty-first century, which we hope
will be the beginning of a new era of peace, stability and
life in dignity for humanity.
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Mr. Abdellatif Filali, Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Morocco,
was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Zambia, His Excellency Mr. Christon Tembo, on whom
I now call.
Mr. Tembo (Zambia): On this important occasion,
allow me to extend to the President the congratulations of
the people and the Government of Zambia upon his well-
deserved election to preside over the work of the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session. We are confident that his
broad experience and ability will afford us sure guidance
at this historic session of the General Assembly, which
marks half a century of the United Nations.
I would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing
President of the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth
session, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire,
who so successfully presided over the session with great
skill and expertise. He leaves the presidency with a record
of
enhanced the Assembly’s
deliberative role.
successes
that has
My delegation would also like to put on record its
appreciation for the Secretary-General, His Excellency
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has continued to lead the
Organization with skill and tenacity under
trying
circumstances.
As we observe and celebrate the fiftieth anniversary
of the founding of the United Nations, we should also
take this opportunity to take stock of the Organization’s
past performance, evaluating its achievements and
failures, and then proceed to map out our future direction.
It cannot be disputed that the United Nations has
made outstanding contributions to world peace and
security and the promotion of development throughout the
world.
The United Nations has conducted successful peace-
keeping operations in various parts of the world, including
Cambodia, Mozambique, Haiti and, very recently, Angola.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation of the Kingdom of Morocco for the statement
he has just made.
It is also as a result of United Nations engagement
that the world is now entering an era in which the ideals
of human rights and democracy are gaining support in
many countries. The United Nations is on record as
having provided electoral assistance to over 40 countries.
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
This has gone a long way in ensuring free and fair
elections.
The United Nations has been a strong source of relief
from human suffering. Through the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
the United
Nations has provided food, shelter, medicine and education
for millions of refugees the world over.
Very recently, in 1990, through the efforts of our
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and the
personal dedication to children of the late James Grant, the
World Summit for Children was convened here in New
York, where the Convention on the Rights of the Child was
adopted. This Convention has become the first to receive
universal acceptance. This is a remarkable achievement in
itself.
Against
achievements,
this background of
the
Organization has had to deal with many formidable
problems, such as the super-Power rivalry of the cold-war
era, which resulted in a long period of paralysis in terms of
the Organization’s ability to take quick and effective
decisions and in the increasing number of ethnic conflicts
and tensions around the world, as evidenced by conflicts in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda, Burundi, Somalia and
Georgia, among others.
The continued unfavourable international economic
serious
situation and environmental degradation are
challenges that the United Nations has had to deal with.
Zambia is convinced that the United Nations remains
the only world body with the capacity to galvanize political
will to face these challenges as we approach the twenty-
first century. As a country and Member State, we take this
opportunity to reaffirm and renew our commitment to the
United Nations.
It is quite clear that the United Nations will require a
renewed vision for the next 50 years. The agenda to disarm
throughout
the world is not complete. My delegation
strongly feels that as long as there is continued proliferation
of weapons, there can never be any hope for lasting peace
and security in any corner of the world.
My delegation, therefore, welcomes the successful
conclusion, early this year, of the Review and Extension
Conference of
to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT); the Treaty
was extended indefinitely. My delegation wishes to express
our grave concern that, soon after the extension, some of
the Parties
6
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
the signatories to the NPT have resumed nuclear tests.
This is not in the spirit of nuclear disarmament. We also
congratulate those that have continued to observe their
moratoriums and hope that they will not be swayed by
those that are embarking on nuclear testing.
Zambia takes note of the ongoing negotiations in
Geneva on a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty
(CTBT), and urges a speedy and successful completion of
that treaty. We also welcome the efforts to strengthen the
Biological and Toxic Weapons Convention.
However, in spite of all these positive developments
in the area of disarmament, there are, of course, other
critical areas, such as complete and general disarmament,
nuclear
technology, nuclear-weapon-free zones, mine
clearance as well as peaceful uses of nuclear energy, that
remain unresolved. We therefore urge all concerned to
give special attention to such issues, in the hope that this
will enhance security guarantees.
The issue of specific concern to southern Africa,
which has emerged from a long period of conflict, is land
mine clearance. Many of our people continue to die from
uncleared land mines. Accordingly, we call upon the
international community to increase its support for the
regional efforts being carried out through the Southern
African Development Community to de-mine the affected
areas in the southern Africa region. In this regard, we
wish to express our appreciation to the European Union,
which continues to support our efforts in mine clearance.
In the area of peace-keeping, Zambia realizes that
pursuing peace has not been an easy task for the United
Nations and is not likely to be so in the foreseeable
future. The Organization needs a clear vision of what
must be done in each particular case. The Secretary-
General’s Agenda for Peace, we believe, provides that
vision. It
is an important agenda, which has already
assisted in many areas of our peace-keeping operations.
We are aware that a quick and effective response in
time of conflicts depends on a number of important
factors, especially the political will by the Member States
to meet resource requirements. In this respect, Zambia
supports the establishment of a rapid- reaction-capability
force, which we believe will enhance peace-keeping
operations and save lives.
The protection, promotion and enjoyment of human
rights is an obligation Governments and peoples the world
over must uphold. The dignity of life cannot be enhanced
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
without full observance of human rights. Zambia therefore
believes that the United Nations must continue to give high
priority to human rights issues.
In this regard, Zambia is gratified that the Fourth
World Conference on Women, recently held in Beijing,
China, recognized that women’s rights are human rights,
and that Governments committed themselves
to the
implementation of that human rights agenda.
The Beijing conference and the other recent United
Nations conferences — the World Conference on Human
Rights, the International Conference on Population and
Development and the World Social Summit — will all need
active and integrated follow-up throughout
the United
Nations system. In this follow-up, the roles of the General
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council are crucial
not only for the efficient implementation of the programmes
of action, but also for strengthening the Organization in the
social and economic fields. Zambia recognizes the urgent
need to revitalize the Council’s functions,
including
improved and enhanced utilization of its various functional
committees. Harmonization of institutional arrangements in
the entire United Nations system will need to be undertaken
as a matter of priority.
In terms of the reform of the Security Council, Zambia
believes it is necessary to expand the Security Council to
enable it to become more representative. It is also our view
that the Security Council needs to become democratic and
transparent.
Zambia would like to see the United Nations give
priority to addressing developmental issues in the new
millennium. In this regard, I wish to state that Zambia
attaches great importance to the realization of the Agenda
for Development. Development is a critical area of concern
for my
poverty,
unemployment and social exclusion affect virtually every
country. As we approach the twenty-first century,
the
international community should give added emphasis to the
fight against poverty. By fighting poverty, we can assure
the progress of individuals, which is essential
to the
sustained progress of all nations.
continent, Africa, where
own
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
world over to create opportunities through employment
generation and social integration that should eradicate
poverty. My delegation hopes that Governments will
implement its Programme of Action.
The poverty obtaining in many developing countries
is being exacerbated by the onerous debt burdens most of
these countries have continued to carry since the early
1980s. The Naples terms, with the potential to achieve a
67 per cent debt reduction on either export credits or debt
service, is only the beginning in offering durable debt
relief to developing countries, especially with regard to
those with very high debt service ratios. The creditor
countries should move beyond modesty and offer terms
that can in the shortest possible time frame reduce debt
service ratios of the poorest developing countries to 21
per cent of their export earnings. This is the level
recognized by the United Nations as the basic minimum
requirement
the poorest developing
countries overcome their debt problems and re-establish
credit-worthiness.
sustained
underfunding of many structural adjustment programmes,
a modest approach on promoting debt reduction can only
have the ultimate result of undermining opportunities for
growth, development and prosperity in developing
countries.
Coupled with
to ensure that
the
As
continue
the World Trade Organization begins
its
formative years, a new challenge from this institution is
emerging in developing countries that will add to the
challenges of external debt burdens and poverty. This is
the challenge of registering early net losses from the new
system of multilateral trade as preferences are removed,
food prices rise, subsidies decrease and commodity
exports
is
especially pronounced for Africa, which, as we all know,
has already recorded more than a decade of austerity.
While we
long-term opportunities
developing countries will gain from the World Trade
Organization,
it still remains the duty of developed
countries to make good their pledges reaffirmed at
Marrakesh to compensate net losers in the new system of
multilateral trade, by quickly specifying the terms of
compensation.
to face marginalization. This
recognize
the
Zambia is therefore gratified that the World Summit
for Social Development committed itself to accelerating the
economic, social and human resources development of
Africa and the least developed countries. The World
Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen,
Denmark, in March this year, has, through its Declaration
and Programme of Action, challenged Governments the
Zambia realizes that establishing the foundations of
international competitiveness is the key to getting a
foothold in the world economy. Our reform measures,
which started in 1991, are gaining momentum. The
challenge now is to move away from concerns over
stabilization and liberalization to the stimulation of
production, employment and labour productivity as the
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
basic foundations for poverty reduction. This is being done
at the same time as we are building on complementarities
already established in the regional integration mechanisms
of the Southern African Development Community and the
Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, of which
Zambia is a member. However, our domestic reform efforts
can only be sustained by generous debt reduction that
improves our cash-flow position to levels which regenerate
business confidence in Zambia. The debt overhang remains
the single biggest barrier to recovery and development in
Zambia.
In conclusion, I would like to state that Zambia will
remain actively committed to achieving these priorities in
the framework of the United Nations. We believe in the
United Nations and have every confidence that our
Organization will lead us into a new era of full of hope and
prosperity.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of
Venezuela, His Excellency Mr. Miguel Angel Burelli Rivas.
Mr. Burelli Rivas (Venezuela) (interpretation from
Spanish): Everything that could be said has been said
during this annual routine, in which each Head of State or
Government, or Minister, stands before the United Nations
General Assembly. If all the speeches were to be published
in a compendium, the same universal themes would be
repeated a thousand times.
The compendium would include the great, insoluble
problems that, to various degrees, afflict the peoples of
every continent, as well as the solutions that have already
been found, and the promised solutions implicit in the
constant efforts of this Organization, which, like any other
human endeavour, has lived through 50 years of triumphs
and frustration.
We must rejoice that, thanks to the Organization’s
vigilance and action, we have enjoyed — as never
before — half a century of peace, although we lament the
fact that we must now deploy efforts against violence born
of intolerance, fanaticism and ethnic or religious strife that
frustrate the achievement of
the harmony for which
mankind yearns.
Alongside the impressive achievements of the world
community, these 50 years have also seen numerous local
conflicts that have taken 23 million lives. Eighty seven per
cent of the weapons sold and used in the world come from
the five countries that are permanent members of the
8
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Security Council. And, unbelievable as it might seem, at
this stage of our political evolution, two atomic Powers
are causing anxiety with inexplicable nuclear tests for
which we criticized other Powers.
But who can deny that
in the fields of health,
technology, environment, human rights, communications,
the exploitation of the resources of the seas and many
other fields, there is progress and hope, and at least a
warning that awakens the universal conscience?
Today’s statement by the Foreign Minister of
Venezuela will be no different. Political scenarios change,
as do ideologies, the most extraordinary crisis in history
erupts, but life’s dramas continue, with man bruised by
change, but for the first time wavering between hope and
bewilderment. This situation results from the fact that we
have rushed from one era to another without
the
demolition caused by war, although we have had the
enthusiastic and confident contribution of students and
workers, who have devoted their free time to making it.
We note hardly any curiosity about the era we are
approaching, an era as yet unnamed, though soon to be
upon us it could be called anything: “post-capitalist”,
“post-socialist” or “post-industrial”; or it could simply be
described as a time of transition between two periods that
our generations share.
There has been talk, of course, of the end of history,
with the end of ideological confrontation; that is precisely
what makes history: incessant conflicts and passionate
confrontations, fears and hopes, freedom and deprivation
of freedom, in any of the forms of oppression that have
always been applied.
Man today has the vague feeling that he is in contact
with all other men through the miracle of the media, fibre
optics, and cybernetic systems, and yet, now that there are
more human beings with whom solidarity may be felt,
solidarity is more precarious and man’s loneliness is more
poignant.
To create a different world based on a solid,
complex and long-lasting Organization that has been
taking shape since the end of the First World War, we
have begun to talk — since we want words to describe
what is going on — of globalization, of integration, of the
abolition of the nation-State and its replacement by large
blocs, in order to produce through strength of numbers
and unity a new dynamic different from military might.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Let us suppose, then, that the world of the future will
have to be shaped according to regions, or large integrated
groups or communities, regional or otherwise, that have a
common cultural origin and wish to be identified with the
others, because of the particular characteristics of their
culture, such as tradition, language, religion and even mixed
blood.
its
a
owing
territory that
to
small population,
but which,
This is what strikes me, as I now appear for the first
time before so distinguished a forum to speak on behalf of
a country such as mine — a country with a modest
is
economy,
a
medium-sized
excellent
geographical situation, developed more than others; a
culture of social freedom, of mixed races and of political
independence, achieved by means of an epic struggle, not
only for itself but for all of its American neighbours. Mine
is a country that has never been at war with anyone, a
country whose desire to see its neighbours freed from
colonialism gave impetus to, and is inspiring, the brand-new
Caribbean community, for instance. It is a country that, as
we have proved time and again, will support and promote
any initiative aimed at pacification in the region, as we did
today in the Group of Friends of Guatemala, for example,
and when we welcomed the latest agreement between Israel
and the Palestinians.
Venezuela, like other countries, has been shaken — in
our case since 1989 — by a severe crisis. Not so much
economic or political as ethical in nature, this crisis has
weakened our institutions and undermined our financial
system, the collapse of which cost us 16 per cent of our
gross
the
not-always-understanding attention of international opinion.
attracted
national
product
and
has
This is the crisis that our Government
inherited.
Aware that its characteristics are atypical in our region,
since its basic goal
is to replace a paternalistic, oil-
dependent model by an open culture based on work and
self-reliance rather than on seeking the understanding of
other countries, our Government is proceeding to solve our
nation’s problems, which, fortunately, are no match for our
diverse and solid economic resources.
the luckiest generals,
Venezuela is a country that has simultaneously — as
if by magic — produced great thinkers, the most credible
Utopians,
the most visionary
educators. My country, situated at the northern gate of
South America, freed itself and other countries by following
the dreams of Francisco de Miranda, brought to fruition by
Simón Bolivár and Antonio José de Sucre, by systematic
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
thinking and by the actions of Andrés Bello and Simón
Rodríguez, among other well-known figures.
Simón Bolívar was clear-sighted. In that nebulous
period of history that was the year 1815, he set out, from
Jamaica — in the most famous political document of this
part of the world — a dazzling prophecy of what the
ideal destiny of Hispanic America was to be. To this day,
no one can understand how he thought it up. He wrote:
“It is a grandiose idea to try to make of the entire
new world a single nation, with only one link to
bind and tie together all the parts to the whole.”
Once independence was achieved, he foresaw that an
imperfect and erratic unity, such as that of the South,
could be thrown off balance by the organization of the
former 13 American colonies, whose integration he
already anticipated. He also foresaw the power of the
hard-working, driven race that would consolidate on the
American continent the formidable and admirable nation
that the United States has become, with its transcendent
and unique feeling of liberty, since its founders left
behind all prejudices and fears.
Bolívar visualized uniting the American half that
was discovered, populated and moulded in all its aspects
by Spain and Portugal, seeing it as one that must
necessarily have its own way of life and of behaving. His
vision was never based on rivalry, but rather, in keeping
with his views on the destiny of this shared hemisphere,
on the basis of emulation and friendship instead of strife
as its driving force.
The colonizing Powers contributed, and based this
half of America on, all they had brought with them. They
established a religion, a society reminiscent of
the
offspring of settlers, whose physical surroundings and
indiscriminate crossbreeding gave rise to a feeling of
unfettered freedom and equality. This, in turn, engendered
irrevocably an equally free spirit of social democracy,
which Latin America has never since lacked, not even
during the long periods when political democracy was
non-existent.
In 1826, Bolívar,
the Liberator, convened the
Congress of Panama to speak there, for the first time in
history, not of sacred or profane alliances of war, but of
alliances for peace. The thoughts he presented gave rise
to the idea of an organized international community, first
of all for the Americas, through the Pan-American Union,
which in turn gave rise to the present Organization of
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
American States (OAS), then to the League of Nations and
finally to this Organization, which has given humanity,
together with peace, all the possibilities that peace offers.
illiterate of the popular Renaissance. Uneducated,
unenlightened, their common destiny was to join
together to become nations and so achieve justice.”
This is an exceptional community, the largest in the
world, since it extends from the southern border of the
United States all the way south to Patagonia, uniting the
greatest number of peoples and republics with similar
characteristics. Here, the various languages spoken in Spain
fortunately became one, revitalizing the Castilian tongue,
and similarly, the Portuguese language, which in Brazil is
a language as open and soft as America itself. In the
northernmost point of America, the imprint of France in
Canada, as well as the Hispanic minority in the United
States, are living reminders of this community.
In geographical terms, we are larger than other official
communities, since the United States’ surface area covers
9,372,000
covers
10,404,000 square kilometres. But we cover 20,000,000
square kilometres, and in these, the future of humanity is
pulsing.
and Europe’s
square
kilometres
In political and spiritual terms, we are history’s largest
laboratory, at once a mystery and a promise — an absolute
wonder that the future is revealing day by day. The seed of
a new world, different from our expectations, is growing
among us.
We are not
the only five hundred million human
beings to be allergic to the discrimination that will confront
us in the year 2000. But we are the only human group to
have been born and moulded without privileges, hesitations
or complexes, on an equal footing. Though this sense of
equality was repressed for three centuries by pragmatic
measures that were respected but not implemented, and by
the extreme zeal of monks who consulted no one in
imposing a single faith on this immense geographical area,
it was imbued with the spaciousness of the land, the rivers,
the forests, the gentle climate, the mountains and prairies,
whose influence produced a different
type of human
character. And I would repeat that this deep feeling and
sense of fundamental freedom was something that had
never happened to any other group of people.
Germán Arciniegas rightly said that
“America was colonized by a man who was destined
to a life of
servitude in Europe. He became
emancipated when he crossed from one shore to the
other ... These wretches worked the continent with
their bare hands, they were the poor, the landless, the
10
And justice was the most absolute independence,
influenced by American determinism.
In his sociologist’s discourse, Bolívar said that we
Americans represent a small human race. We have now
become an important branch of the broader human race:
the branch of possibilities and hope.
Our region would not enter into conflict with any
other; not even with the one with which it shares the
hemisphere, and which speaks a different language and
has different customs. It will not be another international
agency, or form another bureaucracy, or take up more
room than the enormous space of its present physical and
human geography.
In other words, we aspire to a beautiful Utopia, with
no other pragmatism than the pride of being a Utopia
with ever more solidarity; part of the universe with shared
values, in search of the same destiny.
If other continents fashion communities around
religious, racial or geopolitical banners, it is natural that
we, Latin Americans, put forth ours with our own
immense, protean sense of unity.
Practically
There was a time, as we followed a different cultural
pattern, when we had a more orderly society and enjoyed
political systems that brought us fame throughout the
world.
countries
experienced a sort of golden age of culture and politics,
marked by originality. We created literature. We forged
our own laws with our own institutions. We pioneered the
Law of the Sea; we produced the first system against
nuclear weapons, with the Treaty of Tlatelolco.
all Latin American
A concerted Latin American community of nations
would tend to recuperate and exchange training and
educational systems capable of affirming our collective
pride and personality, as Europe has already done, despite
the diversity of its components, out of fear of the return
of thousands of years of violence. Morally, the Latin
American community would be equal to the commercial
and economic commitments made through ALADI, the
Latin American Integration Association, as well as the
Andean Pact, the Central American Common Market and
MERCOSUR, all designed to form a front of solidarity
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and a crucial
universe.
link in the economic integration of the
A conscious Latin American community of nations
would guarantee the sustainable development of the world’s
most varied and richest ecological systems, and would
conceive not only of the larger spaces, but also of the
importance of drinking water, of mining resources, and of
the most varied and richest flora and fauna on the face of
the earth.
Of course, we bring before the United Nations the
many concerns that we have expressed about the fate of our
Organization which, in its 50 years of arbitrating peace, has
charted a new path for the peoples it represents. These
concerns have prompted talk of reforming the Charter, in
order for the Security Council, for instance, to take up and
represent new geopolitical realities, and not only military
might. This is the spirit in which my country, through the
voice of its President, Rafael Caldera, has realistically and
frankly
permanent
representative of Latin America in an enlarged Security
Council. We have also spoken of the justification of
agencies and powers,
to make the cost of peace less
burdensome; of the urgent need to adapt the Economic and
Social Council to the necessities of our time, as well as the
Council for Culture, Science and Technology, that is still
the monopoly of industrialized centres. If a common market
for technology were to be established, we would be truly
keeping pace with history.
that Brazil
proposed
the
be
In America, although less than in Africa and Asia, we
too are disturbed by the growing marginalization, the social
injustice, the poverty bordering on famine, the insecurity
exacerbated by the
and its
consequences, which we witness. We produce terrible drugs
in ever greater quantities to satisfy the voracity of the
consumer markets. But, at the same time, we fight this
scourge with the greatest tenacity and determination.
in illicit drugs
trade
Our community has had the virtue of becoming
practically a breeding ground for democracy, thanks to the
steadfastness of its leaders and thinkers, as well as of the
oldest but least championed regional organization. We must
now see to it that democracy is purged of its dishonesty,
and is cleansed. To this end, at the Hemispheric Summit in
Miami, my Government proposed, with unanimous support,
to put a stop to the impunity of corruption.
We consider
that drug trafficking and political
corruption are linked together by money laundering, under
the cover of electoral contributions.
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
If democracy is to acquire a new respectability, it
will be thanks to the common, concerted effort of
America; an effort which this world Organization will
also be called upon to make in the near future. That is
because political corruption, a manifestation of
the
universal mafia, is not exclusive to our region and must
be fought at
like illicit drug
trafficking.
the global
level,
just
Very shortly, a world congress against corruption
will be held in China, doubtless inspired by our example.
We hold out great expectations for that congress. Indeed,
we are keenly interested in anything that is sponsored and
advanced by this Organization.
But
I wanted to put before the Assembly the
somewhat romantic idea of a Latin American Utopia, that
it might inspire confidence in our neighbours in this
hemisphere and hope in all other regions, whether on an
organized basis or not. This is the spirit in which the Rio
Group has endorsed the oft-repeated proposal for a Latin
American Parliament.
its modes of
its aesthetic sense of
Since the first Great War
there has been a
dislocation in Europe, which conveyed itself through
Spain and Portugal;
life and
existence through Italy;
thought and
philosophy through France; its political models through
Great Britain and its
through
Germany. A regrettable dislocation occurred between
Europe and Latin America, which is truly its most
kindred continent, where we live as distant cousins, and
still
the most vibrant and promising offshoot of this
lineage.
lasting technologies
If we underscore the need to encourage this idea of
our community, it is because it exists, in fact, although it
is now beset with social problems that require combined
treatment. It also has a legalist existence, since States
such as Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay and
Venezuela have incorporated it
into their political
constitutions.
The greatest tragedy of Latin America is its social
condition, because of the imbalances characteristic of any
large society — irregularities
in family patterns,
deficiencies in education, the destruction of homes due to
a lack of ethics — even housing, which was never one of
our biggest problems, has become one, because it is
linked to a sense of ethics at the family level. They are
inseparably linked.
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
We could say, along with Arturo Uslar Pietri that,
caught as we are between the millstones that grind the
political universe, we have given more thought to building
republics than to perfecting the nation that we are.
It
the dedicated protection of
In spite of all its faults, the United Nations — the
Organization we aspired to and wish to maintain — has
created a civilization.
is responsible for over 300
international treaties: for the consolidation of democracy;
for
self-
determination, freedom, independence, the dignity of life,
the arts, traditions; for coexistence — even if the phantoms
of intolerance reappear; for trade free of protectionism; for
children, women and our indigenous populations. And this,
beyond civilization, we can call the new culture of the
human family.
refugees;
for
The Organization has grown and expanded since 1945,
and the world with it. Its many offspring, scattered among
the five continents and virtually all of them free, have led
to a membership quadruple the number of the founding
Members, among them Venezuela, which was represented
then by its great Minister Caracciolo Parra Pérez. At that
time he voiced an idea that has even greater validity today:
“The peoples of the world must know each other
morally and spiritually before they can manage to
dispel the distrust and ignorance which keep them
apart. We must build up a kind of
intellectual
network,
the physical
communications system which exists between nations,
or parallel
the United
Nations Conference on International Organization, 7th
plenary meeting, p. 23)
to it.” (Official Records of
the network of
above
This Organization’s greatest achievement has been to
offer the world a span of half a century during which,
despite remaining fears, it could think of a new course for
harmonizing all aspects of the life of societies with the
nature that shelters those societies.
the success it deserves and needs. All
I congratulate the Organization and the President of
the General Assembly, Mr. Diego Freitas do Amaral, in the
hope that under his leadership the Organization will achieve
all
races, all
religions, all the most varied shades of humankind bring
their aspirations and their claims here. This is an spacious
home that has always endeavoured to live in the peace that
is and must be the normal condition of life. It has been said
that if health is the peace of the body, peace is the health
of peoples. In that connection, the pre-Socratic philosopher
wrote that in times of peace people awake to the crowing
12
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
of roosters, while in times of war they waken to the
clamour of arms; in peace the young bury the old, while
in war the old bury the young.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call next on the First Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Kuwait, His Excellency
Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah.
Sheikh Al-Sabah (Kuwait)
(interpretation from
Arabic): It gives me great pleasure, on behalf of the
delegation of Kuwait, to convey to Mr. Diego Freitas do
Amaral our sincere congratulations on his unanimous
election to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the
General Assembly. We have no doubt that his election is
testimony to his expertise and skills, which will guarantee
the able stewardship of this historic session. I assure
Mr. Freitas do Amaral of the support and cooperation of
the delegation of the State of Kuwait.
I take this opportunity to commend the President of
its forty-ninth session, His
the General Assembly at
Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, Minister of Foreign Affairs
of Côte d’Ivoire, for his significant contribution to the
work of this world body as well as for the wisdom he
demonstrated as he presided over the deliberations of the
last session.
Let me also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, His
Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his immense
efforts to streamline the structure and operations of the
United Nations with an eye to the constantly changing
modern world. Also, I should like to put on record
Kuwait’s support for the proposals put forward by the
Secretary-General in his programme of action to deal with
potential crises, the use of preventive diplomacy and the
modalities of peacemaking and peace-building. In this
context, special mention should be made of the Secretary-
General’s annual report on the work of the Organization,
which demonstrates incisive vision combined with a
dispassionate and in-depth analysis of the challenges
facing the United Nations. The report outlines in a
responsible fashion the failures suffered in some of the
activities and operations undertaken by the Organization.
Next month, a great number of Heads of States or
Governments will come to New York City to celebrate
the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United
Nations. This massive presence will reflect a genuine
belief in the role of the United Nations in building a
world founded on justice, equality, coexistence and
tension and aggression. Their
cooperation,
free of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
statements in this Assembly Hall will no doubt define their
vision of the tasks the United Nations should undertake,
their hopes for the ideal way of life that should prevail in
the world and their determination to spare no effort in
working for a better world. We cherish the wisdom of the
founding fathers who established an Organization that
embodies mankind’s collective effort and hope in a better
world that would differ from the world of war and strife,
which wrought
enormous destruction in terms of
geopolitical entities, property and human life. States were
destroyed and entire human populations were annihilated to
satisfy the capricious whims of individuals who were driven
by greed and hegemony. The scale of sacrifice and
devastation, and the toll
in human life caused by the
development of atomic weapons was too immense to
ignore. In the wake of such destruction, the world’s leaders
were determined to make the Second World War the last
war the world should ever endure.
The signing ceremony of the United Nations Charter
in San Francisco was, in a sense, a universal pledge to
renounce the use of force, to embrace peaceful coexistence
and to shun the power politics of blackmail and hegemony.
Regardless, the world continued to live thereafter in an
environment that differed from the vision of the founding
fathers of the United Nations. The intense bipolar strife that
followed plunged the world in the maelstrom of a cold war
that lasted for some five decades and spawned numerous
regional conflicts with which the United Nations dealt
within the constraints imposed by big Power rivalries. The
inability to act was not due to impotence on the part of the
United Nations but was the direct result of that bipolar
rivalry. Notwithstanding, the Organization did manage to
demonstrate its effectiveness in many a peace-keeping
operation it undertook over the past decades and did
manage to pacify many a volatile area.
In point of fact, experience has shown, over the past
few decades, that the presence of the United Nations in the
areas of tension did prevent the eruption of conflict and war
in several flash points while its absence increased the
chances of war. In all this, the United Nations has been a
true reflection of the will of its Member States and, during
the cold war, it provided a war-prevention mechanism by
creating buffer zones between the belligerents. It was
effective in containing tensions and in creating a climate of
peaceful negotiation.
Over
the years,
the United Nations system has
developed an array of effective and credible mechanisms,
and undoubted
and gained wide-ranging experience
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
credibility that are employed to the common benefit of
mankind. Over the past 50 years, since the adoption of its
Charter, the United Nations has worked consistently to
give real meaning to the dream of peoples all over the
world, that of saving
“succeeding generations from the scourge of war,
which ... has brought untold sorrow to mankind” —
as expressed in the opening paragraph of the Charter. In
large measure, the United Nations has lived up to its
initial commitment.
Once the cold-war chapter was closed, the world
started to edge towards rapprochement and meaningful
dialogue. Once the arms
race ended, an intense
development-race started. The territorial-gains mentality
gave way to a new commitment
to intensive human
development. Thus the new challenge facing our world
now is the fulfilment of the immediate concerns of the
human person and his or her right to live in dignity.
The world was an arena of rivalry between the
super-Powers; now it has become a vast battlefield in the
war against poverty and backwardness. The world was a
battleground for
fighting between various blocs in
different regions; now many regions are closing ranks in
a common effort to combat illiteracy and want. While the
world was the theatre of many a battle, now the world
has but one battle, that of trying to break loose from the
grip of underdevelopment and backwardness.
We in Kuwait were in the forefront of donors for
development. The volume of assistance we offered was
the highest, in terms of gross national product, because
we wanted to live in a world dominated by justice, a
world whose hallmark is human compassion, a world in
which the privileged will
reach out
the
underprivileged without strings attached.
towards
Along these lines, Kuwait welcomes the trend
towards the consolidation of relations between members
of the family of nations on the basis of equality. We are
part of a common effort to eliminate tensions. We rely on
the collective will of nations to suppress aggression, and
on global cooperation to confront underdevelopment.
Against this backdrop, we cannot overlook the need
for reform and restructuring inside the United Nations
itself with a view to bringing the system more into line
with these new objectives. In 1945, 50 founding Member
States signed the Charter. Ever since, 135 other States
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the Security
have joined the membership. Regardless,
Council, which is a major organ of the system, has, for
example, retained its original structure — without change
to reflect the enormous expansion in the membership of the
United Nations. Nor has the Economic and Social Council
shown, as yet, significant
in programme
delivery, as dictated by the requirements of modern
development, in the broad sense of such requirements, at
the threshold of the twenty-first century.
improvement
We call for expanding the membership of the Security
Council in order to enable the larger membership of the
United Nations to participate in the process of decision-
making. The change, which would enhance fairness, should
be effected in such a way as to ensure balance between the
requirements of efficiency and of expansion. We also call
for more transparency in the Council’s methods of work,
for
in our view, would reinforce our sense of
collective participation and responsibility. We are also in
favour of the trend towards better use of the resources of
those States
significantly
to
peace-keeping operations and development activities.
contribute
this,
that
can
The people of Kuwait participate in the celebrations of
the United Nations fiftieth anniversary with a deep sense of
gratitude to the Organization for its crucial role in liberating
Kuwait from occupation. The people of Kuwait recognize
the firm resolve of the world community in rejecting
aggression and its commitment
to putting an end to
occupation. We cherish the determination displayed in the
series of successive resolutions adopted by the Security
Council from the second day of August 1990, when the
people of Kuwait, together with the rest of the world, were
taken by surprise by the sneak invasion of the State of
Kuwait by Iraq. That naked aggression was committed in
total violation of the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and international
the
invasion totally shattered the security and stability of the
entire Gulf region.
treaties. Beyond Kuwait,
In facing up to that blatant aggression, the United
Nations did indeed live up to its principles and was true to
its mission. It did indeed stand firm in upholding justice
and in defending the victim.
Building on the Kuwait experience, it is our hope that
the critical role that the United Nations can play will be
fully utilized to further consolidate the underpinning of
peace and to safeguard security and stability. The United
Nations system can indeed provide deterrence in the face of
those regimes that harbour schemes of aggression. There is
a full range of measures and restrictions that the United
14
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
in place to ensure the isolation and
Nations can put
curtailment of those aggressive regimes and, if need be,
to strip them of their stockpiles of weapons that can be
used in committing aggression.
The ultimate goal of the United Nations is to ensure
equality, mutual respect amongst Member States and
respect for the will of peoples. This would be conducive
to peaceful coexistence among nations and would create
a favourable atmosphere allowing freedom of choice in a
democratic climate, where the stronger cannot dominate
the weaker, nor can a big country exploit a small
neighbour, nor one party assume a privileged role to the
detriment of others.
Over a long period — since the end of the Gulf
war — the Iraqi regime has continued to claim that it has
fulfilled all its obligations under all Security Council
resolutions relating to the situation between Iraq and
Kuwait, especially resolutions 687 (1991) and 715 (1991),
and thus blamed the Security Council and the Special
Commission for the delay in lifting the sanctions imposed
on Iraq. The Chairman and staff of
the Special
Commission, as well as the Security Council itself, have
been harshly and offensively criticized by senior Iraqi
officials and the regime-controlled media.
In view of
the recent dramatic surprises that
unfolded in regard to the Iraqi armament programmes, a
thoroughly legitimate set of questions arises — namely:
Does the Iraqi regime have any more credibility? Who
amongst us would be willing to accept Iraq’s statements
at face value? Who would believe its claims, echoed at
every gathering or forum, that it had met its obligations?
What about Kuwaiti property and military hardware
looted from Kuwait? Who can go along with Iraq’s
assertions regarding Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners
and hostages?
is
to
the
due
intransigence
The tragedy of Kuwaiti and other prisoners held by
Iraq remains unresolved four years after the liberation of
Kuwait. This
and
procrastination of the Iraqi regime, which continues to
sidestep a straightforward and genuine resolution of this
human tragedy. This represents a failure on the part of
Iraq to fulfil its commitments under paragraph 30 of
Security Council resolution 687 (1991), which demands
that Iraq should cooperate fully with the International
Committee of the Red Cross.
Accordingly, Kuwait reiterates its appeal,
to the
and to the world
Security Council
in particular
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
community in general, to continue to bring pressure to bear
on Iraq, in a bid to bring this painful episode to an end.
Iraq’s false claims and lies that it is sincere in its efforts to
close this case should be met with a firm stand. Indeed, this
was the only course of action that forced Iraq in the first
place to cooperate with the Special Commission.
Iraq must recognize that participation in the meetings
of the Tripartite Commission and its sub-committee is not
an end in itself. The purpose of these meetings is to secure
the freedom of prisoners and to account for the missing
persons. The litmus test of Iraq’s cooperation in this area is
the number of persons released or accounted for. Mere
attendance at those meetings is an exercise in subterfuge,
intended by Iraq to mislead world public opinion and to
circumvent its obligations.
The final objective of Kuwait’s overall policy is to
ensure security and stability in our region. This goal will
remain elusive unless and until Iraq implements fully and
unconditionally all relevant Security Council resolutions.
We are aware of the difficulties endured by the Iraqi
people. However, the responsibility for the suffering of the
Iraqis lies squarely on the regime itself which wasted
valuable time since April 1991 in pursuing a futile course
of prevarication, deception,
suppression of data and
misinformation in regard to every area of its mandatory
obligations.
The most
recent events came to confirm our
suspicions and fears, namely,
the
possession by Iraq of an arsenal of prohibited weapons of
mass destruction, which were being prepared for use against
peoples of the region without heed for the potential massive
loss of human life.
the disclosure of
In the meantime, let me take this occasion to set on
record that Kuwait affirms the need to maintain the unity
and territorial integrity of Iraq. In view of the hardships
faced by the Iraqi people, Kuwait has moved to send,
through the Kuwait Red Crescent Society, food and medical
supplies to the Iraqi civilian population in areas bordering
Iran and in Northern Iraq. We will continue to pursue this
policy on humanitarian grounds.
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
return for peace. Also, progress should be made on all
tracks of negotiations. And the final peace package should
be satisfactory to all sides because this would be the real
guarantee of a lasting peace.
Kuwait did participate in the multilateral negotiations
because we believed that our role within the multilaterals
would strengthen the position of the Arab parties engaged
in the bilateral
talks and would eventually give
momentum to the process as a whole. We fully appreciate
the position of our sister State, Syria, which insists on full
Israeli withdrawal from occupied Syrian territory in return
for peace. Israel cannot attain full peace without complete
withdrawal.
425
resolution
international efforts should
In the same vein,
implementation of Security
intensify to ensure full
requires
Council
unconditional
from all Lebanese
territory and the exercise by the Lebanese Government of
its sovereignty over all Lebanese territory, including the
South.
integrity and
independence of Lebanon must be preserved.
Israeli withdrawal
(1978) which
territorial
In the
end,
the
the
supports
Furthermore, Kuwait
self-rule
negotiations between the Palestine National Authority and
Israel. In our view, the agreement signed yesterday in
Washington, D.C. regarding the expansion of the self-rule
arrangements represents an important step in the right
direction towards the exercise by the people of Palestine
of their right to self-determination and the establishment
of their independent State.
In this regard, let me recall that Kuwait has pledged
$25 million in aid to the development programmes
undertaken by international specialized agencies in the
self-rule areas. Indeed, Kuwait has started disbursement
of funds earmarked for those purposes.
Also, we would like to underline the status of
occupied Al-Quds, given its special significance to the
three heavenly-revealed religions. We emphasize that Al-
Quds is Palestinian territory under occupation and should
as such be subject to the withdrawal conditions under
Security Council resolution 242 (1967).
In the context of international endeavours to bring
about just, durable and comprehensive peace in the Middle
East, Kuwait follows closely the ongoing peace negotiations
between the immediate parties. We support the negotiations
process. In our view, this process should be anchored in the
set of principles agreed upon, namely, full withdrawal in
Kuwait welcomes the recent developments aiming at
achieving a fair settlement of the situation in the Republic
of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We expect such a settlement
should satisfy the behests of international legality and be
based on Security Council resolutions. In the wake of
large-scale suffering, destruction and displacement, the
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
people of the region now yearn for an overall settlement
that satisfies the demands of all parties, especially the
people of Bosnia
and Herzegovina who insist on
maintaining their independent State on their own territory
without any interference from outside. My Government
values the role played by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) and the United Nations Protection
Forces (UNPROFOR) in opposing territorial expansion by
the Serbs at the expense of other parties, as well as the
actions taken to lift the siege on Sarajevo. It is our hope
that this joint NATO-UNPROFOR action will persist until
the declared objective is attained, that is, the conclusion of
a final accord that brings security and stability to the whole
region. It is our sincere hope now that the most recent
agreement reached several days ago will be honoured by
the parties to the conflict.
Experience has shown that regional groupings and
arrangements can play an effective role in addressing
contentious issues that create tension, impact adversely on
peace and security and poison the relations amongst the
people of
also
demonstrated a great sense of commitment in defusing flash
points of tension that might undermine regional security.
a given area. These groups have
A case in point
is the experience of
the Gulf
Cooperation Council whose member States are firmly
convinced that understanding among them is crucial in
steering away from frictions and tensions. To them,
dialogue is an essential channel of confidence-building
among neighbour States. Since our established policy
considers negotiations as the only viable means of resolving
disputes, we call upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to
respond favourably to the call by the United Arab Emirates
to resolve the problem of the islands occupied by Iran by
the means suggested by the International Court of Justice.
Such an approach would indeed reinforce the principle of
understanding and negotiations to which we adhere as a
primary component in relations among States.
Kuwait is convinced that world peace is indivisible
and that it has far-reaching multiple implications on all of
us. Accordingly, ethnic disputes, tribal wars and factional
conflicts should be addressed as phenomena that can lead
to massacres and genocides and to a total collapse of the
afflicted communities. Therefore, in this year which marks
the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we ring down
the curtain on the Rwanda tragedy before a solution is
found, nor can we walk away from the catastrophe in
Somalia, nor give up hope in the face of enormous odds in
Afghanistan. All these remain burning issues despite the
16
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
feeling by some Powers that they have moved outside the
circle of global strategic limelight.
We call for scaling up the efforts and showing more
determination in addressing these festering wounds within
the framework of collective world peace.
The burden of debt is a major constraint on the
budget
resources of many nations, especially the
developing ones. It aggravates their social problems and
pushes up unemployment rates to a point where it
undermines domestic security and stability and endangers
the lives of millions of people.
Back in 1988, His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad
Al-Jaber, Emir of the State of Kuwait, launched from this
rostrum an initiative to write off the foreign debt under
which many least developed countries were suffering.
Those countries have been victims of a complex host of
factors that denied them the privilege of a calm life and
indeed posed a real threat to their very existence. Kuwait,
for its part, cancelled all
interest on loans to these
countries in a bid to alleviate their debt burdens. It is our
hope that this approach would be expanded and that the
developed nations would cancel the interest on their loans
to the developing countries.
The dreams of the Charter’s authors stood the test of
time and transcended the tensions and limitations of the
cold war. The era of the cold war was characterized by
the stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction to the
detriment of construction needs. It represented a hard
drive to acquire the means of annihilation at the expense
of the means of development. Prestige was put ahead of
real meaningful growth. Human ingenuity was put in the
service of human exploitation rather than in the service of
enhancing human freedoms. That chapter is now over.
And we have entered a new epoch in which we have to
heed the rational calls for civilized conduct in order to
build up an atmosphere of genuine brotherhood and
harmony. This can only be achieved by our collective
endeavour that emphasizes our universal identity. Only
through such a common effort can we pool together the
resources and energy of all peoples, big and small, to
achieve a strategic consensus that would translate into a
reality the dreams envisioned 50 years ago when the
Charter was signed.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Croatia, His Excellency Mr. Mate
Granic.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Mr. Granic (Croatia): Let me first extend my heartfelt
congratulations to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his
election to the distinguished office from which he will
guide the work of the fiftieth session of the United Nations
General Assembly. I am confident that his experience and
commitment to the noble principles of the United Nations
Charter will guarantee that this session will be marked by
new vigour, commitment and determination. I wish to
express our gratitude also to his predecessor, Mr. Amara
Essy, for the fine, skilful manner in which he presided over
the work of the last session of the General Assembly.
The world we live in has been deeply and positively
affected by the end of
the cold war and national
emancipation in Central and Eastern Europe, and Western
Asia. Many hotbeds of crisis have been extinguished or are
on the way to being resolved, from Eastern Asia and South
Africa to the Middle East.
Mr. Obadi (Yemen), Vice-President, took the Chair.
However, many problems having a negative impact on
international relations remain unresolved,
including the
crisis in south-eastern Europe. Most disquieting are the
dangers of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,
especially nuclear weapons. The world is still faced with
various forms of
terrorism. There is a grave danger
resulting from the illicit trade in narcotics. Widespread
abuses of human rights continue as do the problems of
racism, anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and national and
religious intolerance. The solution to the problem of
underdevelopment requires more concerted and coordinated
efforts.
In order to be able to deal with the many problems
facing the world, it is necessary to have a vital and efficient
United Nations.
Following the end of the cold war there was a period
of optimism, renewed hope and expectation that the United
Nations would finally play the role which had been
envisaged for it at the time of its founding, almost 50 years
ago. However, we have recently experienced severe
disappointment at the inability of the United Nations to
fulfil all these expectations; this has resulted in the loss of
credibility by the United Nations.
The causes for its loss of credibility are many and
varied, and among the most important is the failure of
many United Nations peace-keeping operations to achieve
their assigned goals. This is not to say that there have not
been successful United Nations peace-keeping missions; this
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
is evident from the operations in Cambodia and southern
Africa.
in which
the
One way
peace-keeping
or
peacemaking missions of the United Nations could be
improved is by the establishment of a United Nations
military force of a more permanent nature or one that
could be assembled quickly, consisting of contingents
from specific countries or regional arrangements. Such a
force should be constructed in such a way as to make
its national contingents acted to implement
sure that
Security Council resolutions and not
to promote the
policies of their States. In this regard I wish to express
the Republic of Croatia’s interest in providing troops for
United Nations peace-keeping operations.
in order
However,
to make the peace-keeping
is
functions of the United Nations more effective it
necessary to reform the body which is primarily
responsible for the maintenance of international peace and
security — the Security Council. It is also important that
the composition of the Security Council reflect the new
political and economic realities which have emerged since
its formation after the Second World War. Due regard
must also be given to proper geographical balance as well
as to the increase in the membership of the United
Nations. Making the Security Council more representative
and democratic will also enhance its credibility as it will
then be a more legitimate body representing the will of
the international community. This will no doubt serve to
facilitate the implementation of its resolutions.
In this regard, the Republic of Croatia supports an
increase in the number of both the permanent and
non-permanent members of the Security Council to a
point which will not negatively affect its effectiveness. I
wish to reiterate Croatia’s support for the admission of
Germany and Japan as permanent members of
the
Security Council due to the actual, as well as potential,
contribution of these two countries to the cause of
international peace and security and to other aspects of
the work of the United Nations. Additionally, serious
consideration should be given to the possibility of one or
more developing countries from Asia, Africa or Latin
America being granted permanent-member status.
Despite the various setbacks which I have already
referred to, the United Nations still has a critical role to
play in resolving many of
the world’s problems,
especially in regard to the environment and sustainable
development.
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
In addition to economic well-being, equal attention
should be paid to respect for the human rights of each and
every individual.
In this regard, Croatia reiterates its
support for the work of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights, Mr. José Ayalo Lasso, and commends the manner
in which he has been performing his duty. As a further
method of combating gross violations of human rights and
international humanitarian law, Croatia supports
the
establishment of an international criminal court in the form
of an apolitical legal organ of the international community.
By its geographical position, history, socio-cultural
features, and political and economic orientation,
the
Republic of Croatia is a part of both Central Europe and
the Mediterranean. As a European country in transition,
Croatia has already achieved significant progress in the
development of democratic institutions and adherence to
internationally accepted standards concerning the rule of
law and protection of human rights. It is also worth noting
that the economic situation has been stabilized and even
improved during the past two years, despite the extremely
difficult conditions caused by Serbian aggression. Our
national development strategy is outward-oriented, while the
social policies and legal framework are based on the
principles
an
open-market economy.
democracy,
pluralistic
including
of
integration. Croatia’s
As a country of European civilization and tradition,
Croatia’s strategic, political, economic and social orientation
is clearly focused on active participation in the process of
European
harmonization with
European legislation and criteria represents a crucial part of
its national development. While Croatia is already a
member of various European intergovernmental and
interregional organizations, the forging of closer relations
with the European Union, as well as full membership in the
Council of Europe, are the basic pillars of Croatia’s
European policy. However, Croatia will seek to adopt an
approach to reflecting a balance between its European
orientation and its wider global
cooperation on a
multilateral and bilateral basis.
The Republic of Croatia endeavours to contribute to
lasting peace and durable stability in south-eastern Europe,
which can be achieved only by the normalization of
relations among all States based on full and strict respect
for and adherence to the principles of the inviolability of
international borders, the territorial integrity of all States
and the rights of minorities.
Croatia has effectively assumed its
role as an
indispensable factor in the search for peace, stability and
18
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
security. In this sense, Croatia will continue to cooperate
constructively with the relevant international forums and
leading institutions or countries with a view to finding a
political solution to the present crisis in the region.
In this respect — and bearing in mind the nature of
the crisis and that its underlying cause has been and
remains Serbian aggression — Croatia will continue to
cooperate closely and coordinate its political, military and
diplomatic activities with the Republic and Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the basis of the Washington
Agreements
and
arrangements such as the Split Declaration. This is
because one of the prerequisites for ensuring long-term
stability and progress for Croatia is the settlement of the
crisis in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina.
agreements
bilateral
other
and
Thanks to the clarity and transparency of its national
agenda, the decisiveness of its political leadership and its
cooperation with the international community in pursuit
of its vital national interests, Croatia has succeeded over
the course of several years in reintegrating most of its
occupied territories, paving the way for the return of
some 110,000 displaced persons and refugees to their
homes, as well as in revitalizing energy and transport
communications throughout the country.
Croatia has
also managed in very difficult
circumstances to reach reasonable stability and to enjoy
increased prospects for further development and the
strengthening of the democratic system and institutions,
combined with
economic
stabilization.
significant
level
a
of
Since the outbreak of the crisis in south-eastern
Europe Croatia has constantly advocated a negotiated
peaceful solution, with the active support and full
participation of the international community, and on the
basis of the principles of the United Nations Charter and
international law.
Special emphasis has been placed on the imperative
of fully regulating and normalizing Croat-Serb relations.
Future relations between these two States are of
paramount importance for lasting stability in south-eastern
Europe. At the same time, Croatia is actively contributing
to the quest
the
Bosniac-Muslim people, one that would ensure their
national
the region.
Furthermore,
in the interests of ensuring long-term
security and stability, Croatia has advocated the need for
the introduction of the confidence- and security- building
for a solution to the issue of
rights and provide stability for
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
measures of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe (OSCE).
cooperation between the two friendly neighbouring
countries.
Croatia has always done its utmost
to enable the
international community to pursue its peace efforts and has
consistently demonstrated utmost restraint in resorting to the
use of force. When we had to use force, our military
always strove to minimize the loss of life and the extent of
destruction and to enable the international community to
pursue its peace efforts. Croatian military operations have
always been in self-defence and in response to the
intransigence and non-cooperation of the rebel Croatian-
Serb leadership,
to the inability of the United Nations
peace-keeping forces to fulfil their mandate, to complete
deadlock in international mediating efforts, or to direct
provocations and terrorist attacks against civilians from the
rebel Serb side.
In the aftermath of the liberation of almost one fifth of
our country in August,
isolated instances of unlawful
behaviour and human rights abuses have been recorded. My
Government strongly condemns all such individual acts and
has initiated proceedings against the perpetrators.
the joint effects of Operation Storm,
army of Bosnia
Croatia believes that its military operations during the
first week of August, on both sides of the Croatian-Bosnian
border, have substantially changed the balance of power
and in so doing have created a window of opportunity for
revitalization of the ongoing peace process. Croatia is of the
opinion that
the
coordinated activities of
and
Herzegovina and HVO (Croatian Defence Council) units,
and the actions of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) rapid reaction force against the Bosnian Serbs,
coupled with diplomatic efforts, have finally opened the
way to serious and comprehensive peace negotiations,
which will eventually lead to a realistic, balanced and
lasting solution to the crisis.
the
Croatia fully supports the current United States peace
initiative and the increased decisiveness of the international
community, manifested particularly by the United Nations
and NATO rapid-reaction force operations and pressure
against the Bosnian Serbs.
Croatia’s major interest with regard to Bosnia and
Herzegovina is in achieving a lasting peace and just
settlement of the conflict that would be satisfactory to the
constituent peoples and that would ensure stability along
Croatian borders; the survival, safety and dignified life of
the Bosnian Croats; and mutually beneficial relations and
strongly
supports
Therefore, Croatia
the
implementation of the Washington Agreements and the
Split Declaration and the strengthening of the Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its association with
Croatia at various levels and in various areas of
cooperation.
The prerequisites for lasting stability, security and
cooperation in the region include a just and lasting
solution to the crisis, reconstruction and development of
the countries in the region, normalization of relations
between all successor States of the former Yugoslavia on
the basis of equal succession and introduction of a new
regional order as an integral part of the new European
security system.
the
the crisis
reintegration of
It is Croatia’s firm position that the solution for the
peaceful
remaining occupied
territories of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western
Srijem and the former United Nations Confidence
Restoration Operation in Croatia (UNCRO) Sector East
must be an integral part of the overall peaceful resolution
of
in both Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Croatia, within the time-frame of the
current peace initiative and the expiration date of the
UNCRO mandate. Without progress in the solution of this
issue, progress in the settlement of the crisis in Bosnia
and Herzegovina cannot be envisaged, and neither can
any real stabilization of the situation in south-eastern
Europe.
in the region,
Deeply committed to peaceful reintegration, Croatia
is willing to immediately open meaningful
and
constructive talks with the representatives of the Serb
population in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western
Srijem that should lead to the re-establishment of
Croatia’s full sovereignty, the return of forcibly displaced
persons to their homes and respect, in accordance with
high European standards, for the minority rights of the
Serbs
national
communities — Slovak, Hungarian, Ukrainian and
others — in this area.
other minority
ethnic
and
or
To this end Croatia has already proposed to the local
Serbs and the Government of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, through the good offices of the international
mediators, a comprehensive, elaborate and concrete peace
plan in the form of a draft agreement on the peaceful
reintegration of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Srijem into the constitutional and economic system of the
Republic of Croatia.
Implementation of the proposed agreement must begin
with the immediate withdrawal of all military and
paramilitary groups not originally from this region, to be
followed by the disarming and disbanding, under UNCRO
supervision, of
the military and paramilitary groups
composed of persons who reside in the area.
Upon signing the
agreement on the peaceful
reintegration of the remaining occupied areas, the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia would
recognize each other within their internationally recognized
borders and diplomatic relations between these two States
would be established at the ambassadorial level. This would
be followed shortly by the reopening of the Zagreb-
Belgrade highway and railways, the river traffic along the
Danube and Sava rivers, the Adriatic pipeline’s outlet to
Serbia and telecommunications between Croatia and the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The proposed draft agreement provides ample evidence
of Croatia’s sincere will and disposition to find a negotiated
and just solution to the reintegration of the remaining
occupied territories, providing for the legitimate rights of
Croatia as a sovereign State and of all its citizens, including
its minorities. Along these lines, Croatia participated in the
Contact Group negotiations in Geneva and New York.
Following these negotiations, I am moderately optimistic
that the resolution of the crisis and peace in the region can
be achieved in the near future.
However, there is no doubt that progress towards a
lasting, just and comprehensive peace is contingent on the
continued, determined and coordinated efforts of
the
international community in the maintenance of a global
approach to the current peace initiative and the continuation
of the international sanctions against the Belgrade regime.
In the next several weeks the parties and the international
community have to work out a framework, in the form of
a package, for the peace accord, which should include
several
interrelated steps: a solution for Bosnia and
Herzegovina; a resolution of the issue of Eastern Slavonia
leading to its reintegration into Croatia; mutual recognition,
within their international borders, between Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Croatia
and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia; and changes in the sanctions regime against the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as
the international
community deems appropriate. Upon the acceptance of such
a plan,
the road to lasting peace and stability will be
opened.
20
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
On behalf of my Government, I would like to thank
again all the countries contributing troops to the UNCRO
operations in Croatia and underscore our appreciation of
their efforts to aid the peace process. Croatia deeply
regrets the loss of life and the injuries sustained by
members of the United Nations force during their mission
in Croatia. Their noble sacrifice will always be
remembered and cherished by the Croatian people.
In the name of my Government, I am particularly
proud to thank the General Assembly for having
supported the cause of Croatia, most of all by adopting
resolution 49/43, concerning the occupied territories of
Croatia. I kindly ask the Assembly to remain steadfast in
the contribution it has made through this important
resolution and through the individual and collective
engagement of most Members’ Governments to the search
for a just and lasting peace for Croatia and Bosnia and
Herzegovina, as well as for the whole of south-eastern
Europe.
The Acting President: The next speaker is the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Greece, His Excellency
Mr. Karolos Papoulias, on whom I now call.
Mr. Papoulias (Greece) (spoke in Greek; English
text furnished by the delegation): Allow me at the outset
to extend to the President of the General Assembly the
warmest congratulations of the Greek Government on his
election to the presidency at this historic fiftieth session,
which is a well-deserved tribute to his personal qualities
and his distinguished international career. I would also
like to thank His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy for the
highly constructive and efficient manner in which he
performed his duties as President of
the General
Assembly during its forty-ninth session.
I wish to take this opportunity to address my sincere
congratulations to the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is striving with
courage, energy, political will and vision for a new world
in which law and ethics will prevail, and for
the
restructuring of the Organization, so that it may meet the
challenges of our time. He has our full support in his
efforts to fulfil his mission.
Let me also welcome Palau, the new Member that
has been admitted to the United Nations this year. Its
presence among us is a renewed expression of our
Organization’s desire to welcome in its midst all those
States that undertake the commitment to adhere to the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
purposes and principles set out
Charter.
in the United Nations
The Foreign Minister of Spain, in his capacity as
President of the Council of the European Union, delivered
a statement earlier this week on behalf of the Union and its
member States. My Government fully subscribes to the
content of that statement and of the memorandum of the
Union. I would like, however, to elaborate further on some
issues which are of particular interest to my country.
This fiftieth session of the General Assembly provides
us with an opportunity, not only for an annual exchange of
views between the States Members of the United Nations
on the state of international affairs, but also for the
celebration of a milestone in the life of the Organization.
This celebration should not, however, be just a token tribute
to the great undertaking of 50 years ago. It is only natural
that, on this occasion, Governments should endeavour to
analyse the successes and failures of the United Nations
over five decades, to ask themselves whether we have come
closer to fulfilling, in the practice of international relations,
the principles proclaimed in the Charter, and to look to the
years ahead in order to try to chart our new priorities in a
rapidly changing world.
This Organization was brought
into being by the
vision, the hope and the determination of men and women
first hand the lethal dangers of
who experienced at
nationalism, economic depression,
freedom and
devastating war — men and women who realized the need
to create mechanisms that would allow States to embark
upon a collective effort in dealing with a wide range of
complex international issues.
lost
Looking back over the 50 years since the guns of the
Second World War fell silent, one notes with satisfaction
the valuable work performed by the United Nations as a
forum for debate on matters of international concern, and
as a centre for harmonizing the activities of States in the
economic, social, cultural and humanitarian fields.
The United Nations has played a vital role as a
framework for the historical process of decolonization, by
securing international recognition for the new countries and
by helping them improve their economic and social
conditions. It has defined human rights for the global
It has defeated the shameful practice of
community.
apartheid.
It has provided the basis for an intensive
development of international law. It has monitored elections
in countries where elections have seldom been held. It has
assisted in the drafting of constitutions, and has trained
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
global
indigenous police forces. It has moved forward consensus
problems
on
the
environment,
the status of women, human rights,
development and many other fundamental issues.
disarmament,
such
as
Furthermore, the specialized agencies of the United
Nations system have achieved major successes in their
different spheres of activity, and have provided invaluable
humanitarian and other assistance in distressed areas of
the world.
Despite this creditable record, it is the shortcomings
of the United Nations that receive the greatest attention.
I will certainly not argue that the achievements of those
past 50 years yield any ground whatsoever
for
complacency. However, while disappointment has been
frequently expressed at the Organization’s performance,
no credible alternative is offered by those who criticize it.
Moreover,
little regard is given to the innumerable
constraints under which it operates, as well as to the fact
that it can be only as effective as Governments allow it to
be. The United Nations has indeed structural deficiencies,
which it urgently needs to overcome. But it is too often
a useful scapegoat for the mistakes, the failings and the
unfulfilled promises of Member States.
The Secretary-General, in his highly acclaimed and
very timely report entitled “Supplement to an Agenda
for Peace'”, issued earlier this year, has underlined the
great problems presented to the United Nations by the
new generation of post-cold-war conflicts, for which the
Organization was obviously unprepared. He has pointed
out that, for instance, in the framework of its peace-
keeping activities, the Organization has had, in some
cases, to juggle efforts to combine mandates, including
the use of force under Chapter VII of the Charter, with
the basic principle of neutrality and impartiality of the
United Nations and the lack of adequate resources to
effectively implement that mandate. In the same context,
shortcomings in the unity of command which we have
witnessed in the case of some peace-keeping operations
have also contributed to undermining the effectiveness of
United Nations action.
The financial crisis in general has also been
particularly debilitating as regards the activities of the
Organization in all areas. The Secretary-General has often
questioned the credibility of those Member States that
support the ends, by actively participating in the decision-
making process, but not the means, by failing to pay their
assessed contribution. Nobody denies the fact
that
considerable progress can still be achieved with regard to
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the effective use of resources that are already available. But
unless the necessary financial means are provided, it would
from the Organization.
be folly to expect miracles
Eliminating waste
better
management and accountability, essential though it may be,
will never be a substitute for ensuring adequate and regular
funding.
inefficiency,
through
and
in his report,
The increasing resort to, and use, of sanctions regimes
has brought to light another series of difficulties which have
also undermined the credibility of the United Nations. As
the Secretary-General pointed out
the
objectives for which specific sanctions regimes were
imposed and the criteria for their lifting have not been
clearly defined, or have seemed to change over time, as has
been the case for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) and Iraq. This situation is all the
more worrying because experience has proved that the
in the infliction of
imposition of
tremendous suffering upon vulnerable groups of
the
targeted country, rather than in the modification of the
behaviour of its Government.
sanctions
results
to
be
appropriately
acknowledged,
Furthermore, the role of those countries that shoulder
the main burden of the implementation of the sanctions
regimes, despite the considerable collateral damage which
they suffer in terms of economic and social costs, needs, at
last,
their
contribution to the maintenance of international peace and
security is, in some cases, no less important than that of
troop-contributing countries. It should be clear that if, in the
long run, the difficulties of those Member States that have
the misfortune to be neighbours of the targeted countries
are not dealt with in a satisfactory way, inter alia, through
the appropriate implementation of Article 50 of the Charter,
then general support for the use of sanctions as an effective
instrument will not be easily maintained.
for
Regrettably, one would have to acknowledge that the
primary purpose of
the United Nations — that of
establishing a pattern of world order and international
security — has been achieved to a much lesser degree than
had been expected, or is indeed required by the growing
needs of the international community. The threat and the
use of force are still a recurrent feature of international
relations, contrary to the expectations raised in 1945. The
territorial integrity or the sovereign rights of States are
frequently threatened or compromised by the practice of
power politics,
the purposes and
principles that govern our Organization.
in contravention of
22
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
In this context, allow me to observe that a charter is
of value in so far as each member that subscribes to it
conducts itself in accordance with the commitments it has
undertaken of
its own free will, without guile or
reservations. It is also of paramount importance that the
United Nations should not be perceived as resorting to
double standards when it comes to military aggression
and other blatant violations of international law.
always
The guiding principle of Greek foreign policy is the
establishment of good-neighbourly relations with all
countries of the region, on the basis of respect for
international law, national sovereignty and human rights,
and on non-interference in the internal affairs of other
States. This principle has
constituted the
cornerstone of our foreign policy and applies fully to our
relations with neighbouring Turkey. It is the sincere wish
of my Government
that Greek-Turkish relations be
normalized, on the basis of the principles of international
law and the relevant
treaties, and in
conformity with the Charter of the United Nations, the
Helsinki Document and the Charter of Paris for a New
Europe. Greece has never raised any claims against
Turkey. On the other hand, we have made it absolutely
clear
of
sovereign rights, which we are
compromising our
determined to protect by all legitimate means.
categorically
international
that we
reject
idea
any
Unfortunately, Turkey is following a different
approach in its policies vis-à-vis our country. To cite just
one example, I wish to refer to the resolution adopted on
8 June 1995 by the Turkish National Assembly,
authorizing the Turkish Government to use military force
in case Greece exercised its legal right to expand its
territorial waters to 12 nautical miles, according to the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The
said resolution was obviously endorsed by the Turkish
Government, since it was forwarded to the Secretary-
General on 23 June 1995 in a letter addressed to him by
the Permanent Representative of Turkey to the United
Nations.
Turkey is in fact attempting to intimidate Greece
into forfeiting a right acknowledged to all signatory
parties, by article 3 of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea of 1982, and already exercised by a
large number of States. Furthermore, it is beyond any
doubt that the above-mentioned resolution constitutes a
direct violation of Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Charter
of the United Nations, which stipulates that
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
refrain in their
international
“All Members shall
relations from the threat or use of force against the
territorial integrity or political independence of any
State”,
way for bilateral cooperation for their own benefit, as
well as for the sake of peace, cooperation, stability and
prosperity throughout the Balkans, which has been so
affected by the crisis in the former Yugoslavia.
as well as of many similar provisions of international
treaties and conventions.
It is self-evident that an essential improvement of
Greek-Turkish relations presupposes a just and lasting
solution of the Cyprus question and the re-establishment of
international legality in Cyprus. Unfortunately, during the
last 21 years, the Turkish forces, defying a series of United
Nations resolutions, have occupied a large part of Cyprus,
despite the assiduous efforts of the Secretary-General. Their
continuing presence has resulted in the division of the
island by force, the brutal violation of human rights and
freedoms, and the systematic plundering of the island’s
cultural and religious heritage.
The Greek Government strongly supports the efforts
of the Secretary-General with a view to a just and viable
solution of the Cyprus problem, on the basis of the relevant
Security Council resolutions, including the most recent one,
resolution 939 (1994), which calls for a bi-communal and
bi-zonal federal State of Cyprus with single sovereignty and
international personality and single citizenship, with its
integrity safeguarded. The
independence and territorial
Greek Government believes that
the
accession of Cyprus to the European Union, which was
further promoted by concrete actions taken by the Union in
the course of 1995, will create conditions that would make
it possible to tackle the current deadlock and, thus, assist
effectively the Secretary-General’s efforts for the reversal
of the unacceptable status quo.
the prospect of
One should also bear in mind that no progress towards
a settlement is possible as long as the Turkish occupation
forces remain on the island. The Greek Government
considers the proposal for the total demilitarization of the
island, put
forward by President Clerides, as most
constructive. It also feels that it is imperative that countries
which are in a position to back the efforts of the Secretary-
General and wish to do so should exert the necessary
pressure so that
the side which is responsible for the
impasse will be forced to abide by international law and
United Nations resolutions.
The signing of the Interim Accord, on 13 September
1995, in New York, constitutes an important step towards
establishing a new era in relations between Greece and the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It also paves the
We do hope that this preliminary significant step in
the relations between the two countries will lead to a
definite settlement of the dispute over the name, which
constitutes the main difference existing between them and
which will be dealt with in the context of further
negotiations,
conventional
commitment of the parties concerned and the relevant
Security Council resolutions.
in accordance with the
Greece attaches great importance to its relations with
Albania. For this reason, we constantly follow a policy of
good- neighbourliness and cooperation with that country
and continue to support, in many ways, its efforts to
promote political and economic reforms and thus
contribute to the establishment of a modern and
democratic society.
Greece has been offering substantial economic
support to Albania, which has enabled it to face the many
difficult problems that arose after the former regime was
overthrown. Today, Greek investments
in Albania
continue to contribute substantially to the country’s
economic development and to the strengthening of its
social stability.
to
the
positively
contributing
Furthermore, a large Greek minority lives
in
Albania,
country’s
development. Under the previous regime, this minority
was subjected to persecution and harsh treatment. Greece
is convinced that
the Greek minority in Albania
constitutes a bridge of
friendship between the two
countries and helps further their rapprochement and
cooperation. For this reason, we believe that the human
rights of the members of that minority should be fully
respected, so that they are able to stay in their homeland
and live there in a safe environment. Moreover, they
should be proportionally represented in the administration,
the State institutions and the armed forces, and be
allowed to exercise their religious and educational rights
freely and fully.
Unfortunately, notwithstanding some improvements,
considerable restrictions continue to apply to the free
exercise of these rights, particularly in the field of
education. We
the Albanian
Government, in conformity also with its international
sincerely hope
that
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
commitments, will secure full respect for the human rights
of the Greek minority.
During the current year, the tragedy of the former
Yugoslavia has continued to unfold relentlessly, imposing
tremendous
suffering and hardships on the civilian
population. Greece, as a country neighbouring the former
Yugoslavia, has been directly subjected to the negative
consequences of this bloody conflict, as regards both its
economy and its security.
My country has always advocated that, as has already
been pointed out by the presidency of the European Union,
a fair and viable solution to the conflict in Bosnia can be
found only by political means, and not on the battlefields.
This is why from the beginning of the crisis we have
spared no effort to ensure that all the parties involved
moved in the direction of trying to promote a peaceful
settlement, in cooperation with our European partners and
Russia, which has played, and is to play, a significant role
in this issue. Furthermore, the Greek Government fully
supports the current diplomatic initiative and the ongoing
negotiating process based on the Contact Group plan.
Recently, there have been encouraging developments
things in the former
regarding the future shape of
Yugoslavia. The parties have begun to show signs of
rapprochement and willingness to talk. Thus, we warmly
welcome the Basic Principles, agreed in Geneva on 8
September 1995, and the Further Basic Principles, agreed
three days ago in New York, which are very important
steps on the long and difficult road to peace. Much remains
to be done, but if the parties display the necessary political
will and with the assistance of the international community
a comprehensive and viable peaceful settlement should no
longer be a fictitious objective, whose attainment would
take a very long time.
Greece, for its part,
is ready to contribute to the
fulfilment of this objective through the good relations that
it has developed with all the parties involved in the conflict.
Furthermore, my country, fully aware of the intricacies of
the Balkans and having actively participated in the
initiatives for regional economic cooperation, will do its
utmost, both on a national basis and in the framework of
the European Union,
the
reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia.
to promote efforts aiming at
Concerning the situation in the Middle East, Greece
considers as a matter of utmost importance the early and
unimpeded implementation of the recent Erez and Taba
Agreements and the speedy conclusion of the talks on
24
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
redeployment and elections, together with the solution of
the two outstanding problems, namely security for all, and
social and economic development.
We welcome the signature yesterday in Washington
by Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
of
the interim agreement on the second stage of
Palestinian autonomy, which constitutes additional proof
of determination and political courage. We congratulate
the Israeli Government and Chairman Arafat on their
commitment to peace.
Greece believes that the international community
must exert consistent efforts, in which we are willing to
actively participate, aiming at the creation of a solid basis
for the political and economic survival of the Palestinian
National Authority, thereby providing a source of hope
for the Palestinian people.
Greece is of the view that the peace process could
be substantially promoted if the States of the region
directly involved in it joined forces with those actively
participating, and we welcome all recent indications to
this effect. The peoples of
the region should be
guaranteed a secure life, within internationally recognized
and safe boundaries.
We urge the implementation of Security Council
resolution 425 (1978) on Lebanon.
Greece, which has actively participated in the Middle
East peace process since it began in Madrid, will continue
to offer full support and assistance to the bilateral and
multilateral negotiations towards a comprehensive, final
and just peace.
Greece believes that an increase in the number of
members of
the Security Council has become an
imperative necessity. Such an increase, which should be
moderate so as not to undermine the effectiveness of the
the current number of
Council’s action, must reflect
States that are Members of the United Nations,
the
the new international situation and an
realities of
equitable distribution among all existing regional groups.
While recognizing that any formal definition of criteria
for new permanent members could not be easily
formulated, we consider
this
category should be selected from among States that exert
a major influence in world affairs and are in a position to
make an essential contribution to the maintenance of
international peace and security.
that new members of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
emphasize
Greece welcomes the indefinite extension of
the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the commitment made
by the States parties to its universalization and full
implementation. We
of
strengthening the review process and adopting a set of
principles
non-proliferation and
disarmament. We also stress the need to complete without
delay comprehensive and verifiable treaties to ban nuclear-
weapon tests and to cut off the production of fissile
material for nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive
devices.
and objectives
importance
the
for
We are deeply concerned at the continued dangers
posed by the excessive transfer of conventional arms, and
we support putting the United Nations Register fully into
effect. Furthermore,
the continuing injuries to civilians
caused by anti-personnel mines demonstrate the need to
strengthen multilateral controls in this regard.
Growing economic and social gaps breed violence.
The need to bridge the differences between rich and poor,
both between nations and within nations, is of the utmost
importance for our efforts and opportunities to preserve
peace. This fundamental truth was recognized and stressed
by the founders of the United Nations and, subsequently, by
all members of the Organization, who pledged to “employ
international machinery for the promotion of the economic
and social advancement of all peoples”.
changing needs of
In responding to the
the
increasingly interdependent world economy, we have to
reinforce the coherence and effectiveness of the competent
international institutions and to complete without delay our
consideration of the “Agenda for Development”,
thus
setting out a new impetus to international cooperation in
this field and defining the particular contribution expected
of the United Nations system.
In this
There is an increasing realization worldwide that in
major denials of human rights, which breed antagonisms
and deep resentments, there lie the seeds of international
discord as surely as in the clashes of economic rivalries and
territorial ambitions.
regard, Greece strongly
condemns all forms of discrimination and intolerance, and
reaffirms its full support for the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights and his coordinating role
throughout the United Nations system, as well as for the
strengthening of
the Centre for Human Rights. The
principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
and also those of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of
Action, as well as of the other international acts and
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
instruments, should guide the actions of all Member
States in this respect on a daily basis.
Industrialization and the technological revolution,
while bringing benefits to the human race, have also
given rise to side effects, namely the problems of the
devastation of the natural environment. In this context, the
importance of meeting the commitments we made at the
1992 Rio Earth Summit, and the need to review and
cannot
strengthen
be
institutions
overstressed.
and
responsible
supporting international organizations that
focus on
environmental issues, will be vital in maintaining and
increasing the momentum for the protection and the
improvement of the environment.
environmental management,
appropriate,
national
them, where
Strengthening
for
important
their most
Troops and civilian personnel engaged in United
Nations peace-keeping and humanitarian activities have
been carrying out
tasks under
conditions of extraordinary personal risk, and very often
at
the expense of their own lives. I would like to
condemn, in the strongest possible terms, the abhorrent
and unacceptable harassment of and attacks against
United Nations peace-keepers, to whose relentless courage
and determination we pay tribute. I should also like to
stress the need for measures which will ensure their
security,
including the early entry into force of the
recently adopted Convention for the Safety of United
Nations and Associated Personnel.
These past 50 years of United Nations existence
have been a time of unparalleled human advancement and
of the fundamental enlargement of human expectations.
As I see it,
the
Organization, which has done so much to give voice to
those expectations, to take the lead in bringing them ever
closer to realization.
it will be the principal
task of
in the strengthening of
Greece, as a small country, has always had a strong
vested interest
the common
capacity to deal with threats to international peace and
security and, in general, in the success of the United
Nations. The Greek people will always be supportive of
a collective approach to global and regional problems. For
my part, I can only reaffirm our resolve to extend our full
cooperation to the efforts of the Organization as it strives
for
its noble objectives, and our
continued dedication to its purposes and principles.
the realization of
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and
25
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Worship of Bolivia, His Excellency Mr. Antonio Aranibar
Quiroga.
Mr. Aranibar Quiroga (Bolivia) (interpretation from
Spanish): Allow me to convey to the President of the
General Assembly the congratulations of the Government
and people of Bolivia upon his election to the presidency of
the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. He can be
assured that my delegation will cooperate with him to
ensure the full success of this important session.
The commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the
entry into force of the United Nations Charter affords a
fresh opportunity for critical and renewed reflection on the
scope, difficulties and role of the multilateral system.
During the year 1995 important meetings of universal
scope have taken place, such as the World Summit on
Social Development,
the Fourth World Conference on
Women, and the Review and Extension Conference on the
Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Those
meetings, together with others of a bilateral, subregional or
regional character — notably the Hemispheric Summit in
Miami — show that the principles which presided over the
creation of the United Nations are still very much alive, and
demonstrate the need to make significant further headway
in promoting peace, human rights, democracy, and
economic and social development.
Mr. Ould Ely (Mauritania), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
and their
Meetings at the highest level of the world’s political
leaders
ready to assume
undertakings on issues of such significance, are indicative
of a strong political will and reveal an interest in finding
concrete collective responses to the problems of our time.
representatives,
a
As
result of
those Conferences,
the world
community has at hand new approaches that enrich and
strengthen prior agreements as it seeks to cope successfully
with contemporary challenges. For
social
development and recognition of the due role of women in
society have ceased to be mere promises;
they are
becoming definite realities before the end of this century.
example,
The International Decade of the World’s Indigenous
People will make it possible for priority attention to be
given to that important sector of the community.
The end of the cold war has not released the material
and human resources that were committed to that contest.
26
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Nor has it freed our minds of concern over war and
destruction. There persist negative
and
prejudices, which were born during that period when the
world was divided into antagonistic blocs, and which no
longer have any justification.
situations
The long-awaited peace dividend has not been
forthcoming; on the contrary, we see a proliferation of
conflicts in many parts of the world. Many of these
situations are due to still unresolved social and national
problems, to a backlog of injustices and long-standing
resentments, to geopolitical and economic interests which,
from within and from outside, have
exacerbated
confrontation
to
Governments’ difficulties in defining an effective form of
cooperation for the peaceful solution of problems.
decades,
above
and,
all,
for
In this context, we reiterate our support for the
principles and the renewed objectives of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries, whose chairmanship is shortly to
be assumed by the sister republic of Colombia.
We feel a sense of solidarity with the peoples of the
former Yugoslavia, who are enduring the torment of an
unjustifiable war. We also express our solidarity with the
millions of human beings affected by military conflict,
unilateral blockades, hindrances to free contact with the
outside world, and by having been uprooted from their
lands.
We reiterate what the Heads of State or Government
of the Rio Group stated at their recent summit meeting in
Quito:
“We express our concern over attempts to
enforce domestic laws beyond territorial boundaries
in violation of international law and the fundamental
principles governing coexistence in the region. Such
actions violate the sovereignty of other States and
are contrary to unanimously adopted transparent
trade practices”. (A/50/425, annex, para. 13)
its
Bolivia
expresses
condemnation of grave
violations of international law, war crimes, violations of
the fundamental rules of coexistence, manifestations of
racism, and other offenses against humanity, all of which
should be vigorously condemned. The work of the United
Nations in this field has been important, but it needs to be
further refined. In that work, the role of regional and
subregional
and
and should gain greater
coordination is
importance in years to come. These organizations include
organizations
cooperation
essential
for
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the Organization of American States, the Rio Group and the
various regional and subregional instruments of economic
integration, to which my Government lends its full support.
We rejoice that Haiti and other countries have made
firm strides towards peace and democratic governance.
Likewise, Bolivia notes with particular interest, and
commends, the peace process in the Middle East, whose
advances in the face of difficulties give us cause to be
optimistic and to hope for
reconciliation through the
fashioning of innovative solutions with a distinctive explicit
political content. The agreement signed yesterday between
Israel and Palestine is an example of determination and
vision of historic proportions.
Bolivia has expressed its rejection of the resumption
of nuclear tests, which jeopardize negotiations towards the
speedy adoption of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty.
security
and
threatens
We condemn terrorism and organized crime, whose
scope and reach cut across national boundaries and which
thus
stability
everywhere. Bolivia has signed several bilateral treaties
intended to advance international cooperation on legal
matters within a framework of strict respect for sovereignty,
but at the same time closing off avenues to impunity for
international crime.
constitutional
As our awareness of
multilateral
interdependence
achieving the inherent right
world’s peoples should come to the fore.
the rights and duties of
in
the
cooperation
to development of all
grows,
In the new international situation, Bolivia supports
initiatives aimed at strengthening the United Nations and
shares the conviction that it is necessary to carry out major
reforms in its structure and functioning. Bolivia believes it
essential as a first step in that direction to strengthen the
General Assembly as the principal organ providing for
effective participation by all countries.
supports
initiatives
My Government
aimed at
expanding the Security Council, in both its permanent and
its non-permanent membership. Such an expansion should
reflect the diversity of the world’s regions and enable all
States to participate effectively and responsibly in the
commitment to guarantee peace, security and the timely
settlement of conflicts, in a transparent manner and in
keeping with the interests of the international community,
not only in the narrow framework of the individual interests
of States.
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
I also highlight the importance we attach to the
United Nations in the area of international cooperation,
especially in the economic sphere and on matters of social
and technological development, and the urgency of
restoring to the Economic and Social Council the high
stature it originally possessed.
The principles of justice and international law must
be our main guiding light in seeking solutions to the
problems we face.
to embark upon negotiations
With regard to Bolivia’s maritime question, which
we have brought before international forums, I wish to
declare to this Assembly the political will of my
Government
that are
consonant with our historic responsibility, that serve the
rights and interests of all parties involved, and that ensure
a sovereign Bolivian presence on the Pacific Ocean.
Bolivia has to contend with the consequences of the land-
locked position imposed upon it, the economic, political
and moral effects of which demand a solution in the
framework of international solidarity, justice, equity and
law.
Just as countries call for international justice, we are
obliged also to apply that principle within our own
societies. That is the golden rule of the Administration of
President Gonzalo Sánchez de Losada. Our message is
one of change. Never before in the history of our republic
have such profound and rapid structural changes been
democratically and peacefully carried out as those that
began in Bolivia in August 1993.
First, we are implementing the law on the people’s
participation, which is integrating civil society into the
political system. Traditionally disadvantaged populations
now have in their hands the ability to diagnose their
problems and to prescribe public policy, especially
regarding self-help to meet
their own needs. This is
essentially a policy of redistribution, which enables a
large part of the nation fully to assume their status as
citizens.
Secondly, the foregoing requires training the people
so that they will be able to meet internal and external
challenges. To that end, another reform undertaken by
President Gonzálo Sánchez de Lozada’s administration is
educational reform, viewed specifically in the light of
Bolivia’s ethnic and cultural diversity and with the aim of
institutionalizing bilingual and multicultural education.
27
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Thirdly, I am pleased to inform this Assembly that
capital investment in Bolivia’s main public enterprises is
moving forward successfully and strongly. We are
transforming the largest productive and service units of the
country to enable them to double their capital in the space
of a few months, modernize their management
in
accordance with the requirements of international life, and
secure a series of real benefits for the Bolivian population,
making possible individual investment by citizens of 50 per
cent of the share capital.
Such initiatives represent an effort to make Bolivia
equal to contemporary demands, especially those resulting
from the international economy, which is characterized by
great dynamism, innovation and competitiveness.
International economic cooperation is indispensable
and should enjoy the firm political backing of developed
countries and international financial institutions. For that
reason my country expresses concern about the declining
and negative trends of some sources of cooperation and
financing. This situation is especially disturbing when seen
in the light of the fact that Bolivia has to contend in its
territory with a universal problem — namely, illicit drug
trafficking.
It is paradoxical — to say the least — to urge an
increase in Bolivia’s contribution and in Bolivia’s tasks in
that common struggle precisely at a time when cooperation
resources are decreasing. The task at hand is simultaneously
to fulfil
the commitments in the struggle against drug
trafficking and to prepare to embark on genuine sustainable
development, especially in the rural sector, where the most
acute poverty exists.
strong backing from the
Given the magnitude of the tasks falling to Bolivia in
this matter,
international
community is needed for Bolivia’s national strategy in
regard to interdiction, prevention, the eradication of surplus
crops, and alternative development. That contribution is
essential to Bolivia’s effort to cease being a link in the
drug-trafficking chain and, at
the same time, ensure
political and economic stability and promote development
of the country’s productive apparatus.
With a view to consolidating the vision of shared
responsibility with regard to the problem of drug-
trafficking, the nations of the Americas support the holding
of a world conference to take stock of the situation and the
state of international cooperation in the struggle against
demand for and production, sale,
trafficking and illicit
distribution of narcotics. In that context, Bolivia actively
28
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
advocates the holding in 1977 of a second international
conference against drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking,
under the aegis of the United Nations.
Before concluding, I must refer to the topic of
sustainable development.
We must stimulate vigorous and sustained economic
growth, with social equity, in conditions that protect and
make efficient use of natural resources and ensure rational
distribution of the fruits of that growth. Henceforth, we
must adopt a mode of development that is nurtured by
technological advances designed to curb the waste and
pollution that have characterized industrialized societies.
Accordingly, it is with special satisfaction that I
announce to this Assembly that in the latter half of next
year Bolivia will have the privilege of hosting, in the city
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, the American Hemispheric
Summit on Sustainable Development. We hope that the
ideas and proposals that emerge from that
important
meeting will contribute to the development of our
countries and to better preservation of the environment in
this part of the world.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of
Finance of Samoa, His Excellency Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele
Malielegaoi.
Mr. Malielegaoi (Samoa): I have to confess to my
usual excitement and pleasure at addressing the General
Assembly, exceptionally crowded and patient even at this
late hour.
Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Diogo Freitas do
Amaral on his election as President of the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session. Mr. Freito do Amaral
represents a country with a long history of global
achievements. With his personal qualities and experience,
he is a very natural choice to guide the work of this
Assembly at such a critical moment.
Let me also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr.
for his dedicated and distinguished
the General
Amara Essy,
stewardship during the last session of
Assembly.
I want also to record the gratitude of my
to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Government
Boutros-Ghali,
the
leadership that he continues to provide in the direction
and work of the Organization.
the measure and quality of
for
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Barely three weeks ago Hurricane Luis wrought
devastation on several island countries in the Caribbean,
causing major setbacks to economic and sustainable
development, as well as the loss of lives. As we ourselves
recently experienced two similar disasters, our thoughts and
sympathy are with the people of the Caribbean nations
devastated by Hurricane Luis, and we pray for their speedy
recovery.
The President of the General Assembly, in his opening
remarks, reminded us of the scope of the membership and
the universal character of this Organization. Samoa is proud
to note that a sister nation of the Pacific, the Republic of
Palau, is the newest Member of the United Nations, and I
am delighted to extend to Palau the warmest of welcomes.
Two weeks ago the Republic of Palau was acclaimed to
membership — becoming the sixteenth member — of the
South Pacific Forum. That too was a moment of great pride
for all of us.
We come together at a special moment for this
Organization and in the history of international cooperation.
Undeniably, this is a session of exceptional importance. We
need to take stock of where we, the United Nations, are and
to set new goals and priorities for the future.
Samoa believes that any stocktaking must be rooted in
the Charter, which proclaims the purposes and principles of
the Organization. Regrettably, the Charter pledges that we
have made to succeeding generations remain largely
unfulfilled.
It is right, and it is natural, therefore that at this
fiftieth session, we, the peoples of the United Nations,
should seek to renew our commitment to those pledges. But
first, it must be remembered that they are pledges that carry
the attendant duty — a most sacred duty — to make them
realities. It is a duty imposed upon us all and accepted upon
membership in our Organization. Far too often, this is
forgotten, or seemingly ignored.
This session will also be the natural occasion on which
to reaffirm our support for, and our faith in, the United
Nations.
I speak positively and unhesitatingly about
reaffirmation because, quite frankly, what else is there to
take the place of the United Nations?
What we have is certainly not perfect. And given its
almost universal make-up, the range of issues before it and
the increasing demands being made of the United Nations,
it would be surprising if this were the case. Indeed, in
recent years, all of us in this Assembly have been engaged
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
in various activities aimed at making the United Nations
more relevant, more efficient and more cost-effective and
at preparing the Organization for the twenty-first century.
We welcome in particular resolution 49/252, which was
recently adopted, on strengthening of the United Nations
system, and we look forward to taking part
in the
discussions in the Open-ended High-level Working Group
established.
If and when we have devised changes and
improvements in the United Nations system, I dare say
that in years to come it will be necessary to persist in
monitoring and putting into place further needed reforms
to ensure the sustaining vigour of the Organization. That
being the case, there is clearly room for criticism and
fault-finding, from among ourselves as well as from those
who look on. We do not however think the shortcomings
of the United Nations warrant uninformed cynicism and
unfair blame, nor
is
sometimes levelled at it.
irrelevance that
the charge of
But clearly, the standing and the very role of the
United Nations is at risk if the Members continue to deny
the Organization the funds and resources it needs. The
Secretary-General has spoken of this matter time and
again, and once more in his report on the work of the
Organization (A/50/1). The Organization is in a most
critical financial state, but it is also clear that the situation
can be substantially improved with the early payment of
arrears and by the full and timely payment of assessed
contributions. We can only urge the most
immediate
action on the part of those who know they must act.
Samoa is a small and least-developed country. We
are deeply committed to the United Nations, and we will
continue to meet our financial and other responsibilities,
notwithstanding the budgetary problems we face. We
share the view that the strongest measures must be taken
to achieve sound financial viability for this Organization.
It would be essential for this purpose that there be a fair,
more equitable and realistic scale of assessments, one
which would take full account of the principle of capacity
to pay.
This must also take into account the predicament of
some countries, including my own, which are assessed at
the floor rate of the scale, at levels far beyond their
capacity to pay. We believe there is a just case for
abolishing or reducing the current floor rate. This is a
matter of importance to many small States and we would
hope that the High-level Working Group on the Financial
Situation of the United Nations would continue to give it
due consideration.
29
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
There is a second aspect, which touches on the
emphasis now being given to United Nations peace-keeping
activities. While Samoa recognizes the necessary and
traditional role of the United Nations in promoting global
peace and security, it seems to us that ultimately no amount
of force and no measure of peace-keeping can sustain peace
and security without attention to the root causes. Our own
view is that human misery brought about by poverty and
the denial of human and democratic rights are often the real
and fundamental problems. Unless these are removed or
minimized, there can never be the substratum that we need
for lasting world peace and security.
Put simply, Samoa believes firmly that social and
economic development must remain a major preoccupation
the United Nations, as pledged in the Charter.
of
global
Development priorities
for
conferences
and social
advancement of
should be
effectively implemented. They should not be ignored while
in terms of
the Organization’s attention and its focus,
human and financial
is diverted elsewhere,
largely on peace-keeping activities.
sustained economic
the
the developing countries
in recent
spelt out
resources,
For Samoa and other small island States disadvantaged
by their size and geographical location, the Programme of
Action for the Sustainable Development on Small Island
Developing States must
remain a centrepiece of our
attention.
We welcome steps taken by the various organs of the
United Nations system to implement the Plan of Action.
We appreciate, in particular, what is being done by the
Department
for Policy Co-ordination and Sustainable
Development and the Unit
the
implementation of the Programme of Action. These steps
will complement efforts undertaken by our
regional
countries in the South Pacific region to further advance the
commitments made in Rio, Barbados and elsewhere.
set up to monitor
Samoa’s commitment to the pursuit of global peace
and security is unwavering. We will continue to do what
we can. Conflicts which continue to rage in many regions
of the world today cannot be ignored. They affect us all,
for they impact directly or indirectly on the ability of the
United Nations and the international community to respond
to the development needs of others.
We welcome the latest
bringing a peaceful end to the conflict
settlement acceptable to all parties must be reached.
initiatives with a view to
in Bosnia. A
30
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Another milestone in the Middle East peace process
was reached in Washington yesterday. With the rest of
the world, we celebrate and commend the enduring efforts
and commitments made by the Israeli and Palestinian
leaders to lasting peace and security for all in that region.
is of vital
Our environment
importance, and of
singular concern to my Government. Our actions in the
region and at the international level are dictated by a deep
commitment
to preserving it. Together with other
countries in our region, we have initiated and concluded
a series of treaty regimes, including those designed to
protect
the natural resources and environment of the
South Pacific region and to establish the South Pacific
nuclear-free
of
environmental pollution by radioactive wastes and other
radioactive matter.
region
keep
free
zone
to
our
We will continue to supplement these efforts as the
need arises. Indeed, leaders at the recent South Pacific
Forum meeting in Papua New Guinea adopted the Treaty
on the Control and Movement of Hazardous and Toxic
Wastes in the South Pacific. Samoa did not hesitate to
sign it.
Consistently over the years Samoa, together with our
regional partners, has called for a permanent end to
nuclear testing, the dumping of chemical and toxic wastes
and the transportation of these materials in our waters.
From this account you will therefore understand our
deep shock and distress when it was announced in June
that France proposed to resume the testing of nuclear
weapons in the Pacific. We sought, at the highest level,
as many others did,
to persuade the Government of
France not to do so. We took action to register our
concern and to protest and we sought to intervene in the
proceedings brought by New Zealand against France in
the International Court of Justice. Together with other
Forum countries we moved to make direct representation
to the Government of France — all to no avail.
The explosion of a nuclear device at Mururoa atoll
early this month brings to close to 200 the number of
underground nuclear tests France has carried out in the
Pacific since 1975. Of
the whole United Nations
membership, Samoa is the closest to the test site.
The resumption of nuclear testing by France has
been made in the face of strong and persistent protest
from countries of the region, and equally strong and
overwhelming condemnation from all parts of the world.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The current tests are being conducted in the absence of any
environmental impact assessments that we know of or have
been advised of, and in the opinion of my Government in
disregard of France’s existing regional treaty obligations.
Like other members of the South Pacific Forum, Samoa is
outraged at the resumption of French nuclear testing in the
Pacific — and, as I say, in the vicinity of my country. In
the strongest possible terms we condemn it. We do so
because of the extreme danger it poses to our environment
and health, now and in the long term; and because the tests
are completely contrary to the undertaking at the recent
Non-Proliferation Treaty review Conference that nuclear
States exercise utmost restraint in nuclear testing pending
the completion of negotiations on a comprehensive test-ban
treaty that would ban nuclear tests for all time.
We
do welcome France’s
a
comprehensive test-ban treaty, but that should not be used
as an excuse for France to continue its nuclear testing in
our region. For the sake of our environment and all who
live there, we call on France to stop.
commitment
to
We call also, and once more, on the three nuclear
Powers which have not yet signed and ratified the Protocols
to the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty to do so.
It is also out of deep concern for our environment that
Samoa has taken every step possible to be engaged in the
negotiations and in the implementation of the international
conventions relating to climate change, biodiversity, marine
pollution and the conservation of straddling and highly
migratory fish stocks. Global warming and the threat of
sea-level rise are matters of the gravest concern to my
country and our region. Recently, the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that the warming
of the global atmosphere is unlikely to be entirely due to
natural causes. In other words, human activity is a definite
cause that cannot be discounted.
While this is not entirely unexpected,
the latest
indication from the IPCC bears out
the inadequacy of
current Convention commitments for Annex I parties, and
underlines the essential correctness, and the urgency, of the
Berlin Mandate issued from the first Conference of the
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change. For its part, Samoa will continue to work
together with countries of the Alliance of Small Island
States (AOSIS) towards the early acceptance of clear
emission-reduction targets of the type advanced in the draft
AOSIS Protocol.
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
In respect of fish stocks, let me take the opportunity
to pay tribute to all the countries that worked so hard to
produce the truly remarkable triumph in the form of the
draft Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
relating to the Conservation and Management of
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks.
In particular, we express our gratitude to Ambassador
Satya Nandan of Fiji
for his exceptional skill and
chairmanship.
This has been a landmark year on many counts; with
the fiftieth anniversary commemoration we will celebrate
next month the crowning event.
The Fourth World Conference on Women,
in
Beijing, is one such landmark. Samoa warmly applauds
the unanimous adoption of the Platform for Action, and
the remarkable degree of international consultation and
cooperation that was employed to produce it. What is
needed now is the highest degree of commitment and
action, in close consultation with women at all levels.
There would be little point in having yet another fine
document without any prospect of implementation, and
without the effort and the will to make concrete changes
and improvements. And let it be remembered that such
changes and improvements are not for women alone, but
for the full development of mankind.
doubt,
the
of
Without
extension
the Non-
Proliferation Treaty was a major achievement for the
world community this year. We congratulate Ambassador
Dhanapala of Sri Lanka on his remarkable role and
leadership in ensuring the successful outcome of the
Review Conference.
and a
The decisions we took then are essential
to
international peace and security, and the attainment of the
ultimate goals of the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons
and complete
disarmament under strict and effective international
control. The successful conclusion of a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty by 1996 is a specific goal for the
attainment of which all Member States of this body
should strive with the utmost effort.
treaty on general
We pray that at
the end of the presidency of
Ambassador Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, the world
community will be able to celebrate the accomplishment
of that objective.
31
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
President
The Acting
from
French): I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
the Republic of Colombia, His Excellency Mr. Rodrigo
Pardo Garcia-Peña.
(interpretation
Mr. Pardo Garcia-Peña (Colombia)(interpretation
from Spanish): On behalf of my Government I congratulate
Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session,
a crucial time in the history of the Organization. I should
like at the outset to express our full readiness to make a
major contribution to the success of the deliberations under
his leadership.
I should also like to express our appreciation and
gratitude to Minister Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for his
excellent performance as President of the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session.
The peoples of the world believed that the end of the
cold war would bring peace and prosperity — and they are
still waiting. Indeed the changes that have taken place in
international
relations have not been accompanied by
changes of a similar magnitude in the relations between the
industrialized North and the impoverished South. On the
contrary, the situation of developing countries, far from
having improved, is deteriorating further. The international
trade system does not meet the expectations that there
would be access to markets and transparency in the rules of
the game. Poverty has not been reduced,
social
development
and
technological development of the South continues to lag
and the external debt problem is still a heavy burden on our
economies.
standstill,
scientific
the
a
is
at
It is our duty now to realize the dream of those who
wrote the San Francisco Charter — something that has been
postponed for 50 years by a cold war and dozens of
regional conflicts and overshadowed by the grief of the
victims of armed conflicts.
of
The
period
transition
through which
the
international system is passing should not lead us to accept
so-called unilateral solutions to problems that are global in
the emergence of a new era of
nature nor to permit
intervention in matters
lie within the domestic
jurisdiction of States. There is an imperative need to
concert policies
to face
international problems and to foster constructive links
between North and South.
and coordinate
strategies
that
32
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
The United Nations, which was a stage for the cold
in
war, must now cooperate in eradicating poverty,
making sustainable human development viable,
in
guaranteeing equality of rights between men and women
and in giving full effect to human rights — in other
words, it must work on behalf of human beings — all
human beings — without distinction of any kind
whatsoever. The United Nations has the responsibility to
strive to make the hopes and expectations that arose at the
end of the cold war a reality and not the source of new
frustrations.
The current situation requires a modern United
Nations attuned to the new times, a pluralistic and
democratic Organization that will be an instrument for the
promotion of a world order that can make the right to
development a reality and achieve peace. The building of
a new international system to replace the hegemonic,
weapons-based and unilateral practices of the past is a
goal
towards which we must work from within this
Organization.
The international system we aspire to create is one
compatible with interdependence and autonomy, with the
strengthening of the international organization and with
full respect for the sovereign equality of States, one
compatible with economic development and devoted to
the significant improvement of the living conditions of the
poorest segments of the population.
and
social
justice
equity,
It is indispensable to forge a new economic model
that can satisfy the needs of our people, one characterized
by
and
competitiveness. At the same time, we are convinced that
genuine and representative democracy, free from foreign
interference, must be the key element in preserving peace
and observing the basic principles of respect for the
fundamental rights of the human person and of economic
and social development.
efficiency
For
the preservation of peace,
security and
international stability it is indispensable that the nuclear-
weapon States
immediately
discontinue nuclear testing. In this regard, we deplore the
that have been carried out,
recent nuclear
notwithstanding the opposition of
the international
community to that practice.
responsibly
tests
and
act
Next month the Eleventh Summit Meeting of the
members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries will
take place in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia. My country
looks forward to the attendance of leaders of developing
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
nations and is prepared to shoulder the creative challenge
of presiding over the Movement for the next three years.
In recent decades, under
the leadership of His
Excellency President Soeharto of Indonesia,
the Non-
Aligned Movement adopted a new course, one in tune with
current reality, abandoning the confrontational context in
favour of cooperation as the central focus of its action. We
shall continue to pursue that task with enthusiasm.
With the same determination with which it succeeded
in its struggle against colonialism, the non-aligned countries
must now face the challenge of eradicating poverty and
closing the vast gap between rich and poor and between
developed and developing countries.
In the twenty-first century non-alignment will mean a
commitment to peace and to the well-being and progress of
our peoples, as well as action against poverty and
marginalization.
to
cooperation in dealing with global problems and a struggle
for participation and against unilateralism and imposition.
It will also entail a commitment
reform of
actively in the
In facing the next century, non-alignment must
participate
international
institutions, including the United Nations and the Bretton
Woods institutions. Non-alignment must also promote the
needed changes in the structures of cooperation and the
dynamic modalities by which developed countries and
international
the
implementation of projects and programmes of South-South
cooperation.
institutions
resources
provide
for
One of the global problems that calls for an effective
multilateral strategy headed by the United Nations is that of
illegal drugs. This is not an issue that can be dealt with by
a single country or small group of nations. This is a
transnational crime of vast proportions, overwhelming
dimensions and the greatest perils. It is a crime without
nationality.
We Colombians have suffered more than anyone from
the devastating effects of this problem. We have suffered
death and corruption as a consequence of the huge profits
to be derived from this illegal activity. We find it
surprising,
international
community is not fully aware of the real nature and
dimensions of the problem of illicit drugs.
therefore,
to note
that
the
We are dealing with an illegal economic activity with
dimensions that have been compared with those of the oil
industry. It is seven or eight times greater than the gross
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
national product of a nation like Colombia; it operates in
dozens of countries and entails a number of linked
activities, including money laundering and the deviation
of chemical precursors. Such linked activities generally
take place in developed countries and are as important as
the growing of coca leaves or their transformation into
cocaine.
an
in
Many
studies
indicate
increase
the
consumption of illegal drugs in industrialized countries as
well as an increase in new markets throughout the world.
World statistics demonstrate that deaths from drug abuse
have trebled since 1988 and that an increase of 1000 per
cent has been observed in medical emergencies due to
cocaine overdose between 1978 and 1993.
My country has battled, with more success than any
other, against the producers of and traffickers in illegal
drugs. Colombia eradicated marihuana crops in the 1970s,
destroyed the Medellín Cartel in the 1980s and dismantled
the Cali Cartel in the 1990s.
Colombia is responsible for more than 50 per cent of
the poppy crops eradicated worldwide and for
the
confiscation of more than a quarter of the total amount of
cocaine and cocaine base seized globally.
The eradication of illegal crops in Colombia must be
the
accompanied by similar efforts to bring about
eradication of marihuana crops
in other countries,
including in some industrialized countries in the North.
During the first year of President Ernesto Samper’s
Administration, the anti-drug cartel policy has produced
results that no prior administration in Colombia, or in any
other nation, has been able to achieve.
Thanks to Colombia’s success, the world now has a
historic opportunity to defeat drug trafficking once and
for all. Yet this opportunity could be missed if adequate
measures are not immediately adopted to combat money
laundering,
the deviation of precursor chemicals and
permissive consumption.
My country has proposed creating a special unit of
the Economic and Social Council to oversee measures of
international cooperation,
the adoption of an inter-
American convention against money laundering and the
convening in 1997 of an international conference to
evaluate the results of the Vienna Convention and to
make the necessary adjustments to it.
33
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
There is still time for the international community to
face up to its responsibility to bring about the final defeat
of this international scourge.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan, His Excellency Mr. Boris
Shikhmuradov.
Mr. Shikhmuradov (Turkmenistan) (interpretation
from Russian): Please
sincere
congratulations to Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his
election to the presidency of the General Assembly.
allow me
to offer
I would like to emphasize that this session of the
General Assembly, in the year of the fiftieth anniversary of
the United Nations, will occupy a special place in the
history of the Organization. In that context, on behalf of
Turkmenistan and President Niyazov, I wish to express our
sincere appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts to build a new kind of
international relations for the Organization.
The opportunity for our State to participate in the
affairs of the world community as an independent entity
flowed, of course, from those events that the Secretary-
General, in his report on the work of the Organization,
describes as
“the momentum in world affairs that appeared so
dramatically at the outset of this decade.” (A/50/1,
para. 4)
Serenely, and immensely grateful for its good fortune,
Turkmenistan embarked on its independent course and,
without any political romanticism, began to carry out its
programme of building a nation-State and a system of
foreign ties and seeking optimal ways for participating in
international relations. This was a quest for Turkmenistan’s
place in the United Nations system and a model of
statehood reflecting its national mentality and the traditions
of the Turkmen people.
Since that time, in our four years of independent
existence, we have travelled a great distance, and each step
we have taken along the way has been both in the national
interest of Turkmenistan and in the interest of stabilizing
the region and strengthening international security, in the
constant conviction that these two are inseparable.
After engaging in broad contacts within the system of
Asian States, we have once again become convinced of the
34
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
correctness of the conclusion drawn at the beginning of
this century that Asia, with its enormous human, natural
and intellectual
resources, had every possibility of
becoming the most prosperous region in the world.
However,
the entire history of the Asian
continent, instability and protracted regional conflicts have
often, unfortunately, constituted the political background,
and this has significantly complicated the solution of
problems of internal development.
throughout
Turkmenistan has set as its main priority the
preservation of internal stability and social peace in
carrying out radical reforms in building its State and its
economy. This is vitally necessary in order for us to take
advantage of our enormous resource potential. But that
important condition is not the only one: the other is
stability around us so that we can freely and naturally
develop our trade and economic relations with other
States. This question is of special interest, in view of the
world’s share of hydrocarbon deposits and other mineral
and biological resources that Turkmenistan possesses.
Turkmenistan is at one of the world’s important
crossroads of political and economic interests,
in a
regional dimension and beyond. Aware of this geopolitical
reality, Turkmenistan is prepared to participate in the
most constructive way in establishing new relations in the
region and to promote efforts to establish there overall
stability, security and effective and mutually advantageous
cooperation on the basis of the principles of the United
Nations.
We believe that with the breakup of the Soviet
Union and the Iron Curtain’s disappearance from its
borders with its southern neighbours, a new region has
emerged, a new community of States of Central Asia, the
Middle East, South-West Asia, the Caucasus and part of
the Near East. This region is united by common
development interests, the restoration of historical trade
and economic relations and cultural and humanitarian
traditions.
I would like to emphasize that
This was the logic that led to the idea of active
participation in the Economic Cooperation Organization
(ECO).
the ECO’s
configuration fully corresponds to our concept of a new
region’s emergence following the disintegration of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: the restoration of a
natural gravitational attraction between these States that
for decades were artificially divided by an ideological
barrier, which conditions for
them the priority of
energy
transportation,
telecommunications
and
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
programmes. Underlying these processes lies the principle
of absolute economic feasibility, based on the mutual
interests of the member States of the ECO and the absence
of any political, territorial or other disputes between them.
As for the internal
tensions that persist
in some
countries, we should stress that economic cooperation,
participation and joint projects will create fertile soil for
constructive solutions to these problems. Turkmenistan
believes that this 10-country organization, emerging at such
an important time, will open up additional possibilities for
the newly independent States to the south of the former
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
Furthermore, the basis of our political and economic
strategy is the principle of reasonable pragmatism and the
preservation of positive experiences and ties from the past.
We have a politically new type of State. Its independent
status cannot be achieved by denying the realities of the
past and old ties that can still serve our higher interests
today. In this respect, our relations with Russia and other
partners in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)
have remained a key component of Turkmenistan’s foreign
policy.
interests but
I would like to lay special emphasis on the fact that
the obligations that neutral Turkmenistan has assumed have
been set out in our Constitution and have been supported by
the people. These obligations not only take account of
national
the
development of cooperation in the region, and they have
enormous potential
stimulating the peacemaking
processes in the area and for promoting the efforts of the
world community, primarily here at the United Nations, to
rid it of obsolete measures and adopt preventive measures
to defuse disputes and conflicts.
also objectively promote
for
I would like to set out
some parameters of
Turkmenistan’s neutrality initiative in order to make sure
that it is correctly understood by our partners in the United
Nations and supported by them as well.
The rapid pace of
recent events determined the
changes in Asia’s geopolitical and geo-economic situation.
inter-State and regional
The nature and direction of
processes, an important component of some of
these
changes, has resulted in the formation of new, independent
States, each having chosen its own independent path of
development and having its own interests. One of the ways
in which the uniqueness of each country has been
manifested is in its political path, as is natural. For each
country that path is based on the people’s historical roots,
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
mentality and psychological make-up. Turkmenistan is no
exception to this. Merging the prospects for its own
development with the direction and nature of regional and
continental processes and linking national interests with
the objective requirements of
the day — from this
theoretical and practical basis we have arrived at the need
to proclaim neutrality as a principle and instrument of
Turkmenistan’s foreign policy. We are pleased that our
neutrality initiative is finding more and more support,
attracting civil and political interest and receiving broad
international recognition. We are grateful to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
for providing
Turkmenistan with assistance in this regard.
In the context of asserting itself as a neutral State,
Turkmenistan requested admission to the Non-Aligned
Movement as a full-fledged member. We hope that during
the non-aligned summit
in Cartagena, Colombia,
Turkmenistan’s membership will be confirmed. In this
context, I would like to state Turkmenistan’s conviction
that the idea of non-alignment is both a vital and a viable
one. We do not share the view that it is archaic. We
believe that we must not participate in the two conflicting
global systems and that we need to turn to an idea of
non-participation in the various rigid regional blocs,
multi-State formations capable of generating considerable
destructive force. Turkmenistan advocates non-alignment,
as well as non-participation in improper acts of
intervention in the internal affairs of States, non-
participation in efforts for global or regional dominance
and non-participation in schemes to limit the role of the
United Nations or weaken the universal and proven
machinery for implementing global policy. Such practices
serve selfish purposes.
We are convinced that the use of military force to
solve existing conflicts has no future, but that negotiations
are effective. Although seeking peaceful means
is
complex, alternatives do not exist. At the same time, we
understand that without active efforts, without good will,
it will hardly be possible to attain the desired result.
Therefore, inter alia, while not intervening in the Tajik
conflict, we are prepared to play a role in holding the
next round of inter-Tajik negotiations. We welcome and
commend the peacemaking efforts of the United Nations
and Russia, Iran, Pakistan and other countries in this
process.
Naturally, we must be concerned at the situation
unfolding in neighbouring Afghanistan. Supporting
contacts with the central Government in Kabul, as well as
with regional leaders, we believe that the Afghans must
35
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to
lead
highly
but may
be helped to demonstrate their ability to achieve peace and
consensus in their country, and that attempts to intervene in
internal affairs not only are counter-
Afghanistan’s
productive,
undesirable
consequences. In that context, I would like to emphasize
that Turkmenistan gives priority to the United Nations, to
the Secretary-General’s efforts to find an acceptable
machinery for an Afghan settlement. Turkmenistan agrees
with the concern expressed from this rostrum at
the
continuing internal Afghan conflict. Turkmenistan has a
long border with this long-suffering State and is truly
interested in finding a prompt settlement to the Afghan
problem. We are also interested in the success of the
special representative of the United Nations, who in our
view requires serious support from the United Nations. We
cannot allow a situation whereby efforts to focus on solving
one conflict cause less attention to be paid to another,
resulting in negative consequences.
Just as mankind has become aware that the nuclear
threat has a global dimension, we are also aware that today
we need an adequate response to all regional and local
disputes and conflicts. I would like to emphasize that
Ashkhabad is prepared to engage
in constructive
cooperation with the United Nations on these issues, and to
demonstrate
of
constructive neutrality.
commitment
principles
the
its
to
All countries and peoples are now adapting in their
own ways to new conditions in the world, which dictate the
need to adopt a common philosophy of security, based on
the principle of security for one and security for all. I
would like to emphasize that at this stage we are talking
about a philosophy, of perceptions of the world, reflecting
realities in Asian countries, in particular. This philosophy
excludes the use of force, diktat, as a means of solving
political disputes, and its main principles should include
equality, humanism, social and economic progress, and
healthy pragmatism.
Here I should like to support what was said by my
colleague
from Germany, Mr. Klaus Kinkel, who
emphasized that we must not allow hostile stereotypes to
become instilled in people’s minds and that we cannot
associate
sweep Islam with terrorism and
fundamentalism. We welcome this assertion and express our
conviction that this attitude will become universal.
in one
As for Turkmenistan, we are fundamental advocates of
a secular State model, in which religion would play its
proper role. We believe that, as has been emphasized by
President Niyasov, a poly-ethnic, multi-faith State model
36
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
and structure is more effective, more fruitful,
mono-ethnic and mono-religious State.
than a
transitional
in a difficult
in European matters, as one of
I take this opportunity to emphasize the support that
Turkmenistan has received, through its participation in the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE),
the legal
successors of the former federated State. This has created
for us,
time of colossal
transformations, the possibility of benefiting from Asian-
European development. In that context, the words of the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of France, Mr. Hervé de
Charette, were very important for us, when he spoke
about the States of Asia and Africa and about focusing on
the first meeting of Heads of State of Asia and Africa, set
for March 1996. We hope, within the context of
activating work on the Euro-Asian bridge, that there will
be other major projects, with the participation of
Turkmenistan, on a direct window to Europe. Primarily,
we are talking about a north-south transit corridor to link
Europe and Asia, through the territory of Russia and
Turkmenistan, facilitating the supply of Turkmen energy
to European markets and so on.
I should like to emphasize that we have witnessed a
significant, if not radical, increase in international interest
in Caspian Sea matters, and the utilization of its abundant
natural resources. Our conceptual approach to this is
based on the idea that the Caspian Sea is a unique water
basin and the common property of the five coastal States.
In the making of plans for the development of its
resources account should be taken of
those States’
interests;
their consent should be required and no
unilateral decisions should be taken. Turkmenistan firmly
advocates the prevention of any naval activities in the
Caspian Sea, and favours freedom of navigation, on the
basis of a legal status to be developed by the littoral
States. We must create legal and economic conditions that
will guarantee a normal regime for foreign investment and
exclude any risks for investors, such as the emergence of
a situation of distrust between the States of the basin.
At the coming anniversary session of the General
Assembly next month, President Niyasov will set forth
the principles of the domestic and foreign policies of
Turkmenistan, focusing on problems being taken up by
the United Nations, an Organization reflecting the face of
mankind, which today faces a new millennium with its
unique challenges and times and circumstances. We
sincerely congratulate each other, and first and foremost
congratulate the Secretary-General, as we are absolutely
convinced that the United Nations, in this year of its
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
fiftieth anniversary, will prove that it is essential to the
world as the highest international assembly, developing an
agenda for global partnership in the twenty-first century.
The President (interpretation from French): I shall
now call on those representatives who wish to speak in
exercise of the right of reply.
May I remind members that statements in exercise of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first, and
five minutes for the second, and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Yañez-Barnuevo (Spain) (interpretation from
Spanish): The Spanish delegation feels duty-bound to
exercise its right of reply.
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of
My delegation would like to refer to the mentions of
the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla contained in the
statement made here today by the Prime Minister and
Minister
the
Kingdom of Morocco. Such references are not in keeping
with reality, since those are Spanish territories, whose
citizens are represented in the Spanish Parliament with the
same rights and under
the same conditions as their
compatriots, and it is not possible to establish any parallels
with other situations which are quite different in nature.
Such references are not appropriate, since they are not
relationship which exists
in keeping with the overall
between the Kingdoms of Spain and of Morocco, bilaterally
as well as in the region as a whole, to which we both, as
neighbours, belong.
Mr. Kamal (Pakistan): I am speaking in exercise of
the right of reply because the Foreign Minister of India
made a reference in his statement this morning to Jammu
and Kashmir as a State in India. Jammu and Kashmir is a
disputed territory and Pakistan is a party to this dispute. To
describe the disputed territory of Jammu and Kashmir as a
State in India is totally fallacious and a distortion of the
facts as they are known to the United Nations. The relevant
Security Council resolutions clearly determine that the final
disposition of the State of Jammu and Kashmir will be
made in accordance with the will of the people, expressed
through the democratic method of a free and impartial
plebiscite conducted under the auspices of the United
Nations. The Indian claim that Kashmir is an integral part
of India is therefore untenable and incorrect.
Only a week ago, the spokesperson of the Indian
External Affairs Ministry, while commenting on the United
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Nations Secretary-General’s offer of mediation on
Kashmir, said that India remained fully committed to the
resolution of the Kashmir issue peacefully, in accordance
with the Simla Agreement. If Jammu and Kashmir was a
part of the Indian Union, why would India appeal to the
Government of Pakistan “to demonstrate sincerity in
finding a peaceful solution to the Jammu and Kashmir
problem”? Why would the Secretary-General want to
offer his good offices on an Indian province? Or why
would it be raised in international forums? The fact of the
matter is that Jammu and Kashmir is an internationally
recognized disputed territory.
The Indian Foreign Minister also described terrorism
as the “black plague” of our times, and we fully agree.
But he went on to say that it is specious logic to say that
one man’s freedom-fighter is another man’s terrorist. The
fact is that the United Nations has consistently underlined
the distinction between terrorism, on the one hand, and
the legitimate struggle of peoples under colonial or alien
domination or foreign occupation for the realization of
their right to self-determination and national liberation, on
the other hand. The latter is exactly the situation in
Jammu and Kashmir, where for the past 47 years an
oppressed population has been struggling to seek
liberation from the Indian yoke. Its struggle is not a
movement for secession;
is not a violation of the
territorial integrity of a country: it is the realization of a
promise that was made to the people of Jammu and
Kashmir by the United Nations and agreed to by India
and Pakistan. No amount of distortion of history or
attempts to cloud the issue by sidetracking it can change
the irrefutable validity of Security Council resolutions
freely accepted but subsequently reneged on by India.
it
Terrorism, in any case, should be condemned and
opposed in all its forms and manifestations, including
State-sponsored terrorism targeting people living under
alien domination and foreign occupation. The United
Nations should not appease the States that are involved in
organized terrorism against
the people of occupied
territories. With 600,000 armed troops in Jammu and
Kashmir terrorizing an innocent people, we are witnessing
State-sponsored terrorism at its worst.
Reference was also made by the Foreign Minister of
India to the unfortunate incident of hostage-taking in
Kashmir. We have already had occasion to point out in
this forum the mounting evidence of Indian complicity in
this gruesome act. This time again, as in past instances,
foreign tourists have been taken hostage by a group
unknown to all, including to the 34-member All-Parties
37
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Hurriyet Conference. Al-Faran, a group which manages to
operate with immunity in one of the most heavily soldiered
regions of the world, a group which manages to stay in
regular communication and contact with the Indian
authorities, without their being able to trace it — all this is
only part of
the circumstantial evidence of a plot
masterminded by Indian intelligence agencies to denigrate
the Kashmiri struggle for freedom. No one here is gullible
enough to accept Indian professions of piety.
the
Finally,
Indian Foreign Minister
said that
democracy alone is not a guarantee against colonial rule or
wars. We agree. In fact, here is the so-called largest
democracy in the world responsible for the largest operation
of State-sponsored terrorism and the most gruesome human
rights violations seen over the past 50 years.
Mr. Gaussot (France) (interpretation from French):
Some opinions expressed today on nuclear tests, in the
framework of the general debate, make it necessary for my
delegation to set forth certain facts once again.
First of all, our underground nuclear tests are in no
way detrimental to the environment; eminent scientists have
demonstrated this on many occasions.
Secondly, the final tests, eight at the most, that France
finds it necessary to carry out are not contrary to its
commitment to exercise the utmost restraint. Restraint is not
the same thing as prohibition. Furthermore — and this point
is fundamental — far from being contrary to the conclusion
of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, the last programme of
tests now under way serves the achievement of that goal.
Indeed, because of this final programme of tests, to be
concluded before the end of May 1996, France will be in
a position to commit
to such an international
agreement without any reservations.
itself
Furthermore, the completion of our tests will make it
possible for my country to argue resolutely for what is
known as the zero-option — that is, for a treaty prohibiting
any nuclear-weapons testing or any other nuclear explosion,
at any level. France, as the Assembly knows, was the first
nuclear Power to commit itself to this essential option, and
my delegation is pleased to see that several States have
welcomed that commitment.
The most recent French tests thus come within the
context of, and must be seen from the point of view of, the
impending conclusion of a truly significant treaty, namely
a treaty that does not envisage any exception or allow for
any circumvention.
38
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Ms. Murugesan (India): The representative of
Pakistan does not tire of wasting the valuable time of this
Assembly. The unfounded and baseless allegations he has
just made are only a reflection of the frustration that is
axiomatic when truth is pushed under the carpet and an
attempt is made to build an edifice on falsehood. Or is
this latest outburst reflective of a guilty conscience? It is
no doubt a mixture of the two.
I am intrigued that the representative of Pakistan has
chosen to exercise his right of reply in response to the
statement made earlier today in the Assembly by the
leader of my delegation. I do not recall, nor I am sure can
anyone else in this Assembly recall, any reference to
Pakistan in our statement today. We can therefore draw
the only possible logical conclusion:
that Pakistan is
actively engaged in interfering in the internal affairs of
India.
Blaming India is so juvenile a reaction to Pakistan’s
own culpability in sponsoring, supporting and sustaining
terrorism in its most brutal form in India that it deserves
no response. Such an allegation from a State that has
turned its armed might against its own people is ironic, to
say the least.
The only impediment to dialogue between India and
Pakistan is Pakistan’s continued export of terrorism in its
most brutal form into India. Pakistan’s greed for Indian
territory has
fuelled three wars which, by the
acknowledgement of Pakistan’s own generals, were
started by Pakistan; and since 1989, that greed has fuelled
Pakistan’s proxy war in Jammu and Kashmir through
terrorism. This is the distinction in Jammu and Kashmir
between
Self-
determination here is predetermination by Pakistan.
self-determination.
terrorism and
Pakistan should be condemned by the international
community as a sponsor of terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations — cross-border, State-sponsored terrorism
in India and Afghanistan, ongoing State terrorism against
ethnic minorities in Sind, clear linkages to international
terrorism such as the World Trade Center bombing, and
several other incidents in the Middle East. The terrorist
camps and schools run by Pakistan should be shut down.
Our official spokesman stated on 21 September that
in spite of the numerous provocations by Pakistan, the
Indian security forces have exercised enormous restraint.
There is no threat to peace and security in the region
from the Indian side of the Line of Control or the
international border. The Government of India hopes that
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the Government of Pakistan would demonstrate sincerity in
finding a peaceful solution by eschewing sponsorship of
terrorism across the Line of Control and returning to the
negotiating table for a meaningful dialogue.
Mr. Kamal (Pakistan): Once again we have heard one
of India’s representatives trying to hide their own guilt
behind non-relevant arguments. We dismiss their allegations
with the contempt that they deserve. The central and only
point
that has to be addressed is that of the disputed
territory of Jammu and Kashmir.
Can the Indian representative deny that the United
Nations, of which this Assembly is a constituent part, duly
recognizes Jammu and Kashmir as a disputed territory? Can
she deny that the Security Council resolutions clearly state
that the future of Jammu and Kashmir is to be determined
by a plebiscite, to be held under the auspices of the United
Nations? Can she deny that the Security Council resolutions
remain
fully
implemented? Can she deny that the concentration of Indian
troops in Kashmir is the largest such concentration since
the Second World War, with a ratio of one Indian soldier
to every three adult male Kashmiris? Can she deny the
systematic killing, torture and rape of civilians by Indian
troops or
their homes, villages and
townships, as documented by so many human rights
the torching of
operative
valid
and
until
they
are
13th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
organizations? Can she deny the excellent means of
communication that exist between Indian security and
intelligence forces and the Al-Faran outfit, which has
taken innocent Western tourists hostage and beheaded one
of them?
Can she deny that it is India that has opposed the
proposal by Pakistan for an increased strengthening of the
United Nations Military Observer Group in India and
Pakistan (UNMOGIP) along the Line of Control, so that
these facile allegations of theirs can be monitored by the
United Nations itself? Can she deny, finally, that despite
repeated proposals by Pakistan,
is India that has
rejected the offer for an independent, neutral international
fact-finding mission to visit both sides of the Line of
Control, to establish once and for all what is the true state
of affairs in this disputed territory of Jammu and
Kashmir?
it
These are the relevant questions, to which we, and
this Assembly, want clear answers from the Indian
delegation. They are entitled to a reply to a statement in
right of reply. We challenge them to come on record to
answer these questions in front of the Assembly.
Mr. Surie (India): I have no intention of further
dignifying the representative of Pakistan by wasting the
time of this Assembly. However, I would only urge
Pakistan to look deep within itself and cleanse itself of
the devil that lurks within.
Jammu and Kashmir is, and shall remain, an integral
part of India. This is an immutable fact.
The meeting rose at 7.35 p.m.
39
