United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
12th plenary meeting
Friday, 29 September 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.12
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by Dato’ Seri Mr. Mahathir Mohamad,
Prime Minister of Malaysia
The President: The Assembly will
statement by the Prime Minister of Malaysia.
first hear a
Dato’ Seri Mr. Mahathir Mohamad, Prime Minister of
Malaysia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of Malaysia, His Excellency Dato’ Seri
Mr. Mahathir Mohamad, and inviting him to address the
General Assembly.
Mr. Mahathir (Malaysia): Let me first congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fiftieth
session of the General Assembly. I wish you a successful
presidency. Appreciation is also due to your distinguished
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, who provided
the leadership during the forty-ninth session of the General
Assembly.
The General Assembly is meeting in the midst of
hectic schedules of events to commemorate the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations. Some of us have become
preoccupied with these celebrations. We should ask whether
these activities are merely media events or could seriously
contribute to a better United Nations. Will the high point
of
the fiftieth anniversary be reduced to a special
commemorative meeting condensed into a declaration of
good intentions which no one seriously cares for, or
should we resist the tendency to celebrate, to expend
millions on galas and parties and to eulogize through
rhetorical speeches the anniversary of the establishment of
the United Nations? After all we cannot even answer the
basic questions of where we stand and what the United
Nations is, whipping boy or serious, enduring player.
Admittedly it is easier to raise questions than to find
answers. But these questions must be raised and they
deserve to be answered. In its fiftieth year the United
Nations system finds itself criticized for being unable to
handle basic and critical political, economic and social
issues. Despite earlier hopes of a just world order
following the end of the cold war, what we still see is a
United Nations which dances to the grating music of the
major Powers, in total disregard for the high principles
and objectives pledged at its formation. We will have to
conclude that the narrow national interest of the few is
still what
the
principle which largely moves the major Powers, that
influence their
what
dealings with the needs of others,
is fully operative,
making nonsense of interdependence, social compassion
and justice.
the United Nations is all about. Also,
they need for themselves must
And so we must
international political
forget
the promise of an
leadership that can collectively
95-86142 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
intra-State
between States,
come to grips with the myriad issues for a shared survival.
Confrontation
conflicts,
economic and military threats, the dehumanizing effects of
poverty: all these are heightened rather than diminished by
the end of the cold war. The contradictory impulses of
interdependence and isolationism are more evident than
ever before. Not only is humanitarianism drying up fast, but
what survives is replete with conditionalities. The United
Nations presents a shattered image with a threadbare moral
authority, despite
in
decolonization and the subsequent elimination of apartheid.
early successes
the
important
The victors of 1945 have clung tenaciously to the
levers of power. They control the high ground, exercising
influence and power as nakedly as when they were colonial
Powers. Only the masks have changed. The multilateral
organizations created on the eve of war’s end were and still
are structured to further their economic interests and the
pursuit of their strategic political goals. The Security
Council, the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund have merely become the instruments of power
perpetuation. Less than six months ago, we witnessed the
use of the United Nations to push through, draconian-like,
the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty. Before the ink was
dry, some of the nuclear Powers proceeded to test their
diabolical weapons. What, may I ask, qualifies some
countries to possess the means of mass destruction in
perpetuity? It
the nuclear-weapon States
committed themselves to nuclear disarmament through a
programmed reduction of their nuclear arsenals within a
specific time-frame, beginning with the immediate cessation
of all nuclear
total
tests and culminating in their
elimination. Soon it may be too costly and too late.
is time that
Perversely, the major Powers not only continue to
compete in developing ever more destructive conventional
weapons but also compete to sell arms. And when some
developing countries buy arms the Western-controlled
media accuse them of indulging in arms races.
We seem to have inherited a world in which moral
considerations have no real role to play in which acts of
realpolitik have no moral consequences. Tears appear to be
shed about the human tragedies in Bosnia, Rwanda, Liberia,
Somalia and Chechnya, but many have become desensitized
to the horrors that flash across our screens. The Charter
incorporating the idealism and dreams of 1945 is more
honoured in violations of it than in adherence to it. Tell us:
How have the principles of the Charter on the non-use of
force and the illegality of claiming territory acquired by
aggression been of help to the Bosnians? What protection
or solace has the genocide Convention been to those
2
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
slaughtered in Rwanda, Bosnia, Cambodia and Chechnya?
The lesson for the peoples of these countries is clear: no
international order or international ethos will be defended
unless the major Powers see that their vital interests are
at risk.
The United Nations has been party to the double talk
in Bosnia, insisting that morality has no place in peace-
keeping since the impartiality that peace-keepers had to
maintain required them to eschew making any judgement
about the rights and wrongs of the situation. I ask the
United Nations whether there can be a middle ground
where genocide and “ethnic cleansing” are concerned. I
ask the Secretary-General of the United Nations whether
he is obliged to defend the moral principles in the United
Nations Charter or whether he should console the dying
and the bereaved by saying that there are others elsewhere
who are suffering worse fates.
for
role
the United Nations
Is there not, in the context of the larger picture, a
special
to provide
international leadership? Clearly the major Powers have
failed to provide leadership, choosing only to act
in
furtherance of
their national or domestic political
interests. They continue to harp on human rights and the
sanctity of human life but they act only when they run no
risk.
Admittedly, blame must also be apportioned to many
of us in the third world. Some of us have led our people
down the path of despair and misery. With the demise of
colonialism there was the promise of
freedom and
development. Yet many succumbed to the temptations of
creature comfort, failing to further the rights and welfare
of our own people. But then, when we were colonies, the
only form of government we knew was authoritarian
colonialism. It is too much to expect some of us, at the
midnight flag-lowering, suddenly to become democratic
and sophisticated.
The threat of a brutalized world has never been more
evident than in the Serb programme of “ethnic cleansing”
in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the massacres in Rwanda.
For a long time the major Powers were opposed to taking
strong measures against
the Serbs. We are seeing
belatedly some sense of purpose in the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) bombings and efforts to
negotiate a solution. However, we should be cautious
about rushing towards solutions that reward aggression
and genocide. It is possible that some in the West and in
the United Nations had longed for Bosnia’s quick defeat.
It would have saved them from making any decision. But
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the Bosnians refused to oblige. In Rwanda the European
troops withdrew when the massacres began. And in Somalia
failure to understand the situation led to the victims fighting
their United Nations saviours.
called
Protection
the United Nations
The United Nations Secretariat must take some of the
blame for all these brutalities. In Rwanda it truly shirked its
duty, while in Bosnia it sent in a protection force which
was instructed not to protect the Bosnians. Why it should
be
Force
(UNPROFOR) has been a mystery until recently. It was
there to protect
itself. It makes a distinction between
peace-keeping and peace-enforcement. If there is peace to
keep, why are military forces needed? Are not the forces
put there because of the possibility of breaches of the
peace? And when there are breaches the forces must stop
them, if peace-keeping is to be meaningful. But, instead,
when peace is broken the United Nations threatens to
withdraw and leave the victims to their fate.
Fortunately, in Palestine, another historical flash point,
efforts continue to be made towards durable peace. That
peace process must result in a Palestinian homeland, a
viable State at peace with its neighbours. The attempts to
weaken the present Palestinian leadership by undermining
its credibility will only result in the rise of extremism and
a protracted and bloody intra- Palestinian conflict which
will spill over into Israel and elsewhere.
The
absence
of
leadership
international
and
commitment is evident in the area of development as well.
The rhetoric of development
is increasingly devoid of
meaningful content. The North has turned its back on
commitments relating to development assistance. Yet such
is the concern for the survival of insects and plant life that
human development must be stopped if it is suspected it
might endanger a few animals or plants. That there are
plenty of
the same species elsewhere is considered
irrelevant. And so one-fifth of the world’s population
remains mired in poverty, having been denied development
assistance by the rich and the powerful. The latter have
retreated into their regional clubs and cosy arrangements for
perpetuating unconscionable levels of consumption. Some
of the countries of the South have tried to pull themselves
up literally by their bootstraps. But the moment they appear
to succeed the carpet is pulled out from under their feet.
Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) privileges are
withdrawn and their records on human rights, democracy,
and so on, are scrutinized in order to obstruct their progress.
Some among the more successful countries of the
South have been enticed to join the rich and the strong, so
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
they may not lend what little strength they have to their
compatriots.
it
Commitment
fingers. Worse,
to the environment should not be
turned into an occasion for recrimination and the pointing
of
should not be politically
instrumentalized to disadvantage the South. Development
can take place without
irreparable damage to the
environment. Forcing the developing countries to remain
undeveloped in order to preserve the environment for the
rich is manifestly unfair. Yet the environmental obstacles
placed in the way of the poor South will do just that,
beggaring the poor to enrich the already rich.
Poverty itself creates an environment
is as
damaging to humanity as any other kind of environmental
pollution. Obviously, we need to determine our priorities.
Do we keep the poor permanently poor so that the rich
can enjoy the environment, or do we sacrifice the
environment a little in the interest of relieving poverty?
that
We in Malaysia accept that economic development
should not be at the expense of other groups or future
generations. Environmental sustainability, social equity
and a culture that allows for the fulfilment of human
needs must
replace the culture of materialism. The
Western consumer society, which is spreading world
wide,
requires ever-increasing consumption to keep
production and profits continually rising. For this, more
fuel is needed, and the trend in the use of fossil fuels in
recent years is alarming. Yet very little is being done to
curb such wasteful use of a depleting resource, while the
development of renewable resources, such as hydropower,
meets with all kinds of objections. Progressively
industrializing Malaysia has
the capacity and the
resources
a model of
development sensitive to the needs and cultural values of
developing countries without imitating the flawed Western
model. We ask only that misguided crusaders should keep
out. These modern-day imitations of the Communist
agitators would do well to look to their own countries’
wasteful consumption and carbon-dioxide emissions.
to design and implement
Social disintegration is a serious problem as the
world’s population becomes more urbanized. This is not
helped by the West’s seeking to impose its moral values.
The institutions that hold society together are now being
undermined. At the Beijing Women’s Summit, despite a
consensus cobbled together to alleviate the sufferings of
women, the mad quest for personal freedom took one
more tradition-bashing step. People, it seems, cannot be
free unless they have sexual freedom, a freedom that
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
rejects the inhibitions of traditional and religious values, of
marriage and family as institutions of society. Sexual
freedom will render fidelity meaningless as much as it
renders marriages anachronistic. The new liberalism extends
to a new definition of the family, which is to include
homosexual pairs, unmarried women with children by
unknown fathers, groups of men and women living together
with no fixed partners, and many other combinations.
If the West wants to be liberal and sexually free, that
is its right. What is wrong is the attempt to impose its
morality, or lack of it, on the rest of the world, and in
Beijing that was what it tried to do. The United Nations
should not lend itself to this kind of undemocratic disregard
for the rights of others.
Of late there has been much talk about reform of the
United Nations. Clearly, there is a need for this after 50
years of the United Nations carrying the tattered baggage of
the last world war. Surely the results of that war cannot be
reflected in the structure and procedures of the United
Nations for ever. It has to end some time, and the fiftieth
anniversary is as good a time as any for burying the relics
of past follies.
Since democracy seems to have displaced religion as
a faith, it is fitting that there should be democratic reforms
in the United Nations. Some of those countries which had
vested themselves with infallibility and permanency have
now become second-raters. New players have emerged that
should be
equitable
representation on the Security Council is a must. This
means that permanent seats should be given to regions,
possibly determined by a regional mechanism.
accorded recognition. A more
The veto power should be dropped. Under no
the Security Council be made an
circumstances must
instrument of any one country.
Reform must also extend to the financing of the
United Nations. It is wholly unacceptable that Member
States, especially the rich ones, should fall into arrears with
impunity and yet exercise special rights and influence. The
membership rules must be applied to one and all. New
bases for assessment should be laid down,
taking into
consideration the wealth, or lack of it, of Members.
Various global taxation schemes, including modest
levies on global air travel, a tax on global speculative flows
of capital, a tax on the exploitation of mankind’s common
assets on the seabed and a tax on the trade in weapons of
war, have all been proposed. Of those, the last one, based
4
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
on the principle that he who profits from the tools of war
must contribute to the maintenance of peace, merits
urgent attention and adoption.
Reform of the United Nations also requires the
cleansing of the bureaucratic Augean stables in the
Secretariat. The morale of the international civil service
is at its lowest ebb. The excesses and the fat must be
trimmed, but failure to do so must not be used as an
excuse for not paying dues or for opting out.
It
is heartening to note that
the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and
other United Nations economic agencies have now
acknowledged that
linking trade and non-trade issues
serves no useful purpose either for the developed or for
the developing countries. Unemployment in the developed
countries is due not to workers’ in developing countries
working hard to compensate for their lack of other
competitive advantages, but, rather, to the profligate ways
of the developed nations, with their high wages and
unemployment benefits. Why it is assumed that workers
in developed countries would work when they are to be
paid for not working is a mystery on a par with the idea
that people would be happy and productive if the diligent
were paid as much as the indolent.
The reform of global institutions must encompass the
Bretton Woods institutions. Their energies and resources
must be channelled towards the battle against
the
pollution caused by poverty worldwide. The Bretton
Woods institutions have to cease acting as debt collectors
for the mighty and the rich bankers, who, in turn, must
learn to live within the rules of their own creation, with
regard to taking commercial risks which go hand in hand
with the pursuit of gain. A return to their original
mandates — to promote balanced development, in the
case of the World Bank, and to enforce monetary and
fiscal responsibility in all countries, irrespective of their
status in the global economy — is a first priority. Reform
must
the governance
arrangements at
the Bank and the Fund through a
realignment and reallocation of quotas and shareholdings
that take into account the changed structure of the world
economy. New arrangements
for governance must
recognize the growing clout of the newly emerging
economies that now contribute to a rising share of global
output, to trade and to capital flows.
re-evaluation of
include
a
Mr. Moubarak (Lebanon), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The debt millstone weighs heavily on the poor. This
burden must be eased, especially for the poorest nations of
Africa and Asia. Malaysia hopes that effective actions will
be taken forthwith, taking into account decisions made at
the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly on finding
a durable solution to the external-debt problem of
developing countries.
While bilateral debts extended by donor countries have
over the years been restructured and rescheduled — though
with humiliating conditions imposed by the Paris Club of
creditors — multilateral institutions, led by the World
Bank, have steadfastly refused to consider restructuring debt
owed to them. The World Bank continues to increase its
profit levels and amasses reserves which today stand in
excess of $16 billion. Why are these reserves, built from
payments by developing countries, not used for debt relief?
And why do we allow the intransigence of one or two
countries to preclude the issuance of special drawing rights
by the International Monetary Fund? These and other issues
must feature in a reform of the Bretton Woods institutions.
The conclusion of
the Uruguay Round and the
establishment of the World Trade Organization offer a
glimmer of hope for
rule-based trading relationships.
Malaysia applauds and welcomes the underlying principles,
and we pledge ourselves to play by the mutually agreed
undertakings.
Regrettably, powerful trading nations threaten, through
unilateral actions, to undermine the carefully negotiated
agreements. The deliberate creation of regional
trading
blocs, the introduction of managed trade and the attempts
to link human rights, environmental considerations and
labour codes
if
implemented, would dim the hope of a free environment for
trade. We reject such attempts. The new protectionism will
return the world to a bygone era when trade wars led to
military confrontations.
to trade are major
threats which,
Finally, we have the new threats with the advent of
the information age. The poor countries have long suffered
from biased reporting by the world media, controlled by the
developed world. Now the computer network created for
the spread of knowledge and information has become
polluted by the irresponsible dissemination of filth through
it. Someone is making money from this filth.
The world community must find a way to keep out
such filth and to provide for legal action to be taken against
its purveyors by aggrieved countries, even when they
broadcast from outside their borders. They should be
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
allowed to bring these miscreants to trial in the aggrieved
countries, under their laws. After all, we have already had
many instances of extraterritorial application of the laws
of some countries without so much as a by-your-leave.
Freedom of information is fine, but even in this age
of freedom we cannot allow morals to be completely
undermined in order to enrich the merchants of porn and
filth.
When all is said and done, we still have to admit
that the United Nations is the only truly multinational
Organization where the voices of small nations can be
heard. We support
the United Nations, but we must
correct the tendency to make it an instrument of the rich
and the powerful. The United Nations must stand on the
side of the collective needs of people and nations in order
to serve all mankind.
The Acting President: On behalf of the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Malaysia
for the statement he has just made.
Dato’Seri Mr. Mahathir Mohamad, Prime Minister
of Malaysia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: The next speaker is the
Chairman of the delegation of Uruguay, His Excellency
Mr. Jorge Pérez-Otermin, on whom I now call.
Mr. Pérez-Otermin (Uruguay) (interpretation from
Spanish): In this changed world that came out of the
Second World War — more global and interdependent —
Uruguay wishes to reaffirm its confidence in the vital role
played by the United Nations in the preservation of peace
and in solving the main problems affecting the world, and
it wishes to confirm the validity of the enlightened
principles of the Charter, as sound today as they were 50
years ago.
its people and its Government
During this period of time, Uruguay has brought the
message of
to this
Assembly and to the peoples and the Governments of
brotherly countries throughout the world. The content of
that message has never varied: our conviction that
international peace can be achieved only through strict
observance of international law and resort to peaceful
means of resolving conflicts; our certainty that only a
democratic system and scrupulous respect for human
rights can ensure the full spiritual and material fulfilment
of
in this
Organization, to whose creation Uruguay contributed half
the individual; and our unfailing trust
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
a century ago and to which we have given, and will
continue to give, its broadest support.
and representativeness in that body, that do not have a
negative impact on its functioning and efficiency.
Through all these years Uruguay has consistently held
to those principles, contributing with its initiatives and its
votes to consolidating peace and ensuring that law and
justice take precedence over all else. We were the first to
accept without any conditions whatsoever the mandatory
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. We are a
party to most instruments for the protection of human
rights. We have contributed to peace-keeping operations
since they first began, and Uruguay is the United Nations
Member contributing the greatest number of contingents
relative to its population and the size of its armed forces.
New realities and new international circumstances
mark the post-cold-war world, and the United Nations has
had to adapt its functions to the new demands, responding
to
imaginative
application of the Charter, which has kept the Organization
alive and valid throughout its history and has saved it from
obsolescence.
circumstances
external
through
an
and
The
today
Ethnic
situations.
community
international
faces
unprecedented
religious
fundamentalism, international terrorism and drug trafficking
may not be new phenomena, but they have taken on fearful
dimensions by virtue of their access to powerful sources of
financing and the use of weapons of mass destruction. This
makes it necessary for the international community to
organize itself efficiently to combat them, even on the
battlefield of modern technology. In addition, these factors
are combined with new political phenomena, such as the
dismembering of multinational States, which has unleashed
age-old ethnic and religious rivalries. These facts, together
with the increase in the number of members of
the
Organization, most of them developing countries, and the
lead roles played by certain States and regions, justify a
reform of certain institutional aspects of the Organization.
All Charter reform or constitutional development
resulting from established practice should tend to increase
the effectiveness of the Organization, avoiding at all costs
resorting to formulas which limit its response capacity or
which enshrine new inequalities among its Members.
On previous occasions, Uruguay has spoken in favour
of an expansion of the Security Council, seeking greater
democratization in that organ, which is vital
the
maintenance of balance and world peace. But the changes
made must ensure that while achieving greater transparency
for
6
that
the Organization on the fact
In any event, the need to carry out institutional
reforms should not lead us to blame the frustrations and
failures of
the
instruments for carrying out its tasks are not appropriate.
Whenever the political will of States was used to resolve
problems,
the Organization was able to achieve its
objectives without there being any need to change its
structure
reform,
or
consequently,
lead us away from our
immediate duty, which is to face with our current means,
imperfect though they may be, the serious conflicts which
are affecting international peace.
operation. Our
should not
efforts
at
We cannot but refer in the first instance to that
which affects the countries that emerged from the former
Yugoslavia. It has been hard for some of the parties to
understand that while a negotiated solution is difficult, a
military solution is impossible.
In the meantime, the civilian population continues to
suffer through the years — a population which has
become a permanent target of military action and the
victim of brutal manifestations of racial
intolerance.
Behind this tragedy, and to a certain extent explaining it,
lies the sad realization that United Nations resolutions are
not being complied with by some of the parties. We
believe that the Organization should step up its action,
making maximum use of
the political and legal
mechanisms available to it under the Charter, to prevail
upon Governments and authorities, directly or indirectly
involved in the conflict, to respect and abide by decisions
adopted.
the
There is no doubt that the road to peace may present
extraordinary difficulties but it is never blocked entirely,
as may be seen from the negotiations to put an end to the
long and exhausting crisis in the Middle East. We must
warmly congratulate those who have decided to replace
weapons with constructive dialogue, and express our
admiration for
intelligence with which these
negotiations
the
persistence and inspiration with which the parties attempt
to overcome, not only the extreme complexity of the
problem, but also, above all, the violent opposition which
has tried to sabotage the peace process, resorting to the
most cowardly and inhumane of means. The results are
still far from satisfactory but they are also far from being
negligible. The international community is also duty-
bound to encourage these efforts. This General Assembly
conducted,
especially
being
are
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
can contribute to this by avoiding including in its
resolutions on this item language which may have been
appropriate in the past, but which may be irritating at a
time when a genuine spirit of peace prevails among all the
authorities concerned.
The instruments for the second phase of the interim
agreement on Palestinian self-rule has been another
landmark in the peace process, which the parties in question
have been promoting with great resolve. With the signing
of this historic agreement in Washington, we can say that
we are closer to lasting peace in that tormented region.
There is a common thread which runs throughout these
conflict situations. It is an element which makes those
situations possible and which worsens them, and that is the
availability and sophistication of weapons. The international
community will not be able to prevent breaches of the
peace or avoid their far-reaching implications in terms of
the loss of human lives and destruction, unless concrete
measures are adopted with regard to regulation of the
manufacture and traffic in weapons. It
is our duty to
revitalize the mechanisms which have been established to
this end, and to create new negotiating bodies, were that to
be necessary, to achieve concrete results.
of
the
process
of
consolidating
Many developing countries, including Uruguay, a few
months ago decided on the indefinite extension of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as a
way
progressive
disarmament in this field. We did so in the conviction of
the good faith of the nuclear Powers, which argued in
favour of
that,
underground nuclear tests have continued by some Powers,
which has led our countries to lose confidence in the
instruments we signed, and has left us with a feeling of
frustration and perplexity.
extension. Unfortunately,
after
the
A few days ago in New York, concerned over the
seriousness of the situation with regard to those tests, the
countries signatories of the Treaty of Tlateloco in Latin
America and the Caribbean and the countries signatories of
the Treaty of Rarotonga in the South Pacific, which
established nuclear-weapon-free zones, condemned this
situation and reiterated the need to put an end to all types
of nuclear tests so as to create a favourable climate for the
conclusion of the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty,
which is being negotiated at
the Conference on
Disarmament in Geneva.
While the end of the cold war has reduced political
tension and the risk of global confrontation, there are other
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
developments today that are more insidious but no less
threatening to the peace and well-being of nations, such
as drug-trafficking and terrorism, and a lethal combination
of the two. Uruguay, where fortunately we have not seen
the worst manifestations of this problem, has taken part
and intends to continue to participate intensively in the
cooperative efforts to prevent and punish such acts and
related crimes, in order to remedy their adverse effects
and to attack their social consequences. We support the
convening of an international conference on narcotic
drugs to focus on a comprehensive approach to the
problem, including the consumption, the production and
the trafficking of drugs, related crimes and the social and
economic aspects of the problem.
We are also undertaking maximum efforts to
promote concrete national actions to counteract and fight
against this problem, which could threaten our peaceful
existence and the stability of our institutions.
the
On another subject, for some time now the factors
economic growth of
which adversely affect
developing countries have been identified and decried.
Their nature and causes and effect have been examined,
and formulas have been discussed and proposed to solve
those problems, or at least to reduce the intolerable gaps
which exist in today’s economic world. After so many
years of discussion,
remains
unchanged, although mention could be made of some
isolated cases where dynamic centres of development
have emerged. The situation of the less advanced sectors
of mankind, where poverty and resulting hunger prevail,
where there is illness and illiteracy, this continues to be
an unacceptable idea.
the overall picture
The process of globalization of the world economy
and the economic opening that has been developing at the
global level in recent years have helped us to modernize
some of our production structures. Nevertheless,
the
instability of
the world’s financial markets poses a
permanent threat to our economies. The transfer of major
financial resources to and from our markets causes great
instability in capital flows in the world,
leading to
concern and uncertainty, and threatens the accumulated
efforts of our peoples to establish a more just, more
orderly and more stable economic system.
Given this
situation, we need to find new
mechanisms to create a more stable international financial
system and a way to predict potential financial crises that
do not impose regulations that hinder the capital flows
needed for growth and investment.
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Group of Seven has pointed to the need to update
the way in which the Bretton Woods Institutions operate in
the financial sphere. Our countries are willing and entitled
to participate in alternative strategies to reform these
institutions that are vital to a world economy as globalized
as it is today.
The establishment of the World Trade Organization
marked the end of
the longest and most complex
negotiations of recent years and a new stage of international
trade. If this new stage is going to lead to a more equitable
distribution of international trade, all States, particularly
those with the largest share in trade, must abide by the new
rules of the game. Uruguay hopes that these rules will be
respected,
that protectionist policies and subsidies will
disappear and that barriers impeding international trade
liberalization and growth, especially trade in agricultural
products, will be broken down, as agreed in Marrakesh at
the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
We recognize that as the international situation stands
our development will largely depend on our own efforts.
We attach great importance to international cooperation for
development, but are aware that our problems will not
disappear merely through external assistance. Today, the
major challenge before us is the need to increase know-how
and to apply it
the only
comparative advantages are those derived from scientific
and technological progress, and a country’s
relative
competitiveness will be directly linked to its ability to
generate, adapt and apply its know-how and to provide
permanent training for the population.
to development. Today,
In this context, the countries of the Common Market
of the South, known as MERCOSUR, are aware that
according to the new world scheme integration processes
are a fundamental aspect of an ability to compete efficiently
with other economic blocs. We are promoting integration in
the context of a philosophy of open regionalism. We are
not trying to turn MERCOSUR into an ivory tower — quite
the contrary, because as we strengthen and expand it we are
trying to promote links with other countries of the region
and looking for common ground while respecting the
particular nature and modalities of each country.
We are also trying to strengthen ties with other areas
of the developing world,
in particular with our fellow
countries of the South Atlantic region. In this context,
Uruguay reaffirms the importance of the Zone of Peace and
Cooperation of the South Atlantic that was solemnly
declared pursuant to resolution 41/11 of 27 October 1986.
8
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
In this framework, we fully share the aims of this
declaration and see the zone as an important instrument
for promoting cooperation in scientific, political, technical
and cultural areas.
We are convinced that security and development are
inseparable and interrelated, and that any progress in
terms of meeting the objectives of
the zone will
strengthen cooperation between the States of Africa and
of the Southern Cone of America. This commitment is all
the more evident in the support given by the States of the
zone for the peace processes in Angola and Liberia and
the Bicesse and Abuja agreements respectively.
Unsolved global problems continue to weigh heavily
on our agendas. There is general solidarity with regard to
environmental protection, because we have clearly seen
what is at stake, namely our common destiny, and have
recognized that this is a task we must work at together.
Unfortunately, this solidarity has still not been translated
into concrete and effective action with a real ecological
impact. The physical deterioration of the planet continues
unabated.
Showing its concern for environmental matters and
its willingness to cooperate effectively and tangibly with
the joint efforts of the international community,
the
Government of Uruguay has offered to host the second
meeting of the contracting parties of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held
during the second half of 1996.
As a coastal country in the southern part of the
planet, Uruguay is particularly sensitive to certain forms
of environmental degradation such as the depletion of the
ozone layer, climate change and the contamination and
improper exploitation of the resources of the South
Atlantic.
Uruguay views the results of the Conference on
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks
as highly auspicious. We hope that the draft convention
adopted will be approved in the near future and obtain the
ratifications needed to secure its entry into force,
in
particular by the countries most heavily involved in
catching the fish covered by the convention. In this
context, Uruguay expresses the hope that the 1982 United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which our
country is a party, will be ratified as soon as possible by
the countries that have not yet done so. The general
application of the new law of the sea embodied in the
Convention can only be of benefit to all States. The
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the marine
system of protection and preservation of
environment and conservation and exploitation of
its
resources are just two of the many benefits to be expected
from its universal application.
In conclusion, Uruguay reiterates its opposition to the
unilateral application by one State of economic or trading
measures against another State and therefore urges that an
end be put to the economic, trade and financial blockade of
Cuba.
I wish to end by conveying the Government of
Uruguay’s pleasure to the President at his election to
preside over the work of the General Assembly in the
fiftieth anniversary year. We congratulate him on his
eloquent address on the assumption of his post and share
the views expressed therein. We are aware of
the
Organization’s financial situation, but let us not make the
mistake of thinking that savings should be made by cutting
assistance and cooperation in the sphere of development,
taking development in the broadest sense of the word. For
every dollar we take away from this field, we shall have to
spend two on peace-keeping operations.
If we wish to speak in economic terms, it is cheaper
to prevent conflict than to have to resolve it later. Clearly,
the primary responsibility of the United Nations is to
resolve conflicts, but it is much more important to prevent
and avoid them. Can a price be put on human life?
I wish to reiterate that Uruguay, faithful to its peace-
loving and democratic tradition, will continue to participate
in the task of building a world free from violence, poverty
and intolerance — the world envisioned 50 years ago by
the founders of this Organization.
The Acting President: I call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, His Excellency Mr.
Josef Zieleniec.
Mr. Zielenic (Czech Republic): Allow me at
the
outset to congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election
to the prestigious office of President of
the General
Assembly at this fiftieth session. His distinguished career in
Portuguese politics serves as an assurance that his tenure
will be very workmanlike and fruitful,
in addition to
celebratory. I wish also to thank the outgoing president,
Ambassador Amara Essy, for the excellent job he did last
year.
It is particularly auspicious to address the General
in
Assembly this week — a day after
the signing,
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
of
a
bulky,
crafted
carefully
and
Washington,
long-argued-over agreement between Israel and the
Palestinian Authority on the second stage of Palestinian
autonomy; and a few days after the signing, here in New
York, of a much slimmer, much more tentative and much
more general set of additional principles for peace in the
South Slav States, which, nevertheless, we hope,
represents the next step towards peace in that area as
well.
On 24 October, the United Nations will celebrate its
jubilee. This indicates that the objectives and ideals of
this Organization, as set out in the Charter, are still valid
and still at the forefront of the interest of the international
community. This fills us with joy, all the more so since
one of the founding Members of the Organization was
Czechoslovakia.
The founding of the United Nations was the logical
outcome of the efforts of countries which, having been
affected by the most
terrible war in the history of
mankind, wanted to ensure that a new organization would
prevent any repetition of a similar conflagration.
international
Guaranteeing global peace, however, has never been
the sole objective of the United Nations. The United
Nations constitutes a unique forum for all countries,
without distinction, to present their opinions and pursue
their
interests in all areas of concern,
including not only security and disarmament but also
social and economic development, protection of the
environment and other issues that are particularly pressing
nowadays, including drug trafficking and terrorism. The
United Nations thus offers a platform for solving global
problems.
to implement
The United Nations efforts
the
principles of its Charter enjoy the full support of the
Czech Republic. Mr. Václav Havel, the President of the
Czech Republic, will no doubt underline the importance
we assign to it when he speaks from this rostrum next
month. Nevertheless, in view of the changes that have
taken place since the inception of the United Nations,
there is an urgent need to adapt the Organization to new
challenges, to thoroughly reform it and to turn it into a
better and more effective instrument of multilateral
international relations.
The most important task is that of creating a more
efficient and more cost-effective system. We need a
practical system, one which, even with limited means,
would guarantee global security, uphold human rights and
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
in less
contribute far more effectively to development
privileged parts of the world. We need an Organization that,
on the basis of the principle of universality, is open to all
those who are willing and ready to participate in this
endeavour.
effect
on
adverse
can be
consolidated, or
any
The United Nations cannot spend a penny more on
programmes that duplicate one another or on programmes
that have become ineffective or even unnecessary. Many
programmes
indeed even
eliminated, without
their
beneficiaries. The message is clear: many of our national
Governments are implementing cost-control and efficiency
measures, and a similar approach must be taken by the
United Nations as well. We recognize the important role
that
the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions (ACABQ) plays in the process of
managing the United Nations finances and the importance
of the Office of Internal Oversight Services, created last
year. These
control United Nations
expenditures even more strictly.
organs must
The Charter of the United Nations devolves the basic
responsibility for maintaining international peace and
security to the Security Council. In this role, the Council is
irreplaceable.
is perceived as a compact, efficient,
transparent and alert body that should guarantee rapid and
effective United Nations action, wherever necessary, to
maintain or restore peace anywhere in the world.
It
Although it is currently perhaps the most efficiently
operating organ of the United Nations, there is room for
improvement. The Council must put greater stress on
preventive diplomacy, and it should further improve the
flow of information between its members and other United
Nations Members, as well as its cooperation with the
Secretariat. Greater transparency of the Security Council in
its decision-making would also be desirable. These are steps
the Council can pursue by itself.
A broader issue is that of restructuring the Council,
which requires our special attention. We support, and
actively participate in, the Open-ended Working Group on
the reform and restructuring of the Security Council, and
we anticipate that the proposals that eventually emerge from
it will actually be implemented. The number of permanent
and non-permanent members of the Council should increase
to about 20. Any substantially greater number would affect
its effectiveness. It should, as far as possible,
include
representation by all regions, and the Group of Eastern
European States should be allotted an additional seat. We
oppose any new categories of Security Council members.
10
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Participation in maintaining world peace and meeting
financial obligations to the United Nations are some of
the criteria that should be considered in determining the
expansion of the permanent membership. We believe
Germany and Japan to be suitable candidates, and
advocate expanded representation of Latin America,
Africa and Asia.
Logically, non-permanent members, and small States
in particular, cannot play the same role as permanent
members with the veto. Nevertheless, non-permanent
members have a positive role to play in the Council’s
activities and in its decision-making. During its current
tenure on the Security Council, the Czech Republic has
been contributing constructively to the Council’s
activities. Our own active policies demonstrate, on the
one hand, the unmistakable place of the Czech Republic
among traditionally democratic countries and, on the other
hand, our independent analyses and attitudes, in which we
are beholden to no other Power. Our Security Council
activity has also demonstrated — if such a demonstration
were
and
involvement not only with respect to Europe, but also in
seeking solutions in far-away conflicts which at first
glance may not affect us.
necessary — our
commitment
indeed
The Czech Republic supports a more active role of
the Security Council
in various aspects of conflict
management and in delving even deeper to the roots of
conflicts. Such a role, exemplified for example in
preventive diplomacy, aims at creating conditions and an
atmosphere for parties in dispute to enter into serious and
sincere negotiations, thus restoring stability and peace in
the regions where tension prevails. When it comes to
implementing the results of negotiations, active and
complex peace building and peacemaking have been our
primary vehicles. We do not share one-sided negative
evaluations of the results of United Nations peace-keeping
operations. In some regions normalcy has been restored
precisely because of the United Nations and its peace-
keeping activities. But
there are also regions where
tragedies unfold unchecked despite the United Nations
best efforts, including tremendous financial, material and
personnel contributions.
In its extent, depth and consequences, the crisis in
the former Yugoslavia amounts to the greatest and most
tragic conflict in post-war Europe. The inability of Europe
and of the international community in general to stop the
conflict has undermined the confidence of the world
public in a number of international institutions. Gaps in
existing security arrangements have become apparent, and
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
the European integration process has slowed down and
became more complicated. The Balkan conflict
is also
frequently linked with the crisis of the United Nations and
with the perceived need to create a more effective
international security mechanism for resolving regional
conflicts. In this strange way,
the war in the former
Yugoslavia might thus eventually assist in forming a new,
more effective security mechanism.
same token we supported the joint North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO)-United Nations operation, even
though we realize that in and of themselves, air strikes
would not resolve the conflict. Effective cooperation
between the United Nations and NATO in implementing
relevant Security Council resolutions has demonstrated
that NATO has a very important role to play in the
region.
It transpires that the international community was not
ready for the conflict. It underestimated its complexity and
its potential for escalation. Its length and its chronic
character are linked with the military-strategic equality of
the antagonists who, despite international pressure, have
been refusing to negotiate. They believe, quite erroneously,
that they can attain more of their objectives by fighting than
by negotiating and signing a peace agreement. The latest
developments indicate that it is impossible to attain any
significant success in solving conflicts of this type without
the determination of the international community and the
combination of strong political pressure, sanctions and the
appropriate use of military force. But
is still more
obvious that a final, just and lasting solution can be attained
only by peaceful negotiations.
it
The fate of the innocent civilian population lies at the
heart of our concerns. The victims of ethnic cleansing, the
still-concealed tragedy of the men and boys of Srebrenica
and Zepa and the exodus of Croatian Serbs from their old
homes all evoke fears for the fate of civilians. We should
help monitor the observance of human rights for civilians
on all sides of the conflict.
interested parties. This effort
The United States initiative regarding Bosnia and
Herzegovina, as well as Croatia, amounts to an effort to
create a joint peace project of Contact Group members and
other
should be fully
supported by the international community and presented to
the belligerent parties as the basic framework for solving
the crisis. The de facto recognition of
the territorial
integrity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and of the Srpska Republic
by the Sarajevo Government, as well as the acceptance by
Bosnian Serbs of the Contact Group plan dividing the
territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a 51:49 ratio, should
certainly facilitate the next phase in peace negotiations.
The changing approach of the Serb party to peace
initiatives of the international community, especially to the
latest United States plan, confirms the more cooperative
approach of Belgrade to finding a peaceful solution
acceptable to all sides. This is definitely a positive. By the
Solving the problem of Eastern Slavonia should also
be on the agenda of current peace efforts.
The Czech Republic is ready to continue its active
participation in peace missions in the former Yugoslavia,
whether under United Nations auspices or under some
regional arrangement according to Chapter VIII of the
the Czech Republic will
Charter. Needless to say,
continue
to the best of
its
to provide
humanitarian assistance, and intends to participate in the
post-war reconstruction of the war-ravaged areas.
abilities
There has been a great increase in the number of
peace-keeping operations since the end of the cold war.
In the last five years, more peace-keeping operations have
been launched than during the entire previous existence of
the United Nations. In 1995, 16 peace-keeping operations
were functioning, compared to eight in 1988, with almost
70,000 personnel. Expenditures rose about five times.
This issue is inextricably connected with the critical
financial situation of the United Nations. The United
Nations is almost $4 billion in the red. The Czech
Republic supports not only the reform of financing peace-
keeping operations, but of the entire system of United
Nations financing. The system should be based on
economic indicators — per capita national product — and
should correspond to a given country’s ability to pay. Let
me assure you that
the Czech Republic takes its
responsibility very seriously.
We are prepared to pay our fair share of the burden
immediately and in full, as soon as this share is decided
receive
and we
from the
Secretary-General.
notification
formal
Czech authorities are right now drafting legislation
which, if adopted, would create a legal framework for the
Czech Republic’s participation in the United Nations
stand-by arrangements. The system should be as effective
as
the
establishment of United Nations rapid-reaction units to be
based on this system — including, for example, the recent
possible. Similarly,
initiatives
aimed
at
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to
this
proposals
our
Canadian
understanding. Resolving all political, organizational and
financial issues will take time, yet we feel that this is a
promising way of addressing the critical question of getting
peace-keeping operations started in time.
effect — have
We hope very soon to become a party to the
Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated
Personnel. We share the burden of peace-keeping operations
by sending troops, military observers and other personnel,
and therefore have a keen foreign-policy interest
in
strengthening their status and security.
Strengthening regimes of non-proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction is high on the agenda of the United
Nations. It is our view, shaped by, among other things, the
recent horrific discoveries of the United Nations Special
Commission in Iraq, that the Security Council should play
a more important role in this regard.
The unlimited extension of
the Non-Proliferation
Treaty attained earlier this year in this very building is a
success of truly historic importance. An important task is
the preparation of an agreement on a complete and
comprehensive ban of nuclear tests. We hope that
the
intensive negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament in
Geneva will reach a successful conclusion in 1996. And let
me make one point: nuclear tests undertaken despite vocal
protests from around the world do not contribute to the
objective of global denuclearization.
The expectation of an early ratification of the 1993
Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and
on Their Destruction has not yet been realized.
Nevertheless, we hope that in 1996 the Convention will
enter into force.
Existing regimes of export and import controls for
dual-use material, equipment and technologies are also very
useful. They complement or expand on international
agreements, conventions and treaties concerning the
banning, elimination and non-proliferation of weapons,
especially those of mass destruction. I have in mind in
particular activities of the so-called Australia Group, the
Nuclear Suppliers’ Group, the Missile Technology Control
Regime and the emerging New Forum, the new multilateral
arrangement on export controls.
The importance of the topics of this year’s United
Nations conferences, the Social Summit in Copenhagen and
the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women, attracted
12
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
broad public attention — which, for that matter, was one
of the objectives of their organizers. As we reflect on
these conferences, evaluate their final documents and
review the fate of the documents that emerged from
earlier conferences, we are contemplating the very future
of such meetings.
the
note
them, we
Notwithstanding all the expectations and enthusiasm
that
accompany
increasing
disenchantment from the moment a conference is over
and its conclusions are to be implemented. It
then
becomes obvious that large parts of its declarations fail
the litmus test of practicality. One wonders: do the
tremendous efforts and the very considerable outlays
involved in organizing such activities really have the end
effect we would all desire? We are not sure that we can
answer in the affirmative.
an
in
become
The Czech Republic is a candidate for membership
in the Economic and Social Council at
this year’s
elections. The successes of our economic transformation
have already proved to be of interest to other economies
in transition. And they have allowed the Czech Republic
to
the
economic-assistance equation. These are some of the
arguments I would submit to support our candidature. We
of course realize that the Council is as badly in need of
reform and streamlining as other segments of the United
Nations body, and maybe more. We are prepared to offer
our analytical skills in suggesting improvements and to
support reasonable proposals leading to such reforms.
emerging
country
donor
Allow to me say a few words from the perspective
of another high office I currently hold,
that of the
Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Council of
Europe. The United Nations and the Council of Europe
have a number of points in common. These common
points should be further explored with a view to
eliminating
organizations,
economizing expenses and leveraging our
resources.
Some ideas about cooperating in the triangle of the
United Nations,
the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe have
recently been shared in Strasbourg. I have full confidence
that any ideas that are deemed useful will be further
examined and implemented by our organizations.
duplication
across
even
The Czech Republic wishes to demonstrate its
continued emphasis on multinational diplomacy and on
assuming its proper role in the governance of world
affairs. We have been doing so in the Security Council
these past years; we do so by sending our troops, military
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
observers and other personnel to far-flung corners of the
world; and we do so by offering multilateral and bilateral
assistance. Putting our shoulder to the wheel, we join others
in moving this organization of ours
into the next
millennium and into its next 50 years.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister of
India, His Excellency Mr. Pranab
External Affairs of
Mukherjee.
Mr. Mukherjee (India): It gives me great pleasure to
congratulate Mr. Freitas do Amaral on his election as
President of the General Assembly at its fiftieth session,
during which he will guide our discussions on what the
future of the United Nations should be. May I also convey
my thanks to the President of the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session, Mr. Amara Essy, who, as it were, tilled
the ground which the new President will sow.
A fiftieth anniversary is a climacteric, usually joyous
but not necessarily so. In ancient India, this was around the
time in a man’s life that he would be expected to withdraw
into a forest, to spend the rest of his days in contemplation
of past and future, it being the assessment of our ancestors
that anything a man could usefully do he would have done
by then. No such drastic measures are needed for the
United Nations, not least because it has spent much of its
first 50 years meditating in a concrete jungle. And the
shadow of the woods of Bretton always loom over it. I do
think, however, that as we celebrate, which we should, the
survival of the United Nations, we should judge what it has
done and what it now needs to do. The United Nations
system has had remarkable success in helping to defeat
colonialism and apartheid, on social issues like universal
health care and women’s rights, and in banning, through
global, non-discriminatory treaties,
the three
weapons of mass destruction. These are considerable
achievements. But a clear pattern emerges from them.
Whenever the United Nations has acted on principle,
responding to the felt needs and priorities of the majority of
its membership, it has done well. When it has pursued
narrow agendas or succumbed to special pleading, it has
not.
two of
If we were setting out tasks for the United Nations
today, what would be the major trends and challenges we
would expect it to address? The first is the international
economy,
transformed by global movements of trade,
capital and labour; driven by forces which can break
developing economies; regulated — if they can be at all —
in forums outside the United Nations, which is therefore
marginalized in this most momentous of contemporary
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
democracy
the
norm of
to change, but
developments. The second is an opening up of political
systems, with
national
governance. The United Nations welcomes this and urges
the recalcitrant
is itself sapped by
undemocratic systems and institutions. The third is the
scourge of war increasingly replaced by the scourge of
terrorism, which, for the countries that sponsor it, is war
by other means. The United Nations, set up to save
succeeding generations from the scourge of war, ignores
it, as the League of Nations, to its fatal peril, ignored the
threat of xenophobia.
These are complex and titanic forces. We, therefore,
cannot accept, either as a statement of fact or as a basis
of policy, the view that all this meant was that the days
of absolute sovereignty were over. Sovereignty has never
been absolute. Most Members of the United Nations
joined immediately after emerging from colonial rule,
with their economies destroyed, and dependent on foreign
languages for communication, on imperial capitals for
support and on donors for subsistence. This is hardly the
stuff on which absolute sovereignty is built. It was, in
fact, one of the great virtues of the United Nations that it
gave fledgling nations space to exercise the sovereignty
so cruelly circumscribed elsewhere. Therefore, the United
Nations should not claim a unilateral right to intervene in
the affairs of its Members. Sovereignty can be diluted
only with the voluntary consent of nation States accepting
obligations that are non-discriminatory or, in exceptional
circumstances, where State authority has collapsed. Far
from enfeebling sovereignty, it is the task of the United
Nations to nurture it
in a world that has made the
powerful more dominant and the weak increasingly
powerless. We must never forget that this Assembly is an
assembly of our nations united. The United Nations rests
on the commitment to it of sovereign nations.
There is clearly an enormous need for global action
to deal with complex issues which have no territorial
limits or borders. This is the task of the United Nations.
Developing countries which represent the majority of the
United Nations, obviously want it to focus on the issues
of most pressing concern to them. That is not only fair:
that would be the democratic thing to do. For us, the
single most important task is development, and we expect
this to be the highest priority on the international agenda,
as it is on our domestic agendas. Sadly, it is not. The
Agenda for Development
looks lamentably like an
appendix. Can we, at this session, pledge ourselves to
honour the commitments, freely negotiated but never
implemented, which will make development possible in
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the South and make the world, for all of us, a better and
more peaceful place?
living, solutions of
It is just as important for the United Nations to have
a say in the decisions that guide the international economy.
Chapter IX of the Charter gave it the task to promote
higher standards of
international
economic, social, health and related problems, and universal
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Like
the United Nations, the World Trade Organization gives
equal weight to the votes of all its members, but it would
be a pity if the World Trade Organization cut even the
tenuous links between the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT) and the United Nations and, decided
instead that global economic policies would in the future be
coordinated between it,
the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund, where the system of weighted
voting makes the voice of
the developing countries
irrelevant. At the same time, several studies commissioned
to coincide with this anniversary claim that the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
no longer has a useful purpose. This can either mean that
the
problems UNCTAD addresses — development
strategies, poverty alleviation, resource transfers and debt,
and the transfer of technology — have been settled, or are
now irrelevant. Neither is true. These continue to be
burning issues for developing countries, and if the United
Nations chooses to ignore them it will not serve the needs
of its Member States.
assume
The United Nations must
its Charter
responsibility to supervise and coordinate global economic
policies. In the World Trade Organization efforts have been
made to link trade to environment and labour standards.
The World Bank, in its World Development Report 1995,
warns about
“the proliferation of protectionist demands, many of
them under the guise of demands for fair trade and a
level playing field”.
(UNEP)
and
If, indeed, there is a genuine interest in protecting the
environment and the interests of labour in developing
countries, why are the United Nations Environment
Programme
International Labour
Organization (ILO) being sidelined in this exercise? The
answer must be that there is no provision in these bodies
for the coercive, retaliatory action which would be available
under
the World Trade
Organization.
regime of
sanctions
the
the
14
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
However,
the industrialized countries
say that
environmental and labour standards must be harmonized
upwards, because otherwise transnational corporations
would go where these standards were the lowest. This of
course implies that transnational corporations have an
appalling and exploitative standard of behaviour, but
when, in the 1970s and 1980s, the United Nations tried to
develop a code of conduct for transnational corporations,
we were told that transnational corporations were models
of virtue. How do these two views cohere?
The problem posed by these global economic forces
is enormous. Trade is the oxygen of our economies, but
cross-border
trade between transnational corporations
constitutes one third of world trade and almost 15 per
cent of gross global product. No developing country, or
group of developing countries, can match this commercial
strength, augmented, of course, by the enormous weight
of financial flows, which can make or break a country’s
financial structure.
The third element in the trinity of mobility in the
international economy is migration. At present 125
million people live outside their countries, but more than
half of them move between developing countries; this is
not, therefore, as it has so often been misrepresented, only
a problem for the developed world. It
is disturbing,
however, that those who insist on unfettered and truly
global flows of capital and trade also insist on restrictions
being placed on the movement of labour. Economic
arguments are given to justify this, but there are also
claims that large migrations disturb the way a society
thinks of itself as a unified cultural or ethnic entity.
The President returned to the Chair.
a
accept
racial basis
It would be honest to recognize these fears as racist.
India is a model of how these fears can be overcome. On
the one hand, over the past decade several million illegal
immigrants have come into India. We know to our cost
the political, economic and social strain this causes.
However, we do not
for
discriminating against legal migrants. We do not accept
that nationhood is based on race, any more than it is
based on religion or any other exclusive attribute. The
waves of migration that have washed over India have
made us a multi-ethnic society; we have been culturally
enriched, not impoverished. We urge the international
community not to let the forces of xenophobia rise again.
Sovereignty has never been threatened by fresh blood
freely welcomed; it has been threatened by the forces of
racist intolerance.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
This brings me naturally to the other force that now
threatens the sovereignty of so many nations. Terrorism is
the black plague of our times and it has been made more
dangerous by the mystique with which the media has
endowed it. It is argued sometimes that one man’s freedom
fighter is another man’s terrorist. This is specious logic. In
1922 Mahatma Gandhi suspended for several years the
freedom struggle in India because, in an incident in the
small village of Chauri Chaura, a mob burnt some
policemen to death. In Gandhi’s view, the view of the
ultimate freedom-fighter, the means must sanctify the ends.
What ends could possibly justify the barbarism of
taking an innocent foreigner in India hostage and beheading
him in cold blood? Foreign mercenaries did this to the
Norwegian Hans Christian Ostro last month. An empire of
terror is being built up with arms and money sent across
borders; its foot soldiers are drawn from the bigoted, its
leadership from ruthless, unprincipled men and, regrettably,
some women.
At every summit in recent years, whether of the non-
aligned, the Group of Seven, the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), or the Commonwealth,
Heads of State and Government have reaffirmed their
resolve to defeat all forms of terrorism. However, in the
United Nations, where we are all represented, we have been
unable to speak in such forthright terms. We must do so at
this fiftieth anniversary. To appease terrorism now will be
as dangerous as appeasing xenophobia was in the 1930s and
ultimately as destructive of both peace and democracy,
because terrorism, as I said earlier, is war by other means.
Whether it tries to violate the territorial integrity of a
country, as in India, in our State of Jammu and Kashmir, or
to unseat duly constituted Governments, as in Afghanistan,
the acts of States sponsoring terrorism are, in fact, acts of
war.
Democracies, as open societies, are particularly
vulnerable to terrorism. The United Nations welcomes the
global
trend that has made democracy the norm of
governance, but has done nothing to defend democracies
from extremist and other threats. Instead, it comforts itself
with the mantras that democracy is development, and
democracies do not wage war. These neatly package all the
world’s problems and absolve the United Nations of any
further responsibility: establish democracy everywhere and,
automatically, development and peace will follow.
Both propositions are historically untrue. Democracies
that developed in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries
either suppressed democratic rights until they became rich,
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
or grew rich on the ruthless exploitation of colonies.
When they shed their empires after the Second World
War democracy became development in Europe only in
the uniquely generous embrace of the Marshall Plan. The
myth that democracies do not wage war is destroyed by
the history of colonial rule and its wars, leading to the
conflagration of the First World War. The United Nations
should, therefore, take these propositions as objectives,
not as givens. Democracy should lead to development;
democracies should be peaceful.
I want to touch briefly upon two other global issues
which affect our lives — disarmament and human rights.
After Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Mahatma Gandhi said that
the use of the atom bomb for the wholesale destruction of
men, women and children was the most diabolical use of
science. We were therefore appalled that,
instead of
stepping back from the road to nuclear ruin, the nuclear-
weapon States sped faster and faster down it. As they
accelerated, India tried unsuccessfully to put on the
brakes. In 1954 we called for an end to nuclear testing. In
1965 we proposed principles for a non-proliferation
treaty. In 1982 we called for a convention to ban the use
of nuclear weapons and for an end to the production of
fissile material for nuclear weapons. In 1988 we proposed
to the United Nations a comprehensive action plan for a
world free of nuclear weapons.
Our goal — shared, I believe by most of us here —
is a world from which nuclear weapons have been
eliminated. The nuclear-weapon States claim to share this
goal, but
their present objective is to retain nuclear
weapons while making sure others do not get them.
The logic of this is hard to understand. It cannot be
argued that the security of a few countries depends on
their having nuclear weapons and that that of the rest
depends on their not having them. What makes the NPT
such a pernicious document is that it legitimizes this
illogicality, and now that it has been made permanent it
has made the possession of nuclear weapons by the
nuclear-weapon States immutable and has made the goal
of global nuclear disarmament that much more difficult.
It
to recall
is useful
that when India and other
developing countries proposed the NPT, a global balance
of responsibilities was envisaged. Those who did not have
nuclear weapons would not seek to acquire them; those
who had them would not try either to refine or develop
them or to increase their arsenals. This balance was never
honoured, with the result that 25 years after the signing
of the NPT the world is a much more dangerous place,
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
made so by the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the
arsenals of the nuclear-weapon States.
I recall this background because two years ago the
international community at
last agreed to negotiate a
comprehensive test-ban treaty. We are glad that negotiations
are in progress, but we also note that nuclear-weapon States
agreed to a comprehensive test-ban treaty only after
acquiring the know-how to develop and refine their arsenals
without the need for tests. In our view, the comprehensive
test-ban treaty must be an integral step in the process of
nuclear disarmament. Developing new warheads or refining
existing ones after a comprehensive test-ban treaty is in
place, using innovative technologies, would be as contrary
to the spirit of the comprehensive test-ban treaty as the
NPT is to the spirit of non-proliferation. The comprehensive
test-ban treaty must contain a commitment binding on the
international community, especially the nuclear-weapon
States,
to take further measures within an agreed
time-frame towards the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free
world.
The existence of nuclear weapons poses a threat to
peace and security. Only global nuclear disarmament can
guarantee that there will never be a nuclear war. Therefore,
despite the unfortunate legitimization of nuclear weapons
through the indefinite extension of the NPT, India will
continue to work with like-minded countries for the early
elimination of all nuclear weapons. We hope that at this
session the Assembly will finalize dates for the fourth
United Nations special session on disarmament, in 1997.
Human rights have always been a preoccupation of the
United Nations, but their protection and promotion of such
rights in each country is the primary responsibility of the
government. The universality and interdependence of all
human rights are also beyond question. That is precisely
why the United Nations system cannot promote and protect
human rights by a unilateral prioritization of individual
freedoms or a proliferation of intrusive mechanisms, or by
diverting funds from development activities to human rights
activities. The priorities of nations will differ. The United
Nations must balance the promotion of all human rights —
civil, cultural, economic, political and social — preserve
and propagate the values of every society and promote
tolerance for diversity and cross-cultural
interaction.
Politicizing the human-rights agenda and using it to target
countries is undesirable.
The United Nations will become responsive to these
global issues and effective and efficient only if it also
becomes more democratic in its functioning. Developing
16
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
countries find it hard to identify with the agendas and
priorities of the United Nations; they feel that it now
represents the privilege of a few rather than the interests
of the many. If the majority of its Members become
disenchanted with it, what role can the United Nations
effectively play? For the United Nations to be more
effective, the General Assembly must be given new life
and breathe that life into the other bodies of the system.
The legitimacy and effectiveness of the Security Council
must be enhanced. An expansion of both permanent and
non-permanent members is a must if the Council is to
become a truly representative body acting on behalf of the
Members of the United Nations for the maintenance of
peace and security.
The members of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries have put forward a comprehensive proposal for
the reform and restructuring of the Security Council. India
believes that, to truly reflect the expanded membership of
the United Nations, developing countries must be included
as permanent members. New permanent members should
be chosen not arbitrarily, but on objective criteria. In the
League of Nations it was argued that one country had a
special right of entry into the Supreme Council. When
that was forced through, one or two of the other aspirants
left the League, starting its decline. We should not repeat
that tragedy. On objective criteria, some countries will
clearly qualify for permanent membership. We believe
India will be among them.
the central
issue of our times. It
The United Nations has in recent years devoted itself
almost exclusively to peace-keeping, which is important,
but not
is judged,
naturally, by its record in these operations. There have
been successes and failures, and both provide the reason
and the need for introspection. India believes that United
Nations peace-keeping operations must be based on the
principles evolved over the last 50 years. Operations
guided by these principles have usually done well. Where
these have been abandoned, failure has been common.
Over the past year this truth has gained broad acceptance,
and the Special Committee on Peace-Keeping Operations
is now trying to collate these principles. It would be
desirable for the General Assembly at this fiftieth session
to agree on them. India will contribute to this work.
India has consistently supported the peace-keeping
activities of the United Nations. Indian troops have
participated in all major peace-keeping operations, ranging
from the Congo to Cambodia, Somalia and Mozambique.
We are currently participating in United Nations
peace-keeping operations in Rwanda, Angola, Haiti,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Liberia and Kuwait. We have also offered a brigade of
troops to the United Nations stand-by arrangement. India
will continue to contribute to United Nations efforts to
maintain international peace and security.
If the United Nations is to become a leading player on
the world scene, it must be given the means needed to do
the job we entrust to it. Clearly, setting out on a second 50
years with a crippling financial crisis is not the best way to
do so. In India we make considerable efforts to pay our
contributions promptly and in full. We believe that all
Members must pay their assessed contributions in full and
on time. Further, those in arrears must announce a schedule
for settlement. There can be no progress in the on-going
efforts for financial reform unless this is done.
The fiftieth session of the General Assembly is a
historic one. It is our responsibility to rejuvenate the United
Nations, give it the tasks we want it to do, and the means
with which to do them. We set up the United Nations
because we felt that all of us stood to gain from it. In the
dark days of the cold war and in the friction between North
and South, we seem to have lost this vision.
crucial
lead on the
Since the inception of the United Nations, India has
been committed to the principles and objectives of the
Charter. In the last five decades we have played an
important role in shaping the United Nations agenda, taking
the
issues of decolonization,
disarmament, human rights and environment, among others.
On this historic occasion we pledge our continuing
commitment to the United Nations efforts to chart a new
course for the collective benefit of all humanity. As we
attempt to do so, I am reminded of Jawaharlal Nehru’s
speech to the General Assembly in November 1948, in
Paris. He said:
“The objectives are clear; your aim is clear; and yet,
in looking at that aim, we lose ourselves often, if I
may venture to say so, in smaller matters and forget
the main objective that we were looking at. Sometimes
it seems that the objective itself gets a little clouded”.
(Plenary Verbatim Records, Third Session, General
Assembly, 154th meeting, p. 16)
We must ensure that we set aside smaller matters, that
we do not allow the objective to get clouded and that we
move forward together in harmony and for the benefit of all
the people of the world.
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
The President: The next speaker is the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Chile, His Excellency Mr. José Miguel
Insulza, on whom I now call.
Mr. Insulza (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
Let me first convey to you, Sir, my delegation’s and my
own congratulations on your election as President of the
General Assembly. Your appointment to preside over the
Assembly at such an important session constitutes a
recognition not only of your personal abilities but also of
the important international role that Portugal plays on the
international stage.
As we commemorate half a century of the existence
of the United Nations, we do so with renewed hopes for
the purposes and principles of the Organization, and we
wish to reaffirm our country’s commitment to it.
The major processes taking place in the modern
world have transcended national borders and taken strong
root in the multilateral sphere. Like never before in the
history of humankind, the solution of the problems of the
peace and security of States and the people inhabiting
them, as well as the protection of the individual, his
welfare and his environment, depend more on collective
decisions and action than on any one country. Our
multilateral system may still have major defects and
shortcomings, but there is no replacement that has the
political legitimacy of the United Nations to take up the
challenges facing us as we approach a new millennium.
Hence, it is important, during this session of the
Assembly, to engage in a broad debate on the functioning
of our system, in order both to adapt its objectives to the
new realities and to introduce far-reaching changes in the
structures of the Organization, which were designed to
meet the challenges of a post-war world that no longer
exists.
My country aspires to occupy a seat in the Security
Council as a non-permanent member in 1996 and 1997.
From this rostrum I wish to express our gratitude for the
unanimous endorsement we have received from the Latin
American and Caribbean Group, as well as for the
support to be provided by other countries of the United
Nations in the election, which is to be conducted at this
session of the General Assembly.
Chile is in a position to assume this responsibility
and contribute to the search for the consensuses required
to strengthen the Organization and make its decisions
really effective. We shall do so on the basis of our
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
principles of international policy, seeking always to reflect
the views and interests of the region we wish to represent.
We believe that the primary objective of a security
policy is to reduce the insecurity of the international
community as a whole, of its Member States and of
individuals, families and the communities in which they
live. Helping to reduce these insecurities is the main task of
the United Nations.
We are experiencing the combined effects of the
ending of the cold war and of the process of increasing
globalization. Both have positive consequences in the
economic and political spheres, but at the same time they
face us with new situations and uncertainties.
The fear of the nuclear destruction that might have
resulted from the world-wide ideological confrontation
between the major Powers has disappeared, and the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), to
which Chile is now a party, has been indefinitely extended.
Nevertheless, the nuclear Powers and those aspiring to
that status still do not acknowledge that the very existence
of nuclear weapons capable of destroying mankind is a
source of insecurity for us all. To believe that nuclear
weapons confer greater security on the State that possesses
them is an illusion. What they produce is profound unease
in other nations and in the population of the nuclear-
weapon State itself in the face of the possibility that the
weapons, in an escalation of folly, might end up being
used.
The renewal of nuclear tests by certain Powers —
precisely at a time when,
in the wake of the recent
Conference on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons, there should have been a moratorium on
such tests so that a definitive test-ban treaty could be
prepared — shows insensitivity in this regard. Nevertheless,
China and France, countries for which we profess respect
and friendship, have opted to continue such tests. We
condemn their attitude, and we see this as a clear setback
for the cause of disarmament and non-proliferation of
nuclear weapons, which we all claim to share.
For Chile, France’s decision to renew its nuclear tests
on Mururoa Atoll, in the Pacific Ocean, is of particular
concern. As a Pacific country and a member of the Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation Council
(APEC), has
categorically condemned those tests, and President Frei has
made our opinion known to President Chirac.
18
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
We are concerned lest the South Pacific region, in
which Chile has vital interests, should become a zone in
which it is regarded as legitimate to engage in activities
that are unthinkable in other parts of the world. We wish
to state clearly our willingness to work together with
other States of the region to prevent the proliferation,
emplacement, transit or testing of nuclear weapons and
other radioactive materials in that region and throughout
the world.
On the other hand, we appreciate the positive
attitude of those nuclear Powers that have declared and
maintained unilateral moratoriums. Chile, along with other
countries, believes that the General Assembly should take
a stand on this issue in order to promote an immediate
moratorium on all nuclear tests, as proposed by the Heads
of State of the Rio Group and the States parties to the
Treaties of Tlatelolco and Rarotonga at
their recent
meeting.
The end of the cold war has given rise to a genuine
ideological decolonization that has opened the way for
greater freedom and democracy in various regions of the
world. Nevertheless, the hope that this change would lead
to a more peaceful world has been thwarted. The new
world disorder has encouraged the development of ethnic,
religious, cultural or simply group differences. The former
Yugoslavia, Rwanda and Somalia remind us that hatred
that still festers in various parts of our world.
People rightly look to the United Nations to bring its
political and moral weight to bear in helping prevent such
atrocities. Consent to barbarism in any part of the world
weakens the moral fibre of all human beings. That is one
of the great lessons of the cold war; after the overthrow
of fascism, the world also had an opportunity to expand
democracy and freedom.
Nevertheless, the systematic abuse of human rights
which tactical allies were allowed to engage in, and which
also characterized the Soviet Union and its areas of
influence,
the world
inherited after the ending of the cold war. What alarms us
today was just yesterday promoted or consented to for
“reasons of State”.
reduced the ethical quality of
Thus, the promotion of human rights, freedom and
democracy cannot be seen as unwarranted interference in
other people’s affairs. There cannot be political, cultural,
ethnic or religious reasons for trampling on human
dignity. This is the core of the emerging international
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
humanitarian law which Chile regards as a cornerstone of
the world order for the twenty-first century.
that
today affect
In addition, the need to promote the security of the
individual has recently acquired particular prominence. The
main factors
such security are
unemployment, hunger, poverty, marginalization, crime and
discrimination on grounds of class, sex, religion, culture or
ethnic origin. People are demanding to be included in a
process of development which affords opportunity, and
asking that shared progress should ensure increased equality
for all. Societies today are aware that social polarization is
becoming their main source of uncertainty.
The world economy also recognizes this fact. As
President Eduardo Frei has said:
“We know today that there can be no stable
investment in unstable societies, and that economic
prosperity cannot prosper amidst human insecurity. On
the contrary, it is becoming increasingly apparent that
one of the main sources of growth and development
for the future is, in all countries, the incorporation of
today’s marginalized people into the worldwide
production system that is coming into being.”
Heads of State and Government from all parts of the
world ratified these views at the World Summit for Social
Development, when they stated:
“We acknowledge that the people of the world
have shown in different ways an urgent need to
address profound social problems, especially poverty,
unemployment and social exclusion, that affect every
country. It is our task to attack both their underlying
and
distressing
consequences in order to reduce uncertainty and
insecurity in the life of people.” (A/CONF.166/9,
annex I to resolution 1, para. 2)
structural
causes
and
their
The same problems stemming from the processes of
globalization and internationalization have led to the
emergence of a new set of problems relating to security.
These include the corrosive influence of drug production
the
and consumption, and the corrupting effect of
movements of vast amounts of money that
this traffic
the degradation of the environment, from its
involves;
global impact on the ozone layer to its local effect on the
health of children and the elderly; the large international
migrations resulting from insecurity in the countries of
origin; the expansion of international terrorism; and the
increase in transmissible diseases such as AIDS.
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
One immediate conclusion emerges:
there is no
substitute for
the multilateral system to tackle this
interrelated set of problems. The areas for purely national
action are shrinking, while the need for international
agreements and understandings is growing on a daily
basis.
Another important conclusion is that to deal with
this multifaceted constellation of problems, we need to
make use of the United Nations system as a whole. If we
want to resolve the problems of security, as they are
experienced by people and as we have described them
here, not only the Security Council, but also the General
Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the
specialized programmes and agencies have a vital role to
play. We must give them greater responsibilities in
relation to these issues.
In this context, I wish to outline a number of general
principles by which our activity in the Security Council
will be guided. We shall:
First, focus on preventive diplomacy and on peaceful
settlement of disputes in accordance with Chapter VI
in order to reduce to the minimum the use of force,
in accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter.
Secondly, promote confidence-building measures and
regional solutions based on the capacity for action of
countries in the region; the regional option can be
effective,
is
demonstrating, and should precede and complement
recourse to the Security Council.
case of Latin America
the
as
Thirdly, always maintain a special concern for the
victims of the conflicts dealt with by the Council,
encouraging the fullest use of humanitarian law.
Fourthly, protect, in cases where sanctions have to
be applied,
the interests and needs of the most
disadvantaged sectors of society; we do not believe
in unilateral sanctions or in sanctions that ultimately
hit only the weakest.
Fifthly, promote greater
transparency in the
procedures and decisions of the Council, so that the
other States Members of the United Nations, civil
society and public opinion at large can exercise
democratic oversight over its actions;
the more
widely the complexities of the issues it deals with
are known and understood, the greater the support
for its work will be.
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Sixthly, monitor the growing cost of peace-keeping
operations with a view to rationalizing use of the
available resources and making them more efficient.
members, the Security Council needs to be expanded to
take all these factors into account. That will mean making
the present categories of membership more flexible, while
always maintaining geographical balance.
We believe that one of the essential tasks for the
United Nations in striving to attain the goal of increasing
global stability is to promote the progressive establishment
in various parts of the world of regional zones of peace and
cooperation that
is, geographical areas, defined by the
participants themselves, in which are applied agreed rules
for coexistence and the strengthening of peace and security.
The United Nations has already declared the Indian
Ocean and the South Atlantic to be zones of peace. The
same objective has been pursued by the Treaties of
Tlatelolco and Rarotonga in relation to nuclear weapons in
Latin America and the Caribbean and in the South Pacific.
We need to draw the main lessons from the benefits and
limitations of the experience they afford.
it
possible
implication
and makes
It is important to stress that the ending of the cold war
leaves the concept of a zone of peace devoid of any
ideological
to
acknowledge its practical usefulness. The Government of
Chile considers that many regions, including ours, are in a
position to follow this example. We intend to request the
Secretary-General
to engage in consultations with the
Governments of United Nations Member States regarding
the interest in and possibilities of promoting zones of peace
in various regions of the world and to report thereon to the
General Assembly next year.
If we wish to make an effective response to the
challenges we
the
representativeness and efficiency of our Organization. This
Assembly will also have to discuss important aspects
relating to the reform of the system in these two directions.
face, we
improve
need
to
Chile shares the view of many other countries
regarding the need to restructure the Security Council to
make it more representative. That entails bringing in as new
permanent members countries which over the past 50 years
have acquired much greater weight than they had when the
Second World War ended.
The new realities of the international system have not
affected only the developed world. Other regions have
increased their influence in a world which — although
“globalized” — is still extremely diverse.
should provide
Of course, we agree with all the countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean that any expansion of the
Council
in the
representation of our region, which in recent decades has
acquired a greater international presence and has shown
itself always ready to undertake responsibilities in the
strengthening of international security.
an increase
for
Nevertheless,
the reform needed in the United
Nations goes far beyond the Security Council. Important
reforms also remain to be carried out in the economic and
social sphere,
through which it will be possible to
promote greater efficiency in the discharge of the major
tasks of eliminating poverty, protecting the most
disadvantaged social groups,
creating employment,
protecting the environment and strengthening free trade.
In these and other areas, we also expect
important
initiatives from this Assembly.
Finally, the financial situation of the United Nations
has been a cause of concern to us all. This situation is
largely due to the many additional tasks the Organization
has had to take on in recent times. But we share the idea
that, rather than endlessly increasing contributions, it is
important
task of rationalizing
expenditure and setting adequate priorities
for our
activities. We greatly value the initiatives the Secretary-
General has been taking in this direction, and we assure
him of our full support
in his efforts to adapt our
Organization to the new realities.
to take up the urgent
Over
the past 10 years, Latin America has
undergone far-reaching structural changes in the direction
of democracy, respect for human rights and economic
reform. Now we are also making an effort to attack the
major problems of poverty and inequality that blight us,
and to eliminate once and for all the scourges of drug
trafficking and corruption.
continuing
Chile, as an integral part of the community of Latin
America and the Caribbean, is a country of social peace
and
has
experienced sustained growth rates and our country is
determined to consolidate the democratic process and
attain justice and social equity.
development. Our
economy
While maintaining
rapid
decision-making, which implies a small number of
capacity
for
its
20
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
As a country that is open to the world, we have
expressed our readiness to assume in full the international
responsibilities incumbent on us in the common task of
bringing about peace, security and development. We are
convinced that this Organization, which we helped to found
fifty years ago, will continue to be the main multilateral
vehicle for our proposals, our contributions and our dreams.
The President: I now call on Her Excellency, Mrs.
Benita Ferrero-Waldner, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs
of the Republic of Austria.
Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner (Austria): It
is with great
pleasure that I congratulate you, Mr. President, on your
election as President of the General Assembly at
this
fiftieth session, at which we are commemorating the
founding of the United Nations half a century ago. Your
vast experience as a statesman and scholar is our assurance
that this session will be crowned with success.
I wish to thank your distinguished predecessor, the
Foreign Minister of Côte d’Ivoire, whose untiring efforts to
stimulate the reform process in our world Organization
deserve special gratitude.
Austria, a member of the European Union since 1
January 1995, fully endorses the comprehensive statement
made on behalf of the Union by His Excellency Mr. Javier
Solana Madariaga, the Spanish Foreign Minister.
is
The Austrian Federal Government
strongly
committed to the objectives of the United Nations Charter
and to the work of the Organization. The United Nations
has traditionally been a priority of the Austrian foreign
policy. Later this year, on 14 December, Austria will
celebrate the 40th birthday of its admission to membership
of the United Nations.
Last June, our Parliament held a commemorative
session on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the
signing of the United Nations Charter at San Francisco. At
that meeting, all political parties represented in Parliament
praised the achievements of the United Nations, expressed
their appreciation of the untiring efforts of the Secretary-
General in the quest for peace, justice and development,
and reaffirmed the commitment of Austria to a strong and
vibrant United Nations.
Austria’s
strong
commitment
the world
Organization is reflected in Vienna’s role as one of the
Headquarters of
the United Nations. The Federal
Government and the City of Vienna lend maximum support
to
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
to the United Nations Office as well as to the United
Nations agencies and programmes based in our capital.
More than 36,000 Austrians have served as “blue
helmets” in United Nations peace-keeping operations,
some of them as force commanders. More than 30 of our
countrymen have lost their lives in the service of peace.
This dedication to peace-keeping led the Federal
Government
the Vienna Seminar on
Peacemaking and Peace-Keeping for the Next Century,
which was opened by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations in March of
this year. The report on this
Conference was distributed this morning.
to organize
My country also attaches particular importance to
civilian peace-keeping and sponsors a very successful
training programme on civilian peace-keeping and
peace-building. At the city of Schlaining, this programme
prepares election observers, human rights observers and
humanitarian affairs officers for their difficult
tasks.
Concrete proposals for improving the civilian components
of United Nations field missions were formulated at the
International Conference on the Preparation of Civilian
Personnel of United Nations Field Missions. In addition,
Austria makes concerted efforts to support the United
Nations preventive diplomacy capabilities. The Austrian
Government will provide the Secretary-General with a list
of personalities whose great experience will be at the
disposal of the United Nations.
After the end of the cold war, new hopes were
vested in the Security Council. The United Nations took
decisive action in response to military aggression against
a sovereign State and undertook successful multipurpose
peace-keeping missions to resolve several long-standing
conflicts.
At
the same time, however,
the international
community and the Security Council were called upon to
handle radically new situations. The United Nations had
to respond to these new types of conflict with its
traditional
instruments: peace-keeping missions were
deployed to keep a non-existent peace. As we all know,
the United Nations missions in Somalia and in Bosnia and
Herzegovina led to humiliation for the Organization and
the international community.
With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina there is at
last some realistic hope that the renewed determination of
the United Nations, combined with the decisive support of
NATO, may bring about a durable settlement and - above
all - put an end to the plight of millions of innocent
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
victims, of whom the citizens of Sarajevo have become the
symbol. Terminating the barbaric siege of the Bosnian
capital, which has lasted since the spring of 1992, carries
particular significance.
Austria fully supports the initiative undertaken by the
United States, in the framework of the Contact Group, to
reach a comprehensive peace agreement that will ensure the
existence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina and the peaceful reintegration of Eastern
Slavonia. We welcome the agreement on Basic Principles
reached in New York earlier this week as an important
further step on the long and difficult road to peace.
We remain deeply concerned about
the fate of
hundreds of thousands of refugees. Austria attaches the
utmost
refugees and
displaced persons to freely return to their homes, as already
stated by the London Conference of August 1992.
importance to the rights of all
Let me equally stress how important it is for the future
of the region that all crimes be brought to light and the
culprits punished. In this context, the War Crimes Tribunal
set up in The Hague can play a crucial role.
The efforts of the United Nations troops and their
commanders, who constantly risk their lives for the cause
of peace, deserve our admiration. I should like also to
honour the memory of three of the main architects of the
United States peace initiative who last August became
victims of the siege of Sarajevo.
During that same month, the Special Rapporteur of the
United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Mr.
Tadeusz Mazowiecki, resigned over what he called
“the lack of consistency and courage displayed by the
international community”.
His relentless efforts in pointing out and documenting
crimes against humanity committed in the war have earned
him our highest respect. We welcome the continuation of
this important task under the eminent leadership of Ms.
Rehn.
A comprehensive settlement also needs to include
satisfactory solutions for minorities, not only in Croatia and
Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and in particular in
Kosovo, Vojvodina and Sanjak.
22
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
The prospect of a well-coordinated contribution by
the world community to the reconstruction of
the
devastated areas and to the relaunching of economic
activities could help in facilitating the prospects for peace
and its eventual consolidation.
Furthermore, Austria believes that regional arms-
control measures will be another decisive factor in the
effort to secure peace and should therefore be initiated as
early as possible.
In the Middle East, long and arduous negotiations
have now led to an important breakthrough. We applaud
as a major step towards final peace and cooperation in the
region yesterday’s signing of the agreement between
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) on
the transfer of authority.
Today, the main threats to peace and security are no
longer predominantly attacks by one country against
another sovereign State. We are faced with conflicts
originating in ethnic tensions, authoritarian rule, economic
despair or migratory movements. Peace and security are
therefore threatened not only by violations of the code of
conduct among States, but increasingly by violations of
international
standards on the relationship between
citizens and their Governments and among different
groups within countries. Our instruments for conflict
resolution have to be adapted to these new circumstances.
Part of this effort has to be an enhanced early-
warning capacity of the United Nations. The earlier the
United Nations can attempt to mediate, the more likely
are its missions to meet with success. By increasing the
number of cases where preventive diplomacy can be used
successfully — thus avoiding the need for military peace-
keeping — an early-warning system would also be a great
investment.
We also need to reinforce the capacity of the United
Nations to assist Member States in their efforts to
improve democratic structures, including the holding of
free and fair elections, the full observance of human
rights, the rights of minorities and fundamental freedoms,
the strengthening of the rule of law, the fostering of
popular participation and accountability of Governments,
and the development of a prosperous civil society.
Furthermore, the capacity of the United Nations needs to
be strengthened in order to confront new threats to peace
and security,
such as organized crime and illicit
trafficking in drugs.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Austria has always been strongly committed to
disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. We trust
that the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) earlier this year
will permit and encourage further substantial disarmament
measures,
a
comprehensive test-ban treaty. We are confident
that
negotiations on the treaty will be concluded next year and
that the decision by one or more of the nuclear Powers to
conduct additional nuclear-weapons tests — a decision that
continues to cause deep concern in Austria — will not
delay the conclusion of the negotiations.
early conclusion of
in particular
the
In this context, allow me to reiterate the invitation of
the Austrian Federal Government to establish the future
comprehensive test-ban treaty organization in Vienna, and
to express my gratitude for the widespread support this
proposal has received and continues to receive.
The human rights agenda has for many years been
dominated by the quest to establish international standards,
culminating in the adoption of the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action. The recent Fourth World Conference
on Women, held in Beijing, strongly reaffirmed the central
role of these documents in the struggle for human rights
and their special significance in the context of the human
rights of women. Today, we have to concentrate on the
implementation of
take all
necessary measures to fulfil our international human rights
obligations vis-à-vis our own peoples; we have to take a
firm stand against human rights violations, wherever they
occur;
assist Governments genuinely
committed to improving the human rights situation in their
countries.
these standards. We must
and we must
The ever-more urgent question of minority rights
needs to be an integral part of this agenda. In this context,
I should like to mention that Austria and Italy together have
arrived at an autonomous solution concerning the Austrian
minority in South Tyrol, Italy, which could inspire other
minorities and which is continuing to develop in a positive
and dynamic way.
under
the
leadership
In order to implement the human rights agenda, we
must better integrate the United Nations human rights
programmes,
the High
Commissioner for Human Rights, into the mainstream of
United Nations activities. Based on the lessons learned and
experiences acquired within the United Nations system, we
should further improve the instrument of on-site human
rights monitoring. We firmly believe in the need to
strengthen the United Nations programme of technical
of
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
assistance in the field of human rights and the technical
cooperation programme in the field of crime prevention
and criminal justice.
catastrophes, has become
Austria also welcomes the great efforts the United
Nations system has made to cope with humanitarian
crises. As a country that has received Bosnian refugees —
who number approximately one per cent of the total
Austrian population — Austria is particularly aware of the
human dimensions of the refugee problem. Delivering
humanitarian assistance, particularly in the field of major
man-made
an important
challenge. The well-being of millions of people, be they
in Rwanda, Somalia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, depends
on this assistance and the selfless work of many
specialized United Nations bodies and agencies, such as
the High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food
Programme, UNICEF
for
Humanitarian Affairs. Many people owe their very
survival to these organizations’ activities. Through its
contributions to the European Community Humanitarian
Office (ECHO), Austria shares in the support given to
multilateral humanitarian programmes by their biggest
donor, the European Union. My Government will do its
utmost to enhance direct Austrian contributions to United
Nations programmes as part of our “burden sharing” in
the field of multilateral humanitarian assistance.
the Department
and
Adapting the United Nations institutional structures
to today’s reality also requires reform of the Security
Council. It needs to be enlarged by those Powers whose
international
influence has increased over the last 50
years. However, any enlargement of the Council must
neither compromise its efficiency nor the opportunities of
smaller countries to be represented in the Council.
In our intensive deliberations about the composition
and procedures of the Council, we must not lose sight of
its primary function. Security Council resolutions are
effective only if they gain political relevance outside this
building and if parties to a conflict abide by them. If
Security Council resolutions are to facilitate political
solutions of international crises, they must reflect the
political will of Member States to implement them.
Austria welcomes the reform efforts undertaken by
the Secretary-General in the area of management of the
United Nations. We hope that these initiatives will be
further pursued. We are pleased to see that the Office of
Internal Oversight Services has become operational. We
support the strengthening of this Office in order to further
enhance stringent control mechanisms and thus increase
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Member States’ confidence that
efficiently managed.
the Organization is
Above all,
the United Nations has
to be an
organization in which problem-solving on all
issues is
closely monitored in an integrated manner. Coordination
and cooperation among international organizations such as
the United Nations,
the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization
(WTO) need to be increased.
the World Bank,
In its fiftieth year, the United Nations is suffering
from a chronic financial crisis that needs to be resolved
urgently. A comprehensive and thorough reform is
necessary. Member States must pay their
assessed
contributions in full, on time and without conditions.
Under the co-chairmanship of Austria, the High-level
Open-ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of
the United Nations has prepared the ground for agreement
on comprehensive reform measures. A solution to the
financial crisis will have to be based on the continued
recognition of the special responsibility of the Permanent
Members of the Security Council, as well as on a scale of
assessment reflecting today’s economic realities.
In the future, the United Nations system will need
additional financing mechanisms for the funding of global
priorities. A number of proposals have already been made,
including minimal charges on foreign exchange transactions
and charges to be levied on international airline travel. The
point has been made that all
these proposals require
in-depth consideration by competent bodies. Austria
therefore proposes that the General Assembly should decide
on a comprehensive study to be undertaken by various
components of the United Nations system in collaboration
with outside experts in order to advance the international
discussion on charges or
taxes pertaining to such
international transactions.
Negotiations on the crucial issue of reform are under
way. Reform is possible only if Member States are truly
committed to the Organization, which is and remains the
only forum to address global issues. Let us use this historic
the General Assembly to commit
fiftieth session of
ourselves to decisive reform in order
to make our
Organization fit for the challenges of the next century.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Italy, Her Excellency Mrs. Susanna Agnelli.
24
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
Mrs. Agnelli
(Italy): Mr President,
let me
congratulate you and your country, Portugal, on your
election as President of the fiftieth session of the General
Assembly. At
the same time, I wish to thank your
distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara
Essy.
Italy fully supports the statement made by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Spain in his capacity as
Chairman of the European Union, and wishes to add the
following considerations.
The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations is an
opportunity for us to reflect on the Organization’s past
achievements and future role. The fundamental challenge
of the United Nations has always been the maintenance of
international peace and security,
to which Italy has
contributed by participating in several peace-keeping
operations, in which some of our young men have lost
their lives. Our experience has convinced us that the
United Nations should expand its role in the areas of
preventive diplomacy, peace-keeping and peace building.
The activity that has provoked more controversy in recent
years, peace enforcement, must
take place under the
mandate of the Security Council, but the Council can
delegate such operations to coalitions of States or regional
arrangements, thereby drawing on their valuable military
expertise, particularly in matters of command and control,
and preventing an overextension of United Nations
resources.
The responsibility for peace-keeping operations must
be shared by the international community as a whole, and
thus they should be financed through assessed rather than
voluntary contributions, to be calculated on the basis of
consensus,
international
commitments.
accordance with
and
in
In the former Yugoslavia, we have welcomed and
constantly supported the diplomatic initiative undertaken
by the United States Government and we sincerely hope
that it marks the turning-point in the crisis.
the Geneva
achievements:
The renewal of diplomatic action has thus far scored
major
agreement of 8
September on basic principles for a settlement in Bosnia,
the Framework for a Cessation of Hostilities within the
Sarajevo Exclusion Zone signed by the Bosnian Serbs in
Belgrade on 14 September, and the joint statement issued
on 26 September. For the first time in three years, there
seem to be real prospects for a viable and stable peace in
Bosnia and we cannot afford to miss this opportunity. It
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
is essential that Europe, the United States and Russia work
together to overcome the remaining difficulties in the way
of a general cease-fire and a peace agreement. We call
upon all the parties concerned to come to the negotiating
table, to show good faith and to resist the temptations to
resort to military action to gain political advantages.
Latin America has made significant progress in the
reaffirmation of democratic laws and respect for human
rights. Italy supports the peace process in Guatemala and
has sent a contingent to the United Nations human-rights
monitoring Mission there, as it did to the peace-keeping
operation in El Salvador.
We should also prepare well
in advance for the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the former Yugoslavia
by crafting an approach that would reaffirm respect for
human rights and the rights of minorities and foster civil
and cultural
and welfare
throughout the area.
coexistence, development
In the Middle East and the Mediterranean, Italy
applauds the determination and courage of Prime Minister
Rabin, Foreign Minister Peres and Chairman Arafat in
reaching yesterday’s agreement on the second stage of
self-government. Every effort should be made to implement
it, starting with the holding of democratic elections in the
Palestinian territories as soon as possible.
Italy will
continue its commitment to provide economic support to the
Palestinian people.
Other situations in the Middle East give rise instead to
tension and instability. We must contribute ideas and
initiatives to efforts aimed at defusing these tensions and
encouraging dialogue between opposing forces, except those
whose programme and policy are violence. At the same
time, Italy expects those countries trapped in self-inflicted
isolation to engage in a constructive dialogue with the
international community.
It
is of the utmost urgency that an international
conference be convened in the Great Lakes region of Africa
under the sponsorship of the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity, with the goal of fostering
the process of national reconciliation and allowing a rapid
repatriation of the millions of refugees still living in camps.
But there have also been positive developments in
Africa, such as the historic events of 1994 in South Africa,
the reconstruction currently under way in Mozambique, the
agreements that brought an end to the bloody conflict in
Angola, and the political and constitutional developments in
Ethiopia. My country’s commitment did not stop at the
participation of its military personnel in Mozambique. We
also responded positively to the Secretary-General’s request
for military advisers to train de-mining personnel
in
Angola.
The Asian continent is teaching all of us a lesson in
realism, hard work and investment in human resources. Its
growing force and economic success have brought it to
the forefront of the community of nations.
Italy will actively participate in the new Working
Group for the reform of the United Nations, paying
special attention to the economic and social sectors, which
need improvement and streamlining. While proceeding
with determination, we must avoid hasty decisions in
areas where caution and diligence should be the rule. We
must keep our sights on results and effectiveness rather
than on symbolic and artificially-imposed deadlines. This
is true not only for the economic and social sectors, but
also for the reform of the Security Council, which is
already the subject of a detailed Italian proposal inspired
by the principles of democracy, equitable geographical
representation and efficiency. It aims at reconciling the
aspirations and interests of the greatest possible number
of countries. Our goal is a Security Council with more
non-permanent members that
is able to express the
feelings and political will of the international community
as a whole. Only a Council that is truly representative of
the entire United Nations membership and closely linked
to the General Assembly can make this goal a reality.
However, if the financial crisis of the United Nations
is not solved, budgetary problems could derail any reform
proposals and send the entire system down the road to
bankruptcy. The Secretary-General has repeatedly made
this point, as has the President of the Council of the
European Union.
the scale of
assessments, Italy hopes that the Member States will
approve much-needed reforms, confirming beyond a
shadow of a doubt their will fully and promptly to honour
their financial obligations.
In the review of
have
been
agreed
limitations
In some sectors of weapons of mass destruction,
important
and
implemented. As we recently learned, biological weapons,
among the most horrifying arms known to man, are still
in our midst. It
the prohibition of
biological weapons be backed up by an effective system
of verification.
is our wish that
on
25
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
As for nuclear weapons, the indefinite extension of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons paves
the way for new goals in the field of disarmament. The
primary goal is the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban
treaty by 1996. It is imperative that we achieve an outright
ban on all nuclear testing, and my country will do its part
to see that this becomes a reality.
The Agenda for Development should be finalized by
the end of the current session. The Agenda must reflect the
12th plenary meeting
29 September 1995
conclusions and commitments made in the series of world
conferences on the major social issues of our time, which
will conclude with the World Conference on Food being
hosted by Italy in the fall of 1996.
The growth of the economy and of employment is
fundamental to international political stability in an era of
interdependence. An effective form of coordination
between the United Nations system and the financial
institutions of Bretton Woods
should be devised.
Multilateral trade and the free flow of investments could
enhance
and sustainable
development. With regard to the persistent problem of the
debt of developing countries, Italy ranks second among
creditor countries in its reduction of the external debt of
countries with grave economic difficulties.
spread of
equitable
the
The Italian Government is pleased with the work of
the Ad Hoc Committee on the Establishment of an
International Criminal Court and with the draft statute of
the court prepared by the International Law Commission.
Significantly, this draft explicitly does not include the
death penalty among the sentences that can be handed
down, in line with a position that Italy defended in this
same Hall. My country hopes that the debate in the Sixth
Committee will set the basis for convening a diplomatic
conference in 1996 or 1997, which Italy has offered to
host, to adopt the statute of the court.
should step up its efforts, as
international
resources
The Italian Government believes that the United
should its
Nations
financial
specialized
institutions,
towards
human-centred activity. Democracy and respect for human
rights must become the hallmark of our efforts to build a
better future for our children.
agencies
to
channel more
and
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
26
