United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
5th plenary meeting
Monday, 25 September 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.5
Official Records
President:
Mr. Diogo FREITAS do AMARAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 3:15 p.m.
Address by Mr. Armando Calderón Sol, President of the
Republic of El Salvador
The President: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the President of the Republic of El Salvador.
Mr. Armando Calderón Sol, President of the Republic
of El Salvador, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations the
President of the Republic of El Salvador, His Excellency
Mr. Armando Calderón Sol, and to invite him to address
the Assembly.
President Calderón Sol (interpretation from Spanish):
At the outset, in addressing this distinguished Assembly, I
should like to express to you, Mr. President, our sincere
congratulations on your election to conduct the proceedings
of this fiftieth session of the General Assembly. We are
assured that with your qualities as a statesman and your
diplomatic skills, we shall achieve very constructive results
for
community,
especially at
time when we are
commemorating the fiftieth year of the existence of the
United Nations.
the well-being of
this most
the international
important
We should also like to congratulate His Excellency,
Mr. Amara Essy,
the Minister of Foreign Affairs of
Côte d’Ivoire, for the excellent work that he carried out
as President of the General Assembly at its forty-ninth
session.
It
is both a timely moment and a pleasure to
highlight the extraordinary and indefatigable performance
of the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, at
the helm of the United Nations. He has demonstrated
outstanding leadership, dynamism and innovative skill in
improving and strengthening the Organization’s capacity
for action in fulfilment of the provisions of the Charter
and of efforts to find solutions for the diverse and
complex situations which have faced the Organization.
We would like to reaffirm our special gratitude to
in the
the Secretary-General for his ongoing support
process of consolidating and strengthening democracy in
El Salvador.
The current session of the General Assembly is
particularly important in the historical development of the
United Nations, not only because we are celebrating the
fiftieth anniversary of the creation of an exceptional
institution of universal scope, which was established to
analyse, debate and seek solutions to problems of
common concern to mankind, but also because current
circumstances lend themselves to reflection regarding the
future of our Organization.
95-86076E (E)
*95-6076*
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Indeed, we have at this time a unique opportunity to
reaffirm our commitment and our political will
to
strengthen the role of the Organization, to enhance its
effectiveness in achieving the ideals on which it was
founded, to bring to fruition the aspirations of our peoples,
and to preserve the right of future generations to live in
peace, progress and freedom.
Undeniably, this is a year for reflection, one which
will enable us to assess carefully a half-century of
development and experience acquired in addressing global
issues through joint efforts and collective measures on a
multilateral basis,
taking into account not only the
achievements but also the set-backs, with a view to further
perfecting this human endeavour.
The work of the United Nations, as a part of the
international system established in the wake of the Second
World War, reflected the antagonistic nature of international
relations during the cold-war period, which generated
tension and insecurity for nations, unleashing an unbridled
arms race and the threat of a nuclear conflict between the
super-Powers. This was no doubt a key factor in shaping,
and limiting, the work of the Organization.
inter alia,
As we make our assessment, we must acknowledge
that since 1945, despite the existence of the cold war, the
United Nations has achieved much,
in the
following spheres: fulfilling its mission to establish and
maintain international peace and security, containing local
conflicts in various regions from spreading and at the same
time creating a safety valve for East-West tensions, which
prevented a political
from
degenerating into a widespread confrontation or into nuclear
warfare.
and ideological
conflict
Another achievement, in accordance with the Charter,
was the decolonization process by which many Asian and
African countries, and some on the American continent,
gained independence and joined the community of nations,
thus enriching the Organization by their experience and
contributions.
development
In this regard, the United Nations has also helped to
foster international cooperation. To this end, an institutional
infrastructure was developed to promote economic and
social
the
establishment of a new international economic order, one
that would generate more favourable conditions and
opportunities for the developing countries to make progress,
thus setting in motion a process of evening out the major
imbalances between North and South.
through
peoples
for
our
2
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
While these efforts contributed to improving social
conditions in the poorest countries and in countries that
had recently gained independence, certain perceptions and
attitudes led to a development crisis in the 1980s,
curtailing the activities of the United Nations system in
the least developed countries.
Turning to the realm of human rights, considerable
progress was made, beginning with the signing of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10 December
1948 and the adoption of a host of
international
instruments, declarations, plans of action and institutional
machinery for
the promotion and monitoring of
international commitments on the part of States. These
include the promotion of the development of women, the
the handicapped, minority groups,
rights of children,
indigenous peoples and migrant workers, and,
in
particular, a commitment to the struggle to eliminate
racial discrimination in South Africa, which culminated in
1994 with the establishment of a democratic and
multiracial system in that country.
In the field of international law, outstanding progress
was made in the drawing up and codification of
international standards, in particular those conducive to
friendly relations among peoples and to the peaceful
resolution of conflicts.
for
The thoroughgoing changes in the world order that
led to the end of the cold war are giving rise to the
expectation of more favourable conditions
the
promotion of peace, cooperation and international
security. None the less, reality has shown that
these
aspirations have not been met and that, on the contrary,
changes in the international system created conditions that
have unleashed forces that had long been held in check,
giving rise to new conflicts and rivalries, not only as a
result of resurgent nationalism but also as a cause of
serious ethnic, religious, social and cultural differences
which have jeopardized peace and international security.
In this context, we are convinced that at the present
time finding solutions to age-old and new challenges is
beyond the capacity of any one State or group of States.
This has generated new requirements in the global
political area,
requiring to resort more and more
frequently to combined efforts and action. The very
dynamics and requirements of this process have in turn
increased the tasks and responsibilities that fall to the
United Nations.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
For this reason we must provide unwavering support
to the efforts of the United Nations to fulfil its role, not
only in the political sphere but also in the economic and
social areas, particularly through innovations and new
perceptions
in peace-keeping and the promotion of
development.
Regarding efforts at global peace-keeping,
is
important to note the new dimension of these peace-keeping
operations, whose action transcends the military aspects,
moving into multidisciplinary activities
include
political, economic, social and humanitarian endeavours.
that
it
issues, with an understanding that
As regards development, we welcome the fact that
more attention has been paid to economic, social and
environmental
their
solution requires coming to grips with, and attempting to
find solutions to, the causes of tensions, instability and
conflicts with greater political will. As such tensions can go
beyond the very borders of nation States, we must lend our
support to an integrated approach, for only in this way can
we consolidate peace, security and democracy, both
nationally and internationally.
Proof of the will to improve the well-being of nations
and assist in their progress can be seen in the major summit
conferences that have been held, as well as in the
formulation of
the Secretary-General’s development
programme. These efforts serve as examples of a new
global vision to achieve a consensus on policies and
strategies to promote sustainable human development. None
the less, we cannot but be concerned at the statements made
by the donor community regarding the drying up of funds
for development. This is certainly against
the general
expectation of support for the development of our peoples.
Today, the United Nations has different, and more
complex, responsibilities than those it had in a bipolar
world. Although the purposes and principles that inspired
the United Nations at its inception still remain valid, none
the less political
situations and the complexity and
magnitude of the challenges we face require clear and
innovative responses.
In the face of these challenges we must be both
determined and prudent,
resolved to be advocates of
change, learning from positive experiences and willing to
replace those outmoded practices that impede the smooth
functioning of the Organization.
We believe that
the modernization of the United
Nations should be carried out through a comprehensive
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
process of an integrated nature which would reflect a
consensus deriving from the common interests and shared
responsibilities of the international community.
the Security Council
In this respect, we believe that there should be a
more dynamic, better-coordinated relationship between the
General Assembly,
and the
Economic and Social Council, one which requires, as the
Secretary-General himself stated, “the determination and
the full commitment of all Member States”. The
industrialized countries bear a special responsibility in this
task, given that with their capabilities and resources they
can provide the Organization with a broad and assured
financial base which will make it possible to enhance its
effectiveness in every sphere.
In this connection, we urge the Heads of State and
Government of the seven industrialized Powers to put into
practice the statement of intention they made at
the
twenty-first Economic Summit, held in Halifax, Canada,
in June 1995. We call on those countries, along with
others,
to implement a new strategy for international
cooperation in order to rise to the challenges of the
twenty-first century.
The reform of the Security Council falls within the
process of change in the Organization. We support the
idea that
to the new
international structure, not only regarding the number of
its members but also regarding its methods and
procedures of decision-making.
should adjust
the Council
The Government of El Salvador supports an increase
in the membership of the Security Council on a rational
basis which will make its more truly representative and,
as a result, afford greater opportunities for participation
by all Member States, without in any way undermining
the efficient implementation of the tasks assigned to this
important body by the Charter.
Furthermore, we support all those nations which
aspire with legitimate right to becoming Members of the
United Nations and invoke the principle of universality
enshrined in the Charter of the Organization, without
taking into consideration ideological aspects or
the
interests of States which carry greater political weight in
the concert of nations. In this respect we share the views
expressed by you, Mr. President, when in your opening
address to this session of the General Assembly you said
that
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
“all States that are not yet Members should seek to be
admitted in the near future” (Official Records of the
General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings,
1st meeting, p.22)
I should now like to refer to some specific issues that
are of particular importance in the international political
arena.
With respect to nuclear disarmament we support full
compliance with the commitments contained in the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which
was extended indefinitely last May. We are convinced that
this constitutes a major step towards the strengthening of
the control system for nuclear non-proliferation and the
total elimination of nuclear weapons.
We are fully convinced that preventive diplomacy in
its various manifestations is the appropriate instrument for
deterrence and the limitation of potential conflicts. In this
respect we concur with the statement by the Secretary-
General
in his latest report presented to the General
Assembly that
“it is ... better to prevent conflicts ... than to undertake
major politico-military efforts to resolve conflicts once
they have broken out”. (A/50/l, para. 585)
We support his efforts to enable the United Nations to carry
out a constructive and timely role so as to avoid or mitigate
the destructive effects of crises.
I should now like to express a regional point of view
and note with satisfaction that Central America has moved
from an era of confrontation to one of cooperation. We are
now embarking on a stage of constructive achievements
which has enabled us to move forward in our quest to
consolidate a region of peace, freedom, democracy and
development. This new stage results from our having
assumed our historical responsibility with determination,
given the legitimate aspirations of our peoples, who
clamored for peace and the democratization of our societies.
With the assistance and solidarity of the United Nations and
the international community we are achieving these
objectives, which will be completed when the process under
way in Guatemala concludes with a firm and lasting peace
agreement, which has
the decisive support of our
Governments.
Now that we have made significant headway in the
political sphere we are focusing our efforts on the social
sphere as an indispensable ingredient, in the conviction that
4
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
are
peace, democracy and development
components for the flourishing of our society.
essential
Given this undeniable reality, the Central American
Presidents have been meeting together to exchange ideas
and experiences so that jointly, with a sense of solidarity
and coordination, we can rise to meet the ever-more-
complex challenges that face us as a result of the process
of
environmental
globalization which characterizes the new world order. An
example of this was the signing of the Treaty on Central
American social
the
presidential summit held at the beginning of this year in
the city of San Salvador.
integration, which took place at
economic,
political,
social
and
level
in Guacimo, Costa Rica;
Moreover, we are pleased to inform the Assembly
that in the past 12 months we have held meetings at the
highest
in Masaya,
Nicaragua;
in Tegucigalpa, Honduras; and in San
Salvador, the capital of my own country, during which we
adopted critical decisions for the future of our peoples.
We defined our priorities in a new regional agenda which
was given concrete expression by the signing of the
alliance for sustainable development. This embodies both
a
and
responsibilities with legal harmonization and emphasis on
investment in the social sphere, as we recognize that
human beings are the pivotal point and the principal
subject of development.
coordination of
interests
strategy
and a
The breadth and magnitude of the objectives spelled
out
in the new strategy for development exceed the
capacities and resources of our countries, and we believe
that
contribute
generously towards bringing these strategies to fruition.
international
community
can
the
In this context we ascribe particular importance to
the strengthening of
the newly revamped Central
American Integration System (SICA) which has assumed
as one of its main responsibilities the promotion and
implementation of the new Central American agenda.
May we urge the Assembly to extend the observer status
we have applied for to this new organization, SICA.
We can affirm that Central America has now entered
a new era in its history characterized by ongoing
cooperation among our countries, as reflected in our
efforts to create the conditions which will overcome the
obstacles which have done such damage to the cause of
integration, so that we can move forward steadfastly
towards the unification of Central America.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
In this connection we are particularly pleased at the
recent progress made during the binational Honduras/El
Salvador Commission meeting with a view to complying
with the border demarcation arrangements guaranteeing the
rights of the inhabitants of the border zones on both sides
simultaneously.
In the specific case of my own country we can give a
categorical assurance that
in the three years since the
signing of the peace agreements, El Salvador has moved
forward in a constructive way. The commitment of the
Government is firm and unswerving in its determination to
harness the requisite strength to build a new country, a
modern, democratic El Salvador, in which all the sectors of
Salvadorian society will participate without discrimination.
After more than a year at the helm I am pleased to
is fulfilling the promises
state that my Government
contained in the inaugural address which I delivered to the
Salvadorian people on 1 June 1994. We have been duly
following up the peace agreements conceived by the entire
nation as a commitment and as an essential prerequisite for
moving forward without any possibility of backsliding as
we build a peaceful society.
During the period of transition from war to peace and
national
reconstruction we have devoted ourselves to
consolidating the pacification process in the conviction that
that is a task that must be shared in a responsible manner
among the entire population. That task involves not only
finding a solution to the immediate problems created by 12
years of armed confrontation, but in addition, providing a
comprehensive response to domestic problems, for only
thus can we guarantee that the process will be irreversible
and capable of meeting future challenges in a society of
stability and peace.
Concerning pending commitments under the Peace
Agreements, we acknowledge realistically and in a
constructive spirit that there have been problems, and hence
delays, in complying with some of those provisions as a
result of the highly complex nature of the process. Those
difficulties have been overcome through dialogue and
consensus
for
implementation. This has enabled us, with the assistance of
the United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador, to
alter the established time-tables and to agree on a work
programme
those
commitments.
completion of
the definitive
responsible
sectors
among
the
for
We can affirm that we are complying in a responsible
manner with the implementation of the Agreements, but if
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
for logistical reasons some components were still to be
pending on 31 October next, given that our determination
to comply with those commitments remains steadfast we
would request the Secretary-General to extend the residual
United Nations Mission in El Salvador.
that
Our responsibility as a Government goes beyond
compliance with the Peace Agreements, for we must
provide a comprehensive response to our national
problems. Hence, with an awareness
lack of
opportunity in our society leads to frustration and despair,
creating tensions and conflicts that jeopardize the peace
process, we have made additional efforts to implement an
ambitious economic plan to develop our society, taking as
our goals the betterment of human welfare, the systematic
alleviation of poverty, and priority attention to health and
education,
productive
employment and generally meeting the basic needs of the
population, especially its most vulnerable sectors that
have traditionally been denied the fruits of economic and
social progress.
promoting
addition
in
to
We are pleased to report that our Government has
assigned the highest priority to the maintenance of
macroeconomic stability through the implementation of a
consistent and coherent set of monetary, exchange-rate
and fiscal policies. This has enabled us to achieve specific
economic targets, namely, the maintenance of a stable
exchange rate, the reining in of inflation, the elimination
of our
fiscal deficit and the reduction of public
expenditure, which has been redirected to social
investment and basic infrastructure.
Our Government is fully convinced that if we are to
enjoy sustained medium- and long-term growth it must be
based on an efficient and competitive productive sector,
both domestically and internationally, and to that end we
have adopted the requisite economic policy measures.
Among these I would mention in particular the
programme to reduce tariffs on the import of capital
goods,
inputs and raw materials; support for further
development of the Central American Common Market;
the creation of instruments to facilitate and provide
guarantees to foreign investors; decisive support for
programmes to enhance the competitiveness of
the
domestic production base; the promotion of small and
micro enterprises;
the development of intensive job-
training programmes; and the implementation of our
national environment
strategy as a component of
sustainable development in El Salvador.
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
To achieve those objectives the entire population of
my country is striving to overcome resentment and
antagonisms between different social sectors and thereby
helping to foster the conditions for national stability with a
view to consolidating peace, strengthening democracy and
securing economic and social progress.
The successful example of El Salvador clearly
demonstrates that a Member State of the Organization,
acting in good faith, with transparency and political will,
can overcome situations of severe conflict, principally
through the efforts of its own population but also with the
timely assistance of the international community.
Today, following this exceptional effort to achieve
peace — an effort that is, indeed, still under way — El
Salvador is a country that has learned major historical
lesson. Foremost among them is the knowledge that within
our national community we share a common destiny and
that within the
community all major
undertakings are shared. Learning from those truths, the
challenge facing us all is to build a more human world for
the benefit of present and future generations.
international
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of El Salvador
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Armando Calderón Sol, President of the Republic
of El Salvador, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
Mr. Derycke (Belgium), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Belarus, His Excellency Mr. Uladzimir
Syanko.
Mr. Syanko (Belarus): First of all
I wish to
congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election
to the distinguished post of President of the General
Assembly at its fiftieth, jubilee session. I am sure that his
personal and professional qualities will serve as a solid
guarantee that during this particularly important session the
United Nations will achieve new concrete steps in its search
for ways to meet
the complicated challenges facing
humanity.
6
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
I wish to express our gratitude to his predecessor,
Mr. Amara Essy, and to the Secretary-General of the
Organization, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
We are proud that Belarus was at the origin of the
creation of the United Nations and became one of the
founding Members of the Organization, having signed the
Charter of the United Nations at San Francisco. That
honourable right was a testimony to the international
recognition of the contribution made by the people of
Belarus to the defeat of fascism during the Second World
War, the homage paid to the millions of Belarusians who
gave their lives in the struggle for liberty and of the right
of the Belarusian people to exist as a nation with its own
history, culture and future.
the
cold war
and conflicts,
Emerging from the ashes of the Second World War,
the United Nations has experienced the most serious
crises
and détente,
considerable changes in the political map of the world
and the break-up and formation of unions and blocs of
States. The Organization has coped creditably with these
challenges. Thanks to the United Nations humankind, for
the first time in its history, has acquired the opportunity
to live for half a century in peace. The contribution of the
United Nations to the process of the peaceful settlement
of many conflicts is well known. One of the most
important achievements of the United Nations is that the
world has rid itself of such odious phenomena as
apartheid and is close to a complete eradication of
colonialism, another no less odious remnant of the past.
It
is also appropriate to note the role of the United
Nations in elaborating and adopting universal documents
in the sphere of human rights, as well as in establishing
the supremacy of international law.
The hopes and expectations of the peoples associated
with the United Nations are convincing evidence of the
important role of the Organization at this stage. The tasks
that the United Nations is facing today seem to be much
more complicated than those of the past, when they were
dictated by the pernicious but understandable logic of
confrontation. Today it
is necessary to solve the
challenges of the future world order; and this implies the
necessity to reform the United Nations system. Reform of
the United Nations, including that of the Security Council,
one of
the
maintenance of international peace and security, is the
watchword of the day, and is in many respects an
extremely complicated matter. But each State can and
should make its own contribution to the formation of the
the
renewed United Nations. This will
its principal organs
responsible
enable
for
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Organization to reflect the diversity of the contemporary
world, the interdependence of States, the equality of great
and small and the security and development of all. The
reform of the United Nations should result
in a more
effective Organization as a whole. The reform of the
Security Council may be carried out only on the basis of a
reasonable increase in the membership of the Council, with
strict respect for the principle of the equitable geographical
distribution of additional seats among all the regions of the
world. The Belarusian delegation is convinced that the
allocation of an additional seat
for a non-permanent
member of the Council to the Eastern European regional
group is fully justified and will ensure a new, emerging
balance of interests.
I am sure that the United Nations will be able to adapt
itself fully to the present realities, as well as duly to
respond to the demands and foreseeable global challenges
of the twenty-first century.
serious problems
Among the most
the world
community is facing nowadays are regional conflicts. Such
conflicts are not a new problem, but
in their present
dimensions they represent a new challenge for the United
Nations. We are fully convinced that, in striving for their
settlement,
the United Nations should not yield to the
temptation to use military force to accelerate the process.
Peace-keeping and peace enforcement are two different and
in many respects exactly opposite methods, and not links in
the same continuing chain of crisis resolution. We consider
it very important not to go beyond the limits to violence
and ruthlessness that are incompatible with the nature of the
Organization.
Our delegation notes with satisfaction the progress
made in the settlement of the Middle East conflict. We
believe that the continuation of the direct dialogue between
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) will
finally lead to a comprehensive solution providing for
respect for the right of all States of the region to live in
peace within internationally recognized borders. We deeply
regret the terrorist acts that are periodically carried out in
the region and which considerably hamper the peace
process. Such acts must be severely condemned.
The Balkan conflict is of special concern to us. The
present developments in this region are fraught with the
risk of large-scale military activities in Europe.
The unresolved conflicts within the post-Soviet
territories are still acute.
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
From this lofty rostrum I should like once again to
emphasize the unequivocal renunciation by Belarus of
force to solve existing problems and the need to search
for ways to settle conflicts peacefully by political means.
and
regional
and European
This leads me to the conviction for the necessity of
further strengthening cooperation between the United
Nations
subregional
organizations and agreements, especially the Organization
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Belarus
stands for the broadening of interaction between the
United Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent
States (CIS) not only in the sphere of conflict settlement
on the territory of the former Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics (USSR), but also in the fields of disarmament,
protection of the environment and the eradication of
terrorism and organized crime.
in
the
consolidation
achievements
Against a background of heightened confrontation in
some regions of the world, one cannot but rejoice at
significant
of
international security. We welcome the adoption by the
1995 Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of the historic
decision on the indefinite extension of the Treaty. Belarus
has been and remains a supporter of the strengthening of
the non-proliferation regime. That is why our country,
having clearly determined its position at an early stage,
became a sponsor of that draft decision.
At the same time, it is necessary to remember that
the decision on the indefinite extension of the Treaty was
adopted as a package. It envisions the strengthening of
control over the implementation of its provisions and the
realization of the approved principles and aims of nuclear
non-proliferation and disarmament. It is a duty of the
nuclear-weapon States
to confirm in practice their
adherence to their obligations. The most important criteria
of such adherence,
in our view, are further progress
towards nuclear disarmament, a comprehensive ban on
nuclear tests and the inclusion of positive and negative
security assurances to the non-nuclear-weapon States in
an instrument of international law of binding character.
Belarus confirms its non-nuclear-weapon status and is
determined to implement the provisions of the Agreement
on the withdrawal of nuclear weapons from its territory in
full and on time.
I am pleased to inform delegations that at
the
beginning of this year the Belarusian Parliament ratified
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and on their Destruction. We call upon all signatory
countries to the Convention to ratify it as soon as possible,
and we again declare our support for the comprehensive
ban on chemical weapons.
Belarus has always believed that, next
to nuclear
disarmament, the limitation of conventional weapons is of
enormous importance for the consolidation of international
peace and security. In this connection, I should like to
touch upon the problems concerning the fulfilment of our
obligations under the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces
in Europe.
Having assumed obligations under a Treaty in whose
elaboration it did not participate, Belarus has been guided
by the wish to assist in the consolidation of European and
international security. From the very first days of the
implementation of the Treaty we spent a considerable
amount of resources on its implementation and on the
creation of appropriate structures and industrial capacities
for the elimination of huge stockpiles of armaments and
equipment produced not for Belarus, but for the then super-
Power, the Soviet Union. But as time passed it has become
clear that for the young Belarusian State the elimination of
those weapons was a burden beyond its strength. Therefore,
we appealed to our Western European partners
for
assistance.
For a long time our appeals were unanswered, which
led us to suspend the elimination process temporarily. That
decision was made due to a lack of financial resources, and
had nothing to do with issues of global and regional policy.
I am glad to say today that an understanding of our
problems has recently begun to emerge. Our reaction has
been immediate and fully adequate. As is known,
the
President of Belarus has declared that our country is
resuming the elimination of conventional weapons in
accordance with its obligations under the Treaty.
I would also like to point out
that, by special
Presidential Decree, Belarus has declared a moratorium on
the export of anti-personnel land-mines for the period from
September 1995 until the end of 1997.
Our Republic attaches paramount importance to the
development of international cooperation in the economic,
social and environmental spheres in the interests of the
sustainable development of all countries. In this context, we
attribute special significance to the series of world forums
held under the auspices of the United Nations in Rio de
Janeiro, Vienna, Cairo, Copenhagen and Beijing to consider
8
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
problems in such spheres as those of the environment,
social issues, population and human rights, and to search
for ways to solve them. It is important that the decisions
and recommendations of these forums be duly taken into
account and efficiently utilized in elaborating “An Agenda
for Development”, which is to determine the avenues and
the programme of human development for years to come.
We stand for the inclusion in this document of
substantive issues related to economies in transition, a
notion which would fully reflect present realities. Belarus
takes a profound interest in supporting United Nations
system-wide activities to promote the integration of these
countries into the world economy. We are sure that, in
today’s world, such an integration is advantageous to all
and in the interests of all.
on
the
conference
international
In this connection, I should like once again to recall
the Belarusian proposal — supported by the Commission
on Sustainable Development at
its third session and
approved by a decision of the Economic and Social
Council at its substantive session — to convene in 1997
an
sustainable
development of countries with economies in transition.
This proposal, once realized, would be an important
contribution to the preparation of the special session of
the General Assembly
review the
implementation of the agenda for the twenty-first century.
Belarus places ardent hopes in cooperation and interaction
to implement this initiative, first of all with the European
Union, the European Commission, the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and other European
regional and subregional organizations, as well as with
interested partners. We also hope that the United Nations
Development Programme and the Economic Commission
for Europe will provide their competent assistance in
preparing and convening the conference.
in
1997
to
in our opinion,
the United Nations aimed at
One of the most important directions of the activities
of the reformed Organization is,
the
development of economic dialogue within the framework
of
the exchange of
experience, the strengthening of the multilateral trade
system and facilitating non-discriminatory access to world
markets. In this connection, we consider that the speedy
granting of membership in the World Trade Organization
to our country would testify to a fair attitude towards a
founding Member of the United Nations with an economy
in transition.
One cannot but note that,
in countries with
the effectiveness of tackling
economies in transition,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
is directly linked with the fate of
social problems
democratic reforms. The new economic and political
conditions in which these countries find themselves require
large-scale economic transformations and the social
adaptation of all population groups. Without effective
international support, the achievement of this goal would be
delayed for an indefinite period. It is for this reason that
Belarus is interested in continuing all programmes initiated
by the Organization in the social sphere.
The promotion of universal
respect for, and the
protection of, human rights and fundamental freedoms is
one of the goals stipulated in the United Nations Charter as
well as an important component of international security. At
this jubilee session, it is appropriate to note that significant
success has been attained in this field since the inception of
the Organization half a century ago. The undisputed
achievement of the international community is the adoption
of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the
consistent implementation of which will be conducive to
securing universal respect for justice, the supremacy of law
and human rights. Unfortunately,
the path to full
implementation of human rights is strewn with many
obstacles which, in our opinion, are raised by imperfect
social relations rather than by a lack of will to exercise
these rights.
We are convinced that it is high time today to think
of, and act for,
the benefit of tomorrow not only by
strengthening in every possible way the mechanisms of
protection of human rights, but by taking concrete measures
to study and expand the list of fundamental universal and
categorical human rights.
For more than nine years now, the Belarusians have
been living under the conditions of an ecological disaster —
that of the Chernobyl nuclear-power plant catastrophe. The
Republic spends annually more than 20 per cent of its
national budget to mitigate the economic, ecological and
medical after-effects of the Chernobyl accident. But most
horrible is what is happening to the health and psyche of
the people. The incidence of thyroid cancer in children has
increased manifold. The birth rate has fallen 50 per cent
since the period preceding the accident. Genetic diseases
are conspicuously on the rise in the most contaminated
areas. As time goes by, it becomes more and more evident
that
the Chernobyl catastrophe has infringed the most
sacred of human rights — the right to life.
We are glad to note the important catalysing role
played by the General Assembly and its specialized
agencies in drawing the attention of the donor countries and
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
the international organizations to the Chernobyl
of
problems. As the day of the catastrophe recedes into the
past, the nature of the after-effects of Chernobyl also
changes, requiring a strengthened role on the part of the
United Nations in the development of Chernobyl-related
bilateral cooperation. On its part, Belarus is ready to sign
bilateral memoranda on Chernobyl cooperation with the
the International Atomic
World Health Organization,
Energy Agency,
the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO),
the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization and
other agencies of the United Nations system.
the
European Commission,
In March 1996, an international conference will be
convened in Minsk, with the active participation of
UNESCO and
to
commemorate the lamentable tenth anniversary of the
Chernobyl accident. We express our hope that
this
representative forum will help to step up joint efforts to
study the after-effects of the radioactive fallout and make
more effective the efforts aimed at mitigating the fatal
consequences of the catastrophe, on the basis of the
experience accumulated by Belarus.
Finally,
the manifold and unfair increase in the
Belarus rate of assessments to the United Nations regular
budget and to peace-keeping operations — caused by the
fact
that Belarus, along with the economically most
advanced countries, was related to group B — has
resulted in the rapid growth of our arrears.
We note with deep satisfaction the special decision
to relocate the Republic of Belarus to group C for the
apportionment of peace-keeping expenses which was
taken during the resumed forty-ninth session of the
General Assembly. On behalf of the Government of
Belarus, I would like to express our sincere gratitude to
the delegations of all countries that displayed a spirit of
understanding and cooperation during the consideration of
this issue. I address my special words of gratitude to the
Government of Portugal, whose consent voluntarily to
relocate to group B opened the way for the adoption of
the aforementioned decision. I am confident that such
actions are an important contribution to the governance of
principles of justice in the work of the Organization,
which in itself is very significant on the eve of its golden
jubilee. For its part, the Government of Belarus, in spite
of the utmost economic difficulties, fully aware of the
depth of the United Nations financial crisis and sincerely
striving to fulfil
to the
Organization, has decided to transfer about $2 million
dollars to the United Nations budget.
financial obligations
its
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
but
capacities,
In his fifties, a person is no longer at the peak of his
physical
life
experience and wisdom. I would like to express a wish that
the United Nations, once its 50-year threshold has been
crossed, will
remain full of strength and health and
unsurpassed in wisdom in all its deeds.
considerable
acquires
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Norway,
His Excellency Mr. Bjørn Tore Godal.
(Norway):
Mr. Godal
I wish first of all
to
congratulate the President of the General Assembly upon
his election to his high office in the year of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations. May I, at the same time,
extend my sincere thanks to the outgoing President, His
Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, for his excellent work.
Fifty years ago, my countryman Trygve Lie became
Secretary-General of an Organization with a very modest
structure but with a “sacred mandate”, as he said in his
acceptance speech,
“to build a firm foundation for the peace of the
world”. (Official Records of the General Assembly,
First Session, Plenary Meetings, 22nd meeting, p. 326)
Since then, even greater demands have been made on the
United Nations in terms of leadership, ideas, manpower and
finances. On the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary, we
must empower the United Nations to work with renewed
vigour and effectiveness in promoting peace, human rights,
sustainable development, equality, justice and understanding
among peoples.
Rather than being poised to take on new challenges,
however, the United Nations finds itself in a financial crisis
of major proportions. The Secretary-General has recently
pointed out that the Organization is, in a technical sense,
insolvent — yes, bankrupt. Only prompt payment by a
small number of Member States has enabled it to continue
to operate. The situation is more serious than ever before
because of the unprecedented amounts involved and the fact
that one major contributor’s payment is being withheld and
is expected to be unilaterally reduced in the years ahead.
This
situation
financial
desperate
the
inadequate priority given to the United Nations by many of
its Members, which is in clear violation of their obligations.
It may sound harsh, but, coming from a country which
consistently pays $100 per capita to the United Nations
reflects
10
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
system, I have difficulties in explaining to my own
electorate that other rich countries are not even willing to
provide one tenth of that level.
At the same time, I realize that the United Nations
assessment system should be reformed without delay.
Moreover, experience has shown that the United Nations
itself needs to be reformed, restructured and modernized.
Norway wholeheartedly supports the reform process
launched to strengthen the United Nations system and
make it more representative and effective. This should
include expansion of the membership of the Security
Council and increased transparency of its methods of
work.
To meet the twin challenges of peace and sustainable
development, the United Nations and its Member States
should proceed along five parallel paths.
First, we must help increase local and regional
capacity to handle conflict situations. For
instance,
African countries have signalled via the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) that they are prepared to take on a
larger share of the responsibility for solving their own
problems.
In response, Norway will cooperate with
partners in Southern Africa in building up standby
reserves of qualified personnel for peace operations under
United Nations or OAU auspices.
Secondly, more nations must be willing to contribute
to the United Nations peace-keeping forces. Traditional
troop contributors do not have the capacity to provide all
the personnel that will be needed in future peace-keeping
missions aimed at solving disputes, protecting local
populations and providing humanitarian assistance. Both
the United Nations and the traditional troop-contributing
countries must assist potential troop contributors with
competence-building measures,
the Nordic
countries are now assisting the Baltic States.
just
as
Thirdly, the rapid-reaction and standby capability of
the United Nations must be improved. Norway is
prepared to join in efforts to develop new, much-needed
instruments to deal quickly and effectively with crisis
situations. The rapid-reaction capability must also include
humanitarian assistance. The United Nations should
continue
in coordinating
humanitarian relief efforts.
to play a
central
role
Norway has given high priority to measures that
enable us to respond expeditiously to requests for
assistance. We have established an effective preparedness
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
system for emergency assistance that covers both personnel
and matériel. Emergency equipment can be airborne within
24 hours. Experienced personnel can be in the field within
72 hours. In Rwanda, a fully equipped field hospital,
accompanied by the necessary personnel, was recently
delivered at short notice to the United Nations,
in
accordance with these procedures. With a view to
improving the United Nations
to support
requirements, Norway has offered to provide facilities for
a United Nations medical depot where medical equipment
and supplies for peace-keeping and humanitarian operations
can be stored and maintained.
response
Fourthly, we must put even greater emphasis on
conflict-prevention measures. The international community
must be present
in unstable areas and must provide
economic incentives, mediation expertise and human rights
monitors. Conflict prevention is the most effective way of
using limited resources. Norway will continue to shoulder
its share of the responsibility — for instance, in Guatemala,
where we are actively involved in the peace process,
together with the other members of the Group of Friends.
Norway has established a special human-resource bank for
human rights and democracy, which is able, at short notice,
to offer experts to assist countries and peoples in their
efforts to build democratic societies.
The international community must be prepared to act
decisively when atrocities are committed. Serious crimes
should be prosecuted by an international criminal tribunal.
The establishment of the ad hoc Tribunals in the former
Yugoslavia and Rwanda has provided momentum for the
efforts to establish a permanent court. The tribunal’s role
should be limited to cases where national jurisdiction is
unavailable or ineffective.
Fifthly, on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary, we
call on the United Nations to take a decisive lead in
promoting sustainable development and eradicating poverty.
Efforts to improve global security must address the issues
of economic growth, development and poverty, while
ensuring that the use of natural resources is kept within the
carrying capacity of the Earth. The United Nations must
become a driving force for sustainable development.
the
truly global problems
The United Nations is the only forum with a mandate
affecting the
to tackle
environment and the sustainable management of natural
resources. Let me offer
some brief examples. The
Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks provided an
invaluable contribution to the management of
fishery
resources. We are also pleased that, just a few days ago, the
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
United Nations Panel on Forests was able to take the first
steps to protect, preserve and manage the world’s forests
in a sustainable manner.
I would like to stress the need for a concerted effort
within the United Nations system to ensure that
the
results from the major conferences in Cairo, Copenhagen
and Beijing
social
development and women actually become translated into
law and realities,
the
international level.
locally, nationally and at
respectively,
population,
on,
insult
With a growing world population, we have witnessed
the spread of the gravest
to human dignity —
poverty. Our inability to eradicate poverty haunts our
common conscience. As long as the gap between rich and
poor, whether between States or within States, continues
to widen, we cannot claim to be on the right track. If we
are to alleviate poverty, both donors and recipients must
make more resources available for
social welfare
activities. At least 20 per cent of development assistance
budgets and national budgets of recipient countries should
be allocated to the social sector.
The conflict in the former Yugoslavia is far from
being solved, even though the prospects for a negotiated
solution now appear much better than they did until
recently. Norway welcomes the agreement on basic
principles which resulted from the Geneva meeting on
8 September. The United States of America deserves
praise for its persistent efforts in this regard. It is vitally
that
important
international
community,
in particular the contact group countries,
continue their common approach to the solution of the
crisis.
the United Nations and the
European Union mediators
a valuable
contribution.
the members of
In this context,
can make
the
The success of the mediation efforts depends entirely
on the readiness of the parties to compromise. We
strongly urge all
the parties to show flexibility and
restraint, and to refrain from attempting to obtain further
advantages on the battlefield. Special attention must be
given to displaced persons, who, whenever possible, must
be allowed to repossess their homes.
The time has come to start
reflecting on the
reconstruction of that war-devastated region. This will
require a sustained international effort. The United
Nations system together with the European Union and
others must play a leadership role in coordinating
economic
programs
various
fields,
in
such
as
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
reconstruction, humanitarian aid and assistance to refugees,
democracy-building and human rights. Local leaders have
a heavy responsibility to prevent a new arms race, human
rights abuses and the renewal of tensions in the area.
Norway will continue to support the process of building
peace and prosperity in the former Yugoslavia.
I call on the General Assembly to lend its full and
undivided support to the peace process in the Middle East.
The new interim agreement is a significant and necessary
follow-up to the Oslo agreement. Today we salute once
more the Israeli and the Palestinian leaders for their
courage and determination. As Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Liaison Committee to coordinate donor activities, I strongly
urge the donors to continue to support — for some donors,
to increase their support of — the Middle East peace
process by providing economic assistance to the Palestinian
people. Our common interest in peace in the Middle East
is the best argument for heavy economic support to the
Palestinian areas.
Nuclear testing is a threat to our search for common
security and to the environment, and should be banned. We
deeply deplore the Chinese and French tests, which we fear
may complicate the ongoing negotiations in Geneva on a
comprehensive test ban treaty. We would once again urge
all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from further nuclear
testing during the negotiations and until the treaty enters
into force.
Land-mines are among the most insidious weapons in
common use. They cause indiscriminate and widespread
suffering and continue to spread terror for years or even
decades after hostilities have ended. We call for a total ban
on the production,
and use of
anti-personnel land-mines. In the absence of such a ban, we
urge all countries to adhere to the United Nations 1980
inhumane-weapons Convention. No strengthening of the
land-mine Protocol will be effective unless adherence to it
becomes universal.
stockpiling,
trade
Finally, let us seize the opportunity offered by the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations to renew our
support for the United Nations and its aims. Each and every
one of us must help to ensure that the United Nations
becomes what we need and what future generations have
the right to expect: an effective tool to harness our strength
and unite us in maintaining peace, promoting social
progress and protecting human dignity.
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
Mr. De Moura (Angola) (spoke in Portuguese;
English text furnished by the delegation): Permit me at
the outset, Sir, on behalf of the Government of the
Republic of Angola and of my entire delegation that is
accompanying me, to express my satisfaction at your
election to the presidency of this session of the General
Assembly of the United Nations. We are convinced that
your excellent personal qualities and the diplomatic skill
you have accumulated will guarantee the success of the
conduct of the work of this significant session. Your
election is also well-deserved recognition of the important
contribution which your country has made to the
promotion of peace and international security. I assure
you, at this stage, of the cooperation of my delegation.
We commit ourselves to doing everything to support this
arduous but honourable task with humility and a sense of
responsibility.
I cannot let this opportunity pass without expressing
my appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Amara
Essy, for the dedication and interest with which he carried
out the activities of the Assembly during his mandate.
Similarly, I address my remarks to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has tenaciously done
everything,
the
problems afflicting humanity, pledging to provide our
Organization with the dynamism needed to face future
challenges.
to find the very best solutions for
The fiftieth session of the General Assembly, which
coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of
the United Nations, provides us with an opportunity to
engage in profound reflection on the extent to which we
have moved forward towards the realization of its main
goals, inter alia, preservation of international peace and
security, promotion and protection of human rights, and
economic and social development, with a view to looking
more optimistically and more boldly at the challenges
which lie ahead on the eve of the twenty-first century.
the cold war
In fact, although the changes that took place in the
wake of
led to a certain easing in
international relations and promoted, as never before,
democratic values, the international situation nevertheless
has continued to deteriorate in recent
times in the
political, economic, social and financial spheres. Conflicts
of all sorts proliferate, affecting principally the countries
of the so-called third world and creating a climate of
uncertainty as to the future of humankind.
The President: I call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Angola, His Excellency Mr. Venancio de Moura.
As we approach the twenty-first century, we face
new and greater challenges that will necessitate joint,
12
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
concerted action by the Members of the United Nations.
This will require a new democratic structure in international
relations, in the broadest sense.
More than ever before, we need to think about the
objectives and role of the United Nations, as set out in the
Charter, and focus on that task.
The process of restructuring the United Nations should
lead the Organization to an arrangement that reflects the
new challenges we face in the world at this time and that
would allow for the broad participation of its Members. We
are convinced that
the present structure of the United
Nations — and in particular that of the Security Council —
the present needs of post-cold-war
does not meet
international
restructuring
undertaken in the agencies that coordinate economic and
social development worldwide, priority should be given to
the
the Security Council, whose
composition continues to be a reflection of the cold war.
The enlargement of the Council should take place with
respect to the categories of permanent and non-permanent
members alike. This will require taking into consideration
the need for geographic balance.
relations. Apart
restructuring
from the
of
We are also in favour of restructuring the methods of
work of the United Nations so as to make them more
transparent.
it
is
important
Furthermore,
to guarantee
the
effectiveness of the mechanisms and means of ensuring
implementation of the decisions of United Nations organs.
In recent years,
the General Assembly has adopted
numerous resolutions, and important global strategies have
been defined in various forums under the aegis of the
United Nations, aimed at solving problems afflicting all
range from the living
humankind. These problems
conditions of children,
the environment, human rights,
population problems and social development
to, more
recently, the issue of the situation of women, dealt with at
the Beijing Conference.
The time has come to take action. The unsatisfactory
functioning of some of the mechanisms for monitoring the
application of decisions and the weak commitment of States
have been the root cause of the failure to carry out many of
these recommendations.
The world socio-economic situation continues to
deteriorate, particularly in the
so-called developing
countries, where many economies are on the verge of
collapse.
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
Public assistance for development has sunk to
deplorable levels. United Nations agencies involved in
development have seen their budgets severely affected by
the financial crisis,
in numerous
programmes that were destined to help raise development
indicators in various countries. To give just one example,
the annual report of the Secretary-General indicates that
the United Nations Development Programme experienced
a reduction of $1.4 billion in the period 1992-1996.
resulting in cuts
Structural adjustment programmes undertaken in
various countries have not produced the desired results,
leading to reductions in national funds in the social field.
These negative factors are cumulative, and added to them
is the heavy burden of external debt, whose service alone
consumes a large part of the gross national product of
debtor countries.
Africa’s capacity to repay debt has been negatively
affected not only by weak economic structures inherited
from the past, but also by natural disasters and internal
armed conflicts. In view of this situation, it is necessary
to adopt measures that are more just and less prejudicial,
so that debtor countries can pay their external debt
without hindering their development or requiring further
sacrifices on the part of the poorest segments of their
populations.
international
The principal
institutions
should grant more favourable credit
to developing
countries, so that the remedies applied to their respective
economies will not lead to a deterioration of the health of
those economies.
financial
The present international economic order does not
favour the economies of the so-called third world. It is
thus necessary to have a more just international economic
order, without protectionist measures
impede
international business relations and create discrimination
against developing countries,
the majority of which
become sources of raw materials and inexpensive labour
and importers of manufactured goods.
that
The strengthening of south-south cooperation and
regional economic integration will, as we see it, be an
adequate response to this trend. Countries of the southern
region of Africa, to which Angola belongs, have provided
a good example of regional integration, both economic
and
the Southern African
Development Community (SADC). Given the prospects
for total political stability in the region and its economic
potential, the region may well transform itself into an
political,
forming
by
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
important development zone. In the same way we value the
joint regional integration between members of the Zone of
Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic, of which
Angola is also a member.
In successive resolutions the General Assembly has
recommended that priority be given to our continent in
terms of aid for development, because it is the region of the
world that has most
suffered the tragic effects of
colonialism. But
reality shows a significant drop in
resources available for development. This aggravates the
precarious economic situation of African countries that have
no capital and no technology, which increases poverty and
makes them susceptible to serious internal conflict.
If, as we have just indicated, it is true that we are
witnessing, nearly everywhere,
some proliferation of
regional conflicts that put peace and international security
at risk, it is also true that in Africa these conflicts have
reached a level of great danger. Not only is the dimension
of such conflicts a source of concern but so is their nature.
Its markedly ethnic, racial or religious character is being
used to justify intentions which place at risk the unity and
territorial integrity of several nations.
The inadmissible genocide that occurred in Rwanda
seriously damaged the values of human dignity and
tolerance. Above all,
it demonstrated the need for the
international community to seek new ways and means to
eliminate the focal points of conflict and to guarantee
protection for civilian populations, the people who are the
primary victims of internal conflicts.
In Burundi we are concerned about the deteriorating
internal situation.
In this connection the international
community, and the United Nations in particular, should
shoulder their responsibilities in order to help avoid the
repetition in that country of earlier events by supporting by
every means available the efforts carried out by the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) mission with a view
to fostering peace and stability.
In Somalia the continuing fratricidal war that is tearing
that society apart is threatening the very existence and
integrity of the country. The international community, and
the United Nations in particular, cannot and should not fail
to shoulder its responsibilities vis-à-vis the people of
Somalia.
We pay tribute to Liberia for the recent developments
in that country, thanks to the recent Abuja peace agreement
14
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
between the warring parties. We hope that this agreement
will finally bring lasting peace to the Liberian people.
Concerning Western Sahara, we join our voice to the
voice of
the international community in urging the
interested parties to observe the United Nations peace
plan.
framework
Despite its own internal difficulties, the Government
of the Republic of Angola is doing its utmost to support
OAU efforts within
of African
mechanisms of prevention, management and resolution of
conflicts. In that context we did not hesitate to make a
contribution to a resolution of the crisis faced by the
people of the Republic of Sao Tome and Principe after
the coup d’état of 15 August. As the Assembly will be
aware, Angolan mediation helped to restore democratic
institutions and constitutional order in that country. We
have acted on behalf of the historic solidarity which links
our two peoples in a common struggle for democratic
liberties and respect
the law of constitutional
institutions.
the
for
the
particularly
Thanks to the support provided by the international
community,
Portuguese-speaking
countries, along with the European Union, France and
Portugal in particular, and of course the Secretary-General
of the United Nations, we were able, in a short period of
time, to get an agreement between the parties on 22
August last.
The conflict
in the countries of
the former
Yugoslavia is one of the most complex conflicts seen in
Europe since the end of the cold war. The Government of
Angola is concerned about this conflict. We support the
current peace initiatives and hope that
the meeting
between the parties involved and the mediators will lead
to concrete results, to the satisfaction of the peoples of
the region.
The situation in the Middle East has been marked by
some important and significant developments since the
signing of the agreement between Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) and the beginning of the
normalization of bilateral relations among countries of the
region.
Such advances are quite encouraging. We are
confident of a final end to the Arab-Israeli conflict if we
continue to see political will, a constructive spirit and
flexibility demonstrated on all sides. Angola has always
defended the right to self-determination of the people of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Palestine and the restitution of the occupied Arab territories.
We here reiterate our support for the peace process that is
under way and express our opposition to acts of violence
intended to call
into question the continuation of this
process.
The question of East Timor continues to prick the
conscience of the international community. It is necessary
to ensure that the people of East Timor enjoy the legitimate
right freely to choose its own destiny and that this be
recognized. In this regard the United Nations has an
important responsibility, which it cannot escape.
We are particularly encouraged by the opening of a
dialogue between Portugal and Indonesia. But there will be
positive results only if the interests and options of the
people of the Territory are borne in mind during the search
for a just and acceptable solution.
Angola shares with the people of East Timor a
common past of struggle against Portuguese colonialism.
We will continue to give our utmost to the search for a just
and acceptable solution.
By sustaining an economic, commercial and financial
embargo against Cuba for more than 30 years the United
States of America has created a paradox within the reality
of our times. The embargo is a set-back to international
efforts to eliminate the last relics of the cold war. Angola
therefore reiterates its opposition to this unilateral measure,
whose extraterritorial impact is in violation of international
norms of free trade and international law.
Practice shows that constructive dialogue is the best
solution for resolving differences, similar to that which
occurred in reaching a solution to the problem of migration
between the two countries. We think that it is up to the
people of Cuba freely to decide their own destiny.
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
some negative aspects and obstacles that I shall mention
shortly. Major offensive military actions have stopped,
leading to the free movement of people and goods in
many areas of the country under Government control. We
are now seeing the return of thousands of displaced
citizens to their areas of origin.
In the political area, a direct dialogue has begun
between the Government and UNITA, between His
Excellency the President of Angola and Mr. Savimbi.
This has facilitated the resolution of many problems
related to the implementation of the Accords that were
not resolved at Lusaka.
In addition, the Government has taken important
steps to strengthen the climate of mutual trust and to
make reconciliation possible. Within this context,
the
Government supported a legislative initiative to modify
the Constitution to accommodate the leader of UNITA as
one of the two Vice-Presidents of the Republic. That
significant political gesture, along with the future
integration of UNITA members in a government of
national unity, will create conditions for Angolans to
enjoy a definitive and lasting peace in a climate of
tolerance, free from hatreds or resentment.
Despite those efforts, which my Government views
as positive, we continue to be concerned by the excessive
delays in the implementation of the peace process, whose
most serious issue is the quartering and demobilization of
UNITA forces, which has not yet been implemented as it
should have been under the Lusaka Accords. This delay
has resulted in some serious recent problems and
incidents in some regions of the country. Such incidents
do not at this time pose a serious threat to peace, but they
are capable of creating dangerous focal points of tension
that call into question the trust that is needed for full
implementation of the Peace Accords.
Obviously, I cannot refrain from making reference to
the situation in my own country, which will be of interest
to many here. As is known, after long years of war Angola
finally found the path to peace, starting with the signature
of the Lusaka Protocol and the initial steps taken to
implement
that
complements the fundamental structure of the peace process
established by the Bicesse Accords, which were signed with
the mediation of the Government of Portugal.
its provisions.
an agreement
It
is
My Government would like to take this opportunity
to express its gratitude for the work done by the United
Nations Observer Mission in Angola. It has by and large
assured respect for the provisions of the Peace Accords
involved the presence of many countries
and has
represented here. We believe
complete
deployment of peace-keeping infantry units will make it
possible better to control
the implementation of the
commitments made in Lusaka.
that
the
Since the signature of the Lusaka document in 1991
and the cease-fire agreed to in November last year, the
situation in our country has evolved significantly, despite
The post-conflict phase in Angola will require urgent
measures of a special economic and social nature in order
to move the country rapidly out of the state of crisis, to
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
infrastructures and to
rebuild its productive and social
prevent a return to war, measures which must guarantee the
social reintegration of thousands of military personnel, of
whom some 150,000 are to be demobilized, and the return
of refugees and internally displaced persons who are
returning to their areas of origin.
As I speak, a meeting is being held in Brussels
between my country and the European Community to come
up with an overall plan for national reconciliation. From
this rostrum we should like to express our thanks to all
countries that have assisted us and to all the United Nations
agencies that have made it possible to organize this
important meeting, the first round table meeting in Brussels.
My Government has entered in earnest on to the task of
achieving national reconciliation in our country. As we said
earlier, a community rehabilitation programme has been
created, in collaboration with the United Nations, to this
end. It has a budget of $700 million that will be open to all
donor countries in Brussels with a view, inter alia, to
restoring in the shortest possible time basic production
activity in the 18 provinces of the country.
success
We are aware that the rapid recovery of the Angolan
economy will depend largely on our
in
implementing this programme and achieving peace and
harmony in our country. It is an economy that saw its gross
national product and per capita income decrease by one half
as a consequence of war. Thus, we would like once again
to request the international community to continue to lend
assistance to Angola in order to achieve complete peace and
reconciliation among all Angolans. We hope that can
become a reality.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and External Trade of Iceland, His Excellency Mr.
Halldór Asgrímsson.
Mr. Asgrímsson (Iceland): Mr. President, may I
congratulate you on your election and express my deep
satisfaction at seeing a representative of Portugal, an ally
and a valued member of the international community,
occupy the presidency of the General Assembly in our
fiftieth anniversary year.
to
are
celebrate
occasions
Anniversaries
past
accomplishments. The towering achievement of the United
Nations is to have survived through nearly half a century
where power relationships often submerged the high-minded
vision of the United Nations Charter. Therefore, as we
celebrate the half-century of our Organization, we also
celebrate the triumph of hope over despair and of good
16
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
faith over cynicism. At long last, there is an opportunity
for the United Nations to come into its own and for the
ideals of the Charter to take hold.
At the same time, we must learn from our mistakes.
Foremost, in that context, is the tragic conflict in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. In spite of the laudable humanitarian
and peace-keeping efforts of the United Nations,
the
Organization has in the eyes of the world appeared
incapable of preventing the savage dismembering of a
sovereign Member State.
Although we all realize that the United Nations can
never provide foolproof
insurance against evil and
injustice, the Organization must in the future face such
challenges in a more resolute manner. We must demand
more of ourselves and learn how to use more effectively
the indispensable machinery the Organization has to offer.
We should also bear in mind that no organization,
however efficient, can provide a substitute for the political
will of its Member States.
Recent setbacks should, however, not be allowed to
obscure the considerable gains, global and regional, that
have been made on a number of fronts over the past year.
Let me mention only a few.
The march of democracy has continued through the
organization of free elections in different parts of the
world, and a growing number of people now live under
pluralistic and democratic Governments. In recent years,
the Organization has contributed to the success of
elections in various Member States.
Summit
the World
Two major United Nations Conferences took place
earlier this year. Each could, if followed up in earnest,
make a tangible difference in the lives of people
everywhere. At
Social
Development in Copenhagen in March, we decided to
place people at the centre of development and to address
the problem of global poverty more effectively. At the
recently concluded Fourth World Conference on Women
in Beijing, we pledged to empower women and to involve
them as equal partners in all spheres of society. Together,
women and men can and should create a powerful unity
based on equality, development and peace.
on
In the area of international law, the achievements of
the United Nations were once again brought into focus
with the entry into force of
the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea last November and the
the
adoption
the Agreement
in August
on
of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
Implementation of the Provisions of the Convention relating
to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks.
in his ground-breaking report. Let me dwell on a few
aspects of the issue of development that are of particular
interest to my own country.
In May, a historic step was taken towards ridding the
world of the threat of nuclear weapons. The decision by the
Parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty to extend
the Treaty indefinitely and without conditions should pave
the way for a comprehensive and verifiable test ban and an
agreement to cut off the production of fissile material. It is
regrettable that China and France have not heeded the
worldwide demand for a moratorium on nuclear testing.
At the regional level there have also been welcome
developments. While the passage has not been smooth,
there has been further progress towards a comprehensive
peace in the Middle East. We have witnessed the joint
efforts of the Israelis and the Palestinians to bring their
conflict to an end, and we extend to them our sincere
congratulations on their historic agreement to be signed
later this week.
These are substantial accomplishments. They confirm
that hard work, guided by the goals and ideals of the
United Nations, can bear
that same
dedication is now required as the Organization prepares to
take on the complex challenges of the twenty-first century.
fruit. More of
The foremost challenge is the need to establish and
safeguard peace. While the threat of nuclear holocaust has
receded, we still live in a world riven by wars. Annual
military expenditure still nearly equals the total income of
the poorer half of the world’s population. The peace
dividend we had hoped for in the aftermath of the cold war
remains for many a sight unseen.
The Secretary-General has rightly observed that there
is an inherent
link between peace and development.
Without the one you cannot have the other. Peace is the
necessary precondition for the well-being of all peoples,
and in the long run we shall be able to protect ourselves
from the scourge of war only if we make the necessary
investment in the infrastructure of peace. This involves,
among other things, dealing with the legacy of deprivation
that still confronts mankind.
The challenge of development will not lend itself to a
simple formulation in terms of government versus the
market-place. Instead, we must apply a comprehensive
framework, linking democracy, society, the economy and
the environment, carefully nuanced to regional and local
circumstances. Here, the Secretary-General has led the way
First a word on the role of democracy. Democracies,
it is sometimes said, do not make wars. By promoting
democracy we also foster peace. This is in part because
two of the main pillars of democracy are tolerance and
respect for the customs, traditions and opinions of others.
But
tolerance and respect for diversity must not be
misinterpreted. We live in a world of rich cultural
diversity, which we should relish and protect. However,
multiculturalism should never be used as a pretext for
compromising basic and universal human rights.
Iceland
attaches
continued
to
international efforts to create a global environment
conducive to job-led economic growth. But economic
growth must never be our sole objective, without regard
to human values.
importance
Environmental protection is another main concern.
Important strides have been made in this area since the
Earth Summit
in Rio. Climate change and ozone
depletion, two major dangers to the global ecosystem, are
now being dealt with on the basis of legally binding
conventions. But much will depend on coordinated action
to implement
the commitments we have undertaken.
Furthermore, greater attention needs to be devoted to the
marine environment.
the marine
environment,
Pollution of
if not
impact on human
contained, can have a serious
settlements in certain regions of the world, not
least
communities of indigenous peoples. In this connection,
chemical pollutants in the form of persistent organic
substances are of particular concern for entire societies
which base their livelihood on the living resources of the
sea.
Iceland is firmly of the view that this threat can be
countered only through a global and legally binding
framework similar to that governing climate change and
ozone depletion. For this reason, my Government attaches
particular importance to the conference on the protection
of the marine environment from land-based sources, due
to take place in Washington later this year, and we urge
Member States to take active part in this conference.
Marine living resources can make an important
contribution to food security in a world faced with rapid
population growth. Such resources provide food and
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
livelihood to millions of people and, if sustainably used,
offer increased potential
to meet nutritional and social
needs, particularly in the developing countries, as noted in
a recent report of the Food and Agriculture Organization.
For this reason, it is particularly regrettable that close
to 70 per cent of the world’s conventional species of fish
were, according to the same agency,
fully exploited,
overexploited or depleted, or are in the process of
rebuilding as a result of depletion in the early 1990s.
Clearly, the ability to satisfy global demand for food from
the sea in the coming years will depend to no small extent
on the adoption of responsible fisheries conservation and
management policies. We should at all times view the
ecosystem of the oceans as a whole and harvest all species
of this vast but delicate resource in a sustainable manner.
Looked at
in this light,
the results of the United
Nations Conference on Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks, while by no means the final word
on this matter, acquire major significance. Let me point out
that the law of the sea has been the sphere in which Iceland
has been most engaged, beginning in 1949, when, upon a
proposal by Iceland, the International Law Commission was
given the task of studying all aspects of the law of the sea.
Iceland will continue to be active in the implementation of
the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
We live in an era of growing demand on diminishing
natural resources. It
is therefore to be welcomed that
international cooperation is now gradually extending to the
Arctic region, breaking at last through the barrier of what
the Icelandic- American explorer Vilhjálmur Stefánsson
once referred to as
“the ancient inherited opinions about the terrors of the
Frozen North”, a “lifeless waste of eternal silence”.
The resources of the Arctic are enormous. The nations of
the region should develop its potential and work together in
the economic, environmental and cultural fields. Therefore,
my Government attaches the highest importance to the
consultations that have taken place among the Governments
of the eight Arctic States to establish the Arctic Council.
We have had intensive discussions on changes in the
including on whether to increase its
Security Council,
membership. Iceland is of the view that the fundamental
objective of an enlargement of the Council should be to
strengthen its capacity to discharge the duties assigned to it.
We believe that there should be an increase in the number
of both permanent and non-permanent members. In this
18
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
context, I would like to express my Government’s support
for the permanent membership of Germany and Japan in
the Security Council.
Reform, however, will avail us little if we fail to
come to grips with the serious financial situation of the
United Nations. Here, I fully share the deep concerns that
the Secretary-General has expressed in his comprehensive
report on the state of the Organization. According to their
obligations under the Charter, the Member States should
pay their contributions to the regular budget in full, on
time and without condition. If all Member States do not
live up to their obligations, we will be forced to take the
inevitable political decision to scale back the activities of
the Organization. At a time when the services of the
United Nations are in greater demand and when the
Organization has a better chance of success than ever
before, such a step would be highly unfortunate. Instead,
let us put the fiftieth anniversary to good use and make
the earnest pledge to put the Organization on a sound
financial footing.
The President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua, His Excellency Mr. Ernesto
Leal.
Mr. Leal (Nicaragua) (interpretation from Spanish):
It is a pleasure for me to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election to the presidency of the General Assembly on
this, the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations. I also
wish to extend our recognition to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and to the outgoing President,
Mr. Amara Essy.
We are convinced that one of the most important
items of this session must be support for the effective and
substantive reform of the United Nations.
Mr. Camacho Omiste (Bolivia), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
The only way to approach the construction of a new
faith in
international order
multilateralism and giving the United Nations its central,
indispensable role in the search for lasting solutions to the
complex problems that all our societies are experiencing.
is by renewing our
Half a century has passed since the founding of the
United Nations. With its successes and setbacks,
its
accomplishments and its problems, the United Nations has
shown that only organized international cooperation will
make it possible to prevent new conflicts. It is impossible
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to imagine today’s world without this universal institution.
The profound changes that have taken place since that era
and the demands of the future make it necessary for the
United Nations to be renewed, revitalized, reformed and
strengthened.
It is valid, then, for us to ask ourselves what the new
vision of our United Nations is in a changing, global and
interdependent world. The transformation of the United
Nations
profound
transformations
is undergoing
throughout the world. Our Organization must be reformed
on the basis of the new conception of democracy.
that democracy itself
from the
separated
cannot
be
The concept of democracy in the world has changed.
Democracy is no longer a static concept, nor is it limited
only to the internal affairs of States. Democracy is a
patrimony of values that are common to all humankind.
Today’s democracy is dynamic, and in order for it to take
on a profound character, it should be understood as an
unfinished work that is always in transition.
Today I should like to emphasize various aspects of
this international democratic transition, which is closely
related to the transition that our Organization must undergo.
First, we are moving away from the political agenda
and moving towards the social agenda. The World Summit
for Social Development, held in Denmark, reminded us that
the ultimate objective of all our efforts is to improve the
living conditions and quality of life of our peoples. Our
Organization was born in the geopolitical era, marked by
East-West confrontation and bipolar division. Today we are
passing towards a world divided into economic blocs where
social policies are demanding their rightful place at centre
stage.
Our Organization has the duty to facilitate this
transition from a world divided between military Powers to
a world where democracy, economic efficiency and social
justice crown a new world order.
Secondly, democracy is passing from centralized
decision-making to broad participation by citizens in
society. In this way we are moving from formal democracy
to participative democracy, where power and choice are
somehow returned to communities. This transition means
more opportunity for dialogue and internal consensus within
our societies. As has been said on other occasions, the
concept of international peace gives way to the concept of
internal peace within our States. Last year the Secretary-
General himself said, at the luncheon he gave for Heads of
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
State, that wars are no longer waged between States but,
rather, within our nations. That is why it is so important
to promote reconciliation and negotiation in divided
societies.
Thirdly, we are moving from bureaucracy to good
government. This transition requires that special attention
be given to the reform and modernization of the State.
Efficiency and effectiveness should now be the new terms
for public administration.
for
the doors
that opens
Fourthly, we are passing from the unilateral
perspective that has characterized the world to a focus on
gender
the full, active
participation of women in the great tasks of our times.
Equality and equity between men and women is a basic
principle
true development of
international society. In this regard, the recent Conference
in Beijing opened up a new chapter for us,
leading
towards this new goal.
achieving the
for
Our Organization also has to assimilate the transition
from a partial concept of development to an integrated
concept of sustainable development. This new concept
requires us to combine the political dimension with the
social, cultural, economic, ecological and even ethnic
dimensions of development processes.
Central America, a region that emerged into
democracy from out of the ashes of war and conflict —
a region, as the President of El Salvador, Mr. Armando
Calderón Sol, said this afternoon, is going through a new
stage in its history — has also adopted a new model of
sustainable development that makes ours the first region
in the world to try, through the concrete fulfilment of
commitments in all areas,
to make a reality of the
agreements of the Rio Conference on Environment and
Development.
We Central Americans are moving from the model
of military security centred on the cold-war poles of
power to the new model of democratic security. The
United Nations should therefore lead the way in this new
concept of security, which is not limited to the military
aspect. Rather, human security should be the new axis of
this new model of world security.
Today we Central Americans are discussing a treaty
on democratic security, developed by Nicaragua, that
enshrines this new concept of security, which is no longer
based on number and quality of weapons, but, rather, on
the quality of human life, the efficiency of democratic
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
institutions, civil security, the fight against drug trafficking,
terrorism and arms trafficking and cooperation in all areas.
We Central Americans have concluded that democracy and
its improvement are the best way to strengthen regional
security.
For this reason it is very important to see that the
reform of the United Nations rests on this global renewal
of democracy, whose consolidation constitutes
the
fundamental political priority for the new world order we
are all building.
We must be aware that we are also going through a
transition to what we call preventive democracy. By this we
mean that we should strive to anticipate conflicts and their
causes in order not to have to resolve them later with the
peace-keeping forces of this Organization. That is why we
have always said that the best peace-keeping operation is
the one that we can avoid, that we never have to carry out.
This also means rechannelling efforts into the area of
promoting human rights — no longer treating this subject
as a mere list of violations of fundamental rights and
freedoms devoting great efforts to the promotion of respect
for those rights and human freedoms.
In its reform process, our Organization should also
take into account that commerce and investment are ceasing
to be merely economic factors;
they are becoming a
genuine element of support for those democratic processes
that demand to form part of economic development. The
battles waged before on the battlefield are now waged in
international markets. What we must understand is that
there,
too, a battle for the sustainability, progress and
development of democracy is taking place.
We are also making the transition from a world
divided between opulence and poverty to one with a new
focus on establishing a real alliance for development
between the countries of the north and the countries of the
south. The era of confrontation should give way to a new
era of cooperation directed at reducing the inequalities
between a rich and prosperous north and a dispossessed and
poor south.
We need to make the transition from an era of
inequality of opportunities to an era of democratization of
development. By this I mean, at
level,
broadening the base of the benefits of progress for a
steadily growing number of small and medium-sized
businessmen. At the international level democratization of
development implies sharing the benefits of progress in a
more equitable manner between countries.
the internal
It is not possible to make a deep revision of the
structure of our Organization without
the
profound changes that have taken place in the world and
which are enriching and broadening many of our values,
concepts and goals while presenting new challenges.
looking at
20
I would like to emphasize here that the new and
restored democracies, which met in Managua in 1994,
have much to do with and much to say about the future
and the values of our Organization. The consolidation of
democracy in the societies
lived through the
totalitarian doctrines of this century is fundamental to
sustaining this new vision of the United Nations.
that
My country has always counted on the invaluable
cooperation of the United Nations to complete a transition
process characterized by its complexity. The United
Nations has accompanied us on our
road from a
Nicaragua at war to a Nicaragua at peace; from a
Nicaragua divided and without democratic institutions to
a new Nicaragua that today enjoys complete freedom. The
same United Nations is accompanying us in the process
of strengthening the advances made, with the benefits of
economic development.
I would like to recall with special gratitude the
various resolutions of this General Assembly, requesting
Member States and international financial institutions to
continue to lend their support to Nicaragua in a wider and
more flexible manner,
taking into consideration the
exceptional circumstances of our country.
Nicaragua now faces the challenge of successfully
ending the first stage of its transition process, giving
special attention to overcoming dire poverty,
to the
modernization of its institutions and to the improvement
of its productive capacity. Nicaragua is preparing to hold
its next elections in 1996, thus taking a new step in the
consolidation of its democratic institutions. It is worth
recalling that six years ago this Organization, for the first
time in its history, participated in observing elections, and
that happened in Nicaragua. Today I want to invite the
United Nations to participate as an observer again, in
these new elections which will mark a transcendental
stage in our democratic process.
These challenges make indispensable our continuing
collaboration with the United Nations system and with
friendly countries in establishing once and for all strong
foundations for economic and social development and for
a lasting peace. The United Nations still has much to do
in Nicaragua.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
I would like to refer now to the subject of the reform
of this Organization. We need to move forward urgently in
the matter of the democratization of the United Nations and
all
its main organs. In this endeavour Nicaragua fully
supports an increase in the number of members of the
Security Council,
to ensure the equitable
representation of all regional groups, among the permanent
members as well as the non-permanent. In this context, we
support the entry of Germany and Japan, countries that we
are certain will make a significant contribution to the
effectiveness of the Security Council.
in order
our
efforts
to
redouble
We must
promote
administrative and budgetary reforms that will make our
Organization more efficient. We consider it necessary to
continue with
organizational
strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, which
should maintain its role as the custodian of the economic,
social and cultural rights of Member States.
functional
and
the
We cannot speak of reforms in the United Nations
without speaking of reforms in the General Assembly. The
Assembly must be revitalized, and it should coordinate its
activities more closely with the other United Nations
organs. The President of the Assembly should be given
more
in accordance with the new
circumstances I have already mentioned.
specific
tasks,
There can be no reform of the United Nations without
a solution to the financial crisis through which the
Organization is passing. The continual budgetary problems
must be examined in an honest, pragmatic way, since the
credibility of the Organization is at stake.
the new or
We are convinced that the development programme
will be a strategy that is coherent, not only with the new
vision of world development, but also with the goals and
objectives of
is
necessary to have a creative programme for development,
with universal validity, which will combine assistance for
development, trade, investments, the transfer of technology
and a reasonable solution to the problem of the debt and the
negative transfer of resources.
restored democracies.
It
One of the fundamental pillars of Nicaragua’s foreign
policy is general and complete disarmament, nuclear as well
as conventional. Nicaragua is therefore concerned about the
recent nuclear tests in the Pacific.
Nicaragua is
in solidarity with the 21 million
inhabitants of the Republic of China in Taiwan, and in this
context we call for resolution of the exceptional situation of
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
in
the Republic of China through peaceful means,
accordance with the principles of the peaceful resolution
of disputes between States and within the framework of
the creation of an ad hoc committee of the General
Assembly.
Nicaragua takes the opportunity once more to salute
the courage and determination of the South African
people in the achievement of a new South Africa, united
and non-racist.
In Mozambique we hope that
the process of
reconciliation will continue and that, finally, that patient
brother country will take the road to economic growth
and development.
Similarly, we hope that Angola will consolidate the
establishment of a strong and lasting peace, indispensable
for national reconciliation and reconstruction.
As regards the Palestinian question and the Middle
East, we are pleased with the positive and irreversible
evolution towards a just and lasting solution to the
conflict. We warmly welcome the recent agreements
between Israel and Palestine.
Our country continues to be alarmed by the situation
in Somalia, Liberia and Rwanda, and considers that
greater efforts are necessary on the part of
the
international community, and principally of the United
Nations, to bring stability and peace to those countries.
In Europe, in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina,
we are worried about the continuation of hostilities and
hope for a peaceful solution to the conflict. The
Nicaraguan Government greets with approval the Joint
Statement and Agreed Basic Principles, signed recently by
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Yugoslavia.
To end, I wish to say that today more than ever, on
the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, Nicaragua and the majority of the peoples of the
world put our confidence in our Organization, since we
consider that the time has come for the United Nations to
assume fully its responsibilities under
the Charter.
Nicaragua is ready, in its current conditions of peace and
harmony,
this new vision of the United
Nations, also based on a new vision of democracy.
to support
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Affairs, National Security and Attorney-General of Belize,
His Excellency the Honourable Dean Barrow.
Mr. Barrow (Belize): There is, of course, a special
resonance to the congratulations we offer the President on
his election to this high post at the fiftieth session of the
General Assembly. In this watershed year, his job will be
particularly challenging. The delegation of Belize pledges
its fullest cooperation in helping to ensure the success of
his stewardship.
All the world is conscious of the historic significance
of this fiftieth anniversary year. And a lot of work has gone
into the process leading up to this session. We also at this
juncture,
thanks to the President’s
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy, and those
whose job it has been to supervise and implement the
preparatory effort.
then, express our
If this is a year of celebration, it is also a year of
reckoning. Inevitably, the jubilee has concentrated attention
as never before on our Organization. Can we withstand the
scrutiny we provoke? Is our record one that, on balance,
vindicates the vision of the founders? And in a world that
is almost unrecognizably transformed since 1945, are we
equipped for the changing role the United Nations must
now play?
Well over 100 States have come into being since
1945. The myriad issues that now dominate the global
agenda are attended by a host of problems. The duties and
burdens of the United Nations system have therefore
proliferated hugely. Can the United Nations cope? And are
we, the Member States, prepared to invest our enterprise
with the resources necessary to deal with the new realities.
These, it seems, are the questions most urgently in
need of answers.
In thinking of the future, though, we would do well to
look at the past. And I would wish briefly now to examine
our historical record, highlighting some issues of special
relevance to small countries such as Belize.
Just four days ago, Belize celebrated the fourteenth
anniversary of its independence. It was an independence
long delayed by the territorial claim of a neighbouring
country. But
the end it was an independence made
possible in no small measure by this Organization and its
role in world affairs.
it
22
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
One of the things that in the first place made our
aspiration for sovereignty realistic, was the seminal 1960
General Assembly Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. And the
United Nations thereafter became our guiding star as we
steered our course between the Scylla of the historical
colonialism from which we were escaping and the
Charybdis of the recolonization that was inherent in the
territorial claim.
During the years of our independent existence, this
Organization has similarly continued to be a bedrock of
our viability. The principles enshrined in the Charter, and
the international legal order derived from those principles,
have been a welcome guarantee of our sovereignty. The
territorial claim has not gone away. But
the norms
imposed by the United Nations, especially those requiring
pacific settlement of disputes among Member States, have
at least helped to keep it from confounding our integrity.
Who can doubt that, in one form or another, this
salutary experience of Belize with the United Nations has
been replicated by any number of small countries?
Because of the multiplication of new States, especially
since 1960, the international order has been characterized
by an unprecedented differentiation in underlying power
capabilities between the huge and the tiny. Very weak
States can, of course, never seriously hope to influence
international behaviour solely through the use of their
national power capabilities. What the United Nations has
done for us,
then, has been to offer a plenitude of
sustenance via its many entities and constituent groupings.
In effect, the set of opportunities created by the character
of post-Second-World-War international organizations that
have been the United Nations and its progeny has made
sovereign
power
very
asymmetries notwithstanding.
concept,
real
equality
a
For
small States, certainly,
the political and
diplomatic vitality of the United Nations system is a
matter of undeniable fact. Nevertheless,
the United
Nations should continue to enhance cooperation with
regional organizations, as it did last session when this
Assembly resolved to institutionalize cooperation with the
Caribbean Community. Belize was honoured to introduce
that resolution.
Likewise, the principle of inclusiveness should be
employed to ensure that States in the various regions of
the world,
including Asia and the Pacific, are not
confined to incomplete participation in the international
order.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
I turn now to the economic sphere. The record of our
Organization is, I am afraid, rather less compelling. It is
true that various organs of the United Nations system —
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO),
the Economic Commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), the United
Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) — have
provided small States with an unprecedented forum for the
articulation of our concerns. Even now, Belize prepares to
assume its elected seat on the Executive Board of the
United Nations Development Programme. But continuing
large disparities in wealth between rich and poor countries,
the debilitating debt consuming us in the developing world,
the unemployment, the persistent poverty, speak volumes as
to the absence of sufficient progress on this front.
Since the last general debate,
the World Trade
Organization has come into being. In the Americas, the
Hemispheric Summit is now a matter of record. But we
note with regret that, even as liberalization advances, the
call of
the disadvantaged for special and differential
treatment goes unheeded. This is accompanied by the
continuing volatility of
trading and
financial systems, and the well-known vulnerability of small
countries to external shocks.
the international
For us in Belize, negative economic trends among our
major trading partners have had a baneful effect. This, in
turn, has served to heighten our concern over the nature and
pace of globalization. The structural changes that fragile
economies need to make in order to be in step threaten to
swamp us. But no one seems to be paying attention.
Perhaps new forms of regionalism are the answer. One
arguable example is the new Association of Caribbean
States, which will create the world’s fourth or fifth largest
market area and of which Belize is the geographical centre
and the cultural bridge.
Yet it is essential, we contend, that the international
community exhibit full sensitivity to the condition of
smallness. We remain highly susceptible to changes in the
global marketplace; and adverse developments then impose
additional setbacks on us in the areas of competitiveness,
development finance and overall fragility. For Belize, the
recent crisis in neighbouring Mexico, starkly dramatized our
own precariousness.
Generally, we think,
the impact of the events in
Mexico on the markets and economies of other countries
serves as a clear warning. It is foolhardy to believe that
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
inflexible social and economic formulas can be applied
uniformly to our differing circumstances. Heedless
adjustment
time-tables might well
condemn small economies to extinction.
and implacable
Indeed, many of our small countries have already
made strenuous efforts at stabilization and reform. We
have liberalized trade,
reduced fiscal deficits and
privatized State enterprises. But where are the rewards?
We continue to be overcome by debt, by poverty and by
woefully inadequate social and physical infrastructures.
And our difficulties are exacerbated rather than solved by
the austerities that reduce government spending and
curtail our public sector investment programmes.
about
Time is not on our side, as economic and fiscal
orthodoxy bear inexorably down on us. Our constituencies
continue to press us: Where is the understanding of our
plight? Why is there is no capital inflow revival? What is
alarmingly high rate of
to be done
unemployment? When will we
special
mechanisms to assist us with retraining, the moulding of
new technologies, and the critically needed human
resources development? Can we ever seriously hope for
the dedicated financial resources that must underpin any
serious effort at diversification?
the
see
the
We are being told that this liberalization advance —
this march of the martinets — is the panacea for our ills,
but the evidence to the contrary is quite startling. For our
domestic producers, for our banana farmers, it is a bitter
joke. Global free trade, it seems to many of us, is like the
Holy Roman Empire: not holy, not Roman, not an
empire.
The Bretton Woods institutions certainly need to
demonstrate more creativity. Their too-rigid reliance on
the prevailing orthodoxy is choking us. Democracy in
small countries will not be worth a fig if this auto-da-fé-
type insistence on these articles of faith is not leavened
by a real appreciation of our peculiar needs.
It
is in this context
that we also call for this
Organization to promote true global cooperation in efforts
towards sustainable development. This shared quest must
be the essence of
the economic relations and the
development dialogue between the North and the South
and among the developing countries themselves. My
Government certainly pledges full support for the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Unit on
South-South Cooperation, well exemplified by the Ruta
Maya tourism project of our Central America. We also
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
call for support for strengthening the Alliance for the
Sustainable Development of Central America, a major
initiative for developing what we call our delicate filigree
isthmus. And we welcome such relationships as Belize’s
recently concluded joint implementation pilot programme
under the Climate Change Convention.
The overarching goal of our precursors was
“to save succeeding generations from the scourge of
war”.
Well, how have we been doing on that score?
In the sphere of peace and security, some grave
developments have taken place in various parts of the
world. In several places genocidal impulses have been let
loose, with predictably devastating results. Paradoxically
enough, the end of the cold war has resulted in an upsurge
of civil and territorial strife. Fratricidal conflicts have been
launched to the drumbeat of overblown notions of history
and dangerous concepts of ethnicity. For all the Assembly’s
efforts, we continue to experience a relative stalemate in
Cyprus and elsewhere. The Balkan conundrum still seems
intractable, though we note with encouragement that this
Organization has recognized that there is a limit beyond
which forbearance ceases to be a virtue. Rwanda refuses to
go away.
Yet we hail now the breakthrough in Palestine, and we
again rejoice at the continuation of peace and stability in
South Africa. In Namibia, Mozambique and Angola, the
United Nations has assisted, or is assisting, in bringing civil
wars to an end.
In my own part of the world, the continuing United
Nations partnership with the people of Haiti is consolidating
reconstruction and democracy in that Caribbean country.
Despite the limitations on our resources, Belize is happy
now to be able to play a commanding role in the Caribbean
Community and Common Market (CARICOM) sub-unit of
the United Nations Mission in Haiti.
Likewise, the United Nations Observer Mission in El
Salvador is successfully overseeing efforts to cement the
newly minted peace. In Guatemala, the dialogue between
the URNG and the Government, begun under the auspices
of our Secretary-General, is proceeding apace.
My Government takes great satisfaction in the calm
that reigns almost universally on our continent, from
Hispaniola to Tierra del Fuego. The disappearance of
24
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
authoritarian Governments in Latin America and the
resolution of most of our internal conflicts is bringing
liberty and democracy to all our peoples. Our efforts can
therefore be committed fully now to the business of
fostering economic and social development, human rights
and the protection of the environment. As the first-ever
Defence Ministerial Meeting of the Americas confirmed,
our militaries are fully cognizant of the new role they
must play in supporting this process.
We therefore applaud the strong and clear views on
nuclear sanity expressed during the Conference on the
extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)
and currently being reiterated. This delegation reaffirms
its own view that
the parties to the NPT have now
invested in the nuclear Powers a trusteeship that those
Powers must zealously discharge.
At the same time, we must be equally aware of the
other danger: the continued production, trade and use of
all types of so-called conventional weapons that harm,
maim and kill.
In the context of more general concerns, we cannot
escape the overdue obligation to rationalize also the
structure of the Security Council, so that the veto is
tamed and equity and democratization take centre stage.
We continue to insist that all regions obtain balanced and
equal
small
countries be brought into the Council’s decision- making;
and consideration be given to such devices as multipartite
seats or constituency groupings.
representation as permanent members;
One final word on the question of peace and
security. The Secretary-General has stressed the multitude
of new demands for peace-keeping made upon the
Organization as conflicts erupt around the world. The
caution has been expressed that the increased burdens in
this regard should not displace the attention that economic
and social questions demand. Of course, the two are
interrelated.
there can be no
development without peace. We would content ourselves,
then, with merely urging that we put in place a more
coordinated system to embrace peace-keeping and conflict
resolution as well as human rights and social and
economic development.
is a truism that
It
Also, the non-traditional threats to peace and security
must be addressed. In recent years we have witnessed
growing links among organized crime, drug trafficking,
terrorism and the spread of armaments. The dangers from
this phenomenon are all the more insidious for being
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
novel. We must therefore quickly develop the international
cooperation measures to deal with it.
So, as this Organization completes its fiftieth year, we
in Belize are well convinced of its continuing vitality. The
jeremiads of those that bemoan its failures are not for us.
While we are not going to be Pollyannaish about what is
admittedly a mixed record, we see enough to be sanguine
about.
the United Nations organs;
There is extraordinary cooperation on the part of
States, other political entities and non-governmental
organizations in the dozens of areas of substantive concern
of
in the burgeoning,
multidimensional sphere of sustainable development; in the
territory where humane concerns and values, social ordering
and cultural norms
field of
peace-keeping, of providing States and peoples with
security from violence and disorder.
and in the
coalesce;
truly realize the vision of
Of course there is still a long way to go. And we will
the founders unless
never
Member States agree to provide the future United Nations
system with adequate, reliable and predictable resources.
Let us therefore, during this our half-century session,
determine to enhance our effectiveness. Let us rationalize,
let us economize. Let us pay our dues in full and on time.
And let us intensify the quest for agreement on autonomous
financing for the Organization and for related activities.
Above all, let us dedicate ourselves to universality and
pledge to enlarge our image and re-energize the world. For
that day may still be greatly postponed when our
resolutions and decisions, rather than blood and iron, will
summarily determine the great international questions.
But in continuing efforts at global conflict avoidance,
we are still, if the Assembly will forgive the colloquialism,
the only game in town. In other words, true international
peace and security can only ever come by way of the
United Nations, which remains the last, best hope for
mankind.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr. Velayati (Islamic Republic of Iran) (spoke in
Farsi; English text furnished by the delegation): May I at
the outset congratulate President Freitas do Amaral of
Portugal on his well-deserved election to the presidency of
the fiftieth session of the General Assembly of the United
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
Nations and assure him of the full cooperation of the
delegation of
this
important session, which coincides with the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations.
the Islamic Republic of
Iran at
Less than a month from today, Members of the
Organization will assemble in this very Hall to celebrate
a half-century of operation of the United Nations. Fifty
years ago, when the bitter events and experience of the
Second World War were omnipresent,
the original
Members decided to establish an organization “determined
to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”.
They signed the Charter of the United Nations, the result
of two months of negotiations and compromise among the
participants at the San Francisco Conference, which was
to serve as the framework and the guide to prevent war
and promote the economic and social advancement of all
nations, large and small.
However, it is generally acknowledged that shortly
after the establishment of the Organization, the spirit of
cooperation and friendship gave way to bloc politics and
rivalry, which led to the cold war and effectively
prevented the achievement of the objectives enshrined in
the Charter. It would not be excessive to point to the
antipathy between the two blocs as the principal cause of
wars, underdevelopment of the third world, suppression of
liberation struggles of nations under foreign domination,
and interference in the internal affairs of others. It was
this mentality, prevalent in the bipolar world, which in
effect denied the Organization the opportunity to fulfil its
obligations completely, and which circumscribed the
extent of participation by Member States
in the
decision-making process and brought about the dominance
of a few countries.
After 50 years of turbulence, the United Nations is
now in one of its most sensitive periods. Although many
problems and obstacles of the past no longer exist, a new
set of challenges have appeared, each of which has taken
the credibility, efficiency, relevance and ability of the
Organization to task, and which provide opportunities and
responsibilities to bring into conformity the modus
operandi of international relations in general and the
Organization itself in particular, with the purposes and
principles of the Charter.
Today the United Nations faces these challenges and
opportunities at a time when it remains the only truly
universal
the
Organization can naturally put tremendous resources at its
disposal to facilitate the achievement of the principles and
organization. This
universality
of
25
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
international peace and security,
objectives of the United Nations Charter, particularly the
maintenance of
the
promotion of economic and social development, justice and
mutual cooperation, and place it in a better position to deal
with emerging challenges
in a more efficient and
distinguished fashion.
What should be of the utmost
importance to the
Organization is the extent
to which Member States
participate in its decision-making process. In fact, if we
define and assess the universality of the Organization in
terms of the wide participation by Member States in its
decision-making process, and not merely in terms of the
number of its Member States, and direct all our efforts to
strengthening such universality, we will
contribute
tremendously to enhancing the credibility, authority and
ability of the Organization. In other words, when public
participation of all Members as
is
guaranteed in decisions of the Organization and their
implementation,
then the possibility of the exerting of
undue influence and dominance by a few States to shape
the approach of the Organization vis-à-vis international
issues according to the limited confines of their own
national interests diminishes to a large extent.
sovereign States
even
in
the
Regrettably,
international
environment, certain Members continue to adopt unilateral
actions contrary to the provisions of the Charter, and
thereby exhibit an absence, for their part, of the spirit of
international cooperation.
current
The arrogant approach and attitude of the Government
of the United States of America towards the international
community, and the unsuccessful attempts of the American
foreign policy establishment to exploit issues of global
concern, such as terrorism and the proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction,
to advance an extraneous and
illegitimate agenda represent a most vivid and indeed
dangerous manifestation of
such unlawful unilateral
measures.
The United States Secretary of State must put to rest
the illusion that his Government can become both the judge
and the policeman of the global community. Nor should he
expect others
to follow American pressures against
independent States brought to bear with the sole objective
of pleasing Zionist pressure groups even at the expense of
disregarding the interests of the American people.
Perhaps they still do not
really believe in the
fundamental principle of the sovereign equality of States
that constitutes the cornerstone of the United Nations and
26
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
that requires each and every Member of the Organization
to play its role in securing the objectives of the Charter.
This mentality is unfortunately the unwelcome heritage of
the cold-war period when, owing to the nature of bloc
rivalries, States Members of the United Nations were
viewed, not as independent, sovereign equals, but as
members of power blocs. The unfortunate natural by-
products of such a world view are inequality, hegemony,
disrespect for the interests and spiritual values of other
nations, disregard of the choices and opinions of the
majority, preference for the short-term interests of the
minority and self-serving interpretations of the rules and
principles of international law.
that
therefore,
It seems imperative,
in the new
international political environment all organs of
the
United Nations, particularly the Security Council, should
adopt substantive and procedural measures to facilitate the
full integration and participation of all Member States.
The Security Council, which constitutionally represents
the general membership of the Organization and acts on
its behalf, should muster the requisite political will to deal
with all crises on the basis of principle and the same set
of standards and should avoid preference for the interests
of powerful States over the interests and choices of the
majority in order to discharge its responsibilities in
accordance with the Charter. To achieve that objective
some structural, substantive and procedural reforms in the
work of the Council,
including democratization and
transparency, are inevitable and will enhance the
credibility, efficiency and relevance of the Council as the
representative of the general membership.
At the same time, I should emphasize that the most
important organ of the United Nations, the one that is the
manifestation of the principle of sovereign equality and
affords direct participation to all Member States, is the
General Assembly. Therefore, strengthening this important
organ and ensuring the accountability of other organs,
particularly the Security Council, before the General
Assembly will guarantee full and more meaningful
participation by the Organization’s general membership in
its decisions and their implementation. This will go very
far towards strengthening true universality and providing
the most effective guarantees for the implementation of its
decisions.
In the past few years, following the end of the cold
war, we have witnessed increased efforts to formulate
new sets of international standards in various political,
social and economic spheres. A thorough review of the
final documents of recent international conferences clearly
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
in the
conceptual
that, notwithstanding the
transformations which
and
illustrates
the
international
normative
community has undergone
formulation and
expression of its concerns and recommendations, it has
legitimately stood firm on the need to respect
the
fundamental principles that preserve the very fabric of our
diverse and pluralistic world. For instance, concepts and
phrases such as “the necessity and importance of upholding
full respect for the spiritual and ethical values, national and
regional particularities, as well as different historical and
cultural backgrounds of countries”, and “the necessity of
homogeneity and conformity in final documents and
recommendations of international conferences with the
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and
the prevalence of a spirit of international cooperation and
consensus in their implementation and follow up” have
been incorporated and reaffirmed in the final documents of
the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, the
International Conference on Population and Development in
Cairo,
in
Copenhagen,
recently held Fourth World
Conference on Women in Beijing.
the World Summit for Social Development
and the
to the fact
including the right
This clearly attests
that while the
international community has taken it upon itself to adopt a
just and non-discriminatory approach through international
cooperation towards the protection and promotion of all
human rights,
to development, as
universal, indivisible and interdependent rights, it continues
to insist on the absolute imperative of guaranteeing that in
the process of international standard-setting, promotion and
protection, the sanctity of the principle of the national
sovereignty of all States is respected and that no nation’s
religious values and beliefs and cultural and national
identity are infringed.
relations
Furthermore,
the Charter of
the United Nations
recognizes international cooperation in economic and social
issues as necessary for the maintenance of peaceful and
friendly
States. Unfortunately,
notwithstanding this emphasis, because of the conditions
prevailing in international relations, both during and after
the cold war, the importance and centrality of issues related
to economic and social development have not received due
consideration.
between
In addition, at a time when the North-South gap
continues to widen on a daily basis, the world economic
trend, manipulated by unilateral actions and protectionist
policies on the part of the developed countries, also tends
further to debilitate the potential of the developing countries
to deal with the adverse impacts of international economic
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
In this connection, we welcome the
development.
Secretary-General’s “Agenda for Development” and
announce our intention to participate actively in the
deliberation of it. We firmly believe that post-cold-war
opportunities should be utilized to their maximum
potential so as to place issues of economic and social
development at the centre of the United Nations attention.
in
the
promoting
Hence, there is a renewed need for recommendations
about and practical measures for expansion of the role of
the United Nations
economic
development of developing countries, as well as full and
rapid implementation of
and
internationally agreed upon objectives in this field. In this
connection, the fundamental principle that States have the
right to benefit from the utilization of their own resources
that are vital for their sustained economic growth and
development in accordance with their national policies
and priorities must not be neglected.
agreements
relevant
Another key characteristic of the post-cold-war era
is the expansion of peace-keeping operations, which have,
in recent years, demanded an increasing share of the
energy and resources of the Organization. Nevertheless,
the expansion of United Nations peace-keeping operations
should not take place at the expense of its activities in the
area of development, which constitute one of the most
effective measures for preventing the occurrence of
tensions and conflicts as well as for ensuring tranquillity
and stability. The Islamic Republic of Iran, along with
other non-aligned countries, supports the United Nations
peace-keeping efforts in principle, but emphasizes that all
Member States that are willing and able to participate in
such operations should be treated equally and without
discrimination. In like manner, while a unified United
Nations command structure is essential for successful
peace-keeping operations, its leadership should not be the
monopoly of a handful of States.
Although the United Nations has been successful in
returning peace and stability to some volatile parts of the
world, its disregard for some important principles has
resulted in the failure of the Organization to resolve other
crises that still
is
absolutely imperative for the United Nations fully to
respect
national
sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in
the internal affairs of States in all phases of
the
establishment and execution of peace-keeping operations.
rage. Let me emphasize that
fundamental
principles,
including
it
The Islamic Republic of Iran, eager to contribute
more actively to this growing area of United Nations
27
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
activity, announces its readiness in principle to participate
in United Nations peace-keeping operations in accordance
with our tenets and the fundamental principles of the
Charter. Here,
I deem it necessary to reiterate the
preparedness of the Islamic Republic of Iran to dispatch
peace-keeping forces to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we
had earlier committed along with other Islamic countries to
strengthen
Force
(UNPROFOR) in order to enable it to discharge effectively
its mandate to protect safe areas.
the United Nations
Protection
We hold the firm view that if the Security Council had
at least provided the necessary mandate or committed the
necessary forces for the protection of the safe areas,
including through taking advantage of the assistance offered
by the Islamic countries, the Bosnian Serbs could not have
continued, with relative ease,
their crimes of genocide
against the defenceless people of United Nations-declared
safe areas. However, the lack of political will to suppress
aggression and to deal effectively with non-compliance with
United Nations decisions, coupled with the unreasonable,
immoral and legally baseless insistence by some on
extending the arms embargo against the former Yugoslavia
to the victim of its aggression have in fact proven to the
Serbs that they can continue with impunity their murder,
destruction, aggression, “ethnic cleansing” and genocide.
and
called
for
position
Since the outbreak of the crisis, Islamic countries,
including the Islamic Republic of Iran, have adopted a
constructive
international
cooperation in finding a just and peaceful resolution of the
conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The recent decision of
the joint meeting of Foreign and Defence Ministers of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) Contact
Group and troop contributing countries to establish the
“Assistance Mobilization Group” in order to address the
humanitarian, economic, legal and defence requirements of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina represents a proper
approach to this tragedy in keeping with the principles and
purposes of the United Nations.
their
This decision, along with the previous declaration by
readiness to dispatch a
OIC member States of
sufficient number of peace-keepers to Bosnia, as well as
their declaration on the “de-jure inapplicability” of the arms
embargo on Bosnia and Herzegovina are not only solidly
based in international law, the United Nations Charter and
humanitarian principles, but also emanate from the
considered assessment
that without a proper military
balance, it would be impossible to compel the Serbs to
engage in serious negotiations or
to guarantee the
unhindered implementation of any negotiated settlement.
28
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
In this connection,
the Islamic Republic of Iran
welcomes the recent cooperation between the two Contact
Groups, and holds that only a plan which does not entail
recognition of
the fruits of “ethnic cleansing” and
guarantees the national sovereignty and territorial integrity
of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Member of the United
Nations can restore peace and stability to the region.
Furthermore, it is necessary in any peace negotiations to
accord the non-Serb populations of Kosovo, Sanjak, and
Vojvodina the same rights and privileges as those
requested for the Serbs in Bosnia. Moreover, in order to
guarantee a durable settlement and to preclude the
repetition of aggression and genocide, the International
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for
Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia
since 1991 should continue its work resolutely, without
any regard for political expediency, and severely pursue
and punish those who are found guilty.
The increasing growth of inter-State cooperation
within the framework of regional groupings constitutes
another characteristic of the new international climate.
There exist natural common grounds for cooperation,
as well as shared interests among the countries of any
region, which together create a framework for
the
promotion of
regional organizations. Such regional
cooperation leads, in turn, to enhanced peace and stability
in each region and the world through the expansion of a
culture of cooperation, coexistence and dialogue. In this
context, the Islamic Republic of Iran has emphasized
regional cooperation and taken significant steps in this
regard in order to enhance prosperity, peace and stability
throughout its own region.
Today,
the Economic Cooperation Organization
(ECO) has grown to an organization with 10 members.
With a population of 336 million, rich natural resources
and considerable potential, and in close proximity to
important centres of economy and trade in Asia, Europe,
and the Middle East,
the organization endeavours to
strengthen and expand its activities, particularly in the
areas of transportation, communications, trade and energy,
in order to achieve well-being and prosperity for the
peoples of the region, and to promote trade and economic
growth.
In another effort for the expansion of regional
cooperation,
the Islamic Republic of Iran has made
concrete proposals for the establishment of the Caspian
the
Sea Cooperation Organization which, with
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
participation of the littoral States, would aim for the
expansion of cooperation in the fields of shipping, fishing,
the protection of the environment and the exploitation of
the resources of the Caspian Sea. Fortunately, the proposal
of the Islamic Republic of Iran has been accepted by the
States concerned,
the
Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Azerbaijan and the
Republic of Turkmenistan. In our opinion, the Caspian Sea
must be a sea of peace and tranquillity whose affairs will
be decided by the concurrence of all its littoral States.
the Russian Federation,
that
is,
Considering the political and economic characteristics
of our region, and the occurrence and expansion of conflicts
and tensions due to internal and external factors,
the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran feels nationally
and internationally obliged to exert every effort aimed at
the enhancement of economic prosperity and regional
security, the prevention and de-escalation of tension and the
peaceful resolution of regional crises, based on respect for
sovereignty and territorial
the inviolability of
internationally recognized borders, and non-interference in
the internal affairs of others.
integrity,
In Afghanistan, while refraining from any involvement
in the regrettable fratricidal war, our policy has focused on
keeping channels of communication open with the
Government and all Afghan groups in order to put an end
to fighting and to bring about a negotiated settlement.
the highest
In the crisis in Tajikistan, the Islamic Republic of Iran
has exerted every effort and has succeeded in securing
negotiations in Tehran at
level between
Government and opposition groups, leading to the signing
of significant agreements concerning a cease-fire and the
peace process. Attempts to find solutions to these crises
require the constructive engagement of regional States and
the effective participation of the United Nations and the
Organization of the Islamic Conference.
At the same time, the maintenance of internal and
regional stability and security in Central Asia and the
Caucasus
requires economic prosperity. The Islamic
Republic of Iran, in view of the special economic and
geographical situation of regional States, has tried to serve
as a reliable economic and trade partner, through bilateral
economic cooperation, as well as the establishment of
trilateral commissions with the participation of States from
within and outside the region aimed at the expansion and
facilitation of trade.
Inter-State cooperation in the sensitive and strategic
area of the Persian Gulf, where regional States share many
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
commonalities, can also lead to economic prosperity, as
well as guaranteeing peace and stability. The military
presence of
foreign Powers, who have interests at
variance with stability and long-term cooperation among
regional States, cannot be conducive to achieving the
common objective of securing the tranquillity of this
important waterway.
In the final analysis, all littoral countries of the
Persian Gulf would be better served if they were to join
hands in a concerted effort to maintain peace and security
in the region, which will directly affect our destiny. Such
efforts can be channelled through an institution organized
by these same littoral States, where confidence-building
measures commensurate with the specificities of the area
can be devised and followed up.
Reducing military budgets, setting a ceiling for arms
purchases, acceding to disarmament and arms-control
treaties, cooperating with the United Nations Register of
Conventional Arms and devising a mechanism for
transparency in armaments are but a few examples of
confidence-building measures which the aforementioned
institution could consider. The Islamic Republic of Iran
declares its full readiness to enter into bilateral and
multilateral negotiations with its neighbours in order to
reach common understandings on these issues.
In the Middle East, the Zionist entity, supported by
certain powerful countries, continues its occupation of
Palestine and parts of Syria and Lebanon, and persists in
its policies of aggression, suppression of those who dare
to express opposition to its illegal occupation, and
violation of the very basic human rights of the Palestinian
people.
Experience and the events of the past few years
further illustrate the fact that the only viable option for
restoring peace and security to the Middle East is one
which is comprehensive and just and which addresses the
fundamental
issues of the Palestine question. Such a
solution should entail a realization of the inalienable
rights of the Palestinian people, including the return of all
Palestinian refugees and displaced persons to their
homeland, the full and free exercise of their right to self-
determination, and liberation of all occupied territories. In
view of the volatility of the Middle East and the Persian
Gulf, these two regions must be off limits to any foreign
military presence and weapons of mass destruction. My
Government continues
to underscore the need to
implement numerous General Assembly resolutions as
the Review and Extension
well as the decision of
29
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to establish a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East as an
important factor for installing stability in the region. What
has actually prevented the NPT from achieving its
objectives and the establishment of the Middle East as a
zone free from nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass
destruction has been Israel’s illegal nuclear capabilities and
its unsafeguarded
its refusal
nuclear
the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
to join the NPT and put
the safeguard regime of
facilities under
of
support
technological
Undoubtedly, without the direct and indirect financial
and
certain Western
nuclear-weapon States, Israel could not have acquired the
capability to develop nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, there
exist strong indications that the nuclear capability of that
regime is being continually increased by the very same
countries that are the most vocal proponents of nuclear
non-proliferation. This discriminatory trend persists even in
circumstances where Israeli nuclear policy has adversely
affected regional security, the negative effects of which
include a lack of confidence and a perception of insecurity
in the region, an escalating arms race and influx of foreign
weapons into the region, and the refusal of some States in
the region to join certain disarmament treaties.
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
Conventional Arms make the veracity of our contention
quite evident.
Following four weeks of difficult negotiations, the
1995 Review and Extension Conference of the NPT could
not reach the conclusion that any progress towards the
primary objectives of the Treaty,
including complete
nuclear disarmament and the peaceful use of nuclear
energy, had been achieved in the past 25 years. The
indefinite extension of the Treaty must be viewed within
the framework of three major final documents of the
Conference, together with the necessity for all signatories,
particularly the nuclear Powers, to commit themselves to
the full implementation of all provisions and objectives of
the Treaty. These obligations include achieving complete
nuclear disarmament, expanding the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy, strengthening the role and enhancing the
authority of the IAEA as the only international body
competent to oversee the good-faith discharge of Member
States’ responsibilities under the Treaty, ensuring the
universality of
the NPT as an urgent priority, and
establishing the Middle East as a zone free from nuclear
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. In this
connection, the nuclear-weapon States should, as a first
step, prove their good faith by refraining from nuclear
testing and finalizing a comprehensive test-ban treaty in
1996.
On the international level, it must be acknowledged
that, despite the modest progress achieved in the control of
nuclear, chemical and conventional weapons, these weapons
have unfortunately increased qualitatively and quantitatively
to an alarming degree. We are of the view that the failure
of the international community to deal effectively with
these weapons is primarily due to the fact
that major
producers of conventional weapons and weapons of mass
destruction have prevented the United Nations from
fulfilling its primary responsibility and central role in the
field of disarmament. Another main reason for this failure
is that
the policies of major arms-producing countries
the spread of weapons of mass
designed to control
destruction
always
short-sighted and discriminatory and aim simultaneously at
securing the destructive power of their own weaponry and
their own military dominance.
conventional weapons
and
are
various
A glance at generally unsatisfactory disarmament
nuclear
in
negotiations
disarmament,
the Hague negotiations on the chemical
weapons Convention, negotiations concerning verification
systems for the bacteriological weapons Convention, and
the performance of
the United Nations Register of
including
fields,
30
The Islamic Republic of Iran, inspired by the divine
teachings of Islam and benefiting from national solidarity
and the continued participation and efforts of its people,
has endeavoured to develop a society on the basis of the
dignity and worth of the human person and respect for
human values, a society whose ethos includes fairness and
social justice as well as cultural, social and economic
development. In this regard, despite extensive damage
caused by the imposed war and other economic pressures,
the Islamic Republic of Iran, endowed with the resolve
and work ethic of its entire population, has been able not
only to move towards reversing the vast destruction of the
war, but also successfully to complete its first five-year
economic and social development plan and embark upon
the implementation of the second five-year plan on solid
foundations. We
a
strengthened economic, social, cultural and political
infrastructure.
prospects
foresee
bright
for
Since the Islamic Republic of Iran firmly believes
the
the maintenance of peace and security, at
that
is
levels alike,
national,
sustained
dependent
development, we spend only about 1 per cent of our
regional and international
growth
economic
upon
and
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to
national budget on defence and devote the rest
overhauling and strengthening our economic, social and
cultural
infrastructures. We have made this strategic
decision at a time when the bitter experience of military
aggression against my country, a foreign military presence
in the region and an alarming military build-up following
the second war in the Persian Gulf could have justified very
extensive military expenditures.
The current session of the General Assembly provides
a golden opportunity for us to engage in a serious review
of the performance of our Organization over the past 50
years, assess the current international situation and try to
shape the conduct of international relations in the light of
the United Nations Charter in a fashion that remedies the
shortcomings of the past.
The most important characteristic of our world is its
cultural diversity, which has enriched human civilization.
The experience of the past 50 years has clearly illustrated
that attempts to impose Western standards, beliefs and
culture upon the rest of humanity have not only failed to
achieve the desired results, but also undermine the
and mutual
foundations
understanding because,
the appearance of
championing the cause of freedom and tolerance, such an
approach manifests extreme intolerance towards the values
and beliefs of others.
in spite of
coexistence
peaceful
of
Mutual respect for the rights, values and beliefs of all
members of the international community, along with the
empowerment of all nations to participate actively in the
setting of international norms, the maintenance of peace and
security and the promotion of economic and social
development throughout the world must form the solid
foundation of Member States’ activities in the next 50 years
of the United Nations. The Islamic Republic of Iran is
prepared to fulfil its role in this respect.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Estonia,
His Excellency Mr. Riivo Sinijärv.
Mr. Sinijärv (Estonia): Allow me to begin by
congratulating the President on his election at this historic
fiftieth session of the General Assembly. On behalf of the
Estonian people, I wish him all the best this year.
Fifty years ago this body met for the first time in an
effort
to unite the community of nations to avoid a
repetition of the carnage we saw in the Second World War.
For my country, that war finally ended just last year, with
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
in
I
the
tomorrow the final
form of
the withdrawal of foreign troops from our territory. I am
happy to note that
remnant of
occupation,
former Soviet
the
nuclear-submarine training facility at Paldiski, will be
turned over to Estonian authorities by Russian civilian
dismantling specialists.
take this opportunity to
acknowledge Estonia’s satisfaction with the Russian
Federation’s having fulfilled its commitment
in this
regard, as mandated by the agreement signed by Russia
and Estonia on 30 July 1994.
by
and
produced
decisions
Turning to the work of the United Nations, the
declarations
recent
international conferences must be integrated into the work
of
the United Nations as a whole. Estonia places
particular importance upon the implementation of Agenda
21 and the Vienna Declaration. We welcome the
extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons and look forward to a successful
conclusion of negotiations regarding a universal and
verifiable comprehensive test-ban treaty. The importance
of
recently concluded international
agreements must be underscored through implementation.
these and other
There are a number of ways through which the
United Nations can improve its performance. One of the
most extensive ways in which Member States relate to the
United Nations system is by way of the activities of
various United Nations agencies and programmes. For
this reason, reform of the Economic and Social Council
is crucial and should be addressed in earnest. Member
States should have greater opportunities to ensure that
United Nations resources are used in an effective and
efficient manner. I am referring not to a need for the
micromanagement of agencies, programmes and projects,
but, rather, to participation in agency, programme and
project activities.
I would like to single out and commend the work of
the Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) and other
regional commissions. The ECE has worked diligently to
provide practical and needed support for the integration of
countries with diverse histories into a cohesive regional
whole. As part of continuing United Nations reform,
Estonia once again urges greater cooperation between the
ECE and the United Nations Development Programme.
Any discussion of United Nations reform must
include the composition and functioning of the Security
Council. Estonia welcomes the report of the Open-ended
Working Group on Security Council reform, which,
among other practical suggestions, calls for developing
31
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
greater transparency and the inclusion of more Member
States in decision making. Within the context of continuing
debate over Security Council reform, we reiterate our
support for an expanded and more effective Security
Council.
In the 40 years from 1948 to 1988, the United Nations
deployed 13 peace-keeping operations. In the seven years
from 1988 to the present, 16 operations were begun, of
which a significant number still continue. There are many
systemic reasons for such a dramatic increase in peace-
keeping operations, and the issues of both peace-keeping
and peacemaking call for further detailed examination.
Regional peace-keeping efforts that are conducted under the
auspices of the United Nations must remain under stringent
United Nations control.
The Security Council, in turn, must carefully define
and monitor any mandates granted to regional efforts and
must resist attempts by groups of States or individual
countries to wrest authority for such actions. Only in this
way can the United Nations ensure compliance with the
principles of multilateralism and impartiality in order to
conduct peace-keeping operations
that are not only
effective, but also politically neutral.
took part
Estonia is proud to be taking part in peace-keeping
efforts. Through generous support, especially that of the
Danish Government, Estonian peace-keepers, for the first
time ever,
in United Nations peace-keeping
operations. Having participated in the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR), and now the United
Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in Croatia
(UNCRO), we look forward to expanding our role in
United Nations peace-keeping activities.
I am gratified to support the working arrangement
between the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) in the former Yugoslavia. Estonia
regards the United Nations-mandated NATO air strikes in
recent weeks in Bosnia as an unfortunate but necessary
means of bringing about an end to the fighting which is still
taking place there. Recent cooperation between the United
Nations and NATO shows that despite the inherent
difficulties in supporting peace in the former Yugoslavia,
differences can be overcome and a joint approach to peace-
keeping can be agreed upon. We view this cooperation as
a harbinger of greater effectiveness in future United Nations
peace-keeping efforts.
An area
attaches particular
importance is the work of the High Commissioner for
to which Estonia
32
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
Human Rights, Mr. José Ayala Lasso, and the Centre for
Human Rights in Geneva. In keeping with its open-door
policy towards the work of human rights groups, Estonia
welcomes and supports the work done by the High
Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for
Human Rights. We believe that information about the
work of the Commissioner and the Centre should be made
available to a wider audience through more frequent
publication of the results of investigations. This would
help ensure that the efforts of partisan political concerns
that
tend to rely on inaccurate information will be
countered by factual, impartial reporting of the sort that
Mr. Ayala Lasso and the Centre provide.
During this United Nations fiftieth anniversary year,
it
is important for every Member State to affirm its
financial commitment to the United Nations. Estonia, for
its part, supports recent changes to the methodology used
to calculate assessments, changes which have led to
reduced distortions and affirmation of capacity to pay as
the primary, transparent and universally applied criteria
by which assessments are calculated. Agreed upon regular
budget assessments and peacekeeping dues are collective
responsibilities for the functioning of the United Nations,
and should be put ahead of individual partisan interests.
We face new challenges on this,
the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations. I wish all of us the
best in meeting those challenges, so that the next 50 years
may be even more constructive than the last.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
Two representatives have requested to speak in exercise
of the right of reply.
May I remind members that, in accordance with
decision 34/401, statements in exercise of the right of
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention
and five minutes for the second, and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Gaussot (France)(interpretation from French):
Several delegations mentioned the question of nuclear
tests. Their
statements have prompted the French
delegation to recall the facts and to put the last series of
tests by France in perspective that of a complete and final
halt to nuclear testing.
The
carrying out by France of
current
programme must be regarded as what it is: a completion;
the tests will be limited to eight at most and will be
finished before the end of May 1996.
the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Above all, our primary objective is to achieve in 1996
the conclusion of a truly meaningful test-ban treaty - that is,
banning all nuclear-weapon tests and all other nuclear
explosions.
The major problem is the scope of such a treaty. As
the Assembly knows, on 10 August last at the Conference
on Disarmament France announced that it endorsed that
objective and formulation.
This choice is of capital importance. I repeat that if
the treaty is signed in accordance with General Assembly
resolutions France will refrain from all nuclear-weapon tests
and all other nuclear explosions. This is the zero-option
choice, which gives full meaning to the signing of the
comprehensive test-ban treaty.
But to achieve that, to bring the negotiations to that
conclusion, France must be able in the short time set -
before the end of May 1996 - to be sure, for the future, of
the reliability and security of its weapons and acquire
independent command of simulation techniques.
This programme to complete our tests will allow
France to be the advocate for the most satisfactory and
exacting option for the test-ban treaty.
This programme does not harm the environment;
internationally renowned experts have recently demonstrated
the harmless nature of our tests.
This programme is in accordance with the law and
France’s commitments: extreme restraint is not a ban, and
we had never ruled out the possibility of our completing
this series of tests.
Finally, as the Assembly knows,
the International
Court of Justice has just ruled in France’s favour by
rejecting, on 22 September, the claims made by certain
States.
Mr. Azwai (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): In speaking this morning of terrorism and the
threat it poses to the lives of people, the United States
Secretary of State mentioned sanctions imposed by the
Security Council against my country because two of our
nationals have been suspected of being involved in the
Lockerbie incident. Mr. Christopher made the irrevocable
judgement
that my country had a hand in this tragic
incident. This linking of my country with terrorism and the
Lockerbie incident by the leading diplomat of the United
States of America has been repeated on several occasions.
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
The United States indicts and condemns even before
any trial. Members of this Assembly should know that
that is the main reason why my country does not agree to
the extradition of the suspects to either the United States
or
the United Kingdom. Both these countries are
adversaries, and have repeatedly condemned the suspects
before trial.
My country has repeatedly condemned terrorism in
all its forms. We have also declared our readiness to
participate in any international effort aimed at combating
and eradicating terrorism. The fact is that my country is
a prime victim of terrorism. The United States itself has
practised various types of terrorism against us, from the
imposition of embargoes to military provocations in our
territorial waters and overt aggression against our peaceful
cities under the cover of darkness - let alone its sheltering
of ungodly extremists trained in the United States to carry
out acts of sabotage inside Libya, with the assistance of
United States authorities.
My country strongly supports the Arab League
initiative for trying both suspects by Scottish judges in
accordance with Scottish law at the International Court in
The Hague. We are committed to having the suspects
stand trial at that Court. We are also committed to pay
any compensatory damages if awarded.
We also reserve the right to sue the United States,
the United Kingdom and the United Nations,
if the
suspects are acquitted, for compensation for the damages
caused. If the
33
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
United States Secretary of State is serious about combating
terrorism, he must accept this initiative, ask the Security
Council to lift and revoke the unjust sanctions imposed on
my country, end the American boycott, and start negotiating
to find solutions to the problems between the two countries
and normalize relations in the interests of both the Libyan
and the American peoples.
The meeting rose at 7.05 p.m.
5th plenary meeting
25 September 1995
34
