United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
52nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 7 November 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.52
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 49
Report of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution
of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of
International Humanitarian Law Committed in the
Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
second annual report of the International Tribunal
(A/50/365)
The President: May I take it that the Assembly takes
note of the second annual report of the International
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for
Serious Violations of
International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since
1991?
It was so decided.
The President: I call on Mr. Antonio Cassese,
President of the International Tribunal.
Mr. Cassese (President of the International Criminal
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for
Serious Violations of
International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since
1991): Since I last had the honour of addressing the
General Assembly, in November 1994, there have been
numerous positive developments in the work of
the
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Unhappily, there continue to exist major obstacles in the
path of the Tribunal’s success — obstacles which are only
surmountable if the world community provides assistance.
The International Criminal Tribunal now has the
capacity fully to operate as a judicial body. At present we
are at last in a position to prosecute those responsible for
serious violations of
international humanitarian law
committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since
1991.
We have come a long way in the two years since
November 1993, when the Tribunal was established. At
that time, the Tribunal consisted only of 11 judges and a
Statute. It had no budget, no seat, no courtroom, no
prison, no staff, no code of criminal procedure. Most
debilitating of all,
its
existence the Tribunal had no functioning Prosecutor.
Since that time we have made great strides. As a result,
we can now proudly state that everything is in place at
the Tribunal. At
long last we are engaged in the
administration of justice.
the first nine months of
for
In the two years since November 1993 we have gone
from being a lofty — some might have said nebulous —
idea to a living reality. The idea was that Member States
could unite to ensure that vicious crimes against
international humanitarian law would be punished. It was
an idea which was met with scepticism, even with
ridicule, by many who believed it to be unattainable. But
it has been attained, at least in part, by dint of patience
95-86552 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and perseverance. We Judges felt strongly that it was our
moral duty to do our utmost to make the Tribunal an
effective judicial mechanism.
I shall briefly recall what I consider to be our major
achievements so far: First, our Prosecutor has issued nine
indictments against 43 individuals, charging them with
serious violations of international humanitarian law. These
indictments have all been confirmed by a reviewing Judge.
Arrest warrants have been issued against all the accused.
These accused include political and military leaders.
Secondly, a number of further investigations are under
way in the Office of the Prosecutor with the result that
more indictments are being issued almost every month.
Thirdly, in pre-trial hearings, significant issues have
been raised and argued before a Trial Chamber and the
Appeals Chamber. These issues are of crucial importance;
for instance, some concern the international legitimacy and
lawfulness of the Tribunal’s establishment by the Security
Council. Others relate to the Tribunal’s subject-matter
jurisdiction, that is to say, its power to prosecute certain
crimes. Other issues concern the protection of witnesses.
The relevant Trial Chamber and the Appeals Chamber have
thus had the opportunity to pronounce upon these important
matters,
thereby breaking new ground in international
criminal law.
Fourthly, the trial of an accused is set to start in a few
months now that all the pre-trial motions have been heard.
The delay in the commencement of the actual trial is due
entirely to problems raised by the defence. Counsel for the
defence has asked the Tribunal to give him the financial
wherewithal necessary to prepare his case, as well as the
time necessary to interview witnesses. It is his contention
that, so far, he has been unable to contact witnesses for the
defence both because they are in a war zone and because of
the total — I
the
Bosnian Serb authorities in Pale. The Tribunal, of course,
considers the rights of the defence and the principle of fair
trial as sacrosanct. It therefore felt it was appropriate to
grant this delay.
total — non-cooperation of
repeat,
Fifthly, a hearing has been held under rule 61 of the
Tribunal’s rules of procedure and evidence. Rule 61
provides for a special procedure to which resort may be had
when the accused is not brought to trial either because he
evades arrest or because the authorities refuse to cooperate
with our Tribunal. This special procedure, which is by no
means a trial in absentia, is designed to avoid giving the
accused the power to thwart or obstruct international justice
2
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
by simply failing to appear in court. Under this procedure
witnesses can be called by the Prosecutor, and they may
testify in public and have their testimony recorded for
posterity. On the basis of their testimony,
the Trial
Chamber may conclude that there are reasonable grounds
for believing that the accused has committed the crimes
charged in the indictment, and may issue an international
arrest warrant.
Last month the Tribunal applied rule 61 for the first
time. Thirteen witnesses appeared in court
to give
testimony regarding the alleged atrocities at the hands of
the accused. At the end of the proceedings, the Trial
Chamber issued an international arrest warrant against the
accused. Further, the Trial Chamber asked me, as the
Tribunal’s President, to advise the Security Council of the
failure of the Bosnian Serb Administration in Pale to
cooperate with the Tribunal. I did so on 30 October.
In sum, the Tribunal is boldly travelling towards the
accomplishment of its mission. The path is not, however,
without certain obstacles. I shall now outline three of
them.
First,
its disposal. Without
the decisions, orders and requests of the
International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia can be
enforced only by others, namely, national authorities.
Unlike domestic criminal courts, the Tribunal has no
enforcement agencies at
the
intermediary of national authorities, it cannot execute
arrest warrants, it cannot seize evidentiary material, it
cannot compel witnesses to give testimony, it cannot
search the scenes where crimes have been allegedly
committed. For all these purposes, it must turn to State
authorities and request them to take action. Our Tribunal
is like a giant who has no arms and no legs. To walk and
work, he needs artificial limbs. These artificial limbs are
the State authorities. Without
their help the Tribunal
cannot operate.
Admittedly,
this holds true for all
international
institutions, which need the support of States to be able
to operate. However, our Tribunal needs the support of
States more than any other
institution
because its actions have a direct impact on individuals
who live in the territory of sovereign States and are
subject to their jurisdiction. The adoption by States of all
the legislative, administrative and judicial measures
necessary for the expeditious execution of the Tribunal’s
decisions is thus of crucial importance.
international
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Unfortunately, despite a clear decision by the Security
Council in resolution 827 (1993), at present only some
15 — I repeat: 15 — of the 185 States Members of the
United Nations have enacted implementing legislation. A
few other States have gone only so far as to indicate their
intention to adopt such legislation in the near future.
This lack of cooperation proves particularly paralysing
for our Tribunal when it comes to the execution of arrest
warrants. As I said,
the Tribunal does not have an
enforcement agency of any description at its disposal; we
therefore need the assistance of States for the execution of
arrest warrants issued by the Tribunal. Regrettably, two of
the entities of the former Yugoslavia have so far refused to
cooperate: I refer to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia
the Bosnian Serb
Administration in Pale. Their total lack of cooperation has
greatly hampered the work of our Tribunal: 41 of the first
43 accused are in their territory, but they have failed to
apprehend these suspects and surrender
them to our
Tribunal. Without having suspects physically in our
presence, we cannot proceed to trial.
and Montenegro)
and
A second obstacle facing the Tribunal arises out of the
fact that it is trying cases while an armed conflict is still
under way and bloodshed and suffering are daily
occurrences. This is in stark contrast to the usual situation
of judicial institutions dealing with crimes committed in the
course of hostilities. They step in only when the conflict
has ceased, as at Nuremberg and Tokyo. In contrast to this,
our Tribunal has been called upon to dispense justice while
armed conflict continues and while the planners and
perpetrators of crimes shelter under the protective umbrella
of military or political power. Plainly, no suspects will be
surrendered to the Tribunal by those authorities which have
been criminally complicit in, or at least criminally negligent
in not preventing or stopping, serious violations of
international humanitarian law.
All of
this greatly complicates the task of our
Tribunal. For one thing, investigators — whether acting on
behalf of the Prosecutor or of the Defence — may be
prevented from collecting evidence or
interviewing
witnesses because of continuing armed clashes. For another,
witnesses may,
in the absence of a protective State
apparatus, fear immediate reprisals against themselves or
their relatives, and therefore may be reluctant to come
forward to testify. Finally, the state of armed conflict may
create in many citizens a mood of partisanship. War
criminals may be hailed as heroes, and cooperation with the
Tribunal may be viewed as traitorous.
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
A third concern is the difficulty the Tribunal has
faced — and continues to face — in obtaining the
financial and practical resources necessary to carry out its
work. The budget for the 1994-1995 biennium was
approved only in July 1995. Two short months later, the
financial crisis in the United Nations created new
problems. These kinds of financial limitations strike at the
very heart of our Tribunal, for two main reasons.
First, the Tribunal is a new and innovative institution
which is in the early stages of its growth, and we are
undertaking activities which have never before been
carried out by the United Nations. We urgently need to
recruit a full complement of staff, we need to provide
them with adequate tools to work, and we need to have
adequate funds available to cover the initial expenses of
setting up the Tribunal’s working environment.
There is a second reason why the budget restrictions
have made our lives particularly difficult in the Tribunal.
The need to investigate crimes which are being committed
half a continent away, and in a constantly changing
environment, calls for immediate and responsive action by
our investigators. They must move while the events are
fresh. When mass graves are suddenly available for
inspection, we should not be agonizing over whether the
funding for travel is available.
All these undertakings are costly — of that there is
no doubt; but if the United Nations wants to hear the
voice of
then the
Member States must be willing to pay the price.
justice speak loudly and clearly,
direct
departments
to give to all
responsibility
One step in the right direction was the recent
the
decision by the Secretary-General
relevant
for
implementing the cost-saving measures which have been
put into effect. This is indeed welcome news to our
Tribunal. At least the responsibility is now in our own
hands to set priorities and spending goals. But this is not
enough. We urge the Assembly to help us fulfil our
mission by providing the badly needed resources.
For us to overcome the hurdles I have outlined so
far, the increasing support of Members of the General
Assembly is vital. In this connection, I am happy to
report that so far a number of States have substantially
assisted our Tribunal politically, morally and financially.
In particular,
is
providing unreserved and continuing assistance, for which
we are deeply grateful. The European Union should also
be highly commended for its invaluable support in many
the host country,
the Netherlands,
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
areas; without this support our task would have been even
more daunting.
a real stake in cooperating, in order to ensure their good
standing at the United Nations.
We are aware at The Hague that the world is watching
our every move very closely and with mixed feelings:
generous expectations but also profound scepticism. We
cannot afford not to fulfil these expectations; we must
dispel this scepticism. The failure of our Tribunal would
mean the failure of the Rwanda Tribunal as well, and the
very idea of a permanent international criminal court could
be set back for decades. Even more important,
the
Tribunal’s failure would mean leaving unfulfilled the hopes
and demands of so many victims in the former Yugoslavia
who are insistently calling for justice.
It has been said that the two dominant feelings in our
age are fear and indifference. The Tribunal is a symbol to
show that
the United Nations cannot be accused of
indifference vis-à-vis the fear and suffering prevailing in the
former Yugoslavia. Hence, to allow our Tribunal to fade
away or eventually succumb to the obstacles I mentioned
earlier would ultimately mean that the world community
was impotent in the face of terrible human tragedies such
as that currently unfolding in the former Yugoslavia.
Let me briefly tackle another topical matter, namely
the possible impact on our Tribunal of successful peace
negotiations. At present there appears to be a real prospect
for a lasting peace in the region. Should that day arrive, is
the Tribunal to become useless? The answer must be a
clear “No”. If anything, the importance of the Tribunal will
be even greater. If there is to be a lasting peace, it must be
accompanied by a sense of justice in the minds of all the
citizens of, and in particular the victims of atrocities in, the
former Yugoslavia. If at the end of a war torturers and their
victims are treated alike,
the war’s legacy of hatred,
resentment and acrimony will not have been snuffed out;
rather, it will continue to smoulder. The existence of peace
in such a climate would be precarious indeed. If, however,
the Tribunal, as an impartial body, continues its work of
bringing to justice at least some of the most egregious
offenders, those who have suffered through four years of
hellish war will be better able to find the forgiveness
required for peace to last.
Indeed, with peace the Tribunal will become more
efficient and better able to accomplish its mission. With
peace, States will no longer be in a position to eschew
cooperation with the Tribunal; they will have to comply
with the Tribunal’s
suspects.
Similarly, those States in the region which have so far
evinced little interest in helping the Tribunal will now have
to surrender
requests
4
Let me conclude by stressing once again that, despite
the myriad difficulties encountered over the past year, the
Judges at The Hague, indeed all those working for the
Tribunal, have not been discouraged. Rather, they have
worked unsparingly, bearing in mind the forceful words
uttered 50 years ago this month, on 21 November 1945,
by the United States Chief Prosecutor, Justice Jackson, in
Nuremberg, with respect to the trial that was opening
there. He said:
“This trial represents mankind’s desperate effort to
apply the discipline of the law to statesmen who
have used their powers of State to attack the
foundations of the world’s peace”.
The Judges at The Hague feel that these words
should hold true for the Tribunal as well. They too are
making a “desperate effort” to pursue the goal of applying
the discipline of international humanitarian law to those
who have planned, directed or perpetrated horrific crimes
in the former Yugoslavia.
I very much hope, now that the Tribunal has moved
on to the second, operational stage of its development,
that
it will be able to bring to fruition its immense
potential and thus show that international criminal justice
can fulfil an indispensable role in the pacification of the
world community.
Mr. Biegman (Netherlands): I am speaking as a
representative of a country that has wholeheartedly
supported the decision of the Security Council to establish
the prosecution of persons
an ad hoc tribunal
responsible
international
humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former
Yugoslavia since 1991. I am also the representative of the
country where the seat of
that Tribunal has been
established.
serious violations of
for
for
Why did the Netherlands Government support that
the Security Council and why did my
decision of
Government welcome the Tribunal
to The Hague?
Because, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
Kingdom said in his statement at the forty-ninth session
of the General Assembly, it is of the utmost importance
not only that the terrible crimes committed in the territory
of
the former Yugoslavia be condemned by the
international community, but also that those responsible
for those crimes, as well as the actual perpetrators, be
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
prosecuted — as a matter of justice, and also as a matter of
deterrence.
Impunity encourages future crimes against humanity.
Impunity often follows from the unwillingness or inability
of the State whose duty it would be to prosecute to do so.
The Netherlands Government therefore sees the decision of
the Security Council to establish the Tribunal, an impartial
court that can take on that task and thereby try to put an
end to impunity, as a necessary complement to the existing
judicial system and as a milestone in the history of
international criminal jurisdiction. For the first time since
Nuremberg and Tokyo,
the international community is
holding individuals responsible for their actions during
wartime and in situations of war. In the miserable history
of the former Yugoslavia, this is one of the very few
positive outcomes so far.
The President of the Tribunal, in his second report,
rightly states that the Tribunal has started to meet the hopes
and expectations of the victims in the former Yugoslavia
and that the preparatory work has been completed and trial
activity has begun, bringing the Tribunal closer to realizing
its principal objectives as laid down in Security Council
resolution 808 (1993).
The Netherlands Government would consider it a
serious setback if this process were, for whatever reason,
slowed down or jeopardized. It would be sad indeed if the
Tribunal, for political or financial reasons, or through lack
of cooperation, could not fulfil its task of applying the basic
principles of humanitarian law. Such a situation would,
moreover, have serious repercussions for the development
of international
law, for the authority of the Security
Council, for the credibility of the quest for justice by the
international community and for the efforts currently being
undertaken to create a permanent international criminal
court — a court which, in the opinion of our Government,
should be the ultimate goal.
The Netherlands has always wholeheartedly supported
the work of the Yugoslavia Tribunal. Its Government
played an active role in the identification and acquisition of
suitable premises
took care of
converting an office building into an appropriate court
building, and it put this at the disposal of the Tribunal, free
of rent for the first year. The Netherlands Government also
assumed the task of protecting those premises, as well as
the Tribunal’s personnel.
the Tribunal.
for
It
Netherlands
investigation
procedures free of charge, and recently the Government
support
experts
the
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
made $2 million available to the Tribunal to clear a
backlog of documents and information material, which
threatened to choke the administration of the Tribunal
and, thereby, the progress of its work.
It will thus be clear that the proper functioning of
the Tribunal is a matter on which the Netherlands bestows
great care, because so much depends on it.
If the Tribunal
is to be effective,
it will need
sufficient financial resources, as well as the cooperation
of all States through the provision of all available
information and the extradition of indicted suspects.
The Tribunal has made a good and solid start. It has
begun its first proceedings — against Mr. Tadic´. It
declared itself competent to try this case, but deferred the
actual trial, to allow the defence more time for proper
preparation of its case. The Prosecutor is preparing
indictments against other suspects, building on the
experience
case. Formal
investigations against Mr. Karadzic, General Mladic and
others have started.
the Tadic´
gathered
in
The Netherlands Government firmly believes that the
Tribunal will be a success. With time, this success will
make potential war criminals think twice before engaging
in violations of humanitarian law. Just as important, it
may break the cycle of revenge between peoples by
putting the blame on individuals who were the main
instigators and executors, and may thus provide a basis
for lasting peace.
For these reasons,
the Tribunal,
deserves the unreserved support of
community.
in our opinion,
the international
Mr. Kocetkov (Bosnia and Herzegovina): The
authorities and the people of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, as well as the democratic public in the
world, accepted and hailed the decision to establish the
International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons
Responsible for Serious Violations of
International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the
Former Yugoslavia since 1991, as an expression of the
international community’s determination to bring before
the court of justice all
in the
preparation or execution of the policy of genocide and
aggression against the sovereign countries and peoples in
the territory of the former Yugoslavia.
those who took part
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Those responsible for implementing the policies of
nationalism and chauvinism must be held accountable and
answerable for crimes not seen in Europe since the end of
the Second World War. At the same time, they must cease
engaging in pogroms, rapes, massacres, forced movements
of civilian populations and the extinction of whole peoples.
The issue here is that of the most serious violations of
human rights — rights established in the United Nations
Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
Geneva and numerous other international Conventions.
civilians: women and children,
The Tribunal’s function is not just to give satisfaction
to the victims of the crimes; it is also to deter potential
future criminals. More than 200,000 people — most of
them innocent
and
predominantly Bosniak Muslims — have been killed in the
territory of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina alone.
Thousands of people, mostly draft-age men and young
boys, have disappeared. About 2 million people — almost
half the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina — have
been expelled from their homes. Thousands of women have
been systematically raped, with the most monstrous of
motives.
These are all components of a strategy and of tactics
aimed at achieving goals of national Fascist policy and
aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Besides, the aggressor, as well as terrorist gangs formed
and supported by the aggressor, has
systematically
destroyed an entire non-Serbian heritage of history and
civilization. Mosques and churches have been levelled, and
Muslim cemeteries have been ploughed.
Right up to the present, what we have witnessed being
carried out is a policy of destroying the signs of every
civilization that does not accord with the aggressors’
national or religious characteristics, in the territories they
are temporarily occupying. These territories are temporarily
occupied by paramilitary forces under the Pale national
Fascist leadership of Karadzic and Mladic, both of whom,
as the most prominent war criminals, have been indicted by
the International Tribunal. Both are indeed war criminals,
and their names must not be forgotten.
We consider that the work of the Prosecutor has been
the work of the Trial
effective so far, and we expect
Chambers, too, to be effective.
The tragedy of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and of Rwanda has been referred to frequently during
debates in this General Assembly session, in the context of
6
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations — and rightly so.
Many of these facts are well known, but, in the
name of truth and justice, what has happened should be
made obvious to everyone. In this respect, we support and
welcome the International Tribunal’s report. We welcome
with great pleasure the comment, in the report, that the
International Tribunal
“is now substantially closer to realizing its principal
objectives as
laid down in Security Council
resolutions 808 (1993) and 827 (1993).” (A/50/365,
para. 1)
The issue here is not revenge. The issue here is
justice — justice in respect of all crimes committed;
justice for the hundreds of thousands of people who have
been subjected to unprecedented suffering; justice for the
murdered and maimed children; justice for the thousands
of raped women;
justice for the destroyed cities and
villages; justice for the separated families; justice for the
people in besieged cities who have daily suffered torture
for more than three years, being subjected to shelling and
sniping, being deliberately and permanently deprived of
electricity, water, medicine, food and the right to move
about, and being prevented from undertaking the
necessary medical evacuation of the sick and wounded.
These are the cases of Sarajevo, Gorazde, Bihac,
Tuzla, Srebrenica, Zepa — cities which have been
designated “safe areas” by the United Nations. There are
also many other cities and villages in this situation. The
suffering of those people must not be forgotten — for the
sake of our children, for the sake of the future generations
that should be able to live in peace and freedom and
enjoy the basic human rights and freedoms to which the
United Nations is solemnly committed.
Those are all reasons to request from everyone here,
and in good faith to expect, as has so far been the case,
full support for the International Tribunal. With this in
mind, we point out that it is necessary to ensure the full
support of all United Nations Member States for the work
of the International Tribunal. This, above all, presumes,
in accordance with the provisions of the statute of the
Tribunal, the handing over of all of those persons indicted
by the Tribunal for crimes committed. This also presumes
all the other support necessary for the Tribunal to carry
out
functions effectively — including financial,
technical and procedural support, as well as an increased
its
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
number of judges, that is, an increased number of Trial
Chambers.
The experience of
the Tribunal’s work and the
concrete results of that experience are of crucial importance
for deciding on the establishment of an international
criminal court, which we support.
the Honourable Justice Goldstone,
Giving full credit, full confidence and support to the
Prosecutor,
for his
present work and everything he has done so far, we also
request and expect that all criminals be indicted as soon as
possible, if there is a legal basis for this and if all the
necessary evidence has been gathered. We especially
emphasize that
the Tribunal must not allow legal
proceedings against only the “small fish” to hide the most
important instigators, planners, organizers and executors of
the terrible crimes of genocide, war crimes and crimes
against humanity. Because of the global dimensions and the
character of
and
Herzegovina, and in other parts of the former Yugoslavia,
the International Tribunal must gain our special support and
have a special place, in the interest of the general principles
of human justice.
committed in Bosnia
crimes
the
In this respect, we insist that Radovan Karadzic´, Ratko
Mladic´ and all others who must answer for the terrible
human tragedy inflicted upon millions of people in Bosnia
and Herzegovina and in other parts of
the former
Yugoslavia must be brought before the International
Tribunal.
for
for Serious Violations of
Mr. Fulci (Italy): Speaking on the report of the
International Tribunal
the Prosecution of Persons
Responsible
International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the
Former Yugoslavia since 1991, I should like, first of all, to
thank the President of the Tribunal, Judge Antonio Cassese,
for his clear, comprehensive and thoughtful statement. Both
that statement and the report show the many positive
developments in the Tribunal’s work, as well as the main
difficulties in fulfilling the mandate entrusted to it by the
United Nations. Italy is particularly pleased with the
Tribunal’s achievements, and is fully committed to helping
overcome the remaining obstacles in its path.
Since its establishment in 1993, the Tribunal has come
a long way towards setting up an effective judicial
mechanism for the prosecution and punishment of crimes
against international humanitarian law committed in the
former Yugoslavia. Despite enormous problems, a number
results have been achieved — thanks
of
important
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
especially to the skill and dedication of the judges, the
Prosecutor’s
non-governmental
organizations that joined in the effort.
office,
those
and
The Tribunal has now become fully operational. The
Prosecutor has handed down indictments, all of which
have been confirmed by the reviewing judges. Arrest
warrants have been issued. Those warrants against
political or military leaders, although not yet executed,
have resulted in the exclusion of such persons from the
negotiating table. Furthermore, hearings have been held
before both the Trial Chambers and the Appeals
Chambers. In one of those proceedings, 13 witnesses were
heard in court. This activity was also made possible by
the creation of all the necessary judicial infrastructures —
another area where the Tribunal had to start from scratch.
Other major problems, as we have heard, still lie
ahead. In order for the Tribunal to meet the expectations
of the world community, the full cooperation of Member
States is of crucial importance. States must cooperate by
adopting national legislation to implement the statute of
the Tribunal. Without such legislation, search and arrest
warrants cannot be executed, nor can subpoenas be
carried out. Adequate financial support for the Tribunal is
also imperative. I am glad to say that Italy was the first
country to adopt implementing legislation, and Italy has
also made a sizeable financial contribution to the
Tribunal’s Trust Fund.
We very much hope that
the current peace
negotiations on the former Yugoslavia will strengthen the
Tribunal’s role, rather than jeopardizing it. The peace
settlement should include clauses making it incumbent
upon all the parties concerned to cooperate fully with the
Tribunal. Peace and justice must go hand in hand.
In conclusion, let me emphasize another reason why
the Tribunal must succeed. The International Tribunal for
the former Yugoslavia and the one on Rwanda are a sort
of laboratory in the area of international criminal justice.
They may prove to be of tremendous importance for the
future establishment of a permanent criminal court. Italy
has consistently advocated the creation of a permanent
court, and has recently renewed its offer to host the
diplomatic conference to adopt the relevant statute. We
therefore cannot but
the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, not only to
bring to justice the perpetrators of atrocious crimes
against humanity, but also, allow me to repeat, as a
milestone on the road to establishing a permanent
international criminal court.
fully support
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Mr. Danesh-Yazdi (Islamic Republic of Iran): Allow
me at the outset to extend my appreciation to Mr. Antonio
Cassese, the President of the International Tribunal, for
submitting the second annual report of the International
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for
Serious Violations of
International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since
1991.
Peace in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
cannot be fully restored, and then trusted, unless those
criminal elements who have organized and perpetrated the
most horrible and deplorable atrocities in that region are
brought to justice. The conscience of the whole world has
been wounded by the practice of “ethnic cleansing” and by
the grave violations of the laws or customs applicable in
armed conflict, as well by the inhumane treatment directed
against Bosnian Muslims by the Serbs, including genocide,
torture and the forcible
the massive rape of women,
displacement of
eventually
persuaded the international community to urgently establish
an ad hoc tribunal to prosecute and punish the perpetrators.
This means that those criminal acts, which are beyond any
explanation, are not to be condoned.
civilians. These
crimes
The gravity and seriousness of
the crimes and
breaches of international humanitarian law committed by
the Serbs made it imperative that the International Tribunal,
as an exceptional and unique case, be set up beyond the
traditional approach of international
law requiring the
establishment of such a body by treaty. The unique
character of the Tribunal, and indeed the hope expressed in
the seventh preambular paragraph of Security Council
resolution 827 (1993) that the Tribunal would
“contribute to ensuring that such violations are halted
and effectively redressed”,
immediate action,
gave rise to high expectations for
irrespective of
institutions
normally come after the event, when the hostilities have
come to an end.
that such judicial
the fact
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
Muslims, in places such as Srebrenica, Zepa and Banja
Luka, have been subjected to extremely harsh treatment,
such as “ethnic cleansing”, massacre and massive torture.
Had the perpetrators of those grave crimes previously
faced serious political and legal reactions,
the world
would not have witnessed such tragic events. The Islamic
Republic of Iran condemns all those crimes, and urges the
Tribunal to take the most vigorous action against those
responsible.
The International Tribunal, which has the support of
the international community, should ensure that under no
circumstances is the imperative of justice ignored. To this
end, the indictment and punishment of those criminals is
of the utmost urgency. In this context, peace negotiations
with the very individuals who have been indicted by the
Tribunal should be avoided under any circumstances.
The Tribunal should fulfil its task effectively and
expeditiously regardless of political expediencies. It is of
great satisfaction that the second report of the Tribunal
states that
“Whatever the political consequences or the eventual
outcome of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia,
the Tribunal will not
task.”
(A/50/365, para. 5)
flinch from this
Furthermore, the proper functioning of the Tribunal
can heal the wounds resulting from war crimes in the
Balkans. This can create trust, confidence and hope for
the future, all of which are vital for the realization of
lasting peace and tranquillity in the region.
For the Tribunal to be successful and effective, the
cooperation of all States is undoubtedly necessary and
crucial.
It provides an appropriate solution to the
problems referred to in paragraph 191 of the report under
consideration. An
such
cooperation could be the pledge of all States not
to
harbour war criminals. In our view, the United Nations,
through its various bodies, can adopt certain measures to
ensure such cooperation.
indication
important
of
With the removal of some obstacles that had impeded
the functioning of
the initial stage,
responsibility now rests upon this legal body to intensify its
endeavours to achieve the objectives set out in the relevant
Security Council resolutions.
the Tribunal at
The Serbian atrocities against the Muslim people of
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina have in no way
the Bosnian
ceased. Recent reports have revealed that
Despite the remaining problems still hampering the
satisfactory functioning of the Tribunal, it is indeed a
positive development that some individuals have been
indicted for their criminal offences. Further steps should
be taken to punish them, as well as to bring all other
violators to justice. We share the view expressed in the
report that the Tribunal has a historical role in setting
precedents for future international criminal forums. As
8
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
envisaged in the report, the Tribunal, if it acts in a just and
effective manner, will
“send a message to the victims of appalling crimes
that humanity will not
turn its back on them.”
(A/50/365, para. 199)
In conclusion, the Islamic Republic of Iran, on its part,
in
stands ready to cooperate fully with the Tribunal
fulfilling its task.
Mr. Gnehm (United States of America): The
President of
the Tribunal, Mr. Antonio Cassese, has
honoured this body today with a thorough introduction of
the report of the International Criminal Tribunal for the
former Yugoslavia. President Cassese and the other
Tribunal judges are performing, and performing extremely
well, a difficult and challenging task. They have had to
develop procedures for operating in an environment where
thoroughness and fairness are absolutely essential and
precedents are inexact and few. Their daily efforts serve to
bolster international law and the principles of the United
Nations Charter. They have earned our respect, and they
deserve our support.
President Cassese’s presence and his statement here
today reflect the critical role that the General Assembly
continues to play in connection with the war-crimes
Tribunals. The Assembly’s condemnation of the crimes
against humanity that have been committed in Rwanda and
the former Yugoslavia illustrates the universal nature of the
outrage over those atrocities. It is here in this Assembly
that funding for the Tribunals is decided, and it will be the
level of financial and political support received from
members of this Assembly that will play a major role in
determining whether
full
potential.
the Tribunals achieve their
The success of the Tribunal in achieving its purpose
is a matter of concern to the United States Government at
the highest levels. In a recent statement given in connection
with the fiftieth anniversary of
the
Nuremburg trials, President Clinton reaffirmed America’s
strong support for the Tribunals and for their goals. The
American people want
to see those responsible for
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity brought
to justice. We want to deter such crimes, and we want to
help nations torn apart by violence to begin a process of
healing and reconciliation.
the beginning of
In the President’s words, the
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
“indictments are not negotiable. Those accused ...
must be tried, and, if found guilty, they must be held
accountable. Some people are concerned that
pursuing peace in Bosnia and prosecuting war
criminals are incompatible goals. But I believe they
are wrong. There must be peace for justice to
prevail, and there must be justice when peace
prevails.”
In those same remarks, President Clinton said that
“nations all around the world that value freedom and
tolerance [should] establish a permanent international
court to prosecute, with the support of the United
Nations Security Council, serious violations of
international humanitarian law.”
Such a permanent court would, again in the President’s
words, serve as a
“tribute to the people who did such important work
in Nuremburg”,
and it would build on the experience garnered during the
deliberations of the current United Nations Tribunals.
In his statement today, President Cassese identifies
a number of issues facing the International Tribunal for
the former Yugoslavia. One involves the need for
cooperation by key Member States.
In this connection, my Government has recently been
in contact with President Milosevic of Serbia and
Montenegro and elicited from him a firm commitment to
cooperate with the Tribunal in its work, whether or not
armed conflict continues. We expect these encouraging
words to be matched by deeds.
Similar assurances have not been forthcoming from
the Bosnian Serb Administration in Pale. Member States
should demand of Pale what the statute of the Tribunal
demands: full cooperation. In the current peace talks my
Government is emphasizing the importance we attach to
all parties’ cooperation with the Tribunal in all aspects of
its work.
President Cassese also spoke of
the need for
adequate resources. Accordingly, we applaud the financial
and other support given by many Governments and by the
European Union. We are grateful for the voluntary
contributions made by several Governments and the
efforts of non-governmental organizations to support the
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
work of the Tribunals. But these efforts must be continued,
sustained and enlarged. The Tribunals deserve the broadest
possible support.
For its part, my Government assures the Tribunals of
its backing, which to date has been considerable. In
addition to the 1994-95 regular budget assessment of $5.5
million that we have paid for the Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia,
the United States has made a voluntary
contribution of $3 million, in addition to providing more
than 20 prosecutors, investigators and other experts, as well
as various supplies and items of equipment at our own
expense. Our total commitment to date of about $13.5
million is a beginning, and we encourage other Member
States to join us in pledging sufficient funds for the
Tribunal to meet its responsibilities.
We applaud recent actions by the United Nations
Secretariat increasing the flexibility of its support for the
Tribunal, including the transfer of some fiscal authority to
the Tribunal.
Mr. Pibulsonggram (Thailand), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
As President Cassese’s statement today attests, the ad
hoc Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda are
new and important ventures. My Government strongly
supports them and urges others to do the same. The success
of the tribunals will have an important impact not only on
the conflicts to which they specifically relate, but on future
efforts to address violations of international humanitarian
law. We must continue our efforts to find effective ways to
investigate and prosecute war criminals. We must heed the
lessons of Nuremburg. In so doing, and only in so doing,
will we fulfil the responsibilities of our own time.
Mr. Yoogalingam (Malaysia): At the outset, allow me
on behalf of my delegation to express our appreciation to
the President of the International Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia, Mr. Antonio Cassese,
very
comprehensive second annual
the Tribunal
submitted to the Assembly, as contained in document
A/50/365. My delegation would also like to express our
deep appreciation to the Government of the Netherlands for
its cooperation and the support given to the Tribunal since
its establishment.
report of
for
the
Having carefully studied the report, my delegation
would like to make the following points. First, my
delegation is concerned over the financial difficulties still
confronting the Tribunal, particularly after more than two
10
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
the important work of
years of its existence. While recognizing that some
aspects of this problem were addressed by the General
Assembly this summer,
this
Tribunal should not be allowed to grind to a halt as a
result of budgetary constraints. We need to undertake
specific measures to ensure secure and stable financing
for the Tribunal to fulfil its role fully and effectively. We
hope that
the international community will be more
forthcoming in its contributions to finance the activities of
the Tribunal in order to ensure that justice is done in the
former Yugoslavia. To date, 17 countries have made
voluntary contributions, including Malaysia, which has
contributed $2 million.
Secondly, we are also concerned about the drastic
financial measures recently imposed by the Office of the
Under-Secretary-General, Department of Administration
and Management, on the Tribunal. In this regard, we
support
the resolution unanimously adopted by the
Tribunal at its eighth plenary session on 6 October 1995.
We share its view that
“it would be contrary to the interests of justice to
hamper its activities in the manner sought by the
Office
for
Administration and Management by restricting travel
and recruitment.”
the Under-Secretary-General
of
We also share the view that simply curtailing the
activities of the Tribunal and awaiting an improvement in
the financial situation of the United Nations is not the
best option. In this regard, we urge the Secretary-General
to reconsider his decision.
Thirdly, we are pleased to note that some actions
have been taken by the Tribunal
to prosecute war
criminals. We note that on 24 July 1995 the Prosecutor
submitted an indictment against Dr. Karadzic´ and General
Mladic´, the two Bosnian Serb leaders charged, either on
the basis of superior authority or direct responsibility,
with genocide, crimes against humanity, violations of the
laws or customs of war and grave breaches of the Geneva
Conventions of 1949.
Fourthly, we share the observation contained in
paragraph 191 of
the report which underlines the
necessity for Member States to cooperate with the
Tribunal to bring criminals to justice, considering that the
Tribunal has
“no enforcement agencies at its disposal”.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
At the same time, we also wish to acknowledge as well as
underline
non-governmental
organizations in assisting the work of the Tribunal.
important
role
the
of
We hope that justice will be served, as we firmly
believe that criminals cannot go unpunished nor the victims
be denied justice. As the adage goes, “justice must not only
be done, it must be seen to be done”, to atone for the
thousands killed, raped, brutalized and maimed in the
former Yugoslavia. Let me conclude by saying that the
credibility and effectiveness of the Tribunal will be judged
by its action, and for this we need the political commitment
and the financial support of all.
Mr. Çelem (Turkey): We are happy to see positive
developments in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. The
adoption of the agreed basic principles of Geneva and New
York, and the ongoing peace talks in Dayton, foster our
optimism. However, we are aware of the fact that there
may be stumbling blocks and set-backs on the long and
difficult road to a just and viable peace. For this reason, we
must never lose sight of the fact that the long-awaited
response to the aggressor has opened the current window of
opportunity to bring an end to the aggression and genocide
in Bosnia
recently created
momentum for a genuine peace could only be maintained
with this awareness. In this context,
the work of the
International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia
is extremely important.
and Herzegovina. The
We have studied very carefully the second annual
report of the International Criminal Tribunal which is
contained in document A/50/365. We have also listened
with great interest to the thought-provoking statement of the
President of the Tribunal, Mr. Antonio Cassese. As he
stated:
two of
the entities of
“Regrettably,
the former
Yugoslavia have so far refused to cooperate: I refer to
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro) and the Bosnian Serb Administration in
Pale”. (supra, p. 3)
We have noted with grave concern his observation that
the total lack of cooperation of these two “entities” has
been greatly hampering the work of the Tribunal. We call
on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to start
its
cooperation with the Tribunal without further delay.
We fully agree with the chief Prosecutor’s statement
that
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
the political and
“where we find evidence that
military leadership knew or had reason to know of
serious violations of international humanitarian law
and failed to take actions to prevent these violations
or to punish those who committed them, we also
will seek those leaders accountable.”
The chief Prosecutor has so far issued nine indictments
charging individuals, including the political and military
leaders
of
international humanitarian law. These indictments are
crucial steps for a successful prosecution process.
responsible
violations
grave
the
for
We attach utmost importance to the admonition of
Mr. Cassese that peace without justice is no peace at all.
We fully endorse his remarks:
it must be
“If there is to be a lasting peace,
accompanied by a sense of justice in the minds of
all the citizens of, and in particular the victims of
atrocities in, the former Yugoslavia. If at the end of
a war torturers and their victims are treated alike,
the war’s legacy of hatred, resentment and acrimony
will not have been snuffed out; rather,
it will
continue to smoulder. The existence of peace in such
a climate would be precarious indeed.” (supra, p. 4)
Indeed, if peace is to triumph, justice must prevail.
And only then can a climate be created where the people
can live and work together
free from fear. The
responsibility falls on us. Criminals cannot go unpunished
nor the victims denied justice. We will continue to
support the International Criminal Tribunal in discharging
its historic task.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item. May I take it that it is
the wish of
the General Assembly to conclude its
consideration of agenda item 49?
It was so decided.
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Agenda item 162
Universal Congress on the Panama Canal
Draft resolution (A/50/L.13)
The Acting President: I call on the representative of
Panama to introduce draft resolution A/50/L.13.
Mr. Illueca (Panama) (interpretation from Spanish):
For many reasons related to the history of Panama, from
the time of its discovery by Spain until our day, it is a
special honour
resolution
A/50/L.13, “Universal Congress on the Panama Canal”,
which my delegation has submitted to this fiftieth session
of the General Assembly together with the representatives
of France and the United States.
for me to introduce draft
The reasons for this joint submission were explained
at the meeting of the General Committee on 20 September
last, when the inclusion of the item on the agenda was
requested. At that time, we referred to the Panamanian
Government’s wish to obtain United Nations support for
this initiative linked to the future of the Panama Canal and
its role in the twenty-first century.
With that
the High Commissioner of
intention in mind, we appointed Mr.
Fernando Manfredo,
the
Republic of Panama for the Universal Congress on the
Panama Canal, to be a member of our delegation. For a
number of years he was Deputy Administrator and then
Administrator of this interoceanic waterway.
With the Assembly’s permission, I would venture to
suggest that the draft resolution contains the necessary
elements
the convergences between the
competence of the United Nations and the implications of
the Congress in some areas of that competence.
to highlight
Reference is also made in the draft to facts and dates
which mark the process that will culminate in 1999 with
Panama’s exercise of full sovereignty over all its territory
and assumption of total responsibility for the control and
functioning of the Panama Canal, for which we enjoy the
support of brotherly countries of
the Americas and
elsewhere.
We should also like to draw attention to the very
pertinent reference to 1998 as International Year of the
Ocean and to the World Exposition to take place in Lisbon
by decision of the Government of Portugal.
12
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
The draft
resolution, which we are asking the
Assembly to adopt by consensus, will help to make the
Universal Congress on the Panama Canal a part of the
rich experience of the United Nations with regard to
international and multidisciplinary meetings as a form of
world diplomacy and a way of promoting brotherhood
among men through knowledge.
Beginning in December 1999, Panama will be
assuming a responsibility which we firmly intend to
honour. By preparing and holding the Universal Congress,
we shall be sending a powerful signal to the world on
how international cooperation, taking into account the
interests and expectations of many countries, disciplines
and activities, can work to define and assure the role that
the Panama Canal will play in the twenty-first century in
problems and preoccupations that are part of the subject-
matter of
the sea,
international
the environment, and sustainable
development.
the United Nations:
trade,
the law of
In addition, with the holding of
the Universal
Congress, my Government hopes to bring the scientific,
technological and cultural life of the Isthmus of Panama
into harmony with that of the advanced centres of the
world.
For many reasons related to the history of my
country, and having to do with my own record as a
champion of Panama’s sovereignty over the whole of our
national territory, I feel that at this time I am representing
an age-old aspiration of all
the men and women of
Panama. Unquestionably it will be a source of deep
satisfaction to bring the twentieth century to a close with
an act which will again bear witness to the entire world
of the continuing universalist vocation of the people of
Panama.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of Bolivia, who will speak on behalf of the
Latin American and the Caribbean States.
Mr. Camacho Omiste (Bolivia) (interpretation from
Spanish): As Chairman of the Regional Group of Latin
American and Caribbean States
the month of
November 1995, it is my honour to speak on agenda item
162 entitled “Universal Congress on the Panama Canal”.
for
For many years, Latin American and Caribbean
countries have followed with common interest
items
relating to the Panama Canal and the negotiations which
led to the signing of the treaties known as the “Torrijos-
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Carter Treaties” on 7 September 1977. On that historic
occasion, the Heads of State, Heads of Government and
representatives of the American Republics witnessed the
signing of the Treaties, and on the same date they signed
the Washington Declaration recognizing:
“the importance for the hemisphere, for trade and for
world shipping of agreements designed to ensure the
accessibility and continued neutrality of the Panama
Canal”.
Panama is a centre of universal significance, a
keystone in relations between the northern and southern
hemispheres on the American continent and for interoceanic
communication for all peoples. Some of Europe’s influence
in the sixteenth century had reached broad swathes of South
America, and Panama became a required passage for a
significant proportion of world trade. Consequently, it was
also a meeting-point of economic and political interests
with global influence. These geographical and historical
realities lend extreme significance to events in this special
region. How can we be indifferent to the problems, hopes
and achievements of our fellow peoples that live in our part
of the world?
In the conviction that the Universal Congress on the
Panama Canal will promote understanding and stability, and
also the development and international cooperation that will
make possible the orderly and sustainable use of the
resources of
the
delegations of the Latin American and Caribbean countries
wish through me to express their support
for draft
resolution A/50/L.13, and to request that it be adopted by
consensus.
and Atlantic Oceans,
the Pacific
Mr. Marrero (United States of America): As a co-
sponsor of the draft resolution before the Assembly, the
United States Government believes firmly that Panama’s
Universal Congress on the Panama Canal
is of major
importance, not only for Panama but for world commerce.
The United States and Panama are working closely together
to ensure that the transfer of the Canal to Panama on 31
December 1999 will be smooth. During the official working
visit to Washington by President Pérez Balladares, President
Clinton pledged full cooperation to place the Canal under
Panamanian control on schedule.
The United States is confident that Panama will be
ready to assume control over the Canal by the end of the
century. Even now, Panamanian employees are fulfilling the
vast majority of tasks associated with the Canal’s operation.
The Universal Congress on the Panama Canal, which
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
Panama plans to host in 1997, offers a unique opportunity
for the world community to get a first-hand look at Canal
operations and the preparations for a seamless transfer of
responsibility.
We ask all Member States to join us in strongly
supporting Panama’s initiative in hosting the Universal
Congress on the Panama Canal, and to assist it in this
important undertaking.
congress, under
Mr. Gaussot (France) (interpretation from French):
In 1879, the Société de géographie de Paris convened an
international
chairmanship of
Ferdinand de Lesseps,
to study the question of an
interoceanic canal. The congress decided, in a resolution,
to build a canal along a line that would link the Gulf of
Limón, on the Atlantic, and the Bay of Panama, on the
Pacific. And so the Panama Canal was born.
the
The Government of Panama has taken the initiative
of convening a new Universal Congress, to be held in
1997 — in other words, 118 years after
the Paris
congress. The objective of this international meeting will
be to contribute to ensuring the effective use of the canal,
integrated into an open multilateral trading system, under
a dynamic administration capable of overcoming the
problems of development in the twenty-first century.
The purpose of the resolution before the Assembly
is to support the Panamanian Government’s initiative.
France is happy to see that the Panama Canal, which
has a special place in our national history, will thus enjoy
lasting development and that the authorities that will take
over management in under four years are concerned with
ensuring that the Canal fits smoothly into the international
economy. For those reasons, France decided to co-sponsor
the draft resolution.
We are certain that
the choices made by the
Government of Panama are in keeping with the universal
objective that motivated Ferdinand de Lesseps when, over
a century ago, he set about building the Canal, and we are
certain also that the durability of that spirit of universality
will contribute to the maintenance and development of the
excellent relations that already exist between France and
Panama.
Mr. Manfredo (Panama)
(interpretation from
Spanish): It is a great honour for me to speak before the
General Assembly, as representative of my country, on
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the subject of the Panama Canal, its importance for the
world and its prospects on the eve of the new millennium.
This is a doubly significant honour because this is the
year that
the United Nations is celebrating its fiftieth
anniversary, 50 years during which it has accomplished a
very difficult though noble task in maintaining peace and
finding negotiated solutions for a manifold and diverse
range of international problems and conflicts.
I must say, first, that the Panama Canal is a peaceful
undertaking that in the 81 years it has been in operation has
been an important element in the economic and social
development of the world’s peoples. The Panama Canal has
made a positive contribution to the economic development
of many countries which find the interoceanic route the
cheapest and most direct for transporting materials and
products in their international trade.
The Panama Canal is part of the world’s transport
infrastructure. Despite the development of alternative
systems, the Canal will continue to play an important role
in the world’s sea-borne trade. Last year, ships flying the
flags of 78 countries used the Canal as they made over
12,000 crossings of the isthmus, east-west and west-east.
In Washington, on 7 September 1977, the Heads of
State and Government that were present at the signing of
the Canal Treaties, known as the “Torrijos-Carter Treaties”,
recognized
“... the importance for the hemisphere, for trade and
for world shipping of agreements designed to ensure
the accessibility and continued neutrality of
the
Panama Canal”.
The Canal Treaties, signed 18 years ago, cover the full
reversion of administration and control of the interoceanic
waterway to the Republic of Panama starting at noon on 31
December 1999. This means that we Panamanians will be
assuming an important historic responsibility at the birth of
a new century and a new millennium. We will not only be
recovering our principal natural resource and restoring the
integrity of our territory, thus consolidating the long process
of independence; we will also be assuming, before the eyes
of the world community and under the gaze of our national
destiny, the obligation to manage the Panama Canal so that
this great global shipping lane continues to function as
efficiently, economically and safely as it has thus far and to
make the necessary investments to respond to the demands
of its use.
14
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
Facing this national commitment with a sense of
responsibility, the President of the Republic of Panama,
Mr. Ernesto Pérez Balladares, in an executive decree
dated 25 January 1995, called for the holding of the
Universal Congress on the Panama Canal, which will take
place in Panama City from 7-10 September 1997. Historic
precedents exist
the
Amphictyonic Congress of Panama of 1826, convoked by
Simón Bolívar, the Liberator, and the Congress convened
by the Société de Géographie de Paris, under
the
presidency of Count Ferdinand de Lesseps, in Paris in
1879.
for a Congress of
this kind:
One of the primary objectives of this Congress is to
show the international community, the maritime sector,
the users of the interoceanic waterway and those countries
trade is closely linked to and
whose international
dependent upon the operation of the Canal
the
transition from a North American Canal to a Panamanian
Canal is taking place normally through a coordinated
process of transfer of responsibilities.
that
is responsible for
The Transition Committee
appointed by the
Government of Panama has been operating for several
months now.
the adoption of
measures and initiatives to ensure the smooth operational
transition of
administration to
Panamanian hands. To achieve this goal, the Panamanian
Transition Committee works in close and harmonious
cooperation with its North American counterpart.
the Canal’s
It
entire
It is important to emphasize that the Governments of
Panama and of the United States are carrying out an
expeditious transition process aimed at ensuring the
continued and efficient functioning of the interoceanic
waterway and at providing structures and policies that
will give users full confidence of having continued access
to the Canal.
The convocation of the Universal Congress on the
Panama Canal and its holding two years from now
constitute part of the transition process, in the area of
planning the future strategy for the Canal. The Congress
seeks the lofty goal of bringing together statesmen and
representatives
international
organizations, of public and private academic institutions,
of the shipping community and of international transport
companies so that they may consider together the role that
the Panama Canal should play in the twenty-first century.
of Governments,
of
The Government of Panama hopes that the Congress
will not only lead the community of users of the Canal to
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
that
reaffirm its full confidence in Panamanians’ ability to
manage the Canal efficiently and effectively in the coming
century, but will also make them feel
they are
participants in the formulation of administrative policies and
practices that make it possible for management to serve
them, and the economic community in general better. It is
worth noting that Panama’s confidence in its ability to
manage the Canal is based, inter alia, on the fact that
currently more than 90 per cent of the staff that operate the
Canal at various levels of responsibility are Panamanian,
including the general manager.
towards a global partnership for
The convocation of the Universal Congress of the
Panama Canal corresponds with my country’s objective
with the spirit that moves it to align itself with the new
trends
sustainable
development, which implies the necessity to formulate,
through cooperation, a balanced, integrated approach to
issues concerning the environment, trade and development.
Among its main goals are the promotion of international
cooperation in order to achieve an orderly, sustainable use
and development of the resources of the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans and a rational exploitation and development
of the Canal basin and the coastal areas that gives priority
consideration to the water requirements for the Canal’s
operation.
We already have a draft agenda for the Universal
Congress on the Panama Canal. The Congress will see
studies on policies and legal structures and forecasts of
international maritime demands. In addition, studies on
human resources, operations and maintenance, water
resources and protection of the environment will be carried
out. Panama will report to the participants in the Congress
on what it has done in terms of organizational structure,
goals and objectives, legal framework and administrative
rules and procedures for the operations of the Canal starting
in the year 2000. Workshops will be held on canal traffic,
the financial structure of the enterprise, toll policy, strategic
planning and the Treaty concerning the Permanent
Neutrality of the Panama Canal.
During its four days of work, the Congress will deal
with the issue of broadening the Gaillard Cut, the third set
of locks, forecasts of long-term demand and the viewpoints
and ideas of the users of the Canal. It will also deal with
maritime agencies, the operation of ports, the supplying of
vessels, repair services, the registry of Panamanian vessels
and the market for the transshipment of cargo.
The Government of Panama will make a presentation
to the Congress on investment opportunities in the areas
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
adjacent to the banks of the Canal that have reverted to
Panama and that will serve to support and develop
shipping and world commerce. The general and regional
plan on the use of reverted areas will be introduced, along
with an analysis of the many opportunities for developing
industrial and commercial centres in these areas.
The Universal Congress on the Panama Canal
constitutes in essence an invitation to the international
community to come to Panama in September 1997 so that
together we may cast a view to the future and jointly
examine the Canal’s
role in the development of
international trade in the new world full of challenges and
opportunities that will arrive with the twenty-first century.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/50/L.13.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/50/L.13?
Draft resolution A/50/L.13 was adopted (resolution
50/12).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the General Assembly to conclude
wish of
consideration of agenda item 162?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 40 (continued)
Building a peaceful and better world through sport
and the Olympic Ideal
Draft resolution (A/50/L.15)
The Acting President: I call on the representative
of Saint Lucia, His Excellency the Honourable Edward
Innocent, Minister for Community Development, Social
Affairs, Youth, Sports, Cooperatives
and Local
Government.
Mr. Innocent (Saint Lucia): The English claim that
the Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing-fields of
Eton, and I accept the theory that the discipline and skills
required in war can best be inculcated through the
attitudes acquired and encouraged on the field of sport.
But today, the joy of having the sporting achievements of
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the International Olympic Committee aired in this Assembly
is clouded by the news of the untimely death of Prime
Minister Rabin. This is cause for serious reflection. We
cannot be too smug about battles being won on the basis of
the virtues of the world of sport. We must use the
coincidence of these two events to reflect on the ideal that
our playing-fields should become polytechnics for peace,
not preparatory schools for war.
It is fitting that Ministers for Sport, like myself, can
come to this Mecca of freedom, justice and equality to
express openly our views on the value of sport to our
communities. The Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali, lit the torch for us when he said:
“The Olympic Ideal
understanding between people and cultures”.
is a hymn to tolerance and
In my country, Saint Lucia, it is precisely this perception
that induced us to become members of the International
Olympic Committee (IOC) and to work hard to ensure that
our National Olympic Committee lives up to the ideals of
the IOC.
Small countries face tremendous disadvantages in the
fiercely competitive world of sport. We cannot afford the
basic facilities to train and develop our athletic skills. We
have no adequate stadium for our games, no cinder track,
no extensive coaching facilities for the many fine players
from rural areas, who are destined to remain unknown.
Despite our
facilities, however, we are
attempting to establish mini-stadiums island-wide, and we
have started the erection of a national sports centre in the
southern part of the island. It is our aim to construct multi-
purpose courts in various communities around the island.
This is part of a general review of our national sports
policy.
shortage of
Our size and our indigence have not prevented us from
producing athletes of world class, such as Rick Wayne,
who stormed the heights of body-building by winning the
Mr. World, Mr. America and Mr. Universe titles. There is
hope. The International Olympic Committee has already
demonstrated, throughout the developing world, that it is
dedicated to bringing diverse peoples together in bonds of
friendship and good will. It has also shown its intention to
help disadvantaged young people to attain great heights in
sports.
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
ideologies have been brought together to compete with
one another under acceptable rules. The coming together
of peoples, nations and ethnic groups is a fundamental
element of global human existence. I commend and laud
the International Olympic Committee for this feat.
role of
the
fraternity. This
Today, every nation wants to be part of the Olympic
Ideal. Every nation wants to be part of
this great
international global
is because we
understand the
International Olympic
Committee in our physical, mental, psychological, social
and human development.
the International
Olympic Committee has served as a model for other
international sporting bodies and other organizations. In
that regard, its role as an arbiter in times of conflict is
significant.
Indeed,
The Olympic Ideal is the promotion of international
understanding among the youth of the world through
sports and culture, in order to advance the harmonious
development of humankind. There is no doubt that we
have been building a peaceful and better world through
sport and the Olympic Ideal.
As indicated in resolution 49/29 of 1994,
the
International Olympic Committee is collaborating with
relevant organs and specialized agencies of the United
Nations system. This is evident in areas such as the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme,
the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations
Environment Programme,
the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
and the World Health Organization.
the Office of
Finally, we have recognized in this debate the
tremendous benefits that sports can bring to the frustrated
youth in our communities, who move rudderless through
life, with no value system to support them. We have seen
the value of tolerance and understanding, which are
nurtured on the field of sport. We salute the joint efforts
of the United Nations and the International Olympic
Committee in bringing the peoples of the world to mutual
enjoyment of the physical, cultural and spiritual riches
that this Earth offers. The Government and the people of
Saint Lucia wish to express their full support for these
two institutions as
respective
anniversaries.
they celebrate their
I can safely say that
the Olympic Movement has
created a level playing-field. People of diverse cultural
backgrounds, varying religious beliefs and different
The Acting President: I should like to inform the
Assembly that the representative of Qatar has requested
permission to participate in the debate on this item.
16
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Inasmuch as the list of speakers was closed yesterday
morning, I ask the Assembly whether there is any objection
to the inclusion of this delegation.
As I see no objection, Qatar is included in the list of
speakers.
The next speaker is Mr. Vetumbuavi Veii, Director at
the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Namibia.
Mr. Veii (Namibia): It is indeed an honour for me to
represent my country in this Assembly during its
consideration of draft
resolution A/50/L.15, entitled
“Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the
Olympic Ideal”.
The presence, during this special commemorative
meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, of
several Ministers responsible for sports in their respective
States, as well as of the President of the International
Olympic Committee, His Excellency Mr. Juan Antonio
Samaranch, and other key figures of
the Olympic
Movement is eloquent testimony to the fact that sports can
be a force for peace and, therefore, can contribute to the
resolution of internal and global problems.
It
is well known that my country, Namibia, was
involved in a bitter war against foreign domination and the
policy of apartheid. Our country was divided along racial
lines. However, in 1990, when we attained independence,
our President, His Excellency Mr. Sam Nujoma, introduced
the policy of national
reconciliation, and sport was
designated as one of the driving forces to unite our people.
Although health and education account for the highest
proportion of our national budget, a modest percentage is
allocated to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. However, we
have managed to establish basic sporting facilities for our
people, particularly in areas neglected during the previous
dispensation. And we intend to establish such facilities
throughout the country by the year 2000.
therefore, has created an organization for
As a country that was involved in a long and bitter
struggle for liberation, Namibia has many disabled people
and,
the
physically disabled. As a matter of fact, one of our disabled
athletes, Mr. Greyling, has been invited to participate in the
upcoming New York Marathon.
In spite of the small size of our population, coupled
with lack of funds, Namibia as a country has nevertheless
managed to participate in each and every major sporting
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
event. Since we attained independence five years ago, we
have taken part in the Barcelona Olympic Games, the
Commonwealth Games,
the World Athletic
Championships, the World Cup Preliminary Competition,
the All Africa Games and the African Cup of Nations.
In Namibia
are now
today,
competing as opponents
teammates
internationally when representing Namibia. The role that
sport has played to reconcile our people cannot be
overemphasized.
former
enemies
locally and as
Since I mentioned the Barcelona Olympic Games,
allow me to avail myself of this opportunity to thank His
Excellency Mr. Samaranch — first, for accepting Namibia
as a family member of
the Olympic Movement
immediately after our independence. Our acceptance in
the Olympic Movement opened the way for one of our
top athletes, Frankie Fredericks, to win two silver medals
in the 100- and 200-metre sprints. And, believe me, his
victories were indeed powerful motivating and unifying
forces
for our people. Each and every Namibian,
regardless of his or her colour, social background or
religion, supported Frankie. Again, this is testimony to the
reconciliatory role that sport can play.
Secondly, I would also like to thank the President of
the International Olympic Committee for taking time to
visit Namibia last year. It was indeed gratifying for us, as
Namibians, to see that Mr. Samaranch made time to visit
all the members of his Committee, including the small
ones, such as Namibia.
And it was indeed encouraging to listen to him
yesterday, when he said:
“It is vital that the National Olympic Committees
maintain excellent relations with their respective
Governments, and especially with the ministries of
youth and sports.”
The fact that Governments recognize the autonomy of the
National Olympic Committees is important, but
is
equally important for these Committees to realize that
they do not operate in a vacuum. Therefore, harmonious
relationships between Governments and National Olympic
Committees are of paramount importance for the future of
sport, and they should be encouraged by the highest
authorities.
it
I am happy to inform the General Assembly that the
Namibia National Olympic Committee has, in view of the
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
forthcoming 1996 Olympic Games, started a programme to
promote Olympism among our young people in Namibia.
One of its first activities was the publication of a brochure
under the patronage of His Excellency the President of the
Republic of Namibia. “Operation Excellence”, as it
is
termed, is aimed at enabling the best of our Namibian
athletes to take part
in the 1996 Olympics. This is a
combined effort by the Ministries of Youth and Sports, and
Basic Education and Culture, and by the National Olympic
Committee.
Finally, work is also already under way to launch the
preparation stage for Namibia’s participation in the
Commonwealth Games in Sydney.
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Bangladesh, Mr. M. Shahjahan Omar.
Mr. Omar (Bangladesh): It is indeed a great pleasure
for me to speak on this auspicious occasion in which we
celebrate, during this fiftieth United Nations, year the
centennial anniversary of the modern Olympic Games. Both
these occasions are imbued with a special ambience of hope
and idealism and a sense and spirit of optimism.
Sport is a singularly unifying factor, bringing together
people from all nations, from all cultures and from all
backgrounds to strive for the same goal of excellence. The
this goal unleashes the potency of youth,
pursuit of
allowing it
to be channelled and translated into a
multiplicity of constructive endeavours for society.
Sport is certainly an invitation to competition — but
it is competition conditioned by tolerance and full respect
for the rights of others. This inherent element of restraint
and its studied exercise is a crucial norm of democracy.
Sport and the inculcation of this spirit of equality, tolerance
and dignity are thus a vital means to train youth around the
world to live in harmony and cooperation while striving for
perfection.
Sport is an ideal mechanism to bring about cohesion
among different countries, to promote understanding and to
bring peoples and nations closer together. There can be no
doubt that the Olympic Ideal contributes to this end and
that the call for an Olympic Truce, in which all hostilities
must cease during the Games,
is an objective worth
supporting, to mobilize not only youth around the globe in
the cause of peace but, through them, all humankind.
The Olympic Ideal enjoins upon us all to build a
better, more peaceful and united world. By placing the
18
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
spirit and ideal of sportsmanship in the forefront, it paces
humanity to strive for the better things of life, for peace,
prosperity and progress. Bangladesh is committed to the
spirit of the Olympic Ideal, which has as its foundation
the call
tolerance, solidarity and
dignity.
for understanding,
Draft
resolution A/50/L.15 supports
increased
cooperation between the International Olympic Committee
and the United Nations in different social programmes.
Furthermore,
to devote
attention to the development of youth and a wide variety
of youth-related activities. We are therefore particularly
happy to cosponsor
resolution before the
Assembly and commend it for adoption by acclamation.
it encourages Governments
the draft
The Acting President:
I now call upon the
representative of Suriname, Mrs. Irma E. Klein-Loemban
Tobing.
Mrs. Klein-Loemban Tobing (Suriname): On
behalf of my delegation, I would like to extend sincere
greetings and words of praise to the President of the
International Olympic Committee, Mr. Juan Antonio
Samaranch, and at the same time to thank him most
heartily for all his efforts towards the sport movement in
my country. Allow me, at
to extend
greetings to and express solidarity with all delegations
participating in this important meeting.
the same time,
It is a privilege to be a cosponsor of this widely
supported draft
resolution contained in document
A/50/L.15, which promotes sport and the Olympic Ideal,
with a view to building a peaceful and better world and
strengthening the moral and physical capacities of our
peoples.
The Suriname Olympic Committee gained broad
support from the President of the Republic of Suriname
and the Ministers of Education, Sport and Culture;
Foreign Affairs; and Social Welfare, when they were
presented with the letters of
the
International Olympic Committee on the Olympic Truce
and the Barcelona document regarding the “Earth pledge”.
the President of
On that occasion the President of the Republic of
Suriname assured the Suriname Olympic Committee and,
through that organization,
the International Olympic
Committee that
the Surinamese Government always
supports peace, good relations between nations and the
endeavour of the Olympic Movement to take good care of
the environment.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Sport unites. Sport promotes love and understanding
among peoples and nations. On various occasions — in
Seoul, South Korea, in 1988; in Barcelona, Spain, in 1992;
and recently, in August 1995, in Göteborg, Sweden —
Suriname has experienced the importance of the presence
of young male and female sport heroes in putting a country
in the spotlight and at the same time in promoting and
improving the well-being of its peoples.
My delegation is fully aware that
in moments of
threats to and violations of peace and human dignity, it is
important strongly to promote the participation of our
young people in particular
in national as well as
international sport movements, in order to create peace,
understanding, love, respect, harmony among peoples, to
improve the quality of life and to translate into reality the
well-known principle of mens sana in corpore sano — a
healthy spirit in a healthy body.
The Republic of Suriname is very grateful for the
opportunity to participate in the international
sport
movement through its governmental and non-governmental
organizations and through its Ministry of Education, Sport
and Culture, its Surinamese Olympic Committee and other
national sport organizations such as the National Special
Olympics Movement.
It is only within the context of the international sport
movement that the Surinamese sport movement can achieve
knowledge,
and
sportspersonship.
know-how,
inspiration
strength,
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of Kuwait, Mr. Saleh Alnafeesi, Deputy
General Director for Youth Affairs.
(Kuwait)
(interpretation
Mr. Alnafeesi
from
Arabic): I am very pleased to see the interest of this
Organization in young people and sports and the role this
plays in international affairs, and I am pleased also at the
fact that General Assembly meetings are dealing with this
topic. This is a positive sign.
When we speak today of the Olympic Ideal which
aims basically at strengthening the concepts of peace and
brotherhood between peoples, we take this ideal to mean
the renunciation of anything that would stand in the way
of the new world order and obstruct its march towards the
noble objectives of peaceful
coexistence and the
strengthening of the principles of security and stability
and friendship, which are fundamental to the future of our
peoples on the eve of the twenty-first century.
are
the
Today we
commemorating
fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, repository of the hopes
of peoples in a continued life of safety and dignity. Next
summer,
the XXVI Olympic Games will be held in
Atlanta, USA. The fact that this will coincide with the
hundredth
the Olympic Games,
demonstrates the international community’s interest in
ensuring the success of such events, wherein the world
reaffirms its optimism with regard to the role of sport and
of the activities of youth in consolidating the hopes of
peoples in peaceful coexistence.
anniversary
of
Since Suriname really wants to be an integral part of
a peaceful and better world, we therefore again commit
ourselves to continued and strong participation in the
Olympic Movement and its ideals throughout the world, in
order to promote peace, friendship,
tolerance, dignity,
health, harmony, solidarity and human rights in general in
today’s world. The yearly Inter-Guyanese Games between
the young people of Guyana, French Guyana and Suriname
and the useful cooperation in the field of sport between the
Netherlands Antilles, Aruba, Suriname and the Netherlands
must be placed in this context.
In conclusion, allow me, on behalf of my delegation,
leaders all over the world for their
to commend sport
to train children, young people, and
tireless efforts
sportswomen and sportsmen to become true servants of the
Olympic Ideal — true servants of peace.
While this meeting is held in reaffirmation of the
noble Olympic Ideal, the athletic circles of Kuwait miss
many athletes who continue to be incarcerated in the
prisons of the Iraqi regime which ignores the international
appeals calling for their release.
Since the beginnings of the Olympic Movement, the
Kuwaiti Government has taken it upon itself to highlight
the importance of strengthening these high ideals, which
contribute to the creation of a civilized world. In this
respect, the State of Kuwait has accorded a high priority
to supporting Olympic activities both at a world level and
a continental level, regardless of political and economic
circumstances. In so doing, Kuwait proceeded from the
conviction that the collective efforts of the international
community should play an effective part in supporting the
Olympic Movement at all levels without any hesitation as
such support would bespeak the high importance which
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
should be attached to the ideals and values of the Olympic
Movement.
Kuwait’s young people made a point of participating,
with the support of the State of Kuwait, in Olympic and
sports events at a time when Kuwait was under occupation
by Iraq, a State which has not understood the aspirations of
the world’s peoples after peaceful coexistence. The
participation of the young people of Kuwait in such events
was meant to send a message to the entire world that
reaffirmed their
and political
backwardness and reiterated the call for a peaceful life —
a life of dignity in which the ideals of morality would be a
tangible reality, not
just mere words for propaganda
consumption.
rejection of
injustice
The continent of Asia has honoured Kuwait by giving
it the Chairmanship of the Asian Olympic Council since its
inception. Kuwait also hosts the headquarters of
the
Council. This means
shoulders greater
responsibilities in this area. We, therefore, reaffirm, from
this rostrum,
that Kuwait supports this Asian Olympic
edifice that aims at strengthening the ideals of peace and
brotherhood which the Asian peoples strive for, and rejects
all divisiveness, bigotry, violence and extremism.
that Kuwait
Kuwait, which has a principal seat on the International
Olympic Committee, reaffirms its support for any project
that would be adopted by the United Nations to consolidate
the efforts aimed at strengthening the foundations of the
new world order. In this regard, we thank our friends, the
President and members of the Olympic Committee, for their
praiseworthy efforts to promote the Olympic Movement in
order to translate into reality the aspirations of the world’s
youth.
We believe that States should focus on developing
those aspects of culture and knowledge that relate to
Olympic ideals, either through direct inculcation at various
levels of education and practical application in the various
areas of sport, or through the use of the media in raising
the general level of awareness regarding this subject. We
are convinced that there is an urgent need to activate this
vital
a
comprehensive plan with well-defined objectives that would
make it possible to achieve the desired results even if
continuous efforts are needed to review and reassess
performance and reformulate the plan in such a way that
the objectives may be achieved ultimately.
formulating
activities
youth
area
by
of
While reaffirming what I have just said, I also wish to
in
draw attention to the need to take greater interest
20
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
the development of sports for
the
programmes for
disabled. Such programmes have become a sign of
civilized behaviour in those States that strive to integrate
the disabled into all aspects of life. Such States view the
disabled as a vital human resource whose productive
capacities must be put to good use.
The States of the world are also called upon to take
effective action to deal with drug abuse and practices that
destroy the natural environment. The consequences of
dealing permissively with such phenomena will be
disastrous and will threaten the future of sports and the
principles of the Olympic Movement.
We wish the Assembly complete success and thank
the United Nations Secretariat deeply for the outstanding
quality of the documents prepared for this meeting. Our
best wishes go also to the United States, the friendly
country that will be hosting the 1996 Olympics Games in
Atlanta.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of Nigeria, Ms. C. O. Aivboraye.
Ms. Aivboraye (Nigeria): Permit me, first of all, on
behalf of the Nigerian delegation, to express heartfelt
condolences to the Government and the people of Israel
on the tragic loss of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. May
his soul rest in peace.
The idea of the inclusion of this item, “Building a
peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic
Ideal”, on the agenda of the General Assembly at this
session emanated from resolution 49/29 of 7 December
1994. Earlier, in resolution, 48/11 of 25 October 1993,
this body had called for all hostilities to cease during the
Winter and Summer Olympic Games so as to enable the
youth of the world to participate in the Games without
hindrance. It is in this context that the Nigerian delegation
endorses the holding of this meeting of the General
Assembly and welcomes the statement of the President of
the International Olympic Committee.
are
for
and
Sports
relationships
an
between
instrument
peoples
promoting
strengthening
understanding
harmonious
and
enthusiasts, in furtherance of the principles and objectives
of the United Nations. The Olympic Ideal promotes
international understanding, particularly among the youth
of the world, through sports and culture. This is why my
country attaches great importance to the development of
sportsmen
between
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
sports and has continued to provide incentives for our youth
to participate in international sports competitions.
humankind needs that peaceful and better world —
unfortunately, not for the first time since 1896.
Similarly, we played a constructive role in the
formulation of resolution CM/Res.28(LXII) and its adoption
by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) at its sixty-second ordinary session, held in
Addis Ababa last June. Also endorsed by the Assembly of
Heads of State and Governments of
that
resolution,
the
the
international community to observe an Olympic Truce, to
coincide with the next Summer Olympic Games in Atlanta,
Georgia. We share the conviction that such a Truce will
permit wider participation in those Games.
the OAU,
appeal
for
inter alia,
supports
We are convinced that the support of the international
community for the efforts of the International Olympic
Committee geared to the promotion of
international
understanding and equality between nations will be
invaluable for the success of the Games. We welcome the
Committee’s joint endeavours with the United Nations
system in drawing attention in recent meetings to the
relationship between sports
and
environment and sports and health.
and drugs,
sports
As we prepare for the XXVI Olympic Games in
Atlanta, Georgia, next year, we believe that an Olympic
Truce will be the most positive sign of that support. We
therefore call for a reaffirmation of the Olympic Truce and
its faithful observance by Member States, well ahead of the
opening of the Games and thereafter.
It is in this spirit that my delegation is pleased to be
a sponsor of draft resolution A/50/L.15.
The Acting President: I now call on the Permanent
Representative of Hungary, Mr. István Náthon.
Mr. Náthon (Hungary): It was on 16 June 1894, in
Paris, that Baron Pierre de Coubertin introduced the idea of
renewing the ancient Olympic Games. Hungary, along with
12 other countries, was present at that meeting and was one
of the nine that immediately committed themselves to that
initiative. Now, more than 100 years later, we again commit
ourselves, with the same determination,
the
Olympic Ideal and the Olympic Truce.
to peace,
Hungary became a sponsor of the draft resolution on
the Olympic Ideal this year. We attach great importance to
the General Assembly’s discussion of the agenda item
“Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the
Olympic Ideal”. We strongly believe that at present
The cruel assassination of Mr. Yitzhak Rabin, the
Prime Minister of Israel, reminds us again how difficult
and long is the road leading towards a peaceful and better
world. To realize the dream of reaching such a world, we
certainly need peace between and within nations. From
this rostrum, I would like to offer my sincere condolences
to the family of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and to the
people of Israel for their loss.
Successes and defeats, winners and losers and smiles
and tears have characterized the last 100 years all over
the world, both inside and outside sport stadiums. One
should not forget the applause and joy in the stadium in
Athens 100 years ago, hailing the first winners of the
modern Olympic Games. One should also remember the
applause in the stadium in Sarajevo in 1984, when that
city hosted the Winter Olympic Games. But one should
also remember that only a few years later the same
stadium in Sarajevo became a concentration camp and
then a cemetery for the victims of a cruel war.
We, the States Members of the United Nations, can
and should act together to prevent such tragedies from
occurring again, anywhere. This is imperative, dictated by
the Olympic Ideal and by our conscience as well.
In 1894,
in Paris, Hungarians applauded Baron
Pierre de Coubertin when he proposed the renewal of the
ancient Olympic Games. Hungarian
sportsmen
participated in the first Olympic Games held in Athens
and won two gold medals. Since then, during this first
100 years, Hungarian sportsmen have won 134 Olympic
gold medals. We would like to express our hope that the
next 100 years will bring us another 134 gold medals.
Only 256 days separate us from the opening of the
centennial Olympic Games in Atlanta. The dream of the
best sportsmen, coaches and sports managers all over the
world is to win some gold medals in Atlanta. This is also
true for Hungary.
The interrelationship between sport and peace is well
known. This has also been shown by our discussion
today. The participation of Ministers of Youth and Sport
in the consideration of this item today is a clear message
that sport,
the Olympic Ideal and peace are really
inseparable. The importance of our work is confirmed by
the presence of the President of the International Olympic
Committee, Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch.
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
We salute the increasing number of joint endeavours
of the International Olympic Committee and the United
Nations system. Hungary also recognizes and appreciates
the importance of cooperation between the Olympic
Movement and the world of diplomacy. We believe that
this relationship cannot be proved more convincingly on our
side than by the fact that the President of the Hungarian
Olympic Committee and Vice-President of the International
Olympic Committee, a former world fencing champion, is
at the same time our Ambassador to Spain.
The Acting President:
now call
representative of Ukraine, Mr. Borys Hudyma.
I
on
the
Mr. Hudyma (Ukraine) (interpretation from Russian):
The delegation of Ukraine was unable to speak here
yesterday, and we would therefore like today to convey our
sincere condolences to the Government and people of Israel
on the death of the Prime Minister, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin. We
would also like to express our firm conviction that the
continuation of the peace process in the Near East will be
the best tribute to the glorious memory of Mr. Rabin, and
a challenge to the forces standing in the way of a peaceful
settlement.
The delegation of Ukraine considers that the item
before us today, namely “Building a peaceful and better
world through sport and the Olympic Ideal”,
is both
important and timely. All of us today are still greatly under
the effect of the recent event of enormous historical
significance, the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.
The United Nations rose from the ashes of the Second
World War, the most destructive war in the history of
mankind, and was called upon to save succeeding
generations from all
the horrors of war. Unfortunately
today, in spite of all the efforts of the United Nations and
the tragic lessons of past wars, the world stands witness to
the fact
towards a
settlement of the protracted conflicts of recent years, new
hot-beds of tension continue to arise in various regions of
the world.
that alongside successful moves
It is well known that one of the most effective ways
to secure peace among conflicting parties since ancient
times has been through sport, the Olympic Games, because
friendship among rivals has always and unfailingly been he
outcome of any sporting event.
The tradition of ekecheria, the Olympic Truce, which
was born in Greece many centuries ago, is still timely today
and impels nations to tolerance, cooperation, rewarding
competition in sport and work. Sport is a universal means
22
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
for overcoming economic, social and individual problems.
It provides a real opportunity to come to know oneself
and acquire human individuality. Sport helps to give us a
better feel for the world around us and to look at it
through the eyes of a healthy human being.
We in Ukraine realize that sport and the Olympic
Ideal must be inculcated in young people at the earliest
age and we are exerting every effort to that end. Today,
Ukraine has many sports schools for young people and
children, physical education and Olympic training
institutes, and advanced sports training schools. More than
600,000 people are involved with these physical culture
and sport establishments alone.
Since Ukraine proclaimed its
independence, a
National Olympic Committee has been set up, along with
104 federations for new types of sport which have been
recognized by international organizations. Also, regular
teams in 43 kinds of sport have been established, as have
a research institute for physical training and sport, the
Ukrainian higher institute for trainers and other sporting
establishments.
Active work is being carried out in Ukraine to create
a national legislative and regulatory basis for sporting
activities. Thus, in December 1993, an act on physical
training and sport in Ukraine came into force, and in June
1994 a presidential decree on State support for the
development of arts and sport in Ukraine was issued.
In recent years, Ukrainian sportsmen have notched
up a series of major successes and brought many glorious
victories to our country. The names of many Ukrainian
sportsmen, Olympic, world and European champions and
medal holders — Sergei Bubka in pole-vaulting; Oksana
Bayul
in figure-skating; Inessa Kravets for the triple
jump; Dmitri Monakov for target shooting and many
others — are known all over the world.
At
the Winter Olympics at Lillehammer,
the
combined Ukrainian team, appearing for the first time as
an independent team, came thirteenth out of 57 in the
unofficial team ranking. This year, 1995, is the year of
the eliminating rounds for the Atlanta Olympics in which
Ukrainian sportsmen are also preparing to compete; they
are now engaged in the sports struggle to win selection
for these jubilee games.
Today, Ukraine is in a complex economic situation
as a result of the problems arising from the transition
from a command-type administration of the economy to
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
a market economy. Despite the grave difficulties our
country is experiencing at this stage, the Government of
Ukraine is finding the necessary strength and resources for
such an important aspect of young people’s upbringing as
sport and physical training.
We see the facts and figures I have just given you as
Ukraine’s worthy contribution to the Year of Tolerance and
wish to express our hope that the Olympic Ideal, common
sense and mutual respect, and in the final analysis, lasting
peace, health and well-being will prevail over the senseless
choice
and
hopelessness.
practices
hostility,
of
crime,
harmful
Ukraine became a cosponsor of the draft resolution
entitled “The Olympic Ideal” because we consider that all
its provisions tally completely with the interests of our
country and lay solid foundations for further consolidating
international peace and security in the spirit of
the
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the aims
of the Olympic Movement. At the same time, we believe
that questions involving young people and sport must be
more fully reflected in United Nations documents in the
future, in the context of the development of sport and
physical education. The comprehensive development of
cooperation
the
International Olympic Committee requires all-out support.
the United Nations
between
and
From this rostrum, allow me to repeat what
the
Secretary-General of
the United Nations said in the
International Year of Sport and the Olympic Ideal. We
believe that his words convey the profound meaning of the
organic unity that governs the mutual development of sport
and peace:
“The Olympic Ideal is a hymn to tolerance and
understanding between people and cultures. It is an
invitation to competition, but competition with respect
for others. In its way, Olympism is a school for
democracy. In other words, there is a natural link
between the ethic of the Olympic Games and the
fundamental principles of the United Nations.”
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. H. A. H.
Al-Ni’mah, Permanent Representative of Qatar to the
United Nations.
Mr. Al-Ni’mah (Qatar) (interpretation from Arabic):
I am pleased to address this august Assembly during its
consideration of agenda item 40, “Building a peaceful and
better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
I do not believe I would be mistaken in saying that
the Assembly discusses this item at
this session in
response to the needs of humanity in the time of detente
and openness we now witness. I do not believe I would
be mistaken either in saying that such discussion will
inspire young people who excel in sport and make it
possible to devise the best means of developing the
objectives of the Olympic Movement and afford the
United Nations an opportunity to lay down those
necessary foundations and to study those concepts that
would make it possible to formulate sports programmes
which serve the cause of peace, security and stability in
the world.
The objectives of the Olympic Movement with all its
activities are organically linked to the objectives of the
United Nations. There is therefore a need to consolidate
relations between the International Olympic Committee
and this Organization in order to achieve the common
objectives called for by the United Nations Charter and
the Olympic Charter alike. This can be achieved only by
focusing on devising the necessary means and formulating
the programmes needed to educate the youth of the world
in the virtues of peace and the values of tolerance. In
addition, the youth of the world, while building their
physical strength, must be imbued with the Olympic spirit
of cooperation and understanding and the renunciation of
discrimination and unhealthy rivalry. This, in turn, will
lead to the achievement of the desired cooperation in
sports relations between Member States and orient those
relations towards the better and the truly perfect within
the context of honest sports competitiveness upon which
the Olympic Movement is based.
In conclusion, I would like to call on Member States
of the United Nations to do their utmost so that, on the eve
of the hundredth anniversary of the revival of the Olympic
Games, we can achieve,
the
realization of the Olympic Ideal, in the interests of peace,
security and the harmonious development of humanity.
to the maximum extent,
This would strengthen the objectives of the United
Nations system and ensure the equality of rights between
nations. In those rights, the promotion of sport and the
Olympic spirit constitutes a vital component that makes
it possible to achieve the lofty human objectives of both
Organizations.
Proceeding from this, the State of Qatar, under the
guidance of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Hamd Al
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
Thani, has participated in all international efforts aimed at
the establishment of a prosperous international community
in which youth enjoy the lofty values of sport and the
Olympic spirit.
Qatar has also taken a keen interest in keeping up with
developments in the field of sports and thus created a sports
infrastructure that allows its generations to enjoy sport and
gives them assistance in their development efforts and in
their creative efforts to build a better future based on social
development and the promotion of
fruitful, human
creativity.
In order to achieve such objectives and to realize the
values of the Olympic Movement so as to respond to the
needs of the youth in my country, Qatar continues to build
sports facilities according to Olympic specifications. This
enabled it to host the World Cup for Youth (FIFA) and the
1994 Soccer Finals for Asia in the World Cup. It also
enabled Qatar to make great achievements in its track and
field teams. Our delegations have participated in many
international games and Qatar hopes to host Olympic
competitions.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
cosponsors of draft
Before we take action on the draft resolution, I
should like to announce that the following countries have
become
resolution A/50/L.15:
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Barbados,
the Central African
Republic, Colombia, the Czech Republic, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Honduras,
Indonesia, Iraq, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ireland,
Kazakstan, Kuwait,
the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Madagascar, Malawi,
Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Qatar, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and
Principe, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay and
Zimbabwe.
With these additional cosponsors we have achieved
a record number of cosponsors — to date 161.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/50/L.15.
The State of Qatar continues to build youth hostels in
various cities in order to achieve the lofty Olympic goals.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt this
draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/50/L.15 was adopted (resolution
50/13).
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of Italy.
Mr. Busacca (Italy): As
announced by the
Permanent Representative of Italy at yesterday’s meeting,
the delegation of Italy wishes to be a cosponsor of the
draft resolution just adopted.
The Acting President: That request has been noted.
May I take it that it is the wish of the General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
40?
It was so decided.
The international authority for youth and sport
in
Qatar continues to make various efforts to develop
cooperation between our youth and the youth of the rest of
the world in order to revive the Olympic values which call
for the establishment of links of friendship, cooperation and
solidarity amongst peoples. We believe that the promotion
of such values is a means for the establishment of a better
future for mankind in a new world where peoples have
more confidence in their own identity and their cultural
specificity and in which they continue their human march,
inspired by the Olympic ideal, which expresses the
convergence of all human wills in order to continue the
mutual relations of understanding and cooperation and in
which the healthy competitiveness of sport would contribute
to the building of a world of values, a world of love, a
world of friendship, a world that embraces the hopes of
mankind in the best possible manner and that expresses the
desired human future which will be better, more beautiful
and bright.
For all these reasons, the State of Qatar has joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution before the Assembly and
hopes that you will support it.
24
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Programme of work
The President in the Chair.
The President: I should like to draw the attention of
the General Assembly to document A/INF/50/5/Add.2,
which contains a tentative programme of work and schedule
of plenary meetings for the rest of November and the
month of December. The addendum supersedes document
A/INF/50/5/Add.1 and announcements I have made since
the issuance of that addendum.
The schedule is being issued to assist delegations in
the Secretariat will
planning their work. For its part,
endeavour to ensure that the relevant documentation will be
available to delegations in advance of the discussion of any
given agenda item.
The list of speakers for each of the items listed in
document A/INF/50/5/Add.2 is now open. I should like to
point out that there are still a few agenda items for which
no date has been indicated. I will announce the dates for
the consideration of
those items in due course and
sufficiently in advance. I will also keep the Assembly
informed of any additions or changes.
As I mentioned to the Assembly in my earlier
announcements, I hope to keep close to the schedule so that
the Assembly can discharge
as
effectively and expeditiously as possible. I again appeal to
responsibilities
its
52nd plenary meeting
7 November 1995
those representatives submitting draft resolutions to do so
sufficiently in advance of the dates fixed for consideration
of items in order to give members adequate time to
examine them.
I should like to reiterate that additional
time is
needed for draft resolutions involving changes in the
programme of work or additional expenditures, since
these will require the preparation of a statement of
programme budget implications by the Secretary-General.
Furthermore,
the Advisory
on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth
Committee will need adequate time to review the
programme budget
implications of a draft resolution
before the latter can be acted on by the Assembly.
Committee
While on the subject of draft resolutions, I should
like to remind members that, in view of the number of
draft resolutions expected under agenda item 20, entitled
“Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and
disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, including
special economic assistance”, and the possible need to
hold consultations on them with a view to reaching
consensus, the deadline for submission of draft resolutions
under agenda item 20 will be Friday, 10 November 1995.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
25
