United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
27th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 10 October 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Ould Lekhal
(Mauritania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
international affairs. My delegation is pleased to be a part
of this world Organization.
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Keith Mitchell, Prime Minister
and Minister for Finance, Trade and Industry,
Foreign Affairs and National Security of Grenada
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will now hear an address by the Prime
Minister and Minister for Finance, Trade and Industry,
Foreign Affairs and National Security of Grenada.
Mr. Keith Mitchell, Prime Minister and Minister for
Finance, Trade and Industry, Foreign Affairs and
National Security of Grenada, was escorted to the
rostrum.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
have great pleasure in welcoming the Prime Minister and
Minister for Finance, Trade and Industry, Foreign Affairs
and National Security of Grenada, Mr. Keith Mitchell, and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Mitchell (Grenada): The world is aware that the
fiftieth session of the General Assembly marks a major
milestone in the global events that have charted and guided
My delegation wishes to congratulate His Excellency
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal on his election
to the presidency of the fiftieth session of the General
Assembly. We take this opportunity also to thank
Mr. Amara Essy, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte
d’Ivoire, for his exceptional performance in the conduct
of the proceedings of the forty-ninth session.
My delegation wishes to make due mention of the
efforts and achievements of the Secretary-General, His
Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His optimism as
he confronts the challenges that face this Organization
and his determination in his will to find solutions to many
of the daunting problems of a world fraught with political,
economic and social changes have contributed, in a large
measure,
to the successes and gains recorded by the
United Nations.
The success of the United Nations Mission in Haiti
is one achievement to celebrate, when the duly-elected
President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, was reinstated following
the removal of the military almost a year ago. Democracy
and the rule of
law and order are of paramount
importance to the peoples of the Caribbean region who
cherish freedom,
justice and law and order. Grenada
continues to support United Nations initiatives undertaken
in collaboration with other hemispheric organizations to
build on the processes that are being put in place to
ensure sound social and economic development where
democracy can flourish.
95-86280 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the
ongoing
process
Grenada
applauds
of
democratization in South Africa and supports the initiatives
undertaken by the South African Government, assisted by
the international community, to enhance the lives of its
entire population.
Grenada welcomes, too, the building of the peace
process in the Middle East with the expansion of Arab
control over Arab settlements within the West Bank,
although it is recognized that much work has yet to be done
if we are to see lasting peace in that region.
My delegation is hopeful
that similar attempts at
peacemaking in the Balkans will result in bringing the
warring parties together to work out a negotiated settlement
to the conflict.
The world stands at the threshold of a new era, a time
of great challenges and a time of significant promise. The
choices that we make will determine whether we experience
economic, social and political successes or failures. The
international economic environment
rapidly being
transformed as new centres of economic power and new
partnerships are established. Indeed, these new economic
realities have important implications for the survival of
small and vulnerable economies such as Grenada’s, which
are so heavily dependent on a favourable external
environment.
is
the Uruguay Round agreements of
It can hardly be disputed that the traditional economic
and trade relations on which Grenada relied for so long are
now being threatened and could shortly cease to exist. The
process of adjustment to the new hemispheric challenges
resulting from the entry into force of the North American
Free Trade Agreement on 1 January 1994; the conclusion
of
the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade; the establishment of the
World Trade Organization; the call for the establishment of
a free-trade area of the Americas by the year 2005; and the
formation of the Association of Caribbean States will
undoubtedly pose challenges which will require adjustments
on the domestic level, particularly on the part of our
manufacturers.
Furthermore, these recently formed and soon to be
established trading blocs will significantly transform the
trade policy framework in which developing island
economies will have to operate into the twenty-first century.
While these will offer us new trading opportunities,
particularly in the medium to long term, they will in the
short term cause us to face many transitional problems,
2
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
mainly because of the erosion of preferential access that
we now enjoy in major markets of the developed world.
It is in this context, therefore, that Grenada issues a
call
to the developed world to work with us as we
formulate appropriate policy responses to realize the
benefits from and adjust to the changes in the global
the new
trading system. It
European Union regime for bananas,
in
essence an effect of the Uruguay Round, will result in
major losses in export revenue for all the Windward
Islands in the Caribbean. Moreover, the challenge of this
limited preferential arrangement by some of our closest
allies in the developed world is cause for serious concern.
is to be emphasized that
though not
I must remind this distinguished gathering that the
issue of bananas has much more than economic
significance.
the heavy dependence on this
agricultural commodity by thousands in our
islands
must — I repeat, must — be underscored.
Indeed,
In fact, the destruction of the banana industry would
lead to serious hardships and could constitute a threat to
our traditionally sound democratic process. Sustainable
human development in our small island States could be
severely threatened.
My delegation wishes to make it clear that, while
Grenada embraces the philosophy of trade liberalization,
tolerance and an understanding of our cause on the part
of larger economies are necessary. We cannot hope to
develop without a significant
technical
assistance, foreign capital and technology.
inflow of
We therefore call on the countries in the developed
world to provide us with this much-needed assistance in
order to ensure that we can participate effectively in this
emerging “New World Trade Order”.
My delegation will continue to argue that moves
towards global trade liberalization and reciprocity should
complement and not obstruct the efforts of less developed
countries
reforms.
Grenada, for its part, has already commenced the process
of substantially reducing import tariffs and other barriers.
to implement positive structural
What
is now sought
is a recognition of these
initiatives and a negotiating framework in which our
ability to achieve greater market access is enhanced,
while our economic and financial restructuring can take
place in a manner and time-frame appropriate to our
special circumstances.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
therefore,
Grenada continues to support the view that special and
preferential treatment cannot continue in perpetuity. But it
must be recognized that the special needs of the relatively
less developed countries must be taken into account. The
challenge,
is how to design an acceptable
reciprocal arrangement among unequal partners that will
promote prosperity through free trade and integration in our
world without endangering the process of sustainable social
and economic development. It is crucial, therefore, that the
developed countries assist the developing world to create
domestic capabilities that will enhance its capacity to draw
benefits from trade liberalization and will soften the burden
of adjustment to the new requirements of global free trade.
The question of the environment and of sustainable
economic development remains at the heart of our concerns.
It is also a central issue for small island developing States
in particular, and developing countries in general.
If we continue to reaffirm that human beings are at the
centre of sustainable development and that they have a right
to a healthy and productive life in harmony with nature,
action must be taken at all levels and, all the more so, at
the international level, to facilitate the process. This would
ensure that developing countries, and particularly small
island developing States, are provided with the know-how
and the resources to enable the implementation of the
decisions and recommendations arising out of the United
Nations Conference on the Environment and Development
in Rio in 1992, the United Nations Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States in 1994 in Bridgetown, Barbados and the many other
significant global Conferences.
The vulnerability of small island States and the threat
to our fragile ecosystems were recently manifested by the
passage of hurricanes Iris, Luis and Marilyn. Our economic
viability and sustainable economic growth are indeed at
stake.
In this regard, Grenada looks forward to the
fulfilment of pledged commitments by developed countries
to assist small island developing States achieve sustainable
development.
The role of science and technology in development
must be underscored. My delegation calls upon developed
countries to provide developing countries with the necessary
access
to promote and facilitate
sustainable economic growth.
to biotechnologies
Information
resource
development are key elements towards social and economic
progress — elements which would enable us to improve
human
technology
and
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
our productivity and competitiveness in priority areas as
we move into the twenty-first century.
the United Nations,
The United Nations was created by men of vision,
courage and foresight who understood the need for
cooperation among nations and for hope over despair.
Undoubtedly,
in its “Agenda for
Development”, has succeeded in bringing to the world’s
attention the need for a re-evaluation of the role of the
United Nations in development, taking into account such
critical
the
alleviation of poverty and hunger and the link between
development and population, human rights and the
creation of an environment for world peace and security.
issues as the empowerment of women,
The social forces of poverty are among the leading
causes of environmental degradation and a significant
contributor to the loss of biological diversity. Poverty and
unemployment also contribute to greater social problems,
among which is the illicit traffic in narcotics. Efforts to
eradicate the traffic in illicit drugs can have little effect at
the national and international levels unless commitments
are made and agreements are entered into to develop
programmes aimed at the alleviation of poverty.
My delegation is hopeful that the follow-up to the
World Summit
for Social Development, held in
Copenhagen in March this year, will embrace those
principles which call for social
inclusion and which
facilitate the development of strategies to ensure that
youth,
the disabled and the elderly play a more
meaningful role in social and economic development.
Indeed, the Fourth World Conference on Women,
which ended only last month in Beijing, has given
impetus to the need for programmes that speak to the
issues of women in development and, most critically, the
empowerment of women in local communities, enabling
their full participation at all
levels in the process of
national development.
Grenada is encouraged by the new spirit of
international cooperation built on a shared partnership
between multilateral
and
Governments. However,
suggested for
economic development have not been sufficiently tested
and are often ill-suited to meet the needs of the society in
which they are applied, sometimes resulting in disastrous
social and economic consequences.
financial
the models
institutions
While we seek to put in place all the necessary
measures to ensure the efficient and effective management
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
of our domestic affairs, we strongly urge multilateral
institutions to include in these models for development a
component that provides skills training and, in particular,
training in the use of technologies to enable young people
to find productive employment in the private sector and to
facilitate the process towards equitable social and economic
development.
My delegation also supports the United Nations
response to security and international humanitarian needs
and
human-rights
monitoring.
encourages
emphasis
greater
on
We live in an era of changing norms and of emerging
nations and democracies, where no institution or country
can stand alone. In this connection, the reforms currently
being undertaken within the United Nations system should
yield more positive results — greater collaboration and
cooperation on issues,
than confrontation and
disunity. New, emerging economic nations or Powers are
eager to take their rightful place in institutions and agencies
once dominated by traditional super-Powers.
rather
Grenada also believes that in this era of reform and
restructuring within the United Nations due consideration
should be given to a composition of the Security Council
that reflects the geopolitical and economic realities of our
time.
On this auspicious occasion, as we celebrate the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, let us reaffirm
our commitment to the principles of the Charter which
guides this Organization. Grenada not only wishes to
emphasize adherence to these principles, but has worked to
establish conditions under which all peoples may exercise
their equal and inalienable rights.
In his opening statement the President of the General
Assembly at its fiftieth session stated:
has
to
a
ceased
organization with
be
an
“the United Nations
intergovernmental
limited
membership and has become the only international
organization that is universal. Efforts must be made to
ensure that all States that are not yet Members should
seek to be admitted in the near future. For the same
reason,
the most serious penalty imposed on a
Member State should never be expulsion, but rather
suspension”
for an indefinite period
4
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
“, for the United Nations must, as a matter of
principle, include all the world’s countries.” (Official
Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session,
Plenary Meetings, 1st meeting, p. 7)
But as we meet today the Republic of China on
Taiwan and its more than 21 million people remain
excluded from participation and representation in the
United Nations. It is on the basis of that principle of
universality that Grenada urges all Members to consider
that, in renewing our oaths, we should forthwith seek to
right this wrong. The inclusion of the Republic of China
will be an added contribution to global cooperation in
fields
development,
environmental protection, sustainable development and
multilateral efforts to fight drug trafficking. Moreover, the
Republic of China is committed to the promotion of
international development
to developing
countries.
assistance
economic
trade,
such
as
Grenada wishes to urge again that an ad hoc
the earliest possible time to
committee be set up at
consider the special case of the Republic of China on
Taiwan and respond positively to its wish to join this
world Organization.
My
is
that
confident
delegation
improved
cooperation between developed and developing countries
and the consolidation of related agencies and programmes
would lead to enhanced prospects for the discovery of
solutions to global problems and for the promotion of
sustainable economic, social and cultural development.
As we look forward to celebrating the fiftieth
anniversary of the Untied Nations, and as individual
nations formulate plans and strategies to move into the
twenty-first century, which poses as many challenges as
it presents opportunities, let us recommit ourselves to the
noble principles of the Charter, guided by the spirit of
partnership and cooperation, ever united in our efforts to
achieve peace, democracy and prosperity for all our
peoples.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, Trade and
Industry, Foreign Affairs and National Security of
Grenada for the important statement he has just made.
Mr. Keith C. Mitchell, Prime Minister and Minister
for Finance, Trade and Industry, Foreign Affairs
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
and National Security of Grenada, was escorted from
the rostrum.
Mr. Peerthum (Mauritius), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The next speaker is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Trade, Industry and
CARICOM Affairs of Saint Lucia, His Excellency Mr.
William George Mallet, on whom I now call.
Mr. Mallet (Saint Lucia): The island State of Saint
Lucia shares the sense of history and the mantle of
responsibility that falls over the General Assembly on this,
the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United Nations.
We must exult in the realization that a vague dream of
peace in the aftermath of a world war has in five decades
firmed into a solid commitment by 185 nations to shoulder
the burden of the global community, embracing every
aspect of life around the world.
The elevation of Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of
Portugal to the presidency of the General Assembly at its
fiftieth session is a distinct honour to his country and a
timely recognition of the high esteem in which he is held
by his colleagues in the international arena.
the United Nations. However, some of
During this dramatic and exciting half century the
General Assembly has had its task cut out for it as it has
been called upon to deal with disruptions arising from
human failing, and often from human folly, which have
threatened to obstruct the path towards the fulfilment of the
ideals of
the
Organization’s finest moments have occurred in this half
century — none more historic than when we presided over
the liquidation of apartheid and saw established the
multiracial State of South Africa. We have seen the end of
the conflict in Namibia, with the hope that this brings for
the economic and social progress of its people. We have
monitored the collapse of the Berlin wall. We have seen
democracy in Haiti. We have been able to deter aggression
aimed at fulfilling territorial ambitions, even while we have
been able to encourage the prospects for peace in the
Middle East.
Any inclination that we may have nurtured towards
self-congratulation is, however, arrested by events like the
slaughter in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda,
the
“ethnic cleansing” operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina
and the seeming difficulty of ending the conflict. We are
reminded by these events of the task that still lies ahead of
us in fulfilling the dream of a better world.
We take pride in speaking of the equality of Member
nations irrespective of size, and indeed have gone a long
way towards ensuring such equality. We have admired
how extremely large and very small nations have had the
opportunity to contribute equally to the deliberations of
the Assembly and to its decision-making process. There
are however a number of impediments which still militate
against smaller nations such as ours.
The confrontational posture of the cold war had
given a strategic prominence to small States, then useful
as pawns in the global chess game between super-Powers.
Now that the small States have outlived their usefulness
as honest brokers in the super-Power game, the altered
political circumstances have left
them stranded and
marginalized.
The pious promises of the developed world to
allocate a minuscule percentage of national income to the
provision of aid for the developing world have shrunk to
non-fulfilment;
the thought of the strong economies
helping the weak has shrivelled like a raisin in the sun.
Saint Lucia has experienced a dramatic decline in
grant assistance — by almost 50 per cent between the
financial years 1993-1994 and 1994-1995; but we can ill
afford to sit around and merely moan. We recognize and
accept that we must use the fact of diminished aid to
increasingly spur on our own efforts towards greater
efficiency and increased productivity. But
in striving
towards the achievement of this end, we find ourselves up
against multinational trading interests intent on adding to
the maw of their already well-nourished entities the
morsels of trade on which the survival of our economy
depends.
The European Union banana regime came into force
in June 1993 as part of the process of creating a single
European market, replacing a series of long-standing
national arrangements between individual member States
and traditional banana suppliers. The United States itself
has led the way in instituting various national and
international arrangements in the interests of its own
farming community. The existing banana regime seeks to
ensure that demand for bananas across the European
the same time providing
Union is satisfied, while at
traditional
from
developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the
Pacific with continued access to the European market at
suppliers of bananas
to Europe
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
viable price levels. In doing so the European Union fulfils
a legal commitment under the Lomé Convention, that is
that the introduction of the single market should place
traditional suppliers in no worse a position than in the past.
That is achieved by a combination of tariff quotas and
licences which ensure that suppliers from the African,
Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP) maintain — but cannot
increase — their market share of approximately 15 per cent
of the total European Union demand for bananas. This
facility is not aimed at victimizing United States firms or
indeed firms of any particular nationality. This is clearly
demonstrated by the fact
that over 60 per cent of the
European Union’s market demand for bananas is satisfied
imported from Central and South America,
by fruit
principally by three United States multinationals. It
is
important to note that the Caribbean’s share of the world
market for bananas is a paltry 3 per cent compared to the
more than 70 per cent share of dollar bananas, mostly
controlled by these multinationals.
There is general nervousness and a creeping instability
threatening the Caribbean banana-growing States resulting
from the decision of the United States Trade Representative
to pursue Section 301 action in response to an application
by Chiquita Brands International and the Hawaii Banana
Industry Association challenging the European banana
import regime. We have since been advised that the United
States Government is to pursue a complaint against the
regime within the World Trade Organization (WTO). Since
the banana industry accounts for about 50 per cent of the
domestic exports of the Windward Islands and around 90
per cent of all agricultural earnings in Saint Lucia and
Dominica, it is indisputable that the collapse of the industry
which would accompany any tampering with the regime
would have a disastrous impact on the economies of these
very small countries.
the
In addition,
interdependence of Caribbean
Community (CARICOM) trading arrangements would, in
the circumstances, produce a ripple of economic downturn
and accompanying social unrest and political instability
throughout the CARICOM region. The resulting prospect of
massive unemployment, displaced family wage earnings and
an escalation in criminal and drug activity is too horrific to
contemplate. The Caribbean must call on the good sense
and high ideals of this body to use whatever influence it
has at its disposal to avert this looming danger. The United
Nations may well consider it useful to develop a framework
of international review and regulation with respect to the
activities and policies of transnational corporations, which
6
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
are becoming increasingly influential actors on the world
scene.
There is little need to emphasize the openness and
vulnerability of Caribbean economies. We are exposed to
the fury of natural disasters, as was evidenced by the
havoc wrought by Tropical Storm Debbie, from which
Saint Lucia is still recovering; the recent demolition of
Antigua and Saint Kitts by Hurricane Luis; and the
devastation of St. Croix, St. Thomas, St. Maarten and
Dominica by Hurricane Marilyn.
With severe limitations of size and resources, we are
now called upon to come to terms with changes brought
about by the process of liberalization and its requirement
to be competitive globally; we are therefore forced to
diversify our interests in reaction to the liberalization and
deregulation processes which are taking place in the
international marketplace. The classical response calls for
restructuring
diversification,
accompanied of course by increasing efficiency and
productivity.
economic
aimed
at
In terms of diversification the services sector holds
attractions. In this context many of our countries are
anxious to explore the field of offshore financial services
to enhance the Governments’ revenue base. We are,
however, alert to the dangers associated with that sector
and, while pursuing the benefits to be derived from such
institutions, we must be ever on guard for white-collar
criminals who, as part of their everyday activity, launder
their ill-gotten gains through the international financial
systems, using both public- and private-sector capital
projects for
this purpose. Quite often the strategies
employed by quasi-investors to launder their wealth are
both innovative and sophisticated and require equally
sophisticated systems
ingenious
malpractices. Our growing States are not yet able to
acquire the kind of resources to engage in a full-fledged
war against such nefarious institutions.
to deal with their
Admittedly,
the 1988 United Nations Vienna
Convention has sought to criminalize the laundering of
money derived from the illicit drug trade. But it is crucial
that our countries in the Caribbean area take a positive
stand to enforce the law and protect our communities
from these destructive practices.
context,
In this
international
should use their
institutions
influence, through moral suasion, to encourage member
countries, as a matter of urgency, to adopt the measures
necessary
40
recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force. In
objectives
financial
the
of
to
achieve
the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the Caribbean area our CARICOM colleagues will no doubt
embrace the nineteen recommendations of the Caribbean
Financial Action Task Force.
In the course of the year, our country attracted some
attention in respect of irregularities surrounding the use of
the Pérez-Guerrero Trust Fund. We did not flinch from the
costly decision to appoint a full commission of inquiry in
our anxiety to ensure the fullest possible accountability. In
these trying times, when cynics are ready to decry the
achievements of the United Nations and besmirch its
idealism, it is the bounden duty of all Member States to
wash off the stains of calumny and allow the ideals,
principles and performance of this illustrious body to
continue to inspire the world. The Phillips Commission
cleared both the Saint Lucia Government and the organs of
the United Nations of any complicity or blame in the affair.
This experience, however, points to the need for being on
constant guard against those who without scruples would
seek to compromise the traditions and the integrity of
government and of this body.
The end of the cold war has left many countries
stranded on the beachhead of marginalization. In the
context of the Caribbean, we are learning to deal with our
isolation by exploring new internal alliances designed to
foster pride in our patrimony, reduce our vulnerability, pool
our human resources and intensify our self-reliance. The
logic of this internationalization is to strengthen the links
between us in the Eastern Caribbean, within the context of
the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), even
while we consolidate the process of the closer integration
of the Caribbean Community. The circle of integration
expands in a growing relationship with countries in the
wider Caribbean basin and the countries of Latin America.
This new thrust of integration has found expression in the
recently established Association of Caribbean States, which
links the countries of Central and South America, as well
as other Caribbean countries such as Haiti, the Dominican
Republic and Cuba. We will, however, within the Lomé
Convention, maintain our long and valuable historical links
with Europe even while, by implementing the decisions of
the Summit of the Americas, we seek to expand and
consolidate our hemispheric ties.
This new Caribbean initiative has much to recommend
it. The concept cuts clear across the barriers of race,
language and culture to establish a market of 204 million
people with an annual trade volume of $180 billion and
establishes a regional base from which competitive strength
may be developed for dealing in the global arena.
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
role,
In the case of Haiti, we can now look hopefully
forward with new confidence to the restoration of
democracy in an environment of peace and stability. The
new setting should pave the way for the Haitian people’s
achievement of economic, social and political well-being.
The re-establishment of democratic order leaves Haiti
poised to play a greater
in concert with its
CARICOM colleagues,
in helping shape the new
international order. The United States of America, the
CARICOM grouping and the United Nations itself can
feel satisfied over and take pride in the fact that their
sustained interest and cooperation have led to the
promotion of Haiti’s
rehabilitation and economic
development. Saint Lucia renews its commitment
to
support the consolidation of the hard-won gains in Haiti
in the hope that the country will finally enjoy the fruits of
democracy, with full respect accorded the inalienable
rights of its people.
In the case of Cuba, we are firmly convinced that
the cause of democracy can best be served by the
diffusion of its values through association and example
and not in a process of isolation. That is why Saint Lucia
joins its Caribbean colleagues in calling for an end to the
economic blockade of Cuba so as to allow that Caribbean
country the flexibility to develop the creativity of its
people and pursue its Caribbean destiny.
The winds of change which blew across Africa in
the fifties were fuelled by a strong pan-Africanism. It is
generally known that
the ideas which generated the
liberation struggles in Africa came out of the cross-
fertilization of
the ideas of African and Caribbean
thinkers. Caribbean thinkers like Saint Lucia’s Nobel
laureate, Sir Arthur Lewis, and others, such as C.L.R.
James and George Padmore, were strong influences on
persons like Kwame Nkrumah, Jomo Kenyatta and Sékou
Touré. This historic link between the Caribbean and
Africa must continue, especially at a time when the entire
international community is deeply concerned about the
critical economic and political conditions in Africa as a
whole. Our Secretary-General has openly expressed his
deep concern for the problems of Africa and the need for
this body to give them its urgent consideration.
At its fiftieth session, the General Assembly must
act in concert with the Secretary-General in giving high
priority to programmes of action for African recovery and
development. The United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s must be pursued
urgently and vigorously. In this anniversary year, Saint
Lucia will pursue a conscious policy of establishing
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
diplomatic relations with a number of African countries,
with a view not only to stimulating trade and cultural
exchanges, but, indeed, to recovering and stimulating that
vital interchange of ideas.
Saint Lucia is strongly supportive of the peace process
in the Middle East, which started with the signing on
4 May 1994 of the first implementation agreement of the
Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government
between the Government of
Israel and the Palestine
Liberation Organization. The second phase of the agreement
was signed on 28 September this year. The agreement
between Israel and Jordan has deepened the process
considerably. It is our fervent hope that the skirmishes
between the Palestinians and the Israelis will not derail the
peace process in the Middle East. We further urge the
countries of the region to adhere to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons for the long-term stability
and development of the region.
In preceding sessions of the Assembly, my country has
drawn attention to the Republic of China on Taiwan’s
request
to take its rightful place within this family of
nations. Our support for this request in no way implies an
attack on the sovereignty of the People’s Republic of
China, nor is it meant to vitiate the intention of resolution
2758 (XXVI).
My country is acutely aware of the need to protect the
fundamental principles of our institutions, but it is not
beyond the creativity of the Assembly to play a catalyst
role in resolving the impasse between the Republic of
China and the People’s Republic of China. Recent military
manoeuvres in the Taiwan Straits provide an eerie warning
of the possibility of deteriorating relations between the two
countries. The Assembly should not wash its hands of the
issues like Pilate, but should exhaust the possibilities of
preventive diplomacy rather than live to bemoan the tragedy
of inaction.
Saint Lucia continues to be of the view that Taiwan’s
presence in the United Nations will help to further the goals
and ideals of our Organization. Saint Lucia’s support for
Taiwan’s bid for a seat in this body is in the knowledge
that this does not preclude the eventuality of reunification.
As we stand on the threshold of a new century, at the
very same time as we are presented with an anniversary
opportunity to look back on a half-century of United
Nations activity, two vital processes loom large in the
perception
are
disarmament and decolonization.
small States. These
of
processes
8
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
It is our wish that the process of arms reduction
continue to gain momentum and to stabilize at a level that
will ensure the easing of tensions and conflicts whenever
and wherever they are waged around the globe. Attention
must be focused on those countries which devote large
slices of their national budgets to arms purchases and
production while numerous areas of the world languish in
poverty and disease. Civil and external wars could occur
in regions where the possession of advanced weaponry,
such as medium-range missiles with chemical, biological
or even nuclear warheads, by ambitious and threatened
regimes becomes a potentially lethal prospect. The search
for peace is the most compelling rationale for
the
existence of
the United Nations, and the indefinite
extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, together with
complete disarmament and the total eradication of
chemical weapons, will be the greatest global contribution
to a new world order. Saint Lucia has already ratified the
Treaty of Tlatelolco for
the Prohibition of Nuclear
Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean.
With regard to the process of decolonization, the
target date of the year 2000 set by the United Nations for
the total eradication of colonialism is to be borne in mind.
In this context, the United Nations should continue to
promote the idea that referendums and other forms of
popular consultation on the future status of the Non-Self-
Governing Territories
appropriate means
of
ascertaining the wishes of the people in this matter.
are
As the United Nations has grown in scope and
complexity over these past 50 years, so too have the
problems and complexities assumed new dimensions. We
have seen floods of refugees escaping civil wars all over
the globe, but now we are faced with the prospect of
environmental refugees fleeing from disaster areas and
natural catastrophes. Without wishing to sound like a
prophet of doom, I must say that the possible effect of
global warming upon agriculture in the developing world
is a further cause of concern. In recent months we have
faced the relentless fury of hurricanes, rising sea levels
in the case of Montserrat, one of our small
and,
Caribbean island neighbours,
the threat of volcanic
eruption.
We appreciate that these unfolding problems have
not escaped the attention of the United Nations. The
forty-second session of the General Assembly designated
the 1990s as the International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction, and a Plan of Action was adopted in May
1994 by the World Conference on Natural Disaster
Reduction. Our small countries view the transfer of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
technology in respect of early warning systems, monitoring
devices and up-to-date research on safer construction
methods as a matter of urgent priority. While we are
grateful for the short-term assistance given to such disaster
areas, it is vital that we should also focus on the long-term
goals of preparedness and prevention.
The question of equitable representation and an
increase in the membership of the Security Council was
included in the agenda of the thirty-fourth session of the
General Assembly, in 1979, the same year Saint Lucia
joined this Organization, and the same year that
the
membership of the United Nations was tripled, from 51
original members to 152 members.
During the 16 years since 1979 we have been calling
for an increase in the membership of the Security Council,
especially of developing countries, to reflect the increased
membership of the United Nations and the reality of its
composition. Repetition is necessary to emphasize the
importance of the point that the policy-making arm of the
United Nations should reflect the diversity and universality
of the membership of this body and uphold the principle of
equitable representation that the Charter embodies.
Saint Lucia continues to support the recommendation
that the relationship between the General Assembly and the
Security Council should be strengthened. We also support
the view that
the process of briefing and consultation
should be institutionalized, that the privilege of veto should
be phased out and that the efforts at developing greater
transparency and predictability should continue. Saint Lucia
will work with and support the efforts of our regional group
and of
to achieve these
objectives. It is our hope that, in this fiftieth year, we shall
exercise the courage and willingness needed to bring about
the overdue changes and reform of the Council.
the Non-Aligned Movement
Saint Lucia has taken the opportunity of the fiftieth
anniversary to reflect deeply on the role of
small
marginalized States in the family of nations. We have
endured the ravages of a colonial past, been exploited by
corporations, divided by the
multinational
and
hamstrung by a desperate shortage of resources.
sea
Today a new vision unfolds. We cannot hope to
conquer worlds as the early Conquistadors did. There are
no worlds to conquer, but worlds to recreate. In this
recreation
are
disappearing divisions between States once sworn enemies
in a drive to adjust
to the dictates of the new world
is
economic order. The interdependence of nations
post-cold-war world,
there
the
of
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
highlighted against the background of diseases which
threaten the world, and the potential for destruction of the
very environment which guarantees the survival of
mankind.
These problems to be resolved must be approached
through the collective means available within this body.
However, solutions to be effective must take account of
differences in size,
in resources and in the cultural
diversity of those who are to benefit from them.
of
pays
realism that
Practicality must take precedence over mere dogma,
and idealism must not be allowed to lose ground to a
narrowness
heed to
circumstances. Saint Lucia sees the United Nations as a
solid bulwark for
the creation of a new order. Its
commitment
to world peace, human rights, gender
equality, racial equality and sustainable development for
the peoples of
the world is the touchstone of our
aspirations.
little
My country stands prepared to assist in the retooling
and reshaping of the organs of the United Nations to
enable it to face the global challenges which lie ahead of
us. These challenges are as demanding of Member States
as they are of the organs of the United Nations. Our focus
will be to work in concert with our colleagues in the
Caribbean Community and our colleagues
in the
Association of Caribbean States to increase our efficiency
and productivity with a view to playing a full role in the
international arena. We will explore with other Member
States ideas for fostering a new ethos in the international
forum,
in which size, wealth and influence will be
subordinated to the concourse of ideas.
Finally, Saint Lucia will endeavour to join the global
search for a more relevant and edifying system of values
which will
inspire generations of young people to
embrace the concerns which five decades ago motivated
the founding fathers of this noble Organization.
The Acting President: I now call upon the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Sudan, His
Excellency Mr. Ali Osman Mohamed Taha.
Mr. Taha (Sudan) (interpretation from Arabic):
Allow me at the outset to express to the President my
warmest congratulations on his election to guide the
fiftieth session of
the General Assembly. We are
confident
that his wealth of experience will make it
possible for this session to achieve its noble goals. I
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
should like to pledge the full support and cooperation of
Sudan to that end.
Allow me also to express my great appreciation to his
predecessor, the President of the forty-ninth session of the
General Assembly His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, for his
immensely valuable contribution to the work of the United
Nations. I would also like to commend the Secretary-
General for his continuous endeavours in fulfilling his
functions.
This session of the General Assembly acquires a
special importance because half a century in the lifetime of
the Organization calls upon us to pause for contemplation
and self-criticism. We should do that because we look
forward to the United Nations becoming the body that
guarantees peaceful coexistence amongst States, the light
that guides States in important issues and the effective
instrument for consolidating international cooperation.
The philosophy upon which the United Nations was
established was one that aimed at reflecting the progress
humanity had achieved towards the state of civilization.
However, actual experience has fallen short of
that
aspiration. In our view, this falling short has been due to
certain practices by means of which some have tried to use
the Organization as a tool to impose their hegemony and
influence, so that their own outlook and values may become
the sole, compulsory statute of the international community,
regardless of any diversity of cultures, beliefs, or heritage.
It behoves us to agree, however, that our world is made up
of a fabric of diversity, and that such diversity, at no time
in history, has been a source of conflict but, rather, a source
of rich and valuable contributions to the gains made by
mankind. Instead of undermining that diversity or using it
as a pretext for strife and conflict, it would have been wiser
to make it a basis for constructive dialogue and the
consolidation of tolerance and justice in the world.
The United Nations has led humanity towards new
horizons in the half century that has elapsed since its
establishment. This necessitates a reconsideration of its
system and mechanisms, given the vast expansion in its
membership, its new responsibilities and the emergence of
new international economic and political blocs and systems
that were not in existence when the United Nations was
founded. Top priority in such an endeavour should be
accorded to the need to reform the Security Council, in
view of
in maintaining
international peace and security.
the role expected from it
10
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
The
have mentioned
considerations we
are
compelling reasons for expanding Security Council
membership in order to ensure equitable representation of
the developing countries. It is also necessary to reform
the procedures of the Council, to ensure transparency and
clarity in its work,
to reform its decision-making
mechanism and to develop equitable criteria that would
guide its policies and safeguard it against the pitfall of
double-standard and the effects of the ambitions of
hegemony and domination of any of its members.
The reform of the United Nations should also
include reform of the Bretton Woods institutions, which
have come to be used as tools for the implementation of
strategies that are designed to entrench hegemony over
the developing countries. Therefore, the Bretton Woods
institutions are required to return to their mandate, which
stipulate their
role in the promotion of a balanced
development and support for the monetary and financial
policies
or
discrimination. We also concur in the call for a review of
those institutions in the light of
the economic and
financial factors which have come to prevail in today’s
world as a result of the emergence of new groups and
countries whose economic weight enables them to exert
considerable influence on international trade and on the
flow of financial resources and capital.
countries without
exception
of
all
Today’s world also faces a number of economic and
social crises as a result of the fractious economic relations
between North and South, the inequitable terms of trade
and the ever-expanding gap between rich and poor
countries. Those crises are exacerbated by the dominance
of consumerism and the undermining of the moral values
that uphold the dignity of man and preserve the social
fabric. Those are moral values which inspired all cultures
and civilizations. Accordingly, the objectives of balanced
development should be formulated on a basis of respect
for
these
objectives to be conducive to resolving the crises and
maintaining balance in social, political, cultural, and
economic relations in the world community.
those values and principles in order
for
In this regard, we should mention the debt problem
that has become a major concern for developing
countries, especially the African. The indebtedness of the
African countries had doubled in the past 10 years to a
record $270 billion, with a debt-servicing tag that
consumes about 35 per cent of the gross national product
of those countries. As expected, the heavy debt burden
and debt-servicing tag have had serious consequences
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
which impede development efforts and obstruct economic
structural reforms.
On the other hand, the industrial countries have taken
no responsible initiative to address this problem. Instead,
they called for a case-by-case approach on a bilateral basis.
This reinforces the impression that
the purpose is the
imposition of a political agenda. The result has been
paralysis of the economies of African States, collapse of
their infrastructures, and, consequently the eruption of
internal and regional conflicts all over the continent, which
have impeded Africa’s efforts to achieve growth and
internal stability. Therefore, the linking of peace-keeping,
humanitarian
long-term sustainable
development is a principle that we welcome and support.
assistance
and
Sudan has been following with deep concern the
situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the Bosnian
people have continued to be victims of “ethnic cleansing”
and extermination. While we reiterate our support for the
people and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we
call upon the international community to continue its efforts
to put an end to the genocide that targets this people and
we commend the efforts deployed by all those countries
that support or are engaged in the search for a just, lasting
and comprehensive settlement to this problem.
The situation in the Gulf is of special importance to us
not only because it affects our peace and stability, but also
because of the deeply rooted historical and cultural ties and
relationships which strongly bind my country to that region.
We look forward to the return of peace amongst our
brothers in the Gulf. In this respect, we have welcomed
Iraq’s official recognition of the sovereignty and territorial
boundaries of the State of Kuwait in accordance with the
relevant Security Council resolutions and Iraq’s undertaking
to cooperate in resolving the outstanding problems between
the two States, on the one hand, and between Iraq and the
Security Council, on the other. We call on all parties to
abide by these measures in order to guarantee Kuwait’s
legitimate right to existence and sovereignty and the right
to security and stability to its people and leadership. By the
same token, we call for the lifting of the embargo imposed
on Iraq, which no longer has any legal justification as the
grounds it was built on no longer obtain. The embargo has
now become a political ploy aimed at starving the Iraqi
people, humiliating it and fragmenting its territory.
In the same context, Sudan has been following, with
great dismay and disapprobation, the continuation of the
unjust sanctions imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
while the Jamahiriya has spared no effort in trying to deal
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
with the dispute over the Lockerbie crisis by every
acceptable legal means. It is our opinion that the initiative
by the League of Arab States, to which the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya subscribes, is a practical basis for addressing
the situation in a manner that would lead to the lifting of
the sanctions.
As for the Palestinian question, it is our belief that
peace should be based on the criteria of justice and full
respect for all the rights of the Palestinian and Arab
peoples of the region. Consequently, the return of all the
Syrian Golan Heights to Syria, and Israel’s full and
unconditional withdrawal
from southern Lebanon,
Al-Quds and all the other occupied Arab territories, are
essential requirements for the achievement of any stable
lasting settlement.
We are advocates of peace, stability and good-
neighbourliness. Our abiding conviction has been that the
Horn of Africa is a region that has suffered most, without
any objective justification from internal civil strife and
instability. We concur with the view that the peoples of
the subregion should focus on the need to achieve
security and stability. Indeed, this is an objective that we
have worked for through many a practical initiative that
we put forward as members of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) and of the International Authority
on Drought and Development (IGADD). Notwithstanding
the high hopes we had in that direction, the results have
fallen short of the very minimum of our aspirations,
because some have been seduced by grand strategies
whose aim has been the destabilization of the region. It is
regrettable that some seem to find it difficult indeed to
abide by the behests of international legality or even to
respect
is equally
regrettable that such quarters find it difficult to abide by
the principles of good-neighbourliness and peaceful
coexistence and turn, instead, to subversion and terrorism
against my country publicly embrace and give haven to
elements of armed opposition.
the norms of international
law. It
My country supports
the initiatives aimed at
promoting and strengthening regional organizations and
mechanisms for conflict prevention and settlement, and
urges that such mechanisms should adhere to the
objectives they were introduced to achieve and abide by
the rules that govern their activities. It is our opinion that
the functions of such mechanisms should be, above all
else, preventive and that
they should discharge such
functions impartially. They should intervene in conflicts
only when it is necessary to do so, with the consent of
the parties concerned, and their activities should be
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
limited to peaceful handling. They should also preserve
their regional nature, so that they do not become extensions
of other parallel mechanisms or tentacles of strategies that
aim at international hegemony.
As regards our immediate neighbours, allow me to
reciprocate, and to extend similar greetings to the brotherly
people of Egypt, and to express our conviction that only the
truth will prevail and that the situation in Egypt will return
to its normal course, away from all policies of repression,
domination and terrorism. There is no doubt that relations
between Sudan and Egypt, inevitably, will return to normal
away from the policy of imposition of fait accompli, away
from the policies of occupation of territory by force and
overt support for organized armed terrorism and away from
the legitimization of rebellion and sedition.
It is our conviction that the ties of brotherhood and
solidarity that, historically, have linked our two peoples,
will remain as strong and as enduring as the Nile that flows
from Sudan to Egypt. Sudan has very clearly supported the
integrity of Egypt within its borders. This has been the
position of principle adopted by Sudan towards Egypt, not
in words but in deeds that are recorded in the eternal annals
of history as when the sons of Sudan gave their lives in
defence of Egypt.
As we are renewing the commitment to and desire for
peace and coexistence, we call
the resolving by
negotiation of all boundary disputes and all problems
relating to sovereignty over territories that arise between
States. Failing this, there would be no alternative but to
seek arbitration by neutral parties.
for
The word “Islam” is derived from the Arabic word
“salam” which means “peace”. Islam is a religion based on
the principles of peace, equality and justice. I do not
believe that Islam needs anyone to defend its record: it is
history that bears witness
the
civilizations it gave rise to while the present attests to its
contribution to the moral and social progress of men.
to the greatness of
God honoured man by making him with His own hand
and by ordaining that
this fact should for ever be a
fundamental reason for honouring man and for upholding
his rights. Thus the concept of human rights, which was
recently blazoned by some as if it were something that they
have just recently discovered, has been part of Islam’s
teachings for centuries upon centuries. Islam made it part
of its charter which guides the believers long before that
concept found its way into modern charters.
12
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
It is indeed regrettable that such a religion should
become the target of a malicious onslaught that aims not
only at distorting its image, but also at trying to question
its origins and roots. It is all the more disturbing that
certain major Powers and societies have found it fitting to
participate in this onslaught, without paying heed,
it
would seem, to the devastating confrontation between the
West and Islam the onslaught is trying to provoke. We
particularly urge the United Nations not to allow itself to
be dragged into such a campaign.
We were pleased by the constructive approach
adopted by His Holiness Pope John Paul II in his address
to this Assembly and by his call for coexistence amongst
different cultures so that they might complement each
other in building a healthy human society.
In that connection, we also applaud the statement by
the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany before this
Assembly and by his rejection of any linking of Islam
with terrorism. We hope that other Western leaders will
follow suit and ensure that policies on the ground should
reflect such a posture. Moreover,
the need to avoid
attempts
at misrepresenting Islam and provoking
confrontation with it requires that such positive positions
should not be confined to leaders and Governments but
should extend also and become reflected in their societies,
their mass media
security and
administrative systems.
and their
legal,
In conformity with our values and beliefs, which
respect women, the State has promoted the position of
women in Sudan, has granted them their full rights and
has enabled them to reach the highest
levels in the
legislative, and executive branches of
constitutional,
Government.
In today’s Sudan, women constitute
50 per cent of the Government’s working force. The
percentage of females in the universities and institutions
of higher education is more than 60 per cent. Sudan was
a pioneer among the countries of the region in the area of
empowering woman. Women have been appointed not
only to govern provinces, but also to hold leading posts
in a number of the ministries of central Government and
in the provinces.
Our option in Sudan has been that economic and
social development should be founded on our spiritual
values, our historical background and our social traditions.
Self-reliance has been the major underpinning of this
endeavour to achieve development. Although our opting
for this path has been under conditions of an inauspicious
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
world climate, yet we have managed to provide food,
clothing and various basic services for our citizens.
The participation of
the Sudanese citizen in the
country’s public affairs underscores the approach we have
opted for, namely the prevalence of
the spirit of
consultation — shura — so that our citizens may be able
to participate actively in the decision-making organs within
the federal system. In this context, Sudan has witnessed
public elections for various legislative bodies in more than
20 of its 26 provinces. Upon completion of elections in all
provinces, elections for the members of the National
Assembly will be held, and eventually, the election of a
President of the Republic will take place.
At
the moment, Sudan hosts about one million
refugees, and despite its meagre resources, its Government
provides them with material assistance. It is unfortunate that
the international community has discontinued its assistance
to those refugees, thus leaving the country to bear the brunt
of this essentially international responsibility. We call upon
the international community to increase its financial
assistance to the Office of
the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to meet the essential
needs of refugee projects and programmes in Sudan. Failure
by the international community to do so will be quite unfair
to Sudan, as it would mean that the country is expected to
continue to host such a number of refugees while the
international community fails to discharge its responsibility
towards them.
We come to this session of the General Assembly
motivated by good faith, and determination to play fully our
role in cooperation with the international family of the
United Nations. In so doing, we are inspired by our
commitment to the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter and by our desire to put our capabilities at
the service of the common good of mankind and to work
for the realization of our aspirations after a new world
order that would be characterized by liberty, equality and
justice. We hope that
the principles set forth in this
statement would point the way towards the attainment of
the noble goals which the United Nations was created to
achieve.
The Acting President: I call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs and Tourism of Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, His Excellency Mr. Alpian Allen.
Mr. Allen (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): I wish,
on behalf of my country, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his election
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
as President of the General Assembly. He assumes the
presidency on the historic occasion of
the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations.
Commendation is in order too for His Excellency
Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the competence and
sensitivity he displayed as he presided over the last
session.
Let us also take this opportunity to express to the
Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali, our profound gratitude for the efforts which he has
made so far to achieve greater flexibility, and for the
enhancement of the capability of this world body to meet
the new challenges posed by the seismic upheavals taking
place in the international arena.
My delegation is supportive of United Nations
reform initiatives. We must redouble our efforts to ensure
a more efficient United Nations system that will respond
effectively to security and humanitarian needs, promote
human rights, and build the capacity for sustainable
development. Central to our concerns is the importance of
ensuring democracy in the United Nations.
this
Organization’s moral authority is to be preserved in an
increasingly democratized world, it is inescapable that its
own processes must be made more democratic. It
is
therefore imperative, as we consider the enlargement of
the Security Council,
the existing geographic
imbalance be noted, and that the five regions of the world
be adequately represented.
that
If
My delegation calls for a more effective and
efficient United Nations. We are cognizant of the urgent
need to address the deteriorating finances of this great
Organization. Since the end of the cold war, funds for
development in poorer countries have been drastically
reduced, and peace-keeping demands now compete for the
limited funds available. In his recent report on the work
of the Organization, the Secretary-General revealed that
Member States owed the Organization approximately
$3.6 billion. Let us all work together to address this issue
of arrears, which seriously impairs the effectiveness of the
United Nations.
The role of peace-keeping forces will have to be
redefined. My delegation is concerned when lightly armed
peace-keepers or unarmed aid workers on a humanitarian
mission are threatened, taken hostage, harmed, or even
killed. To preserve the credibility of all United Nations
peace operations, personnel must be protected as they
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
carry out the duties that the international community has
sent them to accomplish.
Taiwan to be given the opportunity to make a tangible
contribution to the work of the United Nations.
The recently concluded Fourth World Conference on
Women, held in Beijing, has certainly served to raise the
level of consciousness worldwide on the many problems
that women still encounter in many countries of the United
Nations. It is now evident that, even in those countries
where legislation has opened the road to equality and
equity, traditional attitudes continue to impede this process.
I am happy to report that in Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, women have been given the opportunity to
lead. Over 40 per cent of the top administrative posts in our
civil service are held by women. Women also have equal
access to the political process and enjoy equal pay for equal
work. Moreover, my Government amended the constitution
to give women citizenship rights equal to those previously
accorded only to men.
Adherence to the principles of the United Nations
Charter and the right to self-determination of the world’s
peoples remain among the fundamental principles of the
Charter. This is reflected in the growing membership of the
Organization.
The Republic of China on Taiwan, which was once a
Member of this body, still finds itself on the outside,
knocking persistently at the doors of our chambers. It is the
view of the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
which we also expressed at the last session, that the time
has come for serious consideration to be given to the
eligibility of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become
a Member of the United Nations. Our position is based on
the principle of universality and in accordance with the
established model of parallel representation of divided
countries. We have recognized the several parts of the
former Yugoslavia, and this model should continue to guide
our policy.
Its
arena.
My delegation believes that the Republic of China on
Taiwan is fully equipped to play an expanded role in the
world economic
successful development
experience can indeed serve as a reference for developing
countries. Not only has the Republic of China on Taiwan
achieved economic success but, in a few years, its political
system has evolved from one characterized by authoritarian
rule into one based on democratic principles. We cannot
preach about the universality of the United Nations while
at the same time ignoring the aspirations of over 21 million
people. It is more than time for the Republic of China on
14
My delegation reiterates its strong commitment to
the peaceful settlement of disputes among States. The
Gulf War
the international
community must continue to recognize the potential for
conflict that still exists in that part of the world.
is now behind us, but
In January 1995,
the Secretary-General
issued a
Supplement to his “Agenda for Peace” of 1992, which
highlighted new kinds of United Nations operations to
deal with the outbreak of ethnic and religious wars within
newly independent States. It is the fervent hope of my
delegation that a lasting peace will come to the troubled
regions of
the world, particularly to Bosnia and
Herzegovina. One can recall when the despicable system
of apartheid was demolished in South Africa, just over a
year ago. It therefore behoves us to eradicate such evil
thoughts as “ethnic cleansing” from the minds of men in
other parts of the world.
Let me take this opportunity to applaud the efforts
of the Israeli Government and the leadership of the
Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) to pursue peace
talks despite the efforts of terrorists to derail the process.
My delegation fully supports a peaceful resolution of the
conflict that has plagued that region of the world for so
many years.
on
The Global Conference
the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States was of
great importance to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
The vulnerability of small island States such as ours is of
grave concern and we eagerly look forward to the
implementation of the Programme of Action agreed to in
Barbados in 1994.
Less than one month ago, the Caribbean region felt
the impact of several storms and hurricanes which
severely ravaged our sister
islands of Antigua and
Barbuda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Dominica, Saint Maarten,
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. In the spirit of
Caribbean brotherhood, the entire rest of the region came
to the support of those affected. The Prime Minister, Sir
James Mitchell, in his capacity as current Chairman of the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), along
with Prime Minister Compton of Saint Lucia and Prime
Minister Arthur of Barbados, immediately embarked on
a tour of the islands which were severely hit.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
A national effort was mobilized in my own country for
relief supplies. My delegation takes this opportunity to call
for further external assistance, which remains crucial. On
behalf of the Government and people of Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, I wish to convey our profound sympathy to
the Governments and the peoples of the islands affected,
particularly to the families of those who lost their lives as
a result of Hurricanes Luis and Marilyn.
We also wish to express our sympathy to the
Government and the people of
the United States of
America, and more specifically the families of those who
lost their lives in the senseless bombing of the Federal
Building in Oklahoma earlier this year.
Our small and fragile States are now being threatened
by another type of disaster — an economic disaster, with
mounting pressures being exerted by very powerful forces
which appear not
to understand the importance of the
banana industry to our very survival. Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines and the other banana producing countries of the
Windward Islands are limited to a mere three per cent of
the world market trade in the commodity. The powerful
multinational companies which are seeking to reverse the
special arrangements under the Lomé Convention already
control over 80 per cent of the world market.
More profits for multinational companies must not be
to the detriment of the small islands striving to maintain
democracy. The destruction of
the Caribbean banana
industry will create economic and social havoc nationally
and regionally,
severe
repercussions at the international level. We recognize the
momentum for free trade, but see no reason why, as obtains
with issues related to other agricultural regions, of various
countries, we cannot be given the time to adjust and
restructure our economies.
and will undoubtedly have
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has already seen its
active involvement and participation at the regional level in
the Caribbean as an indispensable dimension of its role as
a member of
the international community. We have
consistently defined our objective to become members of
our various institutional bodies as a logical and natural
culmination of our international vocation. This definition is
rooted in our country’s political, social and economic
realities, as they have been shaped by our historical and
cultural heritage.
As a member of the recently established Association
of Caribbean States (ACS), we are indeed delighted to be
given a greater opportunity to strengthen relations with our
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
Latin American neighbours. Comprising some 200 million
ethnically and culturally diverse peoples, the ACS will
serve as a vehicle to promote the implementation of
policies and programmes designed to harness, utilize and
develop the potential of the Caribbean Sea, promote and
enhance economic space for
trade and investment
opportunities, and establish and augment, as appropriate,
institutional structures and cooperative arrangements
responsive to the various cultural identities within the
region.
My Government
totally condemns
illicit
production, trafficking and consumption of drugs. These
harbingers of violent crimes and corruption create a
serious menace to the health and well-being of our
economies and our people,
threaten our democratic
institutions, and endanger national and regional security.
the
We are firmly convinced that only integrated
regional and international efforts can effectively address
the drug problem, and accordingly stress the need for
increased local, regional and international cooperation.
Greater emphasis should be placed on programmes that
generate employment and income for persons attracted to
drug production and trafficking as a means of livelihood.
With the end of the cold war,
the international
community, freed of the ideological and other constraints
of the East-West struggle, saw new opportunities to
respond more effectively to longstanding problems that
had defied resolution because of super-Power rivalries.
There was optimistic talk of the “peace-dividend”, and the
Security Council acted with unprecedented consensus and
momentum on many issues.
At
the same time,
the thawing of the cold war
triggered long-suppressed tensions and conflicts in many
parts of the world. Serious global economic and social
problems, ranging from poverty, over-population, refugees
and migration, to unemployment, drug-trafficking and
environmental decline, have affected many societies on an
unprecedented scale.
Despite the dramatically diminished threat of a
nuclear war, the world of the 1990s turns out to be a far
more unstable place than many had hoped. The reality of
global
new
opportunities for cooperation and exchange, reminds us all
too often of our shared and persistent problems. We face
more tensions in more places: increasing degradation of
the quality of human life and even more complex issues
interdependence, while
promising
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
of international laws and ethics, management and practical
cooperation.
span of time, have all contributed to rapid changes in the
global economic scene.
It is therefore clear that the United Nations system is
in greater demand than ever before. As we commemorate
the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this great
Organization, let us work in harmony and ensure that the
United Nations
is adequately prepared to face the
challenges of an even more complex world. We must never
forget that the United Nations is a reflection of the real
world. If an ugly image appears, one should not blame the
mirror.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister of
the Republic of Mauritius, His
External Affairs of
Excellency The Honourable Mr. Ramduthsing Jaddoo.
Mr. Jaddoo (Mauritius): It is with much pleasure and
great satisfaction that I join the previous speakers who have
already congratulated the President on his election to the
presidency of the fiftieth session of the General Assembly.
The participation of his country, Portugal, at the United
Nations has always been active and constructive. My
delegation, therefore, is confident that under the President’s
wise and able leadership our Organization will progress
further towards its goals. And we assure him of our fullest
cooperation and support in the tasks that devolve upon him.
May I take this opportunity to express our sincere
appreciation to the President’s distinguished predecessor,
His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire, for the
admirable and effective manner in which he conducted the
business of the forty-ninth session.
Let me also renew my delegation’s homage to
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali for the efficient and committed
manner
in which he is carrying out his mission as
Secretary-General.
Every year, we seize the opportunity of the session of
the General Assembly to share our views and concerns
about the state of international relations. In this fiftieth year
of the existence of our Organization, I particularly wish to
address the Assembly from the perspective of a small island
State.
The end of the cold war and the breakup of the Soviet
bloc,
the globalization of the world economy and the
establishment of the World Trade Organization to oversee
international trade, the emergence of China as an economic
giant, the liberalization of the Indian economy and South
Africa’s return to the community of nations, in such a short
16
My country shares the belief that regionalization is
a first prerequisite for smooth integration into a global
economic pattern. It was natural, therefore, that the region
of the Indian Ocean could not remain isolated from the
movement towards regionalization, despite the fact that
the Indian Ocean countries form a heterogeneous zone
with a multiplicity of economic systems, political
traditions and cultural experiences. It is in this perspective
that Mauritius hosted, in March this year, the Indian
Ocean Rim (IOR) initiative. Built on the foundations of
historic interchanges between nations in the Indian Ocean,
the IOR initiative could be seen both as a geographical
reality and a natural economic entity. Its objective, as
clearly outlined at the first meeting, is to establish a
regional forum, tripartite in nature, that will bring together
representatives of Governments, business and academia
for the purpose of promoting economic cooperation in the
region. Although the IOR initiative has been launched
with an initial group, may I hasten to add that the IOR is
open to all the countries of the Indian Ocean region. As
we go along, the initiative will expand progressively to
include other countries, on the basis of a coherent
programme and plan of action.
Other existing groupings, such as the Common
Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the
Southern African Development Community (SADC) — to
which organization my country has
recently been
admitted — and the Indian Ocean Commission, have
already contributed significantly to greater interaction in
our region, and it is our hope that this new initiative will
further pave the way for a dynamic integration of the
Indian Ocean region into the global economic pattern. In
regard, we look forward to, and will highly
this
appreciate,
the support of major regional groups and
countries in the implementation of this laudable initiative.
Indeed, while we are making considerable efforts to
ensure the prosperity and advancement of our countries,
we are also very much aware that this cannot be achieved
without the assistance of major players in the global
economy. At the same time, it is important that, at a time
of growing interdependence among States and economies,
efforts must be made to include developing countries in
the international economic decision-making process so as
to achieve effective management of the global economy.
The Bretton Woods institutions — namely,
the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund —
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
should be able to devise new ways and means of
responding to the development needs, priorities and
specificities of developing countries by providing adequate
resources without stringent conditionalities. I should like
here to appeal to the international financial institutions to
put aside, when circumstances demand,
their first and
foremost role of bankers and act more as partners in the
global development process. For it is becoming increasingly
clear that development problems cannot be solved by
countries on their own, whatever be their sense of
commitment and purpose. Africa, where countries are
afflicted by deep-seated and chronic problems, is one such
example.
My country, therefore, welcomes the views expressed
by the Secretary-General in his Agenda for Development,
and in particular supports his démarches to alleviate
problems and sufferings on the African continent. We wish
in this regard to see the rapid implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development in Africa in the
1990s and the Cairo Agenda for Action on Relaunching
African Economic and Social Development, as well as the
recommendations of
the Bandung Asia-Africa Forum.
Africa, we know, is not alone, and we were gratified in
September last year by President Clinton’s statement at the
reception for African nations to the effect that
“The United States has been, and will continue to be,
a partner in Africa’s success story”.
This is comforting, and we wish to see more concrete steps
in this direction.
I wish also to seize this opportunity to pay tribute to
two decades of partnership between the countries of Africa,
the Caribbean and the Pacific and those of the European
Union, through the Lomé Conventions. In a few weeks’
time Mauritius will have the privilege and honour of
hosting the signing of the second financial protocol of
Lomé IV. While I pay tribute to this concrete example of
effective partnership between the North and the South, it is
our sincere hope that our partners of the European Union
will continue to support
its traditional friends despite
emerging demands nearer home.
Economic and socio-cultural progress cannot be
the centre of
sustained if man does not
development.
training and
information play a fundamental role. We firmly believe that
it is extremely important to invest in human resources. In
keeping with this belief, education and training are provided
In this context, education,
remain at
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
free of charge at primary and secondary levels in my
country, to boys and girls and to men and women alike.
An educated and trained individual is in a better
position to respond and adapt to the changing needs of
society and the developments taking place around him. As
such, he is able to provide faster and better results. One
of
the scourges of developing nations remains an
inadequate level of education and the lack of training
facilities and access to the latest information. Developing
countries, in fact, run the risk of being left outside the
network of rapidly evolving information technology. And
yet can anyone deny the absolute need for small island
States like mine to be connected to the rest of the world
through up-to-date information networks? Therefore,
while the eradication of illiteracy and the provision of
education facilities should continue to remain a top
priority of the United Nations, we should add to this the
transfer of information technology.
to the United Nations,
Women are a major agent of development, and they
have often been disadvantaged in their quest for education
and training. Of course,
the
advancement of women is not a new cause. The year
1975 was proclaimed International Women’s Year,
followed by the United Nations Decade for Women. Since
then, major United Nations conferences, such as the Earth
Summit, in Rio, the World Conference on Human Rights,
in Vienna, and others have repeatedly brought the plight
of women to the fore, the most significant being the
recent Beijing Conference. The agreements concluded at
Beijing recognized the pivotal role of women in our
society and laid down the
their
participation as equal partners in development activities.
More important, however, will be the “after” Beijing —
the need to get down to the implementation of decisions
arrived at and the need to find ways and means of
building the bridges to allow for greater involvement of
women in national and international matters.
foundations
for
The world this year befittingly witnessed two other
important United Nations conferences: the World Summit
for Social Development in Copenhagen and the Review
and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT) in New York.
The Summit on Social Development called attention
to the impact of the world economic system on the poor
and underprivileged and helped to project new ideas for
alternative models of social development. It also allowed
17
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
a just and equitable society by trying to win the
confidence of the peoples, societies and Governments
rather than by threatening them economically, militarily
or otherwise. The upholding of human values and uplift
of humanity should continue to remain our main concern
at all times and in the best interests of humanity. It is for
this reason that we should seize every opportunity to
applaud the restoration of human rights and democracy,
regardless of other considerations. We are delighted,
therefore, at the long-awaited liberation of Mrs. Aung San
Suu Kyi this year, which we feel has opened up new
avenues for dialogue in Myanmar.
During the past few years in particular, the United
Nations has become increasingly identified in the public
perception with the Blue Helmets. The growing focus on
the activities of the peace-keepers is such that
their
successes and failures often affect the credibility of our
Organization. Peace-keeping is an important
tool for
conflict resolution; its success depends to a large extent
on a strong political will on the part of Member States, a
clear mandate to the peace-keepers and solid material,
logistical and financial support. However, one of the main
factors
early
identification of potential conflicts and tensions. While
arms and weapons can be used to threaten and
temporarily silence those involved in the conflicts, lasting
peace can be achieved only through moral persuasion, the
removal of fear and despair, and the instilling of hope and
security in the minds of people. The need, therefore, to
strengthen the arms of preventive diplomacy becomes
imperative.
resolution remains
conflict
the
for
In the recent past, the United Nations has been
increasingly called upon to carry out peace-keeping and
peacemaking operations. In fact, the number of demands
made on the Organization is now straining its resources
almost to the breaking-point. The erratic and reluctant
disbursement of contributions by some Member States has
highlighted the shortcomings of such operations and
exposed the limits of this approach in ensuring peace and
stability. We therefore need more than ever to place much
greater emphasis on preventive diplomacy and allocate
more resources to this activity. We believe that, in the
long run, the cost of supporting programmes in
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to resolve the
the renewal of the world commitment
problems of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion.
is important
in several ways.
For its part, the non-proliferation Treaty, which came
into force in 1970,
It
enshrines an undertaking between the five nuclear-weapon
States to begin serious nuclear disarmament negotiations
to acquire nuclear
and the non-nuclear countries not
weapons
to peaceful nuclear
technology. It is a major international agreement the aim of
which is to curb the spread of nuclear weapons and build
confidence among the nuclear-weapon States towards a
reduction of their arsenals. The Treaty also provides the
basis for legitimate trade in nuclear technology for peaceful
purposes.
in return for
access
of
the
The
extension
indefinite
nuclear
non-proliferation Treaty in May this year can be considered
a landmark in the history of mankind, which has committed
itself to free the world from the threat of nuclear weapons.
Unfortunately, the optimism generated by the indefinite
extension of the Treaty was short-lived in the wake of the
resumption of recent nuclear testings. These activities are
definitely not encouraging signs for the conclusion of a
comprehensive test-ban treaty in the foreseeable future.
In our region, however, we are confident that the
African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, which was
recently finalized in South Africa, will go a long way
towards contributing to international peace and security. It
covers a large part of the Indian Ocean and the Atlantic
Ocean, both containing major sea routes of the world. My
delegation sincerely hopes to see the speedy entry into force
of this Treaty, which, among other issues, encompasses the
integrality of
the
Organization of African Unity as a nuclear-weapon-free
zone.
the territory of States members of
The Vienna Conference was a turning-point for world
perception of human rights. We hope that the principles and
objectives enshrined in the 1993 Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action on human rights may in time be
recognized and effectively respected in all corners of the
world. My country has always upheld human rights and
favoured their promotion and protection. But at the same
time, in the field of human rights, we believe that we have
to move with caution lest we run the risk of damaging the
interests of those very individuals and societies that we are
purporting to protect in the short run.
Nevertheless,
from
combining our best efforts in all good faith to bring about
should not prevent us
this
18
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
preventive diplomacy would be far outweighed by the
actual costs of dispatching Blue Helmets around the world.
regional
such as
initiatives,
In this respect, we urge the international community
strongly to support
the
mechanism for conflict prevention, management and
resolution of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The
experience of my country as a result of my own personal
participation in several ministerial missions organized by
the OAU in the context of this mechanism has convinced
us to put greater reliance in this approach. My delegation
would therefore like to appeal to this body to make a strong
commitment
to the realization of this very important
programme.
The establishment of an early-warning system and
threat-assessment unit at the United Nations could equally
support
the proposed OAU early-warning system. This
would go a long way towards preparing the United Nations
to deal with the contemporary challenges of peace-keeping
and peace-building at a more realistic cost. Yet I would
appeal for more cohesion and harmonization among the
various
conflict-resolution
mechanisms in order to avoid duplication of efforts.
conflict-prevention
and
(spoke in French)
At this point, my delegation should like to refer to the
increasing activities of the francophone movement in the
areas of conflict prevention and peace-keeping. We
welcome the encouraging results of the work of the recent
conference of French-speaking countries on conflict
prevention, which took place in Canada. Among the
recommendations of that conference, we note in particular
the one relating to the support of
the francophone
movement for the pan-African mechanism for conflict
prevention, management and resolution.
It is true that the movement has no great means at its
disposal, but
it has none the less been able to lend
considerable support in the recent past to certain United
Nations programme in the area of human rights and the
process of democratization. With respect to those two areas,
I also wish to highlight the important activities of the
movement over the past two years in the countries of the
African Great Lakes region following the tragic events that
took place there.
In December, at Cotonou, my Prime Minister will be
passing on the presidency of the movement to the President
of Benin. I wish to take this opportunity to express my
great satisfaction at the way in which, during his term of
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
office, the political dimension of the French-speaking
movement’s work on the
level has
developed. I should like to express the hope that this
political facet of the movement will in future be able to
play a growing role in international forums in striving for
the realization of lasting peace in the world.
international
(spoke in English)
initiatives
resolution in regions
We are already witnessing promising developments
in conflict
such as Angola,
Mozambique and the Middle East. We commend the
recent
in Bosnia and exhort all parties
concerned to continue to intensify their efforts to find a
long-term solution, and hope that the long-awaited peace
in this region is achieved not under the threat of guns, but
through the goodwill, understanding and tolerance of all
concerned.
My delegation recognizes that the fiftieth anniversary
of the United Nations provides a golden opportunity for
the re-examination and the renewal of the United Nations
system, and welcomes the initiative launched in the
General Assembly to negotiate a reform of the Security
Council. We believe that
the present 15-member
composition of the Security Council does not reflect the
realities of the economic and political changes of the past
decades. In its present composition, the Security Council
can neither claim to take into account the positions of
nations in the next 50 years, nor reasonably pretend to
speak on behalf of 185 nations for the maintenance of
world peace and security. The Security Council has
indeed the main task of maintaining peace and security.
However,
the concept of world security has itself
undergone a huge transformation. We are now more at
risk from the threat of economic, social, cultural and
religious upheavals and turmoils than from the outbreak
of war resulting from conflicts between States or a group
of States. Consequently, if the Security Council is to
command full respect in all parts of the world and enjoy
legitimacy, it should undergo a complete overhaul.
In the context of
the current exercise on the
expansion of the Security Council, we believe that the
claim of India, the largest parliamentary democracy, to a
permanent seat on the Security Council is legitimate. In
the same spirit, countries from other regions, including
small island States, could equally aspire to permanent
seats in an expanded Security Council.
The world has gradually been reduced to a global
village. The regions of the world and their peoples,
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
although still widely separated geographically, are fast
realizing that the future of the world community lies in a
common shared goal. We are increasingly becoming aware
that the world is one family, and that if we are to assure a
brighter and better future for coming generations, we have
no other choice than to continue our efforts towards
preserving and promoting a strong United Nations that will
be able to pursue a common purpose for a world of equity,
justice and shared economic progress.
In Mauritius, in spite of the existence of many cultures
and religions, we have been successful
in promoting
peaceful coexistence. We have always believed that no
meaningful progress can be achieved in the absence of
peace and harmony. We have always believed in our people
and have actively promoted the culture of tolerance and
mutual
respect. We remain deeply committed to the
principles of democracy and justice. The path of tolerance
and mutual respect for different faiths and religions and the
acceptance of unity in diversity laid down under the
inspiring leadership of
the Nation, Sir
Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, since independence in 1968 and
followed through relentlessly by our present Prime Minister,
Sir Anerood Jugnauth have been largely responsible for the
harmonious way of life in Mauritius.
the Father of
In conclusion, I should like on the occasion of the
fiftieth anniversary of our Organization to share with the
international community our rich experience of living in
peace and harmony.
The Acting President: I now call on the Chairman of
the delegation of Tajikistan, His Excellency Mr. Rashid
Alimov.
Mr. Alimov (Tajikistan) (interpretation from Russian):
First of all, let me express to His Excellency Mr. Diogo
Freitas do Amaral my sincere congratulations on his
election to the responsible post of President of the General
Assembly. There can be no doubt that his rich experience,
both in life and in diplomacy, will serve to enhance the
productive work of our anniversary session.
Mr. Traoré (Mali), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Five decades ago, having achieved victory over the
forces of evil in the Second World War, the international
community evinced the wisdom and political will to build
together the universal home of peace and common security:
the United Nations. And perhaps the main result of the past
few decades has been that, with the help of the United
20
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
Nations, we managed to save the world from another
world war. All of us can be proud of that.
Although the “big” war spared us, this in no way
diminished the increasing danger of small wars in the
world, which have caused intense suffering and misery.
Economic and social development in the countries where
these wars take place is set back for decades. And
although the civil war in Tajikistan is now behind us, it
is still necessary to pursue the final settlement of the civil
conflict.
It was the dialogue initiated by the Government of
Tajikistan, rather than violent confrontation, that began to
yield tangible results. A significant role here was played
by international interaction and by joint efforts on the
regional level.
A perceptible acceleration in the process of dialogue
resulted from the meetings between the President of the
Republic of Tajikistan, Mr. Imomali Rakhmonov, and the
leadership of the armed opposition in Kabul and Tehran.
This incontestably demonstrated our good will and our
sincere aspiration for the early achievement of complete
stability and accord on Tajik soil.
between
We are sincerely grateful
to the leaders of the
Islamic State of Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of
Iran for their personal contribution in arranging the
meetings
President
Tajikistan,
of
Mr. Rakhmonov, and the leader of
the opposition,
Mr. Nuri. The efforts of these and other countries acting
as observers in the inter-Tajik negotiations tangibly
supplemented the mediating activity of
the United
Nations.
the
are
to
the
We
grateful
Secretary-General,
His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, his Special
Envoy, Ambassador Píriz Ballón, and also the regional
acted as
and intergovernmental organizations
observers at
for
their
substantial contribution to the resolution of the conflict.
that
the inter-Tajik negotiations
this year,
The results of these multilateral efforts have already
become apparent. Signed by the sides in the middle of
August
the Protocol on the fundamental
principles for establishing peace and national accord in
Tajikistan, which contains, inter alia, the decision to
extend
until
26 February 1996, has created a solid basis for the
attainment of general agreement for peace and national
accord in Tajikistan.
agreement
cease-fire
term of
the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Government of Tajikistan is in favour of the
earliest possible start to an ongoing round of negotiations
with the Opposition. We plan to begin this very soon. The
intention is that in the course of the forthcoming dialogue
the Government and its opponents will agree upon a
complete set of
for a comprehensive peace
settlement. A prerequisite for that is that the Opposition
agree to act with the Government on a common legal basis.
What is important is that, having signed the protocol to
which I have referred, the Opposition undertook to conduct
its political struggle exclusively by peaceful means and in
accordance with current
legislation in the Republic of
Tajikistan.
issues
We cannot ignore the fact that there are difficulties in
this process. Among the representatives of the hard-line
wing of the Opposition there are forces whose attitude
favours terrorism and political and religious extremism. To
achieve their own narrow, selfish ends they are inclined to
stick to the policy of keeping strong pressure on the
Government. Their
acts,
intimidation of people inside the country, constant violation
of the Tajik-Afghan border, which is protected by border
guards of Russia, Kazakstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan,
as well as by our own soldiers.
includes
arsenal
terrorist
The continuous interference from outside in the
inter-Tajik conflict has had a negative impact on the
settlement process. Evidence of that
is the continuing
explosive situation on the Tajik-Afghan border, which tends
to destabilize the situation in Tajikistan as well as in all of
Central Asia.
The unstable situation makes it possible for criminal
elements to engage in the illegal supply of drugs and arms
on a large scale across the southern border of Tajikistan.
The consequences of these criminal acts have a negative
impact, not just in our country or in the Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS), but also far beyond the borders
of the CIS.
In this connection, it is appropriate to recall that the
leadership of Tajikistan and the States whose military
contingents comprise the peace-keeping forces of the CIS
have repeatedly requested that these forces be given the
status of a United Nations operation. An important reason
for
is the accumulated experience of close and
constructive collaboration between the United Nations
Mission of Observers in Tajikistan and the collective peace-
keeping forces of the CIS, as well as the border-guard
forces in Tajikistan. This collaboration is already one of the
most important factors in stabilizing the situation.
that
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
The completed process of constitutional reforms and
the concomitant peaceful transformation in State power
have also contributed to the inter-Tajik settlement.
Independent Tajikistan has now acquired a Constitution;
the President of the country, who is its guarantor, came
to office as the result of popular elections; legislative
power is vested in a newly elected Parliament, the Majlisi
Oli; all branches of power at
the centre, as well as
locally, have been strengthened and are working
effectively; and the principle of the primacy of the law
has made active headway in the country.
It is not sufficient simply to note that all these
processes took place in the period between the forty-ninth
session and the fiftieth anniversary session of the General
Assembly: it is fair to note also that much was achieved
with the assistance of the United Nations institutions and
specialized agencies.
it has proved quite difficult
While there may have been significant progress in
the political process,
to
improve the situation in the national economy in the
period of transition without any support from outside,
despite the concrete steps that are being taken towards
market reforms. A national currency has been introduced,
prices have been liberalized, the process of accelerated
privatization is under way, and so on.
In other words, the conditions have been created for
the development of the economy in the transition period.
At the same time, restoring those aspects of daily life that
were destroyed by the civil war of 1992 has been
extremely difficult. Our health care, education and social
security are in critical condition.
The question of the return and settlement of refugees
and displaced persons and their social rehabilitation
remains crucial. We are grateful
the efforts of
specialized agencies of the United Nations and other
international organizations for their generosity to our
country in helping to resolve the refugee problem.
for
As is known, Tajikistan does not have access to the
sea. However, it possesses significant quantities of natural
resources, and it has substantial industrial potential. If our
country were to be approached by international financial
organizations this would significantly ease the situation
and accelerate the process of reform in the economy.
We call upon the States Members of the United
Nations to cooperate in mutually beneficial partnership.
Stabilization in the economy of Tajikistan will not only
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
serve to satisfy the socio-economic needs of our people; it
will become an important factor for further development of
democratic institutions in our country, strengthening the
machinery for the defence of human rights and the process
of national accord and the consolidation of society.
As an equal member of the world community, the
Republic of Tajikistan, to the extent of its potential, will
strive to participate actively in international political life.
Tajikistan actively supports the strengthening of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to
which it is a party, as well as a comprehensive nuclear-test
ban.
between
two
influential
importance
My country attaches great
to the
development of broad cooperation, not only with the United
Nations but also with regional organizations. The Republic
of Tajikistan is a striking example of successful practical
interaction
international
organizations — the United Nations and the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) — in their
common interests. The ties between Tajikistan and the
OSCE are developing in all major
that
organization’s activity. We also attach great importance to
the activity of Tajikistan within the Organization of the
Islamic Conference.
areas of
Our country pays particular attention to the state of
affairs in the Commonwealth of Independent States and to
the consistent development of that organization’s ties with
each of its members.
The development of the situation in the central Asian
region is of vital
importance to our Republic. The
Government of my country is a staunch advocate of the
parity approach to the settlement of regional political
problems and of the closest possible economic integration
of the States in its region.
Finally, I should like to say a few words about the
situation in a neighbouring country — Afghanistan, which
is one of the most dreadful casualties in the aftermath of
the cold war. There appears to be no end to the internecine
conflict in the territory of this long-suffering nation. We
believe that the United Nations and the world community
have sufficient political and moral weight
to exert a
meaningful
influence on the parties to this fratricidal
conflict with a view to ending the bloodshed as soon as
possible. This would undoubtedly be one of the most
significant contributions by the United Nations to the
establishment of universal peace and security.
22
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
The 50-year history of the United Nations has
enriched us with the invaluable capacity to live in peace
with each other despite our differences. Applying this
experience, we must give our peoples high hopes for life
in the third millennium. In this sense, we share very much
the concept of the Secretary-General’s report “An Agenda
for Development”. Consonant with this are the joint
initiatives of the CIS States at the fiftieth session of the
United Nations General Assembly — initiatives in which
Tajikistan has participated. The most relevant of these is
the convening of an international conference on refugees
and migrants in post-Soviet territory.
to further
The package of documented initiatives from the CIS
States confirms our will
integrate the
Commonwealth into the international community, and to
seek more active participation in the work of United
Nations institutions and its specialized agencies. Our joint
efforts do not mean that we wish to work in isolation.
They simply testify to the fact that there is a great deal
that unites us, and there is much we share in common
with respect to our development besides having many
similar problems.
The entire civilized world, with great concern and
indeed with growing alarm about what will happen to
future generations, has been observing increasing
incidents of international terrorism, religious fanaticism
and ultra-nationalism. The task of the world community
is to unite efforts to counteract the forces of evil. The
tragic events in Tokyo, Oklahoma and Budenovsk show
that
intensify the struggle in those
directions, including foiling the attempts of terrorists to
get access to weapons of mass destruction, whether they
be nuclear, chemical or any other kind.
the world must
International terrorism, drug trafficking and the illicit
traffic in weapons, the emergence of “hot spots” here and
there on the planet:
interconnected
phenomena. The pain and suffering of the people in these
“hot spots” call for urgent and joint steps to be taken to
wage uncompromising war against these demons of the
end of the twentieth century.
these are all
As the situation now stands, either the principles of
high morality and humanity will prevail or the world will
be doomed to further suffering. We have no right to allow
society to return to the epoch of barbarism.
On the eve of the end of the Second World War the
founders of the United Nations dreamed about ruling out
any global catastrophes in the future. The 50 years of our
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Organization’s history provide convincing evidence of the
constant antagonism between the forces of reason and light
and those of injustice and hatred. Today we bow our heads
in respect before the tens of millions of people who
sacrificed their lives for the sake of peace and justice.
Over the 50 years of its existence the United Nations
has essentially saved the world from new universal
slaughter. Our common task is now to step into the twenty-
first century having learned wisdom from the experience of
and
the
provided
grandchildren with durable peace,
to free
development and spiritual progress.
our
the right
children
having
past,
and
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation of Equatorial Guinea, His Excellency Don
Miguel Oyono Ndong Mifumu.
Mr. Oyono Ndong Mifumu (Equatorial Guinea)
(interpretation from Spanish): I take great pleasure today in
addressing this distinguished world audience on behalf of
the delegation of Equatorial Guinea in the context of the
fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I
wish first
to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Freitas
do Amaral of Portugal on his election to preside over our
work. I wish him every success in the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fiftieth session. He can always rely
on the cooperation and solidarity of my delegation.
This fiftieth session of the Assembly is taking place at
a time when we are seeing a radical change of course — a
needed one, in our opinion — in the life of the United
Nations in today’s world.
In its first half-century, as a speaker has already said
in this Hall, the United Nations has been a child of its time,
the time of the aftermath of the Second World War. It
came into being to work for peace, world security and
development. Now we must determine whether
these
objectives have been achieved. Peace meant avoiding war
and military conflict. Global security meant preventing the
escalation of conflicts. Development meant mobilizing the
financial resources required for the reconstruction of the
world and to redress its underdevelopment.
As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations we are bound to acknowledge that although the
Organization has achieved certain successes in the area of
preventing disputes among nations and has taken measures
and initiatives to promote the resolution of certain conflicts,
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
peace, security and development are not yet permanent
features of daily life in our earthly home.
The fall of
the East-West
ideological barriers
artificially imposed by the cold war aroused expectations
of an age of peace in the world. The spread of democracy
and the new world-wide awareness of the importance of
respect
further heightened these
expectations at the beginning of this decade.
for human rights
In this context my country,
the Republic of
Equatorial Guinea, has striven to achieve these objectives
of peace, security and development.
Following the ousting of the dictatorship and the
one-party system, our Government, as early as 1979,
adopted a consistent and comprehensive strategy which
was a reflection of a national consensus in favour of a
model of society for the future of our nation that would
be based on peace, democracy and development. In this
context we have undertaken a series of political reforms
fully supported by all forces and currents of opinion in
our society.
Since 1992 the Government, following the lead of
His Excellency, Mr. Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President
of the Republic and Head of State of Equatorial Guinea,
has been responsive to the people’s aspirations to
freedom, democracy and participation in the management
of public affairs. With a population of only 420,000 the
country has 14 legal political movements. This
programme was established and has been satisfactorily
implemented since 1993, with municipal elections having
been held on 17 September 1995. The Constitution and
the electoral timetable that has been established provide
for the holding of presidential elections in the coming
year, 1996.
However, despite these endeavours and despite my
Government’s resolve to secure fundamental freedoms for
our people on a firm foundation, foreign interests, for
their own unavowed purposes, want to see the democratic
process in my country shaped as the saying is “in the
image and likeness” of those alien interests.
Since the beginning of the political transition the
to Equatorial Guinea by certain
treatment meted out
States Members of the Organization has been utterly
different from that granted to other countries in Central
Africa and in the rest of the continent, whose political
evolution has been similar to our own, involving in some
cases tragic consequences; that leads us to suspect that the
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
and
defamation
campaign waged
disinformation
internationally against the Government of Equatorial Guinea
is the manifestation of hegemonistic ambitions and struggles
for influence that threaten not only the peace and social
harmony that prevail in the country but also its territorial
integrity.
We do not understand how Equatorial Guinea’s
democratization process differs from what is going on in
other countries in our area. We have said yes to pluralism,
democracy and participation. We have said yes to human
rights, and we practise respect for human rights. We do not
understand why different types of measures are applied to
my country. We regret that instead of receiving moral
support
consolidate our
achievements, we are subjected to economic blockades and
the unilateral suspension of cooperative programmes agreed
by convention. Instead of receiving understanding for what
could be the result of deficiencies of structure or of
democratic culture in the society of Equatorial Guinea as a
whole, we are subjected to reproach, intimidation, threats
and a humiliating and intolerable interference in our
country’s internal affairs.
and solidarity to help us
We do not believe that a tragic breakdown of social
and economic structures, such as has taken place in the
brotherly countries of Liberia, Rwanda, Angola, Somalia
and other countries and regions of the African continent,
represents the best form of cooperation with and assistance
to African peoples.
I wish to declare before this forum of the international
community that outside influences are engineering and
instigating an internal conflict in my country that would
have unforeseeable consequences.
Indeed, some political circles and communications
media are waging a campaign from Spain, the old colonial
Power, to intensify the differences between the people of
Equatorial Guinea, supporting some and harassing others,
thus provoking divisions and antagonisms. Even graver is
the support offered to the Self-determination Movement of
the Island of Bioko, a secessionist group. In addition, a
station of Radio Exterior de España has been created and
aimed expressly at Equatorial Guinea to carry out a
poisonous disinformation campaign deliberately intended to
distort
the country. The
broadcasts of Radio Exterior de España are the most
disruptive element in the country’s democratization process
and constitute a Petri dish that spawns acts of violence and
the destabilization of Equatorial Guinea’s social structures.
the socio-political
reality of
24
to request
We wish to apprise the international community of
this matter, and we ask it
the Spanish
Government to put an end to this aggression perpetrated
from its territory by the public entity Radio Exterior de
España and by certain political circles. Under the pretext
of supporting the democratic process under way in our
country,
of
Parliamentarians, party and labour leaders, associations
and pressure groups, clandestinely support, coordinate and
finance secessionist movements and political parties
standing
legitimate
Government of Equatorial Guinea. This overt interference
is intended to bring about violent political changes in my
country.
opposition
in
radical
consisting
to
the
those
political
circles,
Clear evidence of this interference can be seen in the
current disinformation and discreditation campaign being
waged from Spain by those political circles and
communications media following the municipal elections
held in my country on 17 September last. Those circles
planned and illegally financed the electoral campaign of
the radical opposition, banded together in the Joint
Opposition Platform (POC). They have created confusion
by trying to manipulate the electoral results.
Those same Spanish political circles are today trying
to manipulate international public opinion by falsely
accusing the Government of electoral fraud and violations
of human rights. The recent report of the United Nations
Special Rapporteur, Mr. Alejandro Artucio, suffices to
give the lie to these accusations. My Government
complies with the programme and recommendations of
the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
One cannot credibly claim to be supporting political
reform in my country by stirring up antagonism and
disputes between the political sectors of my country. One
cannot credibly claim to be helping the people of
Equatorial Guinea by suspending cooperation in the
educational, health and agricultural sectors. One cannot
credibly claim to be helping the people of Equatorial
Guinea by inciting the donor community to block projects
of proven social effectiveness. We sincerely believe that
one cannot help any people by depriving it of the
resources and opportunities
living
conditions.
to improve its
My country lives in peace and order. We just need
a friendly, sincere and respectful helping hand. We are
told that there can be no development without democracy,
and we agree. But our experience, which we believe has
is that
been shared by other developing countries,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
democracy amid poverty and underdevelopment is a pipe
dream. Poverty and underdevelopment breed violence and
social and political instability.
We therefore sincerely seek international relations
characterized by mutual support and solidarity, not partisan
pressure, in order to consolidate this climate that makes
democracy and the development of our peoples possible.
replaced. Nevertheless,
all
and Development,
My second request,
in accordance with what
the
developing countries have been asking for for over a
decade, is that the current unfair international economic
system be
these global
agreements — such as those of the recent World Summit
for Social Development, the United Nations Conference on
Environment
the Fourth World
Conference on Women, held in Beijing, and the latest
agreements of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) — have served only to bring us to today’s sad
impasse, which reveals the radical and irreconcilable
attitudes of both sides. The so-called developed countries of
the North and the developing countries of the South,
divided by selfishness, ambition and intolerance, deprive
future generations of a better world.
A few days before celebrating the fiftieth anniversary
of our Organization,
there still persists in the United
Nations the spirit of a bipolar world dominated by
suspicions on both sides, mistrust, discrimination, attitudes
of superiority, a lack of political will to develop frank and
sincere cooperation and a desire for hegemony in
international relations.
The response of the United Nations to the questions
asked by those who spoke before me and to the challenges
of the new changes on the international stage must contain
two indispensable elements. The first is that the United
Nations should represent
the interests of everyone, by
introducing certain structural reforms making it possible to
attain the objectives for which it was created. Secondly, we
must provide the United Nations with a deeper-going
capacity for genuine dialogue between the nations that
make it up and speak to the world in a language of
understanding.
The necessary dialogue must be global and must
encompass all aspects of international relations, be they
economic, political or cultural. It is impractical to limit
dialogue between nations, regardless of their size and
power, since all the countries of the world must take an
active part
in the dialogue process in order to arrive
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
together at a common and secure destiny, abandoning no
one to the abyss of underdevelopment and abject poverty.
This is the challenge of the next 50 years for our
Organization. May God bless the United Nations.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Bhutan, His Excellency Mr. Dawa Tsering, on whom I
now call.
Mr. Tsering (Bhutan): I have the honour to convey
to the President of the General Assembly, and through
him to all representatives, the warm greetings and good
wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck, King of
Bhutan, for the success of the fiftieth session of the
General Assembly. I offer Mr. Freitas do Amaral the
felicitations of my delegation on his election as President
of this historic session. His election to this high office is
a tribute to him personally and to his country, Portugal,
which has always played an active role in the United
Nations. My delegation wishes also to pay a tribute to His
Excellency Mr. Amara Essy of Côte d’Ivoire for his
skilful
the forty-ninth session. His
presidency has enhanced the esteem of the international
community for him and for Côte d’Ivoire.
stewardship at
We also take this opportunity to welcome the
Its
Republic of Palau into our
participation will greatly enrich our Organization.
family of nations.
This session is of especial significance for all of us
as we celebrate the passing of 50 years since the birth of
the United Nations. It is heartening to note that the grand
and lofty vision which inspired our founding fathers still
continues to inspire and guide us. More than ever before,
we see today the evidence of the collective human will to
unite against threats and obstacles to the survival and
continued progress of mankind. The participation of no
fewer than 150 Heads of State or Government in the
special commemorative meeting later
this month is
glowing testimony to our abiding faith in this world body.
The Intergovernmental High-level Meeting on the
Mid-term Global Review of the Implementation of the
Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries
for the 1990s was held in New York recently. The least
developed countries as a group have not been able to
meet many of the objectives of the Programme of Action
and their overall socio-economic situation has continued
to deteriorate. Some of the factors responsible for this
internally, civil strife and natural
deterioration are,
25
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
disasters with their resulting consequences and, externally,
the debt problem, low levels of export and an inadequate
flow of external finance. These countries have, however,
continued to implement wide-ranging reforms and in some
countries these efforts have shown positive results. A
number of development partners have provided increased
support to the least-developed countries, for which we are
truly grateful. We believe that the least developed countries
have the primary responsibility for their own development,
and with the support of the international community they
hope to alleviate the desperate plight of their peoples. The
Least Developed Countries Division of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development deserves praise for
the excellent documentation it provided for the recent
intergovernmental meeting on the least developed countries.
Earlier this year, we supported the indefinite extension
of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT). This was followed shortly thereafter by several
nuclear tests — in what we believe is a contravention of
the spirit of the 1995 Review and Extension Conference of
the NPT. We are increasingly concerned about the fate of
the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and our ultimate
goal of eliminating all nuclear and other weapons of mass
destruction.
The maintenance of global peace and security still
remains the most pressing challenge for the United Nations.
It has become the yardstick by which the United Nations is
today being judged. Increasingly, concerns are expressed as
to whether the United Nations is able to carry out this task.
The tragic situations in Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina
and Rwanda demonstrate the inability of the international
community to put an end to the immeasurable suffering of
the innocent victims. Such cases raise an important issue.
The number of peace-keeping missions has grown
exponentially. The past year has seen 18 peace-keeping
missions involving 78,000 peace-keepers. The good news
is that the United Nations has a vital, ever-growing role to
play in keeping the peace and allowing combatants a
breathing period in which to come to the negotiating table.
The down side is that the peace-keeping missions are a
considerable drain on the finances of the United Nations.
Expenditures for peace-keeping operation are now more
than three times the entire budget for development. Surely
development merits high priority as well.
The most serious obstacles to sustainable global
development are the fast pace of population growth and the
increasing degradation of the environment. The situation is
worst in the countries that are least able to bear the burden
and where there is already an appalling disequilibrium
26
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
between people and resources. The more advanced
countries may delay their
confrontation with the
environmental crisis but unless these issues are addressed
today, we may see the collapse of vital resources and
climatic changes in many parts of the world and new
security threats resulting from poverty and chaos. This is
aggravated by the fact
significant
developments in the world economy are taking place
outside the United Nations, and our Organization is being
increasingly marginalized on economic, financial and
trade issues.
the most
that
It
that
is important
the world continue to keep
investing in people, especially women and children, and
that it meet their basic needs in education, health and
social welfare. The historic United Nations conferences of
this decade on children, environment, human rights,
population, social development and women embody the
irreversible commitment of the international community
to chart a new course for the future. My country is firmly
committed to the goals set by these conferences.
supports
I wish to acknowledge the special contribution of the
United Nations to the development of my country. The
United Nations has been actively involved in every sphere
of development in Bhutan, and has been responsible for
helping us set out on the right path of sustainable
development. Every effort has been made on our part to
ensure that all assistance received has been properly
utilized and meaningful results achieved. I express the
profound gratitude of the people of Bhutan to the donor
community, which
the United Nations
development activities. We have particularly benefited
from the activities of the United Nations Development
Programme,
the
World Food Programme, the United Nations Population
Fund, the United Nations Capital Development Fund, the
International Fund for Agricultural Development,
the
United Nations Volunteer Programme,
the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World
Health Organization, the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank. They have contributed much to the
welfare of our people. We are also grateful
to our
bilateral donors, particularly India, Switzerland, Japan,
Denmark,
the Netherlands, Austria, Norway, Kuwait,
Germany, Australia, Thailand, and the United Kingdom
for their cooperation and support.
the United Nations Children’s Fund,
The Working Group on the Strengthening of the
United Nations System will once
again look at
streamlining the Organization. Reform of several aspects
of the United Nations system is vital, especially as we
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
confront the many challenges of the twenty-first century.
There must be better distribution of power within the
United Nations. The crippling financial situation caused by
large arrears by Member States must be overcome. It is
also time to examine the new mechanisms for meeting the
financial requirements of the United Nations. My delegation
feels that a proper study should be made and reported to
the Assembly at an early date. In our view, the innovative
idea of a small levy on international air travel proposed by
the Foreign Minister of Australia, Senator Gareth Evans, is
sound and practical.
We are of the considered view that
the Security
Council must be expanded to give greater representation to
developing countries in order to uphold the principles of
equity and justice. Many least-developed countries like
Bhutan feel they are being increasingly marginalized by the
new agendas and priorities of the United Nations. In our
view, the United Nations must represent the interests of all
countries equally, and not only those of a privileged few.
We therefore support the expansion of the Security Council
to facilitate more equitable representation of developing
countries and deserving candidates that have emerged since
the United Nations was established 50 years ago. As a
fellow South Asian nation, and as a member of the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, of which India
is by far the largest member, we strongly support India’s
inclusion in the permanent-member category of the Security
Council. India’s candidature merits serious consideration on
the grounds of equitable geographic representation,
the
large size and enormous potential of the Indian economy
and the fact that one sixth of mankind lives in India.
that
Before I conclude, I should like to join preceding
speakers in paying tribute to the many organizations and
individuals
serve with unfailing dedication and
commitment to further the principles and purposes of the
United Nations. I should like to pay a special tribute to
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General of the
United Nations; to the late James Grant, former Executive
Director of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),
who did so much for the world’s children; to the many
Blue Helmets who have sacrificed their lives so that others
may live in peace and security; and to the host of United
Nations personnel and volunteers who have selflessly
dedicated their lives to the service of others, sometimes
serving under the most trying conditions.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
We have heard the last speaker in the general debate for
this meeting.
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
I shall now call on those representatives who wish
to speak in exercise of the right of reply.
May I remind members that statements in exercise
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes for the second, and
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Whannou (Benin) (interpretation from French):
I am grateful for this opportunity to make a statement in
exercise of my delegations right of reply, following the
the
statement made this morning by the head of
delegation
formal
endorsement by the Group of African States of his
country’s candidature for one of the non-permanent seats
in the Security Council, which is to be filled in elections
at this session of the Assembly.
of Guinea-Bissau
about
the
My delegation, out of courtesy, refrained in the
general debate from addressing the question of West
African candidatures for one of the non-permanent seats
on the Security Council. However, we must make the
situation clear now by emphasizing that
the African
Group has also formally recorded the candidature of
Benin for that West African seat.
Benin’s candidature dates back to 1991, when Benin
gave way to another State of the West African subregion
that had never
served on the Council and was
subsequently elected. In 1993 Benin did so a second time,
to the benefit of Guinea-Bissau, which then decided to
withdraw. Under those circumstances,
in 1995 Benin
maintains its candidature against that of Guinea-Bissau,
which lost its turn by withdrawing in 1993.
additional
information
My delegation is ready to supply any delegation with
any
desire.
Democratically renewed Benin is prepared to serve Africa
and the international community in the Security Council,
and we know that we can rely on all Member States of
the Organization for our election.
they may
it has been stated that
Mr. Gaussot (France) (interpretation from French):
Certain delegations, one of them in virulent terms, have
once again today referred to the question of nuclear tests.
In particular,
tests
conducted by France were counter to the commitments
entered into when the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) was
extended. In addition, it was said that my country had
stated its intention to continue tests without any further
details, as if there were a question of an indefinite time
period.
the recent
27
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
27th plenary meeting
10 October 1995
My delegation wishes to stress that such a statement
of France’s attitude does not tally with the facts. First,
France has not announced its intention to continue its
nuclear testing indefinitely; on the contrary, we have stated
our decision to complete it by engaging in a final series
limited to a few tests, which will be concluded before
31 May 1996. On that date France will have once and for
all renounced all nuclear tests to the extent
that other
States, as it hopes, undertake to join it under the terms of
a nuclear-test-ban treaty.
First of all, my delegation wishes to reiterate firmly
and clearly that the policy of the Spanish Government
with regard to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea can in
no respect be interpreted as interference in the internal
affairs of that country. Quite the contrary, for years Spain
has been providing Equatorial Guinea with assistance for
the reconstruction and development of the country. This
assistance focuses principally on the health, education and
communications sectors, and is provided for the benefit of
the population of Equatorial Guinea.
Secondly, it is not true that the latest round of tests is
counter to our commitments. When the Non-Proliferation
Treaty was extended France never stated that it would
conduct no further testing during the negotiation of a future
test-ban treaty. Our commitment was to exercise the utmost
restraint, which we have done by strictly limiting our latest
test to the number that is technologically indispensable.
Utmost restraint, however, does not mean a ban.
Lastly, my delegation recalls, with regard to the
wording of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, that France was
the first nuclear Power state that it favoured the so-called
zero option — that is, a treaty banning all nuclear tests or
explosion at any level. It is the ongoing last stage of our
testing programme that enables us strongly to advocate that
option, which is clearly the strictest and most satisfactory
with regard to the scope of a future comprehensive test-ban
treaty.
Mr. Laclaustra (Spain) (interpretation from Spanish):
The Spanish delegation wishes to respond to certain aspects
of the statement made this afternoon by the Minister of
State for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Equatorial
Guinea.
Moreover, Spain and other countries, together with
the European Union and the United Nations, have been
cooperating with the authorities of Equatorial Guinea,
responding to their requests with a view to the peaceful
unfolding of the process of democratization in Equatorial
Guinea, including through preparation and monitoring of
the recent municipal elections.
Within the framework of the United Nations Charter,
Spain is also prepared to scrutinize respect for human
rights in Equatorial Guinea in conformity with the
international obligations that bind the Government of
Equatorial Guinea.
I want to stress that this policy of Spain falls fully
within the framework of the principles laid down in the
declaration on Equatorial Guinea adopted by the States
members of the European Union in April 1992.
In brief, there are three basic elements to Spain’s
policy towards Equatorial Guinea: cooperation for the
economic and social development of
the people of
Equatorial Guinea; encouragement of political dialogue
and the holding of free elections in the context of a
peaceful process; and promotion of basic human rights.
All of this is in conformity with the purposes and
principles of the United Nations Charter.
Thus, the comments made by the Minister of State
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Equatorial Guinea
to the effect that Spanish authorities are attempting to
interfere in the internal affairs of his country are
completely unfounded.
The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.
28
