United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
49th plenary meeting
Thursday, 2 November 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.49
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of
(Mauritius), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Peerthum
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
Agenda item 156 (continued)
Multilingualism
Draft resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1
Amendments: A/50/l.8; A/50/L.9; A/50/L.14
The Acting President: I should like to draw the
attention of members to document A/50/L.14, which
contains the two amendments proposed orally by Australia
this morning.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1 and the amendments thereto contained in
documents A/50/L.8, A/50/L.9 and A/50/L.14, the last.
In accordance with rule 90 of the rules of procedure,
the amendments are voted on first. Rule 90 also stipulates
that:
however, the adoption of one amendment necessarily
implies the rejection of another amendment,
the
latter amendment shall not be put to the vote. If one
or more amendments are adopted,
the amended
proposal shall then be voted upon.”
We shall proceed to take a decision first on the
amendment proposed by Malaysia, contained in document
A/50/L.9, which is furthest removed in substance from the
original proposal. Depending on the result of the vote, we
may or we may not vote on the amendment proposed by
Japan, contained in document A/50/L.8, and on that
proposed by Australia contained in paragraph 2 of
document A/50/L.14. We shall then proceed to take a
decision on the amendment proposed by Australia in
paragraph 1 of document A/50/L.14.
If there is no objection to this procedure, I shall take
it that the Assembly agrees to it.
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now
resolution
proceed to take
A/40/L.6/Rev.1 and the proposed amendments thereto.
a decision on draft
“When two or more amendments are moved to a
proposal, the General Assembly shall first vote on the
amendment furthest removed in substance from the
original proposal and then on the amendment next
furthest removed therefrom, and so on until all the
amendments have been put
to the vote. Where,
I call on the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr. Perfiliev (Director, General Assembly Affairs
Division): I have been informed that the adoption of draft
resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1 would not give rise to
programme budget implications.
95-86511 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The Acting President: Before calling on those
representatives who wish to explain their votes before the
voting, may I remind delegations that explanations of vote
are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Birenbaum (United States of America): The
United States has requested a vote on this draft resolution
and will vote “no”.
We fully appreciate and respect multilingualism and
the importance of providing interpretation and access to
United Nations documents in the official languages of the
Organization.
We are concerned, however, that the provisions of the
resolution before us go beyond accepted concepts of
multilingualism within the United Nations system. The text
as currently drafted raises a number of issues, not least of
which is the fact that it would alter existing rules without
following the proper procedures.
The second preambular paragraph introduces the
concept of a “corollary” to universality, “multilingualism”.
To our knowledge, this concept has not been accepted by
the General Assembly.
The fifth preambular paragraph is inconsistent with
operative paragraph 3 in that it calls for all applicants for
United Nations positions to have command of two of the
official languages.
Concerning the sixth preambular paragraph, our
delegation has noted on several occasions that budgetary
constraints impact on all activities of the Organization and
cannot be ignored.
Concerning the eighth preambular paragraph, we are
not aware of any mandate which requires that the United
Nations become in effect a language school for Member
States and staff. In fact, the Fifth Committee, the competent
body on these issues, awaits a request from the Secretary-
General on the United Nations
teaching
programme and will then consider the issue.
language
Concerning operative paragraph 3, we believe that, as
drafted, the language would request the Secretary-General
to ensure that competence in two languages would be a
factor in promotions at all levels of the United Nations. The
existing rules on language competence in relation to
promotion do not apply to the support staff.
2
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
We have concerns regarding operative paragraph 4,
which calls for “equality” of the two working languages
in hiring and promotions. This represents a new criterion,
and we are not clear as to its meaning. We assume that it
is not the intent of this language to establish a quota
system for hiring much like the geographical distribution
system. However, the provision is ambiguous in that
regard.
Finally, we note that there has been no estimate of
expenditures, as required by rule 153 of the rules of
procedure, for this draft resolution. From this we surmise
that
there will be no expenditure of any kind in
implementing the provisions of this draft resolution and
that, therefore, all the activities required by this draft
resolution can and will be accomplished within existing
resources. In our view, a paragraph to this effect should
have been included in this draft resolution.
to members of
Mr. Yoogalingam (Malaysia): I wish to take this
opportunity to appeal
the General
Assembly to give careful consideration before a vote is
taken on the proposed amendment, in document A/50/L.9,
to operative paragraph 3 of
resolution in
document A/50/L.6/Rev.1.
the draft
The draft resolution in that document embodies a
concept dear to us all, and would contribute to the
promotion of multilingualism in the Organization.
However, we are of the view that it would place those
countries whose native tongue is not one of the six United
Nations languages at a serious disadvantage. It is indeed
ironic that, in the quest to achieve parity between the six
United Nations languages, those already disadvantaged
would be further discriminated against.
We recognize that the revised operative paragraph 3
in document A/50/L.6/Rev.1 attempts to take on board
some of the concerns expressed by those countries whose
native tongue is not one of the six United Nations
languages. However, we are of the view that it does not
adequately address our concerns: it is inconsistent with
multilingualism and does not safeguard the interests of
those whose mother tongue is not one of the six United
Nations languages. It would have been helpful if the
sponsors of the draft resolution had been prepared to
accept the word “encourage” instead of the word “ensure”
in the current draft resolution. The word “encourage” is
the term used in previous resolutions and is one that
could help forge a consensus on this draft resolution.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
As we have had insufficient time to consider the draft
resolution in question, and we would request the sponsors
to exercise patience and understanding for those of us who
have serious problems with operative paragraph 3.
Ms. Eerikäinen (Finland): It is a long-standing and
firm policy of Finland not to oppose the inclusion of new
items on the agenda of
the General Assembly. The
necessary corollary of this policy is that delegations must
be given adequate time and adequate opportunity to study
new proposals so that a consensus or a largely satisfactory
compromise solution can be reached by Member States.
In this case, those conditions have, unfortunately, not
been met. In our view, there would have been room to seek
compromise, and further efforts should have been made to
see whether the draft resolution on this important item
could have been adopted by consensus. It was on this
ground, and this ground only, that Finland voted in favour
of the motion to defer treatment of this item yesterday, and
is also why Finland will abstain in any and all votes on the
text of the draft resolution today.
I want to emphasize that our votes yesterday and today
must not be construed as being in any way against
multilingualism. On the contrary: Finland considers the
issue before us to be of great importance to all States
Members of the United Nations. Itself a constitutionally
bilingual country, Finland values linguistic and cultural
diversity and supports strict observance of
the rules
concerning the equality of the six official languages and of
the working languages of the United Nations.
Mr. Ladsous (France) (interpretation from French):
I have taken the floor in order to ask that members of the
General Assembly do not put into effect the amendment
proposed by the delegation of Japan or the one tabled by
the delegation of Malaysia. In my explanations I will
concentrate on the Japanese amendment.
Even before it proposed its amendment, the Japanese
delegation asked us for our understanding for the situation
of nationals of countries where one of the official languages
of the United Nations is not in common use. To require of
them, on recruitment, mastery of two official languages, at
least one of which must be a working language of the
Secretariat, would be likely to cause them serious problems.
In fact, the sponsors of the draft resolution, showing great
sympathy for the concerns expressed by the Japanese
delegation, were won over completely to their point of
view. I should like to emphasize that this was not a self-
evident step, because it involved giving up an important,
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
innovative element in the initial draft of the resolution, in
document A/50/L.6.
We have therefore proposed in the revised draft
resolution to return to the legal status quo ante by sticking
strictly to the provisions of resolution 2480 B (XXIII) of
21 December 1968, that is to say, in requiring a staff
member at the moment of recruitment to be able to use
one of the working languages of the Secretariat or one of
the working languages of a United Nations organ in the
case of staff members recruited for that organ and whose
contracts are for no more than two years.
Finally, and also as in General Assembly resolution
2480 B (XXIII), our revised draft resolution calls for the
knowledge of a second official language to be taken into
account for promotion within and between grades. We
therefore believe that the concerns expressed by some
Asian delegations have been fully taken into account in
the revised draft. The Assembly will understand that the
sponsors cannot fall short of what has already been
agreed upon in previous resolutions; that they cannot
sanction a regression in the existing law. That would
clearly be contrary to the spirit of our draft, and it would
inevitably comfort and succour the very practices our
resolution is intended to condemn.
The amendment proposed by the Japanese delegation
is deliberately vague
in its wording. A simple
encouragement for staff members to use one more official
language in addition to a Secretariat working language
does not imply any obligation on the Secretariat, and we
have a good idea that, in practice, such a formula would
have no effect.
tabled by Malaysia,
Like the amendment
the
Japanese amendment opens the door to all kinds of
skullduggery with particular reference to the get-out
clause for nationals whose mother tongue is not an
official language of the United Nations. For all these
reasons, and expressing the viewpoint of the sponsors as
I do so, I ask through you, Sir, that all delegations vote
against both the amendment proposed by Japan and the
one proposed by Malaysia.
However, I do find it possible to agree with the two
amendments proposed by the Permanent Representative of
Australia. I thank him for his two suggestions, which we
will be able to vote for.
Mr. Laclaustra
from
Spanish): The Spanish delegation wishes to make some
(Spain)
(interpretation
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
forward by
brief comments on the amendments put
Malaysia and Japan to the draft resolution contained in
document A/50/L.6/Rev.1.
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
ones. My delegation will
amendments proposed in documents A/50/L.8 and L.9.
therefore vote against
the
that
My delegation wishes to stress the fact
the
sponsors of draft resolution A/50/L.6, inspired by our desire
that
this draft resolution should reflect, as broadly as
possible, the concerns of all delegations with a view to
having the draft adopted by consensus, held several
meetings with the sponsors of the amendments in order to
accommodate their points of view. Consequently, revised
draft resolution A/50/L.6 incorporates new drafting in
operative paragraph 3 which reproduces resolution 2480 B
(XXIII), of 1968. We firmly believe that this new text
adequately reflects the concerns expressed to the sponsors.
We therefore regret
those behind these
amendments are still maintaining them. Consequently, the
delegation of Spain will vote against
the amendments
contained in documents A/50/L.8 and L.9.
the fact
that
On the other hand, my delegation this morning heard
the proposal by the representative of Australia, who
suggested additions to both the fourth preambular paragraph
of draft resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1 and to its operative
paragraph 3, which have been distributed in document
A/50/L.14. We would like to thank Australia for
its
constructive contributions to our consideration of draft
resolution A/50/L.6, and would like to say that we will vote
in favour of those suggestions.
Ms.
Fernández
de Gurmendi
(Argentina)
(interpretation from Spanish): My delegation wishes to
speak on the proposed amendments to the draft resolution
on multilingualism: these are the amendments contained in
documents A/50/L.8, L.9 and L.14.
As to the amendments contained in documents
A/50/L.8 and A/50/L.9, we would like to say that my
delegation has a great deal of sympathy for the difficulties
faced by people whose mother tongue is not one of the
official
languages of the Organization, although those
difficulties are not substantially different from those faced
by most delegations
in an Organization which is
increasingly locking itself into monolingualism.
Despite our sympathy for
these difficulties, my
the proposed amendments would
delegation feels that
modify the existing legal regime for staff recruitment and
promotion. We believe that modifications to the complex
set of personnel procedures require in-depth study to
analyse all the possible consequences, including budgetary
4
proposed
by Australia
However, my delegation does welcome
the
amendments
document
A/50/L.14. Indeed, my delegation would like to thank the
Permanent Representative
those
amendments, which significantly improve the text of the
draft resolution, and wishes to state that it will vote in
favour of them.
of Australia
for
in
because
Mr. Gervais (Côte d’Ivoire) (interpretation from
French): Malaysia has proposed that we replace operative
paragraph 3 in document A/50/L.6/Rev.1 with an
amended one. We think that
if we adopt Malaysia’s
proposal we would be taking a very regrettable step
backward,
very
monolingualism that our Organization has striven to avoid
ever since it was set up. It is imperative that, in our
Organization, we must avoid establishing categories of
staff members: those whose mother tongue is one of the
official languages of the United Nations, and those whose
original language is not. And Malaysia’s proposal calls on
us to do just this.
it would
sanction
the
should
obviously
something we
This kind of discrimination — or disparity — is
quite
prohibit.
Furthermore, how can we incorporate the idea of a
mother tongue into a universal Organization such as ours.
With regard to African countries — including mine,
where we speak almost 40 “mother tongues” — I cannot
even begin to imagine how we would slot ourselves into
the United Nations
framework. Consequently, my
delegation cannot go along with Malaysia’s proposal, and,
with regard to the Japanese amendment, my delegation,
while understanding the concerns and worries of that
country, does feel that, in any event, it would be a step
backwards from what has been built up ever since the
United Nations was established.
My delegation therefore cannot accept those two
proposed amendments, but I can say that we do accept
the Australian proposal in document A/50/L.14.
Mr. Mustafa (Sudan): The delegation of the Sudan
would like to join the group of countries sponsoring draft
resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1.
In the meantime, and in conformity with the spirit of
the draft resolution before us, we share the deep concern
of
the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions about the possible adverse effect of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the proposed abolition of the two Language Coordinator
posts from the training programme for all official languages
of the United Nations.
To this effect, we recall resolution 42/207 C of 11
December 1987, which affirms that the translation and
interpretation budgets of United Nations bodies should be
commensurate with needs and should not be subject to
budgetary constraints.
Mr. Chinvanno (Thailand): My delegation will be
voting against draft resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1 on agenda
item 156, “Multilingualism”.
We regret
that we must so decide, and that
the
Assembly is taking this course of action on a very
important question involving the whole membership of the
Organization. My delegation is disappointed that there has
not been an adequate opportunity for the whole membership
to discuss the provisions of the draft resolution in order to
reach consensus.
My delegation feels compelled to vote against the draft
resolution because we still have strong reservations about
operative paragraph 3, even with the useful amendment
proposed by the Permanent Representative of Australia. The
paragraph, in our view, has grave implications for personnel
matters. In practical terms, requiring a command of two of
the six official
languages would place at a serious
disadvantage personnel and potential recruits whose mother
tongue is not one of the six official
languages of the
Organization.
Thailand wishes to reaffirm its commitment
to
multiligualism at the United Nations, and to support the
the United Nations should promote cultural
idea that
diversity; but Thailand believes that
the promotion of
cultural diversity has as its central ideal the concepts of
tolerance and understanding, which, in the context of this
agenda item, should be extended to those cultures that, by
force of history, are not associated with any of the six
official languages of this Organization.
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): My delegation wishes to
reiterate and reaffirm our observations on both the principal
draft resolution and the amendments. My delegation wishes
to know, in the first place, why this draft resolution is a
necessity. Why are we not directing our energy and time to
problems within our nations and, indeed, the world over?
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Nations? My delegation feels that this draft resolution
discriminates against
the developing nations, which
otherwise have a legitimate right to have their nationals
recruited by the Secretariat.
This draft resolution does not indicate the time-frame
for Member States to train their nationals so that they
qualify for employment by the United Nations.
The problems that face the United Nations do not
have their genesis in the use of a particular language.
Why, therefore, and why now, is the Organization being
made to think of the very tedious matter of which
languages should be used as criteria in recruiting
Secretariat staff members?
If I may ask, of these languages, how many will be
from Africa, where I come from? Have the sponsors of
this draft resolution ever thought deeply, when talking of
representation — as enshrined in the
geographical
Charter — about
including developing nations and,
indeed, my own continent, Africa? Are we being
reminded indirectly of those sad days and times when the
very same languages we are speaking today were imposed
upon us by those who divided us in Africa and in the
developing nations elsewhere? Should the United Nations
allow that same spirit to prevail and divide this body too?
Should we again be instilled with the spirit of
divisiveness that, even today, most nations are suffering
from?
What is the role of the United Nations? Is it not to
promote peace, unity and solidarity? The colonizers had
their own agenda when they imposed their languages on
the developing nations, especially in Africa. Thanks to the
scramble to colonize Africa, we were divided. Should we
allow history to repeat itself today within the United
Nations?
My delegation would therefore humbly implore this
body to give serious consideration before adopting any
such a draft resolution, and implores it especially to allow
delegations to consult — formally and informally — so
that the United Nations is not seen as playing the role of
colonizer among the developing nations.
Mr. Albín (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
The delegation of Mexico is a sponsor of draft resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1.
Do we intend to dismantle the principle of solidarity
at a time when it a matter of necessity within the United
For several weeks now, we have been aware of the
concerns of some States whose national language is not
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
one of the official languages of the United Nations. In the
view of the sponsors, the essential aspects of those concerns
have been dealt with in the revised version of the draft
resolution, document A/50/L.6/Rev.1. The sponsors have
made a genuine effort towards a rapprochement with those
countries.
It has been said that the draft resolution would change
present practice in hiring and promoting staff members. We
are convinced that that is not the case. Paradoxically, the
amendments in documents A/50/L.8 and L.9 contain
elements that, in our view, would indeed alter the present
practice within the Organization if they were adopted.
in
The
draft
objective
sponsors’
resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1 on multilingualism is a very simple one,
and here I am forced to contradict the representative of
Swaziland. The draft resolution has to do with the effective
use of the official and working languages of the United
Nations. It is a question of restoring a healthy linguistic
balance in the use of all those languages. The proposals in
the draft resolution, which are by any standards objective
and reasonable, would be vitiated by the amendments in
documents A/50/L.8 and L.9. My delegation will therefore
vote against those amendments.
My delegation can, however, support the amendments
proposed this morning in a constructive spirit by the
Permanent Representative of Australia and now reflected in
document A/50/L.14. The delegation of Mexico calls on the
Assembly
resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1 and of the amendments submitted by the
Australian delegation in document A/50/L.14, and urges it
to vote against the amendments in documents A/50/L.8 and
L.9.
favour
draft
vote
of
to
in
The Acting President: We have heard the last speaker
in explanation of vote before the voting.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the
amendment contained in document A/50/L.9.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Azerbaijan,
and
Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, Croatia, Eritrea,
Barbados,
Bhutan,
Bosnia
6
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Ethiopia, Fiji, Georgia, Guyana, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Jamaica, Japan, Kenya,
Malaysia, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan,
Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Republic of Korea,
Samoa, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka,
Thailand,
of
Macedonia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America
former Yugoslav Republic
the
Against:
Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Gabon,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti,
Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jordan, Kazakstan,
Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Monaco, Morocco, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Slovakia, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Togo, Tunisia,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire
Abstaining:
Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana,
Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada,
Hungary, Israel, Latvia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Maldives, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Palau, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Slovenia, South Africa, Sudan, Trinidad
and Tobago, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia
The amendment was rejected by 88 votes to 37, with
28 abstentions.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take
a decision on the amendment contained in document
A/50/L.8.
A recorded vote has been requested.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Jamaica,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Croatia, Eritrea,
Ethiopia,
Japan, Kenya, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Namibia, New
Zealand, Pakistan, Palau, Papua New Guinea,
Republic of Korea, Samoa, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, Sri Lanka, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Zimbabwe
Against:
Brazil,
and Herzegovina,
Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Bosnia
Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti,
Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San
Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, Spain,
Swaziland,
Sweden, Togo, Tunisia, Ukraine,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire
Abstaining:
Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize,
Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Cyprus,
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada,
Guyana, Hungary,
Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Israel, Latvia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Marshall Islands,
Myanmar, Netherlands, Norway,
Saint Lucia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Sudan, Trinidad and Tobago,
Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia
Indonesia,
Iceland,
India,
The amendment was rejected by 93 votes to 26, with
37 abstentions.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take
a decision on the amendment contained in paragraph 2 of
document A/50/L.14.
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
amendment contained in paragraph 2 of document
A/50/L.14?
The amendment was adopted.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take
a decision on the amendment contained in paragraph 1 of
document A/50/L.14.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
amendment contained in paragraph 1 of document
A/50/L.14?
The amendment was adopted.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now turn
resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1, as amended. A
to draft
separate vote has been requested on operative paragraph
3 of draft resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1, as amended. There
being no objection to this request, we shall now put to the
operative
vote
resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1.
paragraph
draft
3
of
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Benin,
Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras,
India, Ireland, Italy, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan
Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, San Marino,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Slovakia, Spain,
Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo,
Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Against:
Indonesia,
Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Croatia,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Georgia,
Israel,
Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, Marshall Islands,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Namibia, Nepal,
New Zealand, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Republic of Korea, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Swaziland,
Thailand,
of
Macedonia, Turkey, United States of America
former Yugoslav Republic
the
Abstaining:
Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Estonia,
Finland, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Latvia, Maldives,
Mongolia, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Saint Lucia, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa,
Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia
paragraph
Operative
resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1 was adopted by 97 votes to 36, with 29
abstentions.
draft
of
3
The Acting President: We now proceed to take action
on draft resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1 as a whole, as amended.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Cuba,
Benin,
Brazil,
Bolivia,
Côte d’Ivoire,
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belarus,
Belgium,
Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica,
Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
France, Gabon,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea Bissau,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, Jordan,
People’s Democratic
Kazakstan, Kuwait, Lao
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
8
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
Rwanda, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Slovakia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire
Against:
Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bosnia
and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Georgia, Indonesia, Israel, Jamaica,
Japan, Kenya, Lesotho, Marshall Islands, Namibia,
New Zealand, Nigeria, Palau, Papua New Guinea,
P h i l i p p i n e s , R e p u b l i c
o f K o r e a ,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Solomon
Islands, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand,
the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Turkey, United States of America, Zambia
Abstaining:
Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Croatia, Estonia, Finland, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada,
Guyana, Iceland, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Latvia,
Malaysia, Maldives, Micronesia
(Federated
States of), Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands, Norway,
Pakistan, Saint Lucia, Singapore, Slovenia, South
Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Draft resolution A/50/L.6/ Rev.1 as a whole, as
amended (resolution 50/11) was adopted by 100
votes to 35, with 29 abstentions.
The Acting President: I shall now call on those
representatives who wish to explain their vote. May I
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from
their seats.
Mr. Pine (New Zealand): It is with great regret that
New Zealand, a multicultural society with two official
languages, has found itself unable to support a resolution
on multilingualism, a concept that we and every other
United Nations Member supports. We are disappointed
that a minority of the membership of this body has
succeeded in preventing a consensus from being allowed
to emerge on this important subject, when 70 Members,
from all parts of the globe, had indicated the need for
more work to be done.
As the delegate of Malaysia has observed, there is
an inescapable irony that on this fiftieth anniversary, in a
that purports to celebrate the diversity of our
text
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Organization, we have been unable to accommodate the
concern which has been expressed by some of our
Members, in particular our friends in the South Pacific and
Asia, over the problem faced by countries in which any
United Nations language is a second language. This concern
has, from the moment it was raised, struck our delegation
as genuinely held and reasonable. We remain convinced
that, with good faith, it could have been accommodated in
the resolution. The fact that it has not been can lead only
to the conclusion that some of the sponsors were not really
interested in celebrating diversity, but instead were focused
only on extending a current privilege at the expense of
other linguistic groups that are currently operating in a
situation of even greater hardship.
We noted very carefully the statements last night from
the sponsors that they did not intend to change the current
rules concerning the employment and promotion of United
Nations staff. We must admit that this had not been clear
to us from the ambiguous language of their draft resolution.
Indeed, this was the very reason we had wished further
time to negotiate, and the reason we have been unable to
support the text before us.
We should like the record of this meeting to reflect the
understanding that the current resolution, which has not had
the benefit of consideration in the administrative and
budgetary Committee, cannot be interpreted as effecting a
change in resolution 2480 B (XXIII),
including the
discretion given to the Secretary-General in subparagraph
1(b)(i).
Mr. Kumamaru (Japan): My delegation has been
to make the following
instructed by its Government
statement.
Japan voted against the resolution because its operative
paragraph 3 penalizes staff members whose mother tongue
is not one of the official languages of the United Nations.
Japan finds the paragraph unacceptable. Such personnel,
already at a disadvantage, should not be subjected to an
additional penalty.
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
that due respect should be shown for those cultures not
associated with the official
languages of the United
Nations.
the draft
Mr. Shin (Republic of Korea): My delegation voted
against
resolution contained in document
A/50/L.6/Rev.1. My delegation holds the view that the
United Nations should not penalize personnel whose
mother tongue is not one of the six official languages of
the United Nations. In my delegation’s view, linguistic
balance within the Organization could be achieved by
encouraging Secretariat staff to gain proficiency in at least
one more of the other official languages of the United
Nations.
My delegation knows that a significant number of
Member States have voted against the resolution. It is my
delegation’s hope that due consideration will be given to
this fact in implementing the resolution.
Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia): Croatia would rather have
had more time to examine comprehensively this agenda
item and undertake further consultations in order to reach
a consensus on this important issue.
Croatia
firmly
the
principle
of
supports
multilingualism. For Croatians
it has always been
necessary to learn languages other than their native
tongue in order to be able to communicate with their
neighbours and the rest of the international community.
However, Croatia is a small country whose official
language is not one of the six official languages of the
United Nations and whose citizens, prior to applying for
a position in the Secretariat, where Croatia is significantly
underrepresented, have to learn one of the working
languages and continue with studies of
the other
languages, whether they are employed at the General
Service or the Professional
level. Therefore, Croatia,
bearing in mind the principle of the equality of all United
Nations Members, could not support some of the elements
contained in the draft
favour some
Members over others.
resolution that
My delegation regrets that no real effort was made to
reach an agreement before the draft resolution was put to
the vote. Had there been proper consultations in an
appropriate committee, this measure would certainly have
been adopted by consensus.
Croatia would also have preferred that the resolution
include a request that the Secretary-General take into
account the difficulties faced by applicants whose mother
tongue is not one of the official languages of the United
Nations.
My delegation believes wholeheartedly in the
importance of preserving and promoting cultural diversity
in the Organization. However, it is precisely for this reason
Mr. Katende (Uganda): Uganda encourages the
principle of multilingualism in international relations.
However, my delegation regrets that we have taken action
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
hurriedly on this matter. In our view, more consultations
were necessary in order to adopt a consensus resolution. In
particular, there are certain provisions contained in the
resolution
further
consultations on the part of my delegation. We were denied
this opportunity, which is why we abstained in the voting
on the resolution.
disposed
required
just
of
that
49th plenary meeting
2 November 1995
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in explanation of vote.
May I take it that it is the wish of the General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda
item 156?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m.
10
