United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
45th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 31 October 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.45
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of
(Mauritius), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Peerthum
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
Agenda item 48
Question of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)
The Acting President:
that
following consultations
I should like to inform
representatives
regarding
agenda item 48, on the question of the Falkland Islands
(Malvinas), and taking into account General Assembly
decision 49/408 of 3 November 1994, it is proposed that
the General Assembly decide to postpone consideration of
this item and to include it in the provisional agenda of its
fifty-first session.
May I take it therefore that the Assembly, taking into
account decision 49/408, wishes to defer consideration of
this item and to include it in the provisional agenda of the
fifty-first session?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has
thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 48.
Agenda item 16
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and other
elections:
(c) Election of seven members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination: note by the
Secretary-General (A/50/209)
The Acting President: In accordance with General
Assembly decision 42/450 of 17 December 1987, the
Assembly elects the members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination upon their nomination by
the Economic and Social Council.
The Assembly has before it document A/50/209,
which contains the nominations by the Economic and
Social Council to fill the vacancies in the Committee
which will occur as a result of the expiration on 31
December 1995 of the terms of office of China, Egypt,
Japan, Kenya, Nicaragua, the Republic of Korea and
Togo. Those States are eligible for immediate re-election.
I should like to remind members that after 1 January
1996 the following States will still be members of the
Committee: Argentina, Bahamas, Belarus, Benin, Brazil,
Cameroon, Canada, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, France,
Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic
of Iran, Mexico,
the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan,
Romania, the Russian Federation, Senegal, Trinidad and
Tobago, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.
Therefore, those 27 States are not eligible in this election.
The following States have been nominated by the
Economic and Social Council: three African States for
three vacancies — Egypt, Togo and Zaire; three Asian
95-86476 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
States for three vacancies — China, Japan and the Republic
of Korea; and one Latin American and Caribbean State for
one vacancy — Uruguay.
The number of States nominated from among the
African States, the Asian States, and the Latin America and
Caribbean States corresponds to the number of seats to be
filled in each of those regions.
In accordance with rule 92 of the General Assembly’s
rules of procedure, all elections should be held by secret
in accordance with paragraph 16 of
ballot. However,
decision 34/401,
the Assembly may,
in elections to
subsidiary organs, dispense with secret balloting when the
number of candidates corresponds to the number of seats to
be filled.
Accordingly, may I take it that the Assembly wishes
to declare those States nominated by the Economic and
Social Council — namely; China, Japan, Egypt,
the
Republic of Korea, Togo, Uruguay and Zaire — elected
members
and
Coordination for a three-year term beginning on 1 January
1996?
for Programme
the Committee
of
It was so decided.
The Acting President: I congratulate the States which
the Committee for
have been elected members of
Programme and Coordination.
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (c) of
agenda item 16.
Agenda item 45
The situation in Central America: procedures for the
establishment of a firm and lasting peace and progress
in fashioning a region of peace, freedom, democracy and
development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/50/517)
Draft resolution (A/50/L.7/Rev.1)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/50/700)
The Acting President: I call on the representative of
Mexico to introduce the draft resolution contained in
document A/50/L.7/Rev.1.
2
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
Mr. Tello (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish): I
have the honour to introduce, on behalf of the sponsor
countries,
the draft resolution contained in document
A/50/L.7/Rev.1, entitled “Mission of the United Nations
in El Salvador”.
After years of violence and uncertainty, El Salvador
has now reached the stage of consolidating the peace
process, building and strengthening political, economic
and social
institutions and improving structures for
harnessing, through dialogue and reason, the pluralism
and differences inherent in all contemporary societies.
an intensive negotiating process
With the support of the United Nations, Salvadorans
carried out
that
culminated in the signing of the Peace Agreement at
Chapultepec. At that time the stage of implementation and
verification was initiated, with the assistance of the
United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador
(ONUSAL) from 1991 to 1995 and, as of 1 May 1995,
with that of the Mission of the United Nations in El
Salvador (MINUSAL).
The draft resolution before the Assembly makes
reference to the most recent resolutions and reports
relating to the situation in El Salvador. It recognizes with
satisfaction the continuing evolution of El Salvador into
a democratic and peaceful nation. It also acknowledges
the contributions made by Member States for
the
functioning of the Mission. The draft resolution welcomes
the continued commitment of the Government and the
people of El Salvador to the consolidation of the peace
process. It praises the work done by MINUSAL and the
Secretary-General. It recognizes the political commitment
of the Government of El Salvador and other parties to
complete the implementation of the agreements.
On that basis,
the draft resolution approves the
Secretary-General’s proposal
to extend MINUSAL’s
mandate, with a gradual reduction of its strength and
costs
in a manner compatible with the efficient
performance of its functions. Finally, it calls on Member
States and international institutions to continue to provide
El Salvador with
the
consolidation of peace and development.
assistance
in
and
support
The sponsors of draft resolution A/50/L.7/Rev.1 are
convinced that
its adoption would demonstrate the
international community’s renewed commitment to peace,
stability and development
in El Salvador. We are
confident that the Assembly will give the draft resolution
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
its full support, and we strongly recommend that it be
adopted.
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (interpretation from
Spanish): I have the honour to speak on behalf of the
European Union.
The European Union has taken note of the report
(A/50/517) of the Secretary-General of 6 October 1995 on
El Salvador and, in particular, on the role of the new
Mission of the United Nations in El Salvador (MINUSAL).
The mediation process, the determination of the parties
and the commitment to peace of the people of El Salvador,
assisted by the presence of the United Nations Observer
Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL) and the work of the
Group of Friends, made it possible to put an end to the
bloody civil conflict in El Salvador. This historic success
was enshrined in the Chapultepec agreements of January
1992. During the past few years, we have witnessed with
satisfaction the transition in El Salvador from a conflict
situation to one of peace and reconciliation.
Today the population of El Salvador as a whole is
deeply involved in the process of normalizing the country’s
political
life, which will make it possible to lay the
foundations of a stable democracy in a climate of peace and
development.
The European Union congratulates the Government of
El Salvador and the other political forces in the country for
the progress achieved in complying with the provisions of
the Chapultepec peace agreements and the recommendations
of the Commission on the Truth.
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
MINUSAL’s mandate for six months, with a gradual
reduction of its strength and costs in a manner compatible
with the effective performance of its duties.
We consider this necessary, not only because of the
important and encouraging political message this decision
will send to El Salvador, but also because we are
concerned that some aspects of the peace agreements are
not being fully implemented and others have been subject
to considerable delays. Swifter progress is needed in order
to avoid weakening the peace process and causing
political and social instability.
the legislative reforms
implementing reforms in the judicial system,
The European Union wishes to stress the importance
in
of
particular
the
implementation of the binding recommendations of the
Commission on the Truth, as well as in the electoral
sphere and in the human-settlement and land-transfer
programmes.
required for
Furthermore, the increase in delinquency, especially
the organized kind, and the deterioration of public
security are elements of concern. Efforts to counter
delinquency must be made in conjunction with the
institutional development of the National Civil Police and
the National Public Security Academy. The concept of a
national civil police force, as embodied in the peace
agreements, must be preserved and sustained. To this end,
the European Union is providing technical and financial
assistance to these mechanisms.
of
the
Representative
El Salvador must continue to receive assistance from
the international community. The presence of MINUSAL
since 1 May 1995 — first under the leadership of the
Special
Secretary-General,
Mr. Enrique ter Horst, whose work we wish to praise, and
now under that of Mr. Ricardo Vigil — has enabled the
United Nations to continue to exercise its good offices and
has helped inspire confidence in the ongoing process of
consolidating progress through the strengthening of El
Salvador’s democratic institutions as well as in the full
implementation of the peace agreements.
The European Union supports MINUSAL’s presence
in El Salvador, which contributes effectively to overcoming
the obstacles still in the way of the full implementation of
the peace agreements.
therefore agrees with the
Secretary-General’s proposal — included in the draft
resolution (A/50/L.7/Rev.1) before us, which was just
introduced by the representative of Mexico — to extend
It
The draft resolution which the General Assembly has
before it today, and which we trust will be adopted by
consensus, clearly shows
the
international
recent
achievements of the people of El Salvador through the
full implementation of the peace agreements.
community to consolidate
the political will of
the
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/50/L.7/Rev.1. The report of
the Fifth
Committee on the programme budget implications of the
draft resolution is contained in document A/50/700.
Before we proceed to take action on the draft
resolution, I should like to announce that the following
countries have become co-sponsors of draft resolution
A/50/L.7/Rev.1: Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Belize,
the Dominican Republic,
Brazil, Canada, Denmark,
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Italy,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Peru,
Portugal,
the United
Kingdom and Uruguay.
the Russian Federation, Sweden,
Ireland,
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/50/L.7/Rev.1?
resolution A/50/L.7/Rev.1 was
Draft
(resolution 50/7).
adopted
The Acting President: I call on the representative of
El Salvador.
Mr. Castaneda (El Salvador) (interpretation from
Spanish): The development of events in Central America
has been considered by the Security Council and,
in
particular, the General Assembly since 1983, when the
agenda item entitled "The situation in Central America:
threats to international peace and security and peace
initiatives" was introduced and more directly since the
signing of the Esquipulas II agreements in 1987 and the
commitments adopted at
in
February 1989, when our Governments agreed to ask the
United Nations to take the necessary steps to put into
operation a mechanism for
the
commitments aimed at securing a political solution to the
regional crisis. This then took the form of various initiatives
which were developed in the field and which led to
progress in the peace process, thus moving us away from
confrontation and towards efforts to consolidate a region of
peace, freedom, democracy and development.
the El Salvador Summit
the verification of
The initiatives aimed at finding a political solution to
the armed conflict in El Salvador were also taken in their
context. We should recall that in December 1990 both the
Government of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo Martí
para Liberación Nacional (FMLN) asked the Secretary-
General to exercise his good offices in the search for peace.
His participation in the negotiations was then formally
established in the Geneva agreement of 4 April 1990.
Since then, negotiations have been held with the
the Secretary-General,
assistance and good offices of
directly or
through his Special Representative. This
launched the widest possible process for the maintenance of
peace in Central America, and a mechanism was introduced
to monitor implementation of the agreements resulting from
the negotiations — the United Nations Observer Mission in
El Salvador (ONUSAL), initially with the limited task of
verifying the San José Agreement on Human Rights of July
1990, and then with the more extensive task of verifying
4
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
implementation of the peace agreements of January 1992
which ended the armed conflict, and subsequently to
begin the consolidation of peace and democratization,
thereby achieving national reconciliation and the integral
development of our country in an atmosphere of full
respect for human rights.
As we are all aware, the implementation of the
peace agreements and the progress made to that end were
the basis for ending ONUSAL’s mandate. However, it
was also felt that a reduced United Nations presence
should be maintained to continue observing and verifying
the implementation of pending commitments.
To that end, once ONUSAL’s mandate terminated,
in April 1995, provision was made for the new Mission
of the United Nations in El Salvador (MINUSAL), which
came into operation as of 1 May 1995, to continue the
verification functions and exercise its good offices until
there is full implementation of the peace agreements.
In respect of the pending commitments, I believe it
is appropriate to remind this Assembly that in October
1995 we reached an agreement between the political
parties and other competent institutions making it possible
to appoint the Inspector General of the new National Civil
Police, in accordance with the peace agreements. We have
also continued to implement the land transfer programme
and the programme to reintegrate former combatants from
both parties into the civilian and institutional life of our
country,
thereby demonstrating the concern and firm
political will of the Government of El Salvador fully to
comply with the commitments in the peace agreements.
It
should be pointed out,
in relation to the
strengthening of the National Civil Police, that MINUSAL
requested the President of the Republic to evaluate the
present situation of public security in our country. The
request also contained a proposal and recommendations
for improvements in this area, which also shows the work
being done and the level of confidence that has been
earned by MINUSAL.
The process of transforming El Salvador’s society
from a semi-authoritarian and semi-democratic political
system into a modern democratic political system with
full respect for the human, political, social, civil and
economic rights of all members of our society has been
a national effort for the most part, but it would not have
been possible to achieve this in the time in which we
have done so without the good offices of the Secretary-
General as an intermediary, the resolute support of the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
entire United Nations system, and the cooperation and
timely solidarity of
the international community. We
therefore would like again to express our great appreciation
and gratitude.
We are pleased that the Assembly has now adopted
draft resolution A/50/L.7/Rev.1 by consensus because this
confirms the commitment by the United Nations to the
consolidation of peace and democratization in El Salvador,
and to continued support by the international community for
the efforts made by our people and our Government to
achieve a future of peace and prosperity for all Salvadorans.
The Acting President: We have concluded this stage
of our consideration of agenda item 45.
Agenda item 105 (continued)
Social development, including questions relating to the
world social situation and to youth, ageing, disabled
persons and the family: Commemoration to mark the
tenth anniversary of International Youth Year
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Greece.
(Greece): Last
Friday,
Mr. Kaskarelis
the
representative of Spain delivered a statement on behalf of
the European Union. Greece fully subscribes to the contents
of that statement. I would like, however, to elaborate on
some issues which are of particular
to my
delegation.
interest
The year 2000 lies ahead of us. To be young and live
at the end of the twentieth century is to witness a process
of constant change all over the world and, at the same time,
to encounter a cruelly competitive cultural, social, economic
and political reality.
On the other hand, Governments responsible for the
realization of a youth policy in their respective countries are
well aware that youth problems have nowadays escaped the
narrow geographical borders of their States. Problems tend
to be common to all young people on the planet.
In this framework, the concluding triptych of strategies
the 1985 International Youth Year: Participation,
of
Development, Peace, still remains critical and needs urgent
implementation through both national and international
programmes.
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
the most affected part of
In a world witnessing rapid socio-economic change
and a deepening of the differences between developed and
developing countries,
the
population is youth, or “the forgotten quarter”, as it is
described by UNICEF. It is this part of the population
which not only reflects the problems of contemporary
societies but also projects the image of the future world.
Therefore, it is by addressing the concerns, the needs, the
desires and the dreams of the youth of today that we will
build a safer and healthier world for tomorrow.
There should be a specific approach to addressing
the specific problems of the youth population. Measures
should be taken to combat increased juvenile delinquency,
drug abuse and youth marginalization. Urgent measures
are also needed against
female infanticide, sale of
children and organs, child prostitution, child pornography
and all forms of sexual abuse. New policies should be
introduced to protect working children from exploitation
and hazardous conditions that endanger their physical and
mental development.
The lack of adequate opportunities for education,
training and employment and poor facilities and services
are
exclusion and
marginalization; therefore they should be eliminated.
factors which can fuel
social
Youth, being more vulnerable to disadvantages from
which our society is suffering, should be especially
protected in priority areas such as health services,
nutrition, education, safe water and adequate sanitation.
In a world of increased tensions and multiplying
points of conflict, special care should be taken to protect
and assist children in war areas and to rehabilitate
children traumatized by war and natural disasters.
Specific programmes
studied and
effectuated in order to combine efforts for a better
environment with endeavours for a better future for our
children, to whom this future mostly belongs.
should be
and
non-governmental
We join our voice to that of other countries in the
world, for: active cooperation between governmental
authorities
organizations;
strengthening of ties between Member States of the
United Nations, in the knowledge that it is only through
solidarity that we can resolve pressing problems facing
youth all over the world; urgent, universal ratification of
the Convention on the Rights of the Child; universal
signature of the World Declaration on the Survival,
Protection and Development of Children and the Plan of
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Action adopted by the World Summit for Children, as well
as its effective implementation; and intensification of the
role of non-governmental organizations in the effective
implementation of the provisions of the Convention on the
Rights of the Child.
We salute the United Nations initiative of dedicating
meetings of the General Assembly’s fiftieth session to
commemorating the tenth anniversary of
International
Youth Year, and we are certain that this endeavour will
result in many fruitful proposals concerning youth.
It
is only by meeting young people’s needs and
aspirations that we can ensure a better future for all of us.
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Australia.
Mr. Butler (Australia): Last week the General
Assembly convened in special meetings to commemorate
the fiftieth anniversary of
the United Nations. Those
meetings saw the largest gathering of Heads of State and
Government ever held. The past was reviewed but, more
important, the focus was on the future.
It
is deeply appropriate that as our
first action
thereafter we celebrate the tenth anniversary of International
Youth Year, because it is the youth of today who will carry
us into the next half-century of the United Nations and
beyond.
While there is much to do at the local and national
levels, it is also vital that we address the issues of youth at
the international level. There is also much we must do
globally to improve the situation of youth. They have an
important role to play at the international level. Youth
themselves are at the forefront of the ongoing process of
the globalization of our world. Youth everywhere must be
encouraged
in international
their
cooperation and communication.
to expand
links
We have a responsibility to create an enabling
environment in which our best resources can flourish. We
need to create a world for youth characterized by equality
of opportunity, freedom from hunger and poverty, freedom
from violence and discrimination in all
its forms, and
freedom from the threats of environmental degradation and
nuclear weapons. These issues are of great concern to the
youth of Australia, as they are to those of other countries.
And we must
together to address the
specific problems of youth related to health, employment,
increasingly act
6
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
drug abuse and delinquency — issues addressed in the
World Programme of Action for Youth.
We can only be successful
in meeting these
challenges by including the contributions of youth in
building and designing their futures and providing them
with the opportunity to participate and express themselves
freely.
The challenges the world faces today are clearly
different from those we faced 10 years ago, at the time of
International Youth Year. The recent major conferences
and summits of the United Nations in the areas of
women, social development, human rights, population,
environment and development among others, have gone
a long way towards gathering momentum and identifying
actions to address those issues. The resulting programmes
and platforms for action have as much, if not more,
relevance for today’s youth as they do for all others. It is
imperative that we now fulfil our commitments made at
those conferences by taking action. The draft World
Programme of Action for Youth is an important adjunct
to the framework of future activities set out
in the
outcomes of those recent major conferences. In our work
to implement those outcomes we must continue to bear in
mind the importance of youth.
The World Programme of Action on Youth must
also be a part of our national policies on youth. As
expressed in the World Programme, it is important that
Governments formulate and adopt national youth policies,
as a means of addressing youth-related concerns.
Australia’s youth social
justice strategy was
introduced to provide a special focus on youth in the
Government’s broader social justice strategy, which aims
at developing a fairer, more prosperous and just society
for all and is directed at expanding choices and
opportunities to permit full participation in society, and to
enable all to determine the direction of their own lives.
Australian Government policy focuses primarily on
the provision of assistance and support
to all young
people in relation to employment, education and training,
financial assistance, housing, health and a number of
other issues specifically impacting upon young people.
Principal features of Australia’s youth policies are:
the youth training initiative, which aims to assist early
school-leavers through an early intervention strategy and
by providing access to case management; labour market
programmes
for
unemployed 15- to 17-year-olds; Austudy, which aims to
and a youth training allowance
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
provide the financial assistance necessary for young people
attempting to exercise their right to an education; pilot
programmes targeting young people who are homeless or at
risk of becoming so; and special pilot projects designed to
establish best practice in youth suicide prevention.
announced the
that day that President Mandela
establishment of the President’s Children Fund — a trust
fund aimed at providing poverty-stricken and street
children with resources that will ameliorate,
if not
annihilate, their miseries.
We are now one year into the International Decade of
the World’s Indigenous People and it is our hope that the
activities of the Decade will have a particular impact on
improving the situation of the world’s indigenous youth. A
high proportion of Australia’s aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people are young. By the start of the 1990s, the
median age for our aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people was under 20 years of age, compared with over 30
years of age for the Australian population as a whole. This
indicates that the heaviest burden of the disadvantages faced
by our indigenous population are borne by its youth. The
legacy of past
in disturbing
indicators
and
of
employment status, and disproportionately high levels of
incarceration.
injustices is still evident
poor
educational
health,
lower
is
The Australian Government
comprehensively
seeking to address the situation of its indigenous youth
across a range of processes and programmes, including
specific strategies in the areas of education, health services,
in particular for the homeless, employment and training,
sport and recreation, and youth access. We consider that the
International Decade provides an additional framework for
our own strong national efforts within which to achieve
measurable and sustainable progress in partnership with our
indigenous communities.
That is the central reality — partnership. It is only in
partnership with our youth that we can hope to achieve real
progress in realizing the goals of International Youth Year:
the goals of participation, development and peace, and a
better society for all toward the year 2000 and beyond.
The Acting President:
representative of South Africa.
I
now call
on
the
Mr. Mofokeng (South Africa): It is with boundless
joy that the South African delegation addresses this special
session of the General Assembly commemorating the tenth
anniversary of International Youth Year.
The youth in my country epitomize change and liberty.
The Government of National Unity declared 16 June as a
“Day of the Youth”. That day symbolizes the uprising of
the youth against the evil system of apartheid, which was
found in my country. It was on the occasion of celebrating
Many Ministries of the Government of National
Unity have appointed youth sector representatives to
advise and oversee efforts aimed at youth empowerment.
Last November youth delegates from all corners of my
country assembled at the behest of the Government of
National Unity. The object of that meeting was to give
young men and women a chance to shape the
Government’s approach to youth matters. For the first
time in the history of policy-making in South Africa, the
Government met with youth representatives from the
political organizations, non-governmental organizations,
youth clubs, student organizations and other bodies.
The Government was told that each and every
programme aimed at youth empowerment must be
underscored by the principle of youth centrality. Aptly
put, youth must be involved in all the stages leading
towards, and after, the adoption of such policies and
programmes — that is, during the consultation, design
and implementation periods.
Most developing countries are faced with a
multiplicity of socio-economic problems that result in
unemployment,
illiteracy,
economic stagnation, and other difficulties. Although
these problems affect all sectors of the population, young
men and women are the most hard hit.
lack of vocational
skills,
it should aim at addressing all
It is our sincere belief that if there is to be any
intervention,
these
problems simultaneously, in a systematic and realistic
manner. Furthermore, my Government has taken a
conscious decision to target youth and women as the
primary
and
development programme. Already youth are conspicuous
in their participation in various projects, not only as
beneficiaries but also as policy-makers and managers.
reconstruction
beneficiaries
its
of
It is worth noting that in many countries there are
still structural limitations, within different socio-economic
formations,
such as
obsolete values, policies and regulations. Governments
must open avenues for young people so that they can
participate fully in every aspect of life.
inhibiting youth development,
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
To the young men and women of the world my
delegation would like to say that identifying problems is
one element in solving them. The other part is seizing the
initiative by rising above the problems. Correctly put, it is
high time for young men and women to take their rightful
place
affect
humanity — whether women’s issues, drugs, environmental
issues, sustainable development, or any other matter. We
need to see cooperation between young people in
developing countries and between young people from
developing and from developed countries.
against problems
struggle
in the
that
It is said that the youth are the leaders of tomorrow,
but often they are never given a chance to occupy
meaningful positions today to prepare themselves to lead
their respective communities. Let the youth give meaning
to these words by preparing to lead their communities.
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Andorra.
Mr. Minoves-Triquell (Andorra) (interpretation from
French): I have the pleasure and the great honour of being
the youngest ambassador and permanent representative
accredited to the United Nations. It is therefore natural that
I should speak today in this General Assembly meeting to
commemorate the tenth anniversary of International Youth
Year. Moreover, this is an opportunity that the Principality
of Andorra holds dear for many reasons. First, Andorra is
a country with an age pyramid rather different from those
of the other States of Western Europe. The ratio of young
people in the total population is much greater in our
country than in neighbouring States. We are therefore well
aware of the problems and challenges facing youth today.
Secondly, the Principality of Andorra is the author of one
of the commitments of the Heads of State and Government
included in the Final Declaration of the Summit for Social
Development, held in Copenhagen in March this year:
“[We heads of State and Government will]
encourage the contribution of people of all age groups
as equally and vitally important for the building of a
harmonious society, and foster dialogue between
generations in all parts of society”. (A/CONF.166/9,
paras. 25 and 29, Commitment 4(h))
think that something that
This commitment encompasses all generations. One
might
is open to everyone
concerns no one. To the contrary, we in the Principality of
Andorra believe that it is extremely useful to appraise the
question of youth as part of a multi-generational whole. The
world of human beings is a dialogue between individuals
8
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
and between groups of individuals — groups determined
by people’s liking for one cause or another. There is
therefore dialogue between rich and poor, between one
ethnic group and another, between architects and
engineers, or between any other groups of human beings.
However, one of
the oldest dialogues between
groups of people is that between generations — the
transmission of wisdom and accumulated knowledge
between the old and the young. The human race has
developed
generations.
Although this must be preserved, we must prevent it from
becoming a monologue, for, while what our ancestors
pass on to us is wisdom, roots and knowledge, it is
possible to contribute to the perpetuation of errors.
dialogue
between
through
Indeed, at a time when young people are killing each
other in Bosnia and other places — when, after decades
of shared life, new generations are massacring each other
on the pretext of past religious or other grudges — the
indications are that dialogue between generations has not
worked, that young people have not used their ability as
human beings to understand, analyse and say no to the
irrational struggles that have been inculcated by their
elders.
Young people must be given every opportunity to
distinguish between kindness and cruelty, between the
rational and the irrational, between good and evil,
following the logic of tolerance and freedom of the
individual. This can be achieved only through education.
It is therefore essential that the education systems of our
world communicate the message of peace and tolerance.
Young men and young women, despite their individual
characteristics, are very impressionable beings — some
more so than others — and are therefore especially
susceptible to ideologies and fanaticism, both in terms of
their capacity to absorb information and by way of
imitation.
If we want the generations of the third millennium
to be worthy of being called “human”, it is imperative
that the United Nations continue its efforts in the field of
education,
through the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization and other worthy
bodies. Today, at the end of the twentieth century, we are
well placed to want
thoughtful education which will
communicate to the young the values of the past but will
also enable them to guard against the mistakes of those
who have gone before them and give pride of place to
reason and tolerance.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Since I am speaking about
in this
anniversary year dedicated to tolerance, I should like to
recall some words of my Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr.
Manuel Mas Ribo, a few weeks ago in the general debate:
tolerance,
“Tolerance is limited only by intolerance.” (Official
Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session,
Plenary Meetings, 14th meeting, p. 15)
freedom as
Far
too many young people are today victims of
intolerance. By virtue of the colour of their skin or their
birth, sex, religion, views or any other condition arising
from their personal or social situation, they are unable to
explore their
individuals or enjoy the
possibilities that life offers. We must see to it that an end
is put to discrimination, especially the most insidious type
of discrimination — that which comes from the nearest
sources and which often drives young people to desperate
action or, when there is no other motivation, to suicide. In
fact, in the case of young people, suicide is always an
indication of the failure of society to integrate them.
Although it is true that all the ills to which I have just
referred affect other age groups too,
it should not be
forgotten that if we could manage to check them among
young people we should avoid their repetition in the future.
So far, I have referred to what is needed to enable
young people to reach their full human potential — that is,
the sum total of the values of tolerance and reason which
their education must provide and which is therefore our
concern. In addition, young people must be able to make
constructive use in society of what they have learnt. This is
something that can be imparted to them only up to a certain
point; they must themselves make the effort to become part
of society and not to despair.
social
integration,
Several weeks ago,
in the Third Committee,
I
commented that
the Principality of Andorra is very
concerned about unemployment, which is dragging these
new generations towards the abyss of poverty and absence
of
to drugs and crime, because
opportunities are lacking. We note with concern the
statistics showing that the lack of work is affecting young
people more tragically than other age groups. In the
developing countries the total labour force has increased by
more than 400 million units since the 1960s, and during
this decade it will
increase by 2.3 per cent annually,
necessitating the creation of 260 million new jobs. As we
have noted several times, this is a fantastic challenge, but
also one of frightening magnitude.
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
Dialogue between the generations must be re-
established so that young job-seekers do not push out
their elders who have already benefited from the
integration of work. There will probably be a need to
juggle work schedules or to create jobs with flexible
hours so that workers can share the possibilities for
employment. In any case, that is a question to which we
will have to give active consideration.
During the celebration of this fiftieth anniversary
year, the Principality of Andorra has paid a great deal of
attention to youth and children. In the first half of 1995,
I visited a school in Harlem, PS 206, in order to share the
message of the United Nations with young people of New
York, the host city of our deliberations. A few weeks
after that meeting, Ambassador Marrero of the United
States and I opened this General Assembly Hall to those
children to explain to them the purposes and possibilities
of our Organization. In July, Andorra brought more than
50 young members of its national choir to United Nations
Headquarters to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary through
music. Later, in September, 10 young winners of the
special prize of the National Committee for the Fiftieth
Anniversary were invited to visit the United Nations. The
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Principality also
signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child during
his stay in New York in early October. The Andorran
Parliament will soon decide on its ratification.
I have received instructions and the means to move
forward, on behalf of my country, on the question of
youth. Today, I assure the Assembly that this will happen.
It is essential that the United Nations do all in its power
to ensure that the ideals of the 1945 Charter, based on a
concept of the human being endowed with freedom and
reason, have real meaning for young people. The
salvation of our planet depends on this.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of the United Arab Emirates.
Mr. Samhan (United Arab Emirates) (interpretation
from Arabic): On behalf of the State of the United Arab
Emirates, I am pleased to participate in this special
meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate the
tenth anniversary of International Youth Year, which
coincides with the celebrations of the fiftieth anniversary
of the United Nations. That coincidence imbues the
occasion with greater impetus and prospects for carrying
out a review and assessment of the policies that have
been adopted on the issue of youth at
the national,
regional and international levels.
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
The 10 years that have passed since the proclamation,
in 1985, of the International Youth Year have witnessed
many speedy economic, political, social and cultural
developments which have
impacted on all human
communities and, in particular, the young, who number
over 1 billion of the world’s inhabitants. Eighty-four per
cent of those young people live in the developing countries,
from hunger, poverty, unemployment,
which suffer
backwardness, political
instability and lack of security.
These negative phenomena have been reflected in the
delinquency, violence and extremism which afflict
the
societies of those developing countries, and which have
created difficult problems that cannot be contained unless
we fully understand the problems of the young,
their
aspirations and the important role they could play in the
various spheres of international life. We live in an age that
requires us to innovate and to be creative in a manner that
should be inspired by our common values and the shared
sense of responsibility towards our present and future
generations.
A few days ago, our Heads of State and Government
met
to commemorate the fiftieth
in this very Hall
anniversary of the United Nations. In the Declaration
adopted on that occasion, they pledged to:
“give to the twenty-first century a United Nations
equipped, financed and structured to serve effectively
the peoples in whose name it was established”
(A/50/48, p. 2)
in the fields of peace, development, equality and justice.
We feel that none of this could be achieved unless we
accord the highest priority to youth as principal partners in
this endeavour and as the cultural bridge between past,
present and future generations. While the international
community realizes that the young, with all their affiliations
and cultural backgrounds are the principal human resource
in the area of economic development and the effective
element of social change and scientific creativity, we feel
an increasing anxiety towards the lot of youth, especially in
the countries of the developing world, where economic and
social circumstances deprive them of the opportunities for
training, education, employment, basic social services and
health care. This leads to the emigration by large numbers
of youth to more developed or wealthier countries,
in
search of better job opportunities, higher standards and
decent living. This has created clear imbalances in many
communities,
limited the possibilities of utilizing the
environment and has thus widened the economic and social
gap between the developed and the developing countries.
10
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
The leaders of the world — who recently committed
themselves here to participate effectively in reforming and
restructuring of the programmes and institutions of the
United Nations, in strengthening its objectives, and in
reorienting its policies, in serving the world’s peoples,
especially in the developing countries, have agreed that
efforts should be deployed and steps should be taken
towards rehabilitating and educating the young and
responding to their needs. For the most part, these young
people have been used and exploited as tools of war,
armed conflicts, violence, terrorism, drug trafficking and
organized crime. Because the young are the makers,
beneficiaries and victims of social and economic changes,
it has become extremely important
to evolve the
necessary mechanisms and the sound comprehensive
international approach to help support and improve the
situation of youth, especially in the poorer communities.
In so doing, consideration must be taken of cultural and
social diversity,
the religious teachings, customs and
traditions of each country, and the needs of every society
in the
security and sustainable
development.
areas of peace,
Proceeding from its belief that its youth are its real
wealth and the mainstay of its present and future, and in
response to the call by our Head of State, His Highness
Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al-Nahyan, the United Arab
Emirates has always accorded a high priority,
in
formulating its development policies, to the question of
youth through the promulgation of legislation and the
provision of the basic requirements for putting in place
the best possible education curricula, health and social
programmes, free of charge, as a service to the sons of
our country,
in line with our national systems and
regional and international policies. At the same time, we
have striven to preserve the specific nature of our local
community, which derives its teachings from the tolerant
sharia of Islam and the traditions of our society.
In the field of education, my country has made a
number of qualitative and quantitative achievements, by
putting in place comprehensive educational policies at all
levels, from primary education to university and post-
graduate levels.
Furthermore, we have always made a point of
providing all health care services while improving their
quality. We have also established many cultural and
sports clubs and recreational centres. We have provided
the most advanced facilities for the disabled and for
rehabilitation of delinquent youth. We have focused on
improving the situation of “underprivileged families”
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
healthwise, economically and socially. We have also sought
to create job opportunities for the youth of such families
and have enabled them to take part in various missions
abroad. We provide several types of assistance and support
to many activities aimed at benefiting the young in many
developing countries.
The major challenges that face today’s world and in
particular those that face the young, who shoulder the
burden of preserving and developing the present and
building the future, make it incumbent on the international
community to work for the achievement of peace, progress
and prosperity for all peoples by trying to pre-empt
conflicts and improving the means of finding peaceful
solutions to current conflicts in consonance with the United
Nations Charter and the provisions of international law.
We must also make a great effort to combat poverty,
backwardness, social and economic problems and alleviate
the burden of debt, in order for the developing countries to
mobilize the capabilities of their youth and, thereby, to
allow them to participate fully in the development process.
This requires the United Nations to develop and update its
programmes for youth which constitute the practical steps
that enhance their participation in the building of peace,
security and stability and in fostering the coexistence of the
world’s countries.
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Suriname.
Mrs. Klein-Loebman Tobing (Suriname): I wish, on
behalf of my delegation, to take this opportunity during the
commemoration of the tenth anniversary of International
Youth Year to add the voice of our youth to the useful
contributions we have heard so far. I am very impressed
with the statements young people have made at
these
special commemorative meetings, in which they have urged
their
international
community to involve youth when it comes to matters of
development regarding youth so that the main theme of
International Youth Year — “Participation, Development
and Peace” — can become a reality. These young
representatives, who are the future of their countries, of our
countries, are right, and they deserve to be commended for
their impressive messages.
respective Governments
and the
In January 1995,
the Government of Suriname
established a tenth anniversary International Youth Year
Committee, which selected as its main theme, “Improving
the situation of youth by supporting their own initiatives”.
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
Some of the activities of the Surinamese tenth-
anniversary International Youth Year Committee so far
have been the organization of a National Youth
Consultative Meeting in June 1995 and the convening on
24 October 1995, United Nations Day, of a Youth
Assembly, which focused on the problems of and
solutions for crime, prostitution, child labour, education,
youth and environment.
The delegation of the Republic of Suriname is of the
view that we, the elders, must involve youth when it
comes to the formulation of policies, programmes and
decisions regarding them. My delegation would like to
assure young people of our solidarity with their justified
desire for full participation, development and peace.
In this context,
the draft World Programme of
Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond
constitutes a sound basis and a good guideline for
developing essential activities in the interest of youth in
such areas as education, employment, poverty, health,
environment, drug abuse and juvenile delinquency.
Suriname’s youth will gladly develop activities in these
areas on the basis of this draft World Programme and,
wherever possible and necessary, in close cooperation
with youth from other parts of the world.
We hereby appeal in particular to the representatives
of donor countries and United Nations donor agencies to
provide the necessary resources, because with their
generous contributions youth can fulfil their essential and
noble task of realizing peace, democracy and development
for all peoples all over the world.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the plenary meetings devoted to marking the
tenth anniversary of International Youth Year.
I should like to inform members that consideration
of this item will be resumed later, at a date to be
announced.
We have
thus
concluded this
stage of our
consideration of agenda item 105.
Programme of work
The Acting President: I should like to make an
the
concerning
some
announcement
programme of work.
changes
in
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
First, I should like to inform members that the report
of the Second Committee to be considered under agenda
item 12, entitled “Report of the Economic and Social
Council”, will be taken up as the first item tomorrow
morning, Wednesday, 1 November 1995, as indicated in
today’s Journal.
45th plenary meeting
31 October 1995
The consideration of agenda item 21, entitled
“University for Peace”, scheduled as the first item for
Tuesday morning, 7 November, is postponed to a later
date, to be announced.
Agenda item 25, entitled “Cooperation between the
United Nations and the Latin American Economic
System”, originally scheduled for consideration on
Thursday morning, 9 November, will now be the first
item for Wednesday morning, 15 November 1995.
On Monday, 27 November, agenda item 37, entitled
“Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic”,
will be added as the first item in the morning.
The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.
12
