United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
47th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 1 November 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of
(Mauritius), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Peerthum
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
Agenda item 14 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Agency (A/50/360)
Draft resolution (A/50/L.11)
Amendment (A/50/L.12)
Mr. Kharrazi
(Islamic Republic of Iran): The
delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran notes with
satisfaction the annual report of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) to the General Assembly for the
year 1994, which summarizes the significant achievements
of the Agency during that year. We thank Mr. Blix, the
Director General of the IAEA, for his thorough and
informative statement, which also featured the main
developments in the Agency’s activities during 1995.
Director-General Blix and the IAEA secretariat are to be
commended for the commitment and dedication with which
they carry out their responsibilities.
those treaties become more relevant. Thus, efforts aimed
at strengthening the IAEA’s authority and functions in
accordance with its statute should be supported and
further encouraged. In this context we welcome the
relevant decisions of the 1995 Review and Extension
Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) concerning the activities of the
IAEA, which are reflected, inter alia, in draft resolution
A/50/L.11, “Report of the International Atomic Energy
Agency”.
the 1995 NPT Review
Conference recognized that the IAEA is the competent
authority for verifying and assuring that
the Treaty
obligations of States Parties to the NPT are being fulfilled
and that nothing should be done to undermine the
Agency’s authority in that regard. We also welcome, in
principle, the proposals that have been put forward in the
Conference on Disarmament to entrust the IAEA with the
task of verifying the future comprehensive test-ban treaty.
In this
respect
We have given serious consideration to the Agency’s
report for the year 1994. It is very unfortunate that the
Agency continues to operate under financial constraints,
which in turn have had adverse effects on some of its
important programmes. We urge member States to take
their financial obligations more seriously and to make
their payments in a timely manner. At the same time, in
view of the present budgetary constraints, we believe that
the key objective should be cost-effectiveness.
As international society draws closer, through a web
of
regional and international
the roles of
international organizations such as the IAEA that implement
treaties,
Another issue in the Agency’s activities during this
period has been the development of a strengthened
safeguards regime. We welcome the measures and
95-86489 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
decisions taken by the Agency to maintain and strengthen
the effectiveness and cost-efficiency of the safeguards
system. Iran, as an original signatory of the NPT, has
always adhered to the Agency’s safeguards system and will
continue to support its effectiveness. Our Government has
pursued an open and transparent policy in this respect and,
based on that policy, took the initiative to invite the Agency
on two occasions to visit the nuclear facilities in Iran and
verify their peaceful utilization. Subsequently, the IAEA
missions visited Iran in February 1992 and November 1993,
and verifications were established to the satisfaction of the
Agency. These two visits were in addition to routine
inspections that are conducted regularly by the IAEA.
We commend the Agency’s efforts to enhance nuclear
safety and radiation protection, particularly in the countries
of the former USSR. We firmly believe that the scope of
such measures should be expanded to all regions that
operate nuclear installations, for the risks to life, health,
environment and security emanating from such installations
are not confined to national boundaries. In this regard, a
matter of great concern to Middle East countries is the
continued operation of the un-safeguarded, antiquated and
entirely non-peaceful Demona nuclear reactor in Israel. We
call upon the international community, and the IAEA in
particular, to address this problem urgently and effectively.
It
should be recalled that only South Africa’s
accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) and the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) safeguards system made the African
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone a reality. A parallel exists in
the case of the Middle East. So long as Israel, with the full
support of certain Powers, refuses to join the NPT and the
IAEA safeguards system, a Middle East nuclear-weapon-
free zone will remain a distant goal. In this respect, the
decision of the General Conference of the IAEA at its
thirty-eighth session to restore technical assistance to Israel
is nothing but a reward to a nuclear proliferator and tacit
approval of that regime’s access to nuclear weapons. Iran,
the country that
in 1974 initiated the proposal for the
establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle
East, continues to support this initiative and is prepared to
consider any constructive idea for its realization under the
auspices of the United Nations.
The Islamic Republic of Iran attaches great importance
to international cooperation in the peaceful application of
nuclear energy and has pursued with great interest the
promotional role of the Agency in this field. My delegation
appreciates the useful technical cooperation the Agency
extends to member States in the peaceful uses of nuclear
2
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
energy in the fields of agriculture, industry and medicine
and other related areas such as water desalination. In this
regard, one cannot but stress the importance of sustained
funding, particularly through voluntary contributions for
the Agency’s technical assistance programmes.
However, exceptional cases of the violation of the
IAEA safeguards in the recent past have provided an
excuse for certain nuclear-weapon States and some other
industrialized countries to undermine the statutory tasks
and obligations of the Agency and infringe more than
before the inalienable rights of the parties to the Non-
Proliferation Treaty, as stipulated in that Treaty, including
the Islamic Republic of Iran, whose modest, peaceful
nuclear activities have always been approved by the
Agency.
In conclusion, allow me once again to express our
appreciation and support to the IAEA for its efforts in the
promotion of international cooperation in the peaceful
uses of nuclear energy and the non-proliferation of
nuclear weapons in all its aspects.
Mr. Tsepkala (Belarus): The delegation of the
Republic of Belarus has carefully studied the report of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for the
period under review and notes with satisfaction that it was
prepared with a high degree of professionalism. We are
grateful to the Director General of the Agency for his
presentation of the report to the General Assembly.
to
international
through
As is mentioned in the report,
security
the Agency’s
contribution
its
verification activities and to the transfer of nuclear
technology — in other words, to the fulfilment of the
Agency’s functions related to nuclear non-proliferation —
continued to be major focal points of its work in 1994.
The Republic of Belarus, as a country which strictly
adheres to the principles of non-proliferation and makes
a considerable contribution to the strengthening of the
non-proliferation regime, attaches particular importance to
this activity of the Agency.
Having attained its independence, Belarus took the
decision to become a non-nuclear State. That decision
was reflected in the Constitution of
the Republic.
Ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty
(START) and simultaneous accession to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), as a non-
nuclear State, constituted further steps in this direction.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
As representatives of the Republic of Belarus have
already mentioned in their statements at
this session,
Belarus signed the safeguards agreement with the IAEA on
14 April 1995 and it entered into force on 31 July 1995.
project envisaging the creation of a reliable system of
physical protection of nuclear material is being worked
out in Belarus. We would be very grateful for assistance
in the implementation of this project.
The report points out that:
“The credibility of commitments made by States
not
to acquire nuclear weapons has become
increasingly important, particularly as States which do
possess nuclear weapons move to reduce their
arsenals”. (IAEA Annual Report for 1994, GC(39)/3,
p. 1)
In this connection, I would like to emphasize that all
the actions of our State are fully in conformity with its
commitments. In late April 1992 — in other words, ahead
of time — Belarus withdrew tactical nuclear weapons from
its territory and worked out a schedule of withdrawal of
strategic nuclear weapons,
is
consistently carrying out. We also intend to strictly follow
our obligations under the safeguards agreement with the
IAEA.
a schedule which it
It should be noted that it is not at all easy for a newly
independent State undergoing a severe economic crisis to
keep to these commitments. In these circumstances, we
greatly appreciate the assistance rendered by international
organizations, and by some countries. The Belarusian
delegation stresses the positive role of
the IAEA as
coordinator in the strengthening of the infrastructure of
radiation and nuclear safety in newly independent States.
Preparations by the Agency for the implementation of
safeguards,
safeguards
requirements, and for the exposition of the need for support
by donor States, coordinated by the Agency, were
extremely useful for Belarus. Without any doubt, training
in nuclear material accountancy and training provided to
facilities personnel and organized by the Agency are also
important.
identification
the
for
of
We believe that the IAEA should continue to play a
special role in strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation
regime. The decisions of the 1995 Review and Extension
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), held in May
1995, all but confirm this conclusion.
Illicit trafficking in nuclear material may constitute a
serious threat to the security of States. Belarus is striving to
strictly fulfil its obligations under the Convention on the
Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. At present, a
In 1996, we shall mark the tenth anniversary of the
accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which was
the biggest
radiation catastrophe in the history of
mankind. In this Hall, we have spoken more than once
about this dreadful catastrophe, which turned out to be a
calamity for
the
immeasurable damage to the economy of the country.
the Belarusian people, and about
Our delegation is grateful
to the IAEA for its
continued support of the United Nations International
Cooperation on Chernobyl. As is stated in the report,
“a major effort was undertaken to collect precise
information on the increased incidence of thyroid
cancers among children in Belarus, Ukraine and the
Russian Federation.” (GC(39)/3, p. 147)
Unfortunately, the report does not contain any information
on the results of this effort. Apparently, such information
had not been processed when the report was issued.
A number of international conferences aimed at
consideration of problems caused by the catastrophe will
be held next year. One such conference will take place in
March 1996 in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. It will be
the first joint conference of the European Union, Belarus,
Russia and Ukraine on the aftermath of the Chernobyl
accident. We are interested in the broad participation of
the representatives of United Nations Member States, the
IAEA and other
international organizations in this
conference and will be ready to welcome all those who
would like to take part in it. Belarus will participate
actively in the international conferences on Chernobyl
issues to be held in Geneva and Vienna.
The organization of technical cooperation is one of
the main focuses of the IAEA activities. We support the
recommendations of the Third Technical Cooperation
Policy Review Seminar, in particular on the elaboration
of country programmes for the recipients of technical
assistance. Last June Belarus was visited by an IAEA
technical-cooperation mission that,
together with the
representatives of national
institutions, worked out
proposals on a country programme for Belarus. We hope
that
this
programme.
the Agency will
and implement
adopt
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
We note with satisfaction that technical assistance to
Belarus from the IAEA substantially increased in years
past. However, we consider that the Agency, which is
called on to promote development and peaceful uses of
atomic energy, should provide more considerable assistance
to a State that does not have any nuclear-energy facilities
in its territory and whose people were the victims of a
catastrophic accident at a nuclear power plant belonging to
another State. We give priority to the cooperation projects
aimed at minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl
accident and strengthening national
infrastructure for
radiation and nuclear safety.
In conclusion, the Belarusian delegation would like to
emphasize that our evaluation of the Agency’s work in
1994 is positive. We agree with the priorities the Agency
has set for the future and hope for close cooperation with
the Agency in resolving all problems related to the peaceful
uses of atomic energy.
Mr. Maneka (Pakistan): At the outset, I would like to
express, on behalf of the Pakistan delegation, our profound
appreciation to Dr. Hans Blix, Director General of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
for his
statement on the Agency’s performance during 1994. The
widening scope of the programmes and activities of the
IAEA bear witness to the dedication of Dr. Blix and his
colleagues at the Agency.
Pakistan has always reposed great confidence in the
IAEA as an instrument both to promote nuclear cooperation
and to regulate the use of nuclear technology for peaceful
purposes.
We welcome the Agency’s annual report for 1994.
This comprehensive document deals with a number of
complex and technical issues in a manner that will facilitate
meaningful discussions on the Agency’s major areas of
activity.
One central activity, or objective, of the IAEA is the
promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Despite
the negative public perceptions created in some countries
and the fears aroused about
the danger of nuclear
proliferation, nuclear energy remains a viable and attractive
energy option for many countries, particularly fossil-fuel-
deficient developing countries. The conventional means of
generating electricity — thermal, oil, gas and coal-fired
plants — not only impose a heavy financial burden on such
countries but also constitute serious
to the
environment. Nuclear power, on the other hand, offers a
threats
4
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
resource-conserving,
financially feasible source of energy.
environmentally
benign
and
In view of its multiple benefits, Pakistan deeply
appreciates the Director General’s continued interest in
and support for nuclear power and welcomes his reference
to a strengthened programme on the comparative
assessment of energy sources for electricity generation. In
this regard, the assistance the Agency has rendered to
several countries in providing advanced methodologies,
such as Model for Analysis of Energy Demand (MAED)
and Wien Automatic System Planning Package (WASP),
for an integrated approach towards energy and nuclear-
power planning is commendable. These methodologies
should continue to be made available and should not be
constrained by extraneous considerations.
in 1994 the ratio of
Another area of vital concern to the majority of the
members of the Agency is technical cooperation in the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. It is indeed a source of
great satisfaction that
target
in the Agency’s Technical Cooperation
achievement
Programme was the highest ever in the history of the
IAEA. Of the 12 model projects approved for 1994, 11
have been launched successfully. We wish to express our
sincere appreciation to the Department of Technical
its dedicated work and innovative
Cooperation for
approaches, which brought about
this unprecedented
success. It is hoped that the establishment of the standing
advisory group on technical assistance and cooperation
will help in further strengthening the planning and
implementation of cooperation programmes. While there
was widespread support for the model-project approach
and new directions
in the Technical Cooperation
Programme, contributions to the Technical Assistance and
Cooperation Fund (TACF) dropped to 72.5 per cent, as
compared with 76.5 per cent in 1993. The target for
voluntary contributions to the TACF in 1994 was set at
$58.5 million, of which $42.4 million was pledged by
Member States.
Although contributions to the TACF are voluntary,
they support an activity that is the primary statutory
responsibility of the Agency. Pakistan has always paid its
contribution in full and on time. We are also providing
free training to the developing countries, through the
Agency’s Technical Cooperation Programme,
in the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We urge all member
States to pay their contributions to the TACF in full and
on time in order to facilitate the implementation of the
Agency’s Programme.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
Pakistan has consistently adhered to and will continue
to lend its fullest support to the Agency’s safeguards. This
is in conformity with our commitment to nuclear non-
proliferation and to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
While we fully agree that the possibility of non-compliance
should be minimized or completely eliminated, it is our
view that any changes in the present system should remain
within the existing legal instruments. Also, the proposed
measures
be
technologically feasible, cost-effective and non-intrusive. In
this context, we appreciate the work done by the Standing
Advisory Group on Safeguards Implementation (SAGSI)
and the secretariat on Programme “93+2”, but we believe
that this important issue should be thoroughly examined and
extensively discussed with member States to achieve
consensus on its legal, technical and economic aspects.
safeguards
strengthen
should
to
the
safety. We have
Pakistan has always supported activities related to the
enhancement of nuclear
actively
participated in various technical committee meetings held
for the preparation and finalization of the new International
Basic Safety Standards. Pakistan was also active in the
drafting and adoption of the Convention on Nuclear Safety,
and signed the Convention as an original signatory. The
success of the Nuclear Safety Convention will depend in
large measure on the implementation of provisions relating
to cooperation between the industrially advanced countries
and the developing countries. It is through continued and
unimpeded supply of
safety-related information and
equipment
the safety of nuclear facilities can be
assured and enhanced. Such measures for nuclear safety
would be reinforced by an international agreement
prohibiting attacks against all nuclear facilities. Pakistan has
endeavoured to promote such an agreement. The Agency
can play an important role in its realization.
that
We are greatly encouraged by the passage of the
IAEA General Conference resolutions relating to the
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones. Pakistan has
also made a sincere endeavour to keep South Asia free of
nuclear weapons. In this regard, a number of proposals
have been made and we continue to hope that
these
proposals will evoke a positive response.
The regulatory responsibility of the Agency should not
lead to the imposition of arbitrary restrictions on the
transfer of nuclear
technology for peaceful purposes.
Unfortunately, restrictions have been imposed even when it
is evident that no proliferation dangers are involved. At
times even safety-related information has been refused. This
approach is not conducive to the evolution of safer
techniques and methods or to the promotion of greater
openness and transparency in the field of nuclear
technology. Since these are key objectives of the Agency
we hope that
their
achievement. The IAEA should strive to remove all
impediments to the transfer of nuclear technology for
peaceful purposes.
redouble its efforts for
it will
Finally,
I would like to address an important
organizational matter. A review of Article VI of the
statute relating to the expansion of the Board has been
under consideration for a long time. We believe that an
increased representation of the member States in the
Board will improve transparency and effectiveness. We
hope that the open-ended consultative group will be able
to submit concrete proposals on this issue.
Mr. Butler (Australia): I should like to begin this
the
statement by thanking the Director General of
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Mr. Hans
Blix,
for his comprehensive statement given to the
Assembly. That statement underlined with great clarity the
vital role of the IAEA in preventing the proliferation of
nuclear weapons and in promoting the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy. We would also like to thank Mr. Blix for
his
the
Organization.
stewardship
outstanding
continuing
of
Australia’s record of support for the IAEA is long
and, we would like to think, second to none. That is why
we have always attached importance to the Assembly’s
consideration of the Agency’s annual report to the United
Nations and to the General Assembly’s resolution with
respect
to that report. We place great value on the
IAEA’s international safeguards and technical cooperation
activities. These activities in both fields underpin the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT). The importance accorded to them by the
international community was reaffirmed in the decision to
extend the NPT indefinitely at the historic 1995 Review
and Extension Conference of the States Parties to the
NPT in April/May of this year and in the accompanying
documents on that occasion entitled “Principles and
objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament”
and “Strengthening the review process for the Treaty”.
fields — safeguards,
The draft resolution before us today highlights the
important work being carried out by the Agency in a
number of
technical assistance,
nuclear safety, radiological protection and radioactive
waste management, to name just a few of them. In all the
fields of
the IAEA makes a manifest
contribution to international security and non-proliferation,
its work,
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and to social and economic development. The Agency’s
activities in these fields deserve our continuing and strong
support. The draft resolution also highlights the important
measures and decisions the Agency has taken to strengthen
the safeguards system. This was an important element of
the decision on principles and objectives for nuclear non-
proliferation and disarmament adopted at the NPT Review
and Extension Conference. Australia has been actively
involved in,
the Agency’s
Programme “93+2” and we hope that the second phase of
that programme, including those parts relating to short-
notice inspections and environmental monitoring, will soon
be taken forward further.
and strongly supports,
two States with their
We very much regret that it has been necessary again
this year for the draft resolution to record the continuing
non-compliance of
safeguards
agreements under the NPT. We urge those States — Iraq
and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — to
cooperate fully with the Agency in returning to full
compliance. These cases of non-compliance underline again
the importance of strengthening the safeguards system,
particularly in relation to the Agency’s capability to detect
undeclared nuclear activities.
Technical cooperation is also a central element of the
Agency’s activities. It is an important means of enabling
developing countries to have access to the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy under appropriate safeguards, in keeping
with article IV of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and as set
out in the Agency’s statute. This too was recognized in the
decision of the NPT Review and Extension Conference on
Principles and Objectives for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and
Disarmament. Australia has long been a supporter of the
Agency’s technical cooperation activities, and we welcome
the measures being introduced to improve and strengthen
their effectiveness.
On this occasion there is special significance in our
receiving the Agency’s annual report. Last week, in this
Hall, we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations. For almost 40 years the International Atomic
Energy Agency has also been a central part of international
life and cooperation. As we look back on those 40 or 50
years, it is surely a source of agreement amongst us all that
two of the burning problems we have faced — the crucial
issues on which we have worked together through the years
since the end of the Second World War and since the end
of colonization — are those of development and the atom.
These are amongst the crucial challenges of our time, and
they will remain so. It is in this context that one of the
closest, most devoted and most effective partners of us all
6
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
is the International Atomic Energy Agency, with its
mandate to ensure that we work together on development
and on the atom in a world that is productive and safe.
On this occasion Australia is therefore very pleased
to be one of the sponsors of the draft resolution in
document A/50/L.11. We note that, traditionally — at
least until recent years — parallel draft resolutions have
attracted the consensus support of the General Assembly
as ones that take note of and endorse the activities of a
truly important international Agency. We hope that on
this special occasion — after 50 years of the United
Nations and 40 years of
the Agency — the draft
resolution before the Assembly will also attract consensus
support.
Mr. Mazilu (Romania): We are pleased to start our
statement by expressing my country’s recognition of the
work carried out by the International Atomic Energy
Agency during 1994 and 1995. We sincerely appreciate
the efforts of the Agency’s Director General, Mr. Hans
Blix, and its secretariat to promote and implement the
programme of work approved by the General Conference
and the Board of Governors.
Our general views on the activity of the Agency
have already been expressed by the delegation of Spain in
its statement on behalf of the European Union and
associated countries. For this reason I shill make only a
few specific comments on the Agency’s report.
the various
initiatives
First, my delegation,
like others, appreciates the
work of the International Atomic Energy Agency in the
fields of non-proliferation, the promotion of peaceful uses
of nuclear energy and the strengthening of international
cooperation in respect of nuclear safety, radiological
protection and waste management. The Agency has
continued to play an important role in the implementation
of
relating to the technical
cooperation programme and in the introduction of a new
programme to enhance the security of nuclear and
radioactive material. There is no doubt that the decision
on principles and objectives, adopted by the NPT Review
and Extension Conference, is extremely important for the
activity of the Agency because it refers to the IAEA’s
contribution in the fields of safeguards and the peaceful
use of nuclear energy.
Secondly, in our view, one of the most important
tasks of the Agency remains the strengthening of the
safeguards system. Certainly the Agency’s system for
verifying that nuclear energy is used exclusively for
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
peaceful purposes has a vital role to play in enhancing its
credibility. My country supports the measures introduced in
recent years by the Agency to improve the safeguards
system — in particular, through Programme “93+2”, which,
as delegations know very well, is aimed at increasing the
cost-effectiveness of safeguards relating to declared nuclear
material and at increasing the assurance of the completeness
of
in States with
comprehensive safeguards agreements. Romania hopes for
timely implementation of the measures contained in the
Programme and will cooperate fully to that end.
information on nuclear activities
that
safety. There is no doubt
Thirdly, in the period under consideration the Agency
successfully promoted important measures in the area of
nuclear
the major
accomplishment in this area was the adoption, in June 1994,
of the Convention on Nuclear Safety, after three years of
careful preparation and serious negotiations. In addition, the
Board of Governors approved the new Basic Safety
Standards in September last year. These documents contain
guidelines on responsibility for the control and safety of
radiation sources, as well as for the protection of workers,
the general public and medical patients,
together with
guidelines for intervention levels in emergency situations.
Both the Convention and the new Basic Safety Standards
supplement
the existing extensive framework of safety
guidelines. It is a great pleasure for me to inform the
General Assembly that my country — aware of
the
importance of this Convention — has already ratified it.
Of greatest importance now is full implementation of
the guidelines in these major documents. The Agency has
great responsibilities in this field. In particular, it must do
much more in our region, where the sad Chernobyl accident
occurred. Every effort should be made to enhance the safety
of the existing reactors and to implement new power plants
in safe conditions.
It
is our duty to do everything in our power to
guarantee the full protection of members of the public from
exposure to radioactive materials and to prevent every
possible incident giving rise to potential exposure.
We would like to underline once again the importance
of regional and international cooperation in carrying out the
work of the Agency pursuant to its statute, in promoting the
use of nuclear energy and the application of the necessary
measures to strengthen further
the safety of nuclear
installations and to minimize risks to life, health and
environment, and in ensuring the effectiveness and
efficiency of the safeguards system of the Agency.
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
for his
Mr. Adekanye
(Nigeria): On behalf of
the
Delegation of Nigeria, I wish to express our appreciation
to Mr. Hans Blix, Director General of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
statement
highlighting the activities of the Agency in the past year.
Nigeria has followed with interest
those activities as
enumerated in the annual report (GC(39)/3) and notes the
progress made in pursuit of the goals and objectives of
the Agency. Those achievements reflect the widespread
support of the international community as a whole for the
Agency in a changing world, which would require of the
secretariat of the Agency continuing commitment and of
its member States stronger political resolve to make the
Agency truly serve the cause of peace and development.
One of the major challenges for the Agency today is
the expansion of its contribution to global solutions to the
problems of poverty and underdevelopment in our world.
As the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Nigeria stated in
his address at the Special Commemorative Meeting for
the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations:
“Development is a question of the human condition,
and for many countries it is indeed a question of
survival.” (Official Records of the General Assembly,
Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 38th meeting,
p. 24)
research and technical
The Agency’s
cooperation
activities, aimed at assisting member States to achieve
self-reliance in nuclear science and technology, would
therefore contribute to the focus on development.
It
is
reassuring that
the Agency’s 1995-1996
Technical Cooperation Programme, approved by the
Board of Governors in 1994, included 11 new model
projects formulated to address the national priorities of
recipient States in the areas covered by the Agency’s
research efforts at
laboratory. The
incorporation in the Technical Cooperation Programme of
the conclusions of the Third Review Seminar endorsing
the model project concept, more end-use orientation and
a broad human-needs approach to transfer of nuclear
technology is a manifestation of the Agency’s capacity to
adapt its machinery and policies to meet the needs of its
members.
its Seibersdorf
This new partnership with recipient countries, based
on productive dialogue and exploiting the new country
programme framework in the design of projects by
member States, should be vigorously pursued even as the
is extended to many more
model project concept
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
developing countries. We believe that this would enhance
the impact of projects and increase public awareness of the
benefits of non-military applications of nuclear energy. In
the same vein, the delegation of Nigeria welcomes the new
initiatives to use the institutions of developing countries,
considered centres of excellence, in the implementation of
selected technical cooperation projects. The primary goal
should remain the strengthening of member States’
capacity, regional development and cooperation among
developing countries themselves.
The cooperation of member States in providing the
Agency the wherewithal to implement identified projects is
essential to the future of the new, better-focused Technical
Cooperation Programme. Undoubtedly,
the agreement
reached among member States at last September’s General
Conference on new levels of funding for the Programme
under the Technical Assistance and Cooperation Fund for
the 1996-1998 period represents an important signal of that
that decision can only have the
cooperation. However,
desired practical
technical
cooperation activities if it is backed by a firm commitment
to provide the requisite resources.
effect on the Agency’s
Such support is particularly essential to the countries
in the African region which cooperate under the aegis of
the African Regional Cooperative Agreement (AFRA) as a
vehicle for the transfer of nuclear technology through
relevant region-wide projects. Nigeria’s decision to agree to
an extension of that Agreement for another five-year period
is an affirmation of our country’s continuing commitment
to regional cooperation and of the important contribution of
the International Atomic Energy Agency to that process.
We believe that such cooperation will be further enhanced
when the 7th meeting of AFRA is hosted by Nigeria next
year. Simultaneously, we in Nigeria are determined to
expand technical cooperation and have taken steps to
strengthen the regulatory and institutional framework.
Nigeria reposes great faith in the Agency’s safeguards
system and has therefore always placed a high premium on
its efficiency and effectiveness in strengthening confidence
and trust in the non-proliferation regime. A credible, non-
discriminatory verification system, implemented with vigour
and professionalism, is invaluable to the peace and security
of our world. The increase in the past year in the number
of safeguards agreements in force in member States, as well
as the high degree of compliance with the spirit and letter
of these agreements, reflect positively on the safeguards
system. Its integrity and continuing efficacy require not
solely an assertion of the Agency’s rights under safeguards
agreements, as variously affirmed by the Board of
8
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
in the recent past, but also maximum
Governors
cooperation from member States and the parties to those
agreements in facilitating the work of Agency inspectors,
including access to relevant data, sites and facilities.
the first part of
That cooperation has contributed to the General
Conference’s approval of
the new
safeguards approaches under the so-called Programme
“93+2”, as well as the agreement on a new funding
formula covering the next five years. We trust
that
member States will maintain the current momentum for
reform and improvement so as to retain the confidence of
the international community in the safeguards system as
a whole. Moreover,
this would justify the Agency’s
assumption of additional safeguards duties under future
verification agreements, including a new comprehensive
test-ban treaty and a new fissile material cut-off
convention.
For the countries in the Africa region, whose firm
commitment to non-proliferation is now reflected in the
treaty on the African nuclear-weapon-free zone endorsed
by the Organization of African Unity Council of Ministers
in June 1995,
the Agency’s role in verifying treaty
undertakings will be invaluable.
and the
strengthening of
The contribution of
the Agency towards
the
development of a culture of safety in the nuclear industry
world-wide
institutional
mechanisms towards that end provide another basis for
my country’s confidence in the organization. We note that
member States have continued to grapple with the issue
of establishing an international regime on liability for
nuclear damage as a complement to the Convention on
Nuclear Safety adopted last year. Together with the
proposed convention on the safety of radioactive waste
management, that agreement should create a strong legal
framework for nuclear safety.
the
However,
international
community’s
determination to confront
the new menace of illicit
trafficking in nuclear material, on which the Agency is
now developing a valuable database, should not distract
attention from the continuing need to maintain vigilance
over the dumping of radioactive wastes and other highly
toxic substances in the territories of developing countries.
We
effective
implementation of
the IAEA Code of Practice on
International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive
Waste to strengthen further international cooperation in
this important area.
continue
should
to
require
the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Finally, it has always been the view of my country
that the Agency needs to increase representation of its
member States on the Board of Governors, as part of the
process of reform and democratization. Such a reform, in
our view, should be based on the principles of equitable
geographical distribution,
transparency, accountability,
effectiveness and efficiency. In particular, it should address
the current underrepresentation of Africa and the Middle
East and South Asia. We urge Member States not to let slip
the opportunity to make the Board of Governors truly
responsive to the interests of developing and developed
countries as the Agency confronts the challenges of the next
millennium.
Mr. Fedotov (Russian Federation) (interpretation from
Russian): First of all, the Russian delegation, like other
delegations, expresses its gratitude to the Director General
of
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
Mr. Hans Blix, for the submission of the report of the
Agency, which provides a broad and varied picture of the
activity of the IAEA.
During the past year, events of
truly historic
significance have been the adoption by consensus, at the
Review and Extension Conference of the Parties to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT),
of a decision on an indefinite extension of that Treaty
without any conditions whatever. By making this a standing
Treaty,
in the interest of further consolidation of the
international non-proliferation regime, the participants in the
Conference demonstrated a great sense of responsibility for
the destiny of the world, international stability and nuclear
disarmament. The Russian Federation intends to make all
possible efforts to implement the decisions adopted by the
NPT Conference.
The Conference emphasized the significance of the
role of the IAEA in ensuring the effectiveness of the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and the
efforts it has been exerting to improve the safeguards
system. The Conference devoted intense attention to the
most urgent problems in the disarmament field. We note
that the nuclear arms race has been stopped and reversed,
and in 1991 an entire class of nuclear weapons of Russia
and the United States were eliminated — more than 2,500
medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles. The START I
Treaty, which entered into force in December 1994,
decreases by nearly half two major nuclear arsenals. Next
we have the forthcoming ratification of the START II
Treaty, and in its framework Russia and the United States
will reduce their strategic offensive weapons to one third.
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
Russia has consistently favoured the drawing up
speedily, and no later than 1996, at the Conference on
Disarmament, of a non-discriminatory comprehensive
nuclear test-ban treaty, subject to effective international
verification. Such a treaty will strengthen the nuclear non-
proliferation regime and will prevent its qualitative further
development. It should also be emphasized that the new,
democratic Russia has not carried out a single nuclear
explosion and has firmly abided by the moratorium it has
declared.
Russia reaffirms its dedication to the drawing up at
the Conference on Disarmament of a multilateral, non-
discriminatory and verifiable convention banning the
production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. This
would be an important contribution to the strengthening
of the non-proliferation regime.
An initiative put forward by the President of Russia,
Mr. Yeltsin, has received broad international backing —
that is, the initiative on the holding in the spring of 1996
of a summit meeting on issues of nuclear security, to
consider pressing problems in this area and define ways
to solve them, in both the short and the long term. Such
problems include ensuring the safe development of
nuclear energy throughout the world and the dumping of
radioactive wastes, international safeguards, and the use
of nuclear materials released during the process of the
elimination of nuclear weapons. In our view the IAEA
could make a significant contribution to the preparations
for such a meeting.
We continue to support the multifaceted activity of
the Agency in such areas as halting illicit trafficking in
nuclear materials, enhancing the level of their physical
protection, and preparing an international convention to
deal with radioactive wastes. A clear example of effective
cooperation within the framework of the IAEA is the
success of the international seminar held in May by the
Agency, on the initiative of the Northern countries, on
enhancing reliability and security in dealing with
radioactive wastes.
Russia has unswervingly given priority to one of the
major areas of the work of the Agency: control over the
peaceful use of atomic energy and constant enhancement
of the IAEA safeguards system. We note with satisfaction
that the Review and Extension Conference of the Parties
to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons had a positive view of the Agency’s activity in
enhancing the effectiveness of the safeguards system.
Russia will continue to cooperate closely with the Agency
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and will render its assistance in this work within the
framework of the national Russian programme of support
for the IAEA safeguards.
Attaching great significance to the activities of the
IAEA and the development of scientific and technical
cooperation between Member States, our country actively
supports those programmes in which all countries are
interested. Among such programmes highest priority should
be given here to present and future technology for nuclear
energy and its fuel cycle. The development of programmes
to produce and promote new nuclear technologies and a
new generation of reactors, which are promising from the
point of view of security, ecology, economics and non-
proliferation, must be one of the most important areas of
the Agency’s activity. It would be useful to begin the
drafting of a comprehensive international programme for
the development of nuclear energy, as a basis for solving
energy, ecological and economic problems.
the
economic difficulties
We attach great importance to the Agency’s activities
in rendering technical assistance to the developing
countries. Despite
it has
experienced, the Russian Government has found it possible
to allocate to the Technical Assistance and Cooperation
Fund in 1995 the sum of 5.7 billion roubles. These means
are earmarked for supplying developing countries members
of the Agency with Russian equipment, apparatus and
facilities and also for organizing training courses and other
activities in Russia.
We also support the Agency’s activity in improving
the security of existing nuclear power stations in the
countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and in the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). A source of
satisfaction is the work of the secretariat of the IAEA in
implementing that programme. An analysis of the safety of
such nuclear power stations has been successfully carried
out and intensive work lies ahead to eliminate the problems
which have come to light.
Of course economic difficulties are slowing down the
rate of implementation of these programmes. Our country
favours a broad international exchange of experience and
achievements in the area of the peaceful use of nuclear
energy. Today more than 30 countries are Russia’s partners,
and it is cooperating with them on the basis of more than
100 intergovernmental and inter-Agency agreements in
force.
The most
important activity of Russia’s nuclear
the
the present stage is the problem of
complex at
10
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
elimination of nuclear weapons. The developing process
of
the reduction of nuclear weapons inevitably has
required a transformation to peaceful areas of a significant
part of the scientific,
technical defence potential. An
important step aimed at ensuring the viability of defence
enterprises and their conversion and the retraining of
experts is the establishment of the International Scientific
Technical Centre in Moscow through the efforts of
Russia, the United States, Japan and the European Union.
The Russian delegation associates itself with the co-
sponsors of the draft resolution in document A/50/L.11 on
the report of the IAEA for 1994.
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): It is regrettable to note that the report of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) makes
reference once again to the so-called nuclear issue on the
Korean Peninsula in a biased, subjective and unjustified
manner, disregarding the reality.
As we have clarified our position repeatedly on the
so-called nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula, it is not
a matter to be considered at the United Nations either in
regard to its substance or in the light of its character, but
is a serious political and military issue to be settled
bilaterally between the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the United States.
It is a well-known fact that the unjust discussions of
the so-called nuclear issue held in the past at the United
Nations have never facilitated its resolution but, on the
contrary, have introduced complexity and obstacles into
the process of resolving the issue.
Recently,
the so-called nuclear
issue is being
efficiently resolved between the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States in accordance
with the DPRK-US Agreed Framework of October 1994.
It has been stipulated in the DPRK-US Agreed
Framework that the United States should provide the light
water reactor project in return for the DPRK’s freeze of
nuclear facilities, and the DPRK is to implement the
safeguards agreement only when provision of the light
water reactors is complete.
Accordingly, the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea has frozen the nuclear facilities and also stopped
the construction of 50 megawatt and 200 megawatt
reactors, subject to the Agreed Framework.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Along with this, the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea accepted the 10 additional inspector designations and
their continuous presence in the country as suggested by the
IAEA, thus ensuring the monitoring of nuclear facilities
covered by the freeze. The Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea also permitted verification activities of the IAEA
such as containment and surveillance measures which the
Agency needs to carry out so as to verify the freeze.
This clearly indicates that the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea fully implements the DPRK-US Agreed
Framework, which in fact goes far beyond the obligations
under the safeguards agreement
to be fulfilled by the
DPRK, which has a special status under the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
There will be no complicated problems that cannot be
international commitments are
resolved smoothly if all
implemented as sincerely as the DPRK has implemented its
commitments.
At the talks held last June in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia,
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and
the United States with respect to the implementation of the
DPRK-US Agreed Framework, the United States reaffirmed
its commitments to take full responsibility for providing the
DPRK with the light water reactors on a turnkey basis and
interim energy alternatives in return for the DPRK’s freeze
of nuclear facilities.
The working negotiations between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the Korean Peninsula
Energy Development Organization (KEDO) relating to the
provision of the light water reactors are now actively under
way.
a
towards
Despite positive developments
final
resolution of the so-called nuclear issue, certain member
States and officials of
the IAEA secretariat are still
resorting to meaningless argument about
this so-called
nuclear issue of ours. Indeed they are attempting, in a
disguised manner, to use the so-called nuclear issue to
create an atmosphere of pressure against
the DPRK,
deliberately turning their faces away from the reality that
the issue is being resolved smoothly.
We are very concerned that these kinds of unjust acts
by certain forces hostile to us could cast a dark shadow
over the ongoing negotiations between the DPRK and
KEDO. As has been proved by the whole process of
resolving the so-called nuclear issue between the DPRK and
the United States, no issue can be resolved if one side puts
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
pressure on the other. Fear of pressure exerted against us
has never made us give up doing what we are supposed
to do.
safeguards
agreement. Therefore,
Complete implementation of the DPRK-US Agreed
Framework is a precondition for the implementation of
the
the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to comply with
the safeguards agreement at this stage, in total disregard
of
the true colour of
camouflaged attempts by certain forces to abuse the so-
called nuclear issue in order to realize their political
purposes.
the reality, will only reveal
urging
We hope that the people of the world will have a
correct understanding of the nuclear issue on the Korean
Peninsula and will contribute to the implementation of the
DPRK-US Agreed Framework, which will eventually lead
to the final resolution of the nuclear issue.
Mr. de
Icaza (Mexico)
(interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation has listened with close attention
to the report presented by Mr. Hans Blix, Director
General of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA), on the activities of the Agency for the year 1994.
The detailed information on the activities carried out over
the past year are an indication of the praiseworthy
leadership of the Agency by its Director General, and we
extend
and
congratulations and reiterate our firm support.
him once
gratitude
to
again
our
My country has always supported the Agency’s
work to promote the peaceful uses of nuclear power as a
way of achieving cooperation for economic and social
development of countries. Similarly, we recognize the
importance of improving programmes for the protection
and safety of nuclear facilities — a fundamental element
in assuring non-proliferation.
The report presented today contains a detailed
account of the activities of the Agency in different fields.
However, we have noted that, as in previous years, a
marked priority would seem to be given to the application
of safeguards and verification,
to the detriment of
cooperation and technical assistance activities. The desire
to strengthen the effectiveness and to expand the
safeguards system should not relegate these activities to
a secondary role.
We consider that international cooperation for the
peaceful use of nuclear power and technologies continues
to be the principal objective of the Agency. A better
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
balance in its activities is indispensable today, in the face
of the urgent needs of a majority of the developing
countries in such varied areas as energy, human health, the
environment and agriculture.
the safeguards agreements, in order to put them into
practice. We hope for an early definition of the necessary
machinery to put into effect those measures for which the
Agency requires additional authority.
This year, with the signature of the Treaty for the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the
Caribbean, known as
the Tlatelolco Treaty, by the
Government of Cuba, the full accession of Saint Lucia, and
ratification by Saint Kitts and Nevis the international non-
proliferation
thus
consolidating the intention of my country and other
countries of the region to make Latin America and the
Caribbean the first region of the world free of nuclear
weapons.
strengthened,
regime
has
been
it
should reflect
For the Board of Governors to be really effective
and representative,
the level of
development achieved by member States in the nuclear
area, and the increase in the number of members of the
Agency as a consequence of political changes across the
world and the emergence of new countries, particularly in
Central and Eastern Europe. A more transparent process
for the appointment of member States to the Board is
essential.
Mexico hopes that all Member States will fulfil their
obligations emanating from the United Nations Charter, the
statute of the IAEA and the agreements arising therefrom.
Thus, my country was among those that signed the
Convention on Nuclear Safety when it was opened for
signature, and is on the point of concluding the internal
process leading to ratification.
In this forum, we would like to appeal to countries to
sign and ratify this international juridical instrument, the
full entry into force of which will guarantee the trustworthy
use of nuclear power. Similarly, we consider that exchanges
of equipment and nuclear material should be the subject of
negotiations within the framework of the Agency, with a
view to ensuring that the commitments entered into are duly
reflected in international instruments with clear-cut and
precise rules.
My delegation welcomes the beginning of preparations
in the Agency for the development of a convention on the
management of radioactive wastes, and the establishment of
a Standing Advisory Group on Technical Assistance and
Cooperation to advise the Director General of the IAEA on
technical cooperation policy and on measures to strengthen
the efficiency of the Agency’s programme.
My delegation is firmly convinced that for the binding,
universal and non-discriminatory nature of the measures
contemplated in the so-called Programme “93+2” to
constitute a fundamental prerequisite in the success of this
process, we need to define the terms and scope of the
Agency’s cooperation in this matter. In this context, my
Government wishes to express its support for the decision
adopted by the Board of Governors last June in approving
the application of measures for the execution of which the
Agency enjoys sufficient legal authority, emanating from
12
Another question which we believe to be important
is the careful examination by the IAEA of the possible
verification functions that it could develop in the area of
disarmament — particularly as we are now beginning to
see significant advances towards the prompt conclusion of
a comprehensive test-ban treaty. Negotiations are starting,
with a view to an agreement on the prohibition of the
production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. Full
advantage should of course be taken of
the long
experience and recognized competence of the Agency so
ably led by Mr. Hans Blix.
Ms. Diseko (South Africa): My delegation, as a
co-sponsor of the draft resolution contained in document
A/50/L.11, would like to urge its adoption.
At
the landmark NPT Review and Extension
Conference in New York earlier this year, the review
process for the Treaty was strengthened, and a set of
principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and
disarmament was adopted by consensus. This led to a
consensus on the indefinite extension of the NPT. South
Africa, having rolled back its own nuclear-weapons
programme, was keen to ensure that
the Treaty was
strengthened for the benefit of all humanity so as to
advance to a nuclear-weapon-free world. We regard the
role of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
in verifying and assessing compliance with safeguards
agreements as a vital component of the success of the
Treaty.
Flowing logically from the NPT Conference will be
a comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty (CTBT), with
1996 as the target date for its conclusion. The NPT
Conference, after extensive consultations,
including
consultations with the nuclear-weapon States, called on all
the parties concerned to exercise “utmost restraint”,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
pending the entry into force of a CTBT. My Government,
therefore, strongly supported and co-sponsored a resolution
at
the IAEA General Conference in September which
expressed grave concern at the resumption and continuation
of nuclear testing by certain countries. I would like to
repeat that concern here today, and call on the parties
involved to cease nuclear testing immediately.
As the Assembly will be aware, South Africa is once
again the designated member for Africa on the Board of
Governors of the IAEA, after an absence of 17 years, and
we are looking forward to playing an active role in the
work of this important Agency. My delegation would like
to commend the work of the Director General and the
IAEA over the past year, as reflected in the report before
us today.
In particular, we fully support
the programme to
strengthen the effectiveness and improve the efficiency of
the safeguards system. Given developments in Iraq,
in
particular over the past year,
it has become only too
apparent that strengthening of the safeguards system is
essential if similar situations are to be avoided in future and
the objectives of non-proliferation achieved.
At the same time, I wish to emphasize our desire that
the Agency continue to devote all available resources to the
provision of technical assistance to the developing world,
thereby bringing the benefits of the peaceful uses of nuclear
energy and technology to all nations. It is vital that this role
be perceived by all as being of equal importance to the
Agency as its safeguards role. We in South Africa are
hoping to play a useful role in ensuring that this objective
is met.
The Acting President:
the
representative of Iraq to introduce the amendment to draft
resolution A/50/L.11 contained in document A/50/L.12.
on
I
now call
Mr. Hasan (Iraq): It is my pleasure to introduce my
delegation’s amendment, circulated in document A/50/L.12,
to the draft resolution entitled “Report of the International
Atomic Energy Agency” (A/50/L.11).
First of all, I should like to reiterate our position on
the draft resolutions that have been presented under this
item. My delegation thinks — and many delegations share
our view — that draft resolutions under this item should
avoid controversial political
issues and assessments.
Unfortunately, this has not been the case in the last few
years, and in particular it is not the case with the draft
resolution presented this year.
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
Concerning operative paragraph 7 of
the draft
resolution, which deals with Iraq’s implementation of
Security Council resolution 687 (1991) and 715 (1991),
my delegation considers that
this paragraph does not
reflect in a fair and objective manner the cooperative
relationship between Iraq and the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA), or the real stage of advancement
of the IAEA’s work under relevant Security Council
resolutions. We are aware of the fact
that political
motivations are behind this attempt. The first of these is
to prolong the comprehensive regime of sanctions
imposed on my country, if not to change it to an open-
ended one.
Our first amendment to this paragraph refers to the
IAEA’s assessment of the advancement of its work. The
amendment puts the question of the information provided
by Iraq this year in its real and exact context. This means,
as has been stated in the IAEA’s report to the Security
Council, that this information did not change the IAEA’s
conclusion that Iraq’s nuclear-weapon programme has
been, for all practical purposes, destroyed, removed or
rendered harmless. Furthermore, this morning Mr. Hans
Blix, the Director General of the IAEA, in his address to
this Assembly, reiterated this fact, saying:
“As I reported to the General Assembly last year, it
is our conclusion that the essential components of
Iraq’s clandestine nuclear-weapon programme have
been identified and destroyed, removed or rendered
harmless”.
the General
Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings,
46th meeting, p. 4).
(Official Records of
Mr. Blix added that
“This assessment was not based on faith in Iraqi
statements, but on data gathered during inspection,
on information provided by the suppliers and
Member States and, to a great extent, on analysis of
the large number of original documents which were
obtained in Iraq early in the inspection process”.
(ibid., p. 4).
Furthermore, it is worth mentioning in this context
that the report of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations
aspects”
(A/50/377) stated in the paragraph on the experience of
the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) and
the IAEA in Iraq, that
entitled “Verification in all
its
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the data by Iraq was
“withholding of some of
overcome,
extraordinary
inspection rights of UNSCOM and the IAEA on a
short- or no-notice basis”. (A/50/377, para. 197).
in large part, by the
Based on these facts and assessments, it is clear that
the exaggerations about the issue of information are not
logical, fair or factual and should not be taken out of
context — as has happened in the draft resolution —
bearing in mind that Iraq provided all the information
needed by the IAEA and expresses willingness to provide
further details needed by the IAEA.
For these reasons, my delegation has presented our
amendment — a paragraph from the IAEA’s report to the
Security Council — in order to introduce balance into
operative paragraph 7.
that
Our second amendment would replace the words
“stresses the need for Iraq to cooperate fully with the
Agency” with the words “stresses the need for Iraq to
continue its cooperation with the Agency”. I should like to
remind representatives
Iraq proposed the same
amendment last year, and it was adopted by a vote in this
Assembly. My delegation expresses its deep regret that
some of the sponsors of the draft resolution did not take
into consideration the will of the General Assembly in this
matter. Nevertheless, my delegation noted with satisfaction
the statement made this morning by His Excellency the
Ambassador of Spain on behalf of the European Union. He
said that
“long-term success can be ensured only if
Iraq
continues to cooperate fully with the IAEA” (Official
Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session,
Plenary Meetings, 46th meeting, p. 10).
I should like on this occasion to reiterate our
commitment to continue our cooperation with the IAEA in
the fulfilment of its mandate.
Finally, my delegation hopes that the Assembly will
consider positively our factual and fair amendment.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
I should like to announce that the following countries
have become co-sponsors of draft resolution A/50/L.11: El
Salvador, Latvia and the Russian Federation.
14
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/50/L.11 and the amendments thereto contained in
document A/50/L.12.
I shall now call on representatives who wish to make
statements in explanation of vote before the voting.
May I remind delegations that explanations of vote
are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Ladsous (France) (interpretation from French):
The penultimate preambular paragraph of draft resolution
A/50/L.11 contains
resolution
GC(39)/RES/23, which was adopted on 22 September
1995 by the General Conference of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and which deals with
nuclear testing.
reference
to the
a
that
it did not feel
When that text was adopted at Vienna the French
it could
delegation pointed out
judgements
associate itself with the statements or
contained in the resolution, above and beyond the
problem of the competence of the General Conference.
For that reason the French delegation will abstain in the
voting on the penultimate preambular paragraph of the
draft resolution. This is also why, this year, France has
not been a sponsor of the draft resolution.
In this connection, however, the French delegation
wishes to reaffirm in forceful terms its full support for the
action of the International Atomic Energy Agency and for
its Director General, Mr. Blix.
(India): As
Mr. Kumar
a member of
the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) since its
inception in 1957, India has consistently attached the
highest
importance to its objectives. We actively
participate in the activities of the Agency. Since draft
resolution A/50/L.11 pertains to the activities of the IAEA
as a whole, to which we attach great value, we would go
along with the draft
resolution. However, we have
considerable difficulty with the fourth preambular
paragraph.
The language of the fourth preambular paragraph of
the draft resolution indicates a linkage between adherence
to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) and the freedom to develop research,
production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful
purposes. I quote article II of the IAEA statute, which
reads:
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
“The Agency shall seek to accelerate and enlarge
the contribution of atomic energy to peace, health and
prosperity throughout the world. It shall ensure, so far
as it is able, that assistance provided by it or at its
request or under its supervision or control is not used
in such a way as to further any military purpose.”
Furthermore, article IV C states:
“The Agency is based on the principle of the
sovereign equality of all its members ...”.
The purpose of these articles in the IAEA statute is
obviously to encourage unfettered access by member States
to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy without any
discrimination whatsoever,
perceived
discrimination will have an inevitable consequence on the
response of member States to their obligations to the
Agency. The NPT is a separate instrument and cannot be
used to create a differential between members of the
Agency.
since
any
By inferring that adherence to the NPT, on which my
Government’s views are well known, has a bearing on
access to peaceful uses of atomic energy,
the draft
resolution deviates from the objectives enshrined in the
statute.
We have, therefore, been constrained to call for a
separate vote on the fourth preambular paragraph.
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): The nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula is a
political and military one, in terms of its origin and nature,
which can be resolved only by the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States. In the past, the
United Nations and the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) have handled the issue unreasonably,
hindering rather than helping its settlement.
The draft resolution before us, sponsored by certain
countries, again refers to us unfairly. The sponsors of the
draft resolution have attempted to turn their faces away
from the realities by urging us to comply with the
safeguards agreement, and by trying to disregard the
DPRK-US Agreed Framework. How could we fully comply
with the safeguards agreement when the DPRK-US Agreed
Framework has not been implemented?
The DPRK-US Agreed Framework stipulates the
obligations to be carried out by the DPRK and the United
States, respectively, for the final resolution of the nuclear
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
issue. It especially identifies the stage at which the DPRK
should comply fully with the safeguards agreement.
Draft
resolution A/50/L.11 reveals the ulterior
intentions of certain co-sponsors to abuse the name of the
United Nations as a means of pressure on us. They should
bear in mind that the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea is a dignified country that regards independence as
its life, and any attempt whatsoever to put pressure upon
us is completely unacceptable.
indecent
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea strongly rejects draft resolution A/50/L.11 as an
attempt of
forces to create an atmosphere
unfavourable to us and to dilute the significance of the
DPRK-US Agreed Framework in order to lay obstacles in
the way of a resolution of the nuclear issues on the
Korean Peninsula.
Actually, the draft resolution gives us the impression
that the United Nations Security Council and the IAEA
are opposed to the DPRK-US Agreed Framework.
Therefore,
the delegation of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea will vote against draft resolution
A/50/L.11.
Iraq’s cooperation in one particular area,
Mr. Kirkland (United States of America): The Iraqi
amendment, particularly the second part of it, attempts to
turn around completely the facts about Iraq’s programme.
Last year, the report of the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) on Iraq’s nuclear programme did speak
about
the
establishment of the monitoring programme. This year,
the words “cooperation” and “cooperate” do not appear a
single time in the IAEA report. The reason why should be
obvious. Iraq has been forced to admit that it concealed
huge amounts of information, including the fact that it
had repeatedly violated Security Council resolutions, and
it
today. Iraq is not
“cooperating”, and thus
is not “continuing to
cooperate,” and to include such a phrase in the draft
resolution would be simply contrary to fact.
is continuing this concealment
it
The first part of the amendment selects the only
passage from the IAEA report which is not completely
negative about Iraq. This selection does not serve the
truth. It is not new news, and it is not acceptable to the
co-sponsors.
We urge all delegations
amendment and to support
stands.
to vote against
this
the draft resolution as it
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
The Acting President: We have heard the last speaker
in explanation of vote before the voting.
The amendment was rejected by 95 votes to 8, with
22 abstentions.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
thereto
resolution A/50/L.11 and on the amendment
contained in document A/50/L.12.
In accordance with rule 90 of the rules of procedure,
the amendment
is voted on first. The Assembly will
therefore take a decision first on the amendment circulated
in document A/50/L.12.
The Acting President: the Assembly will now turn
to draft resolution A/50/L.11.
Separate votes have been requested on the fourth and
and on operative
eleventh preambular paragraphs
paragraph 7.
Is there any objection to those requests?
A recorded vote has been requested.
Since there is none, I shall put those paragraphs to
the vote separately.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Indonesia, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic,
Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Sudan
Lesotho,
I put
to the vote first
the fourth preambular
paragraph of draft resolution A/50/L.11. A recorded vote
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
Against:
In favour:
Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives,
Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic
of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda,
Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Zambia
Abstaining:
Bangladesh, Botswana, Burundi, Colombia,
Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana,
India,
Mauritius, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan,
Philippines, Russian Federation, Sri Lanka, Thailand,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania,
Zimbabwe
16
Iceland,
Iran
Latvia,
Indonesia,
Libyan Arab
Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary,
(Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakstan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic,
Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea,
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa,
Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Spain,
Sri Lanka,
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Zambia
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
India, Israel, Saudi Arabia
Abstaining:
Against:
None
Abstaining:
Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Cuba, Pakistan, Sudan,
United Republic of Tanzania, Zimbabwe
The fourth preambular paragraph was adopted by 128
votes to 3, with 7 abstentions.
[Subsequently, the delegation of Saudi Arabia advised
the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: I next put to the vote the
resolution
preambular
paragraph
draft
eleventh
A/50/L.11.
of
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
India,
Iceland,
Indonesia,
Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary,
Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Latvia, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of),
Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Cambodia, China, Côte d’Ivoire, France, Gabon,
Monaco, Sudan, Togo, United Republic of Tanzania,
Viet Nam
The eleventh preambular paragraph was adopted by
121 votes to none, with 10 abstentions.
[Subsequently, the delegation of the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, advised the Secretariat that it
had intended to abstain.]
The Acting President: I now put
to the vote
operative paragraph 7 of draft resolution A/50/L.11.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Iceland,
Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia
(Federated
States of), Monaco, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania,
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa,
San Marino, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, the former
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great
and
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Zambia
Britain
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern
of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Ireland, United States
Against:
None
Abstaining:
China, Cuba, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Pakistan, Sudan, Uganda,
United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe
Operative paragraph 7 was adopted by 128 votes to
none, with 10 abstentions.
The Acting President: I shall now put to the vote
draft resolution A/50/L.11 as a whole.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Latvia,
Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic
of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda,
Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Libyan Arab
Lesotho,
Ireland,
Israel,
18
Against:
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
Abstaining:
China, Cuba, Ghana, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic,
Republic,
United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam
Syrian Arab
Sudan,
Draft resolution A/50/L.11 as a whole was adopted
by 144 votes to 1, with 8 abstentions (resolution
50/9).
[Subsequently, the delegations of Dominica and the
United Republic of Tanzania advised the Secretariat
that they intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: I shall now call on those
representatives who wish to explain their votes.
May I remind delegations that explanations of vote
are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Wu Chengjiang (China) (interpretation from
Chinese): The Chinese delegation abstained in the voting
on draft resolution A/50/L.11, on the report of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). China is of
the view that the General Assembly’s draft resolution on
the report of the IAEA should not
include negative
references to specific countries, for such a pressure tactic
will not only fail to contribute to the solution of problems
but may also complicate matters even further. The
Chinese delegation has reservations on some of the
resolutions of the Board of Governors and of the General
Conference of the IAEA that are mentioned in the draft
resolution. For these reasons the Chinese delegation
abstained in the voting on the draft resolution.
This, however, is without prejudice to China’s views
on the Agency’s activities. In his statement this morning
the Chinese representative offered a comprehensive and
positive assessment of the Agency’s work in the year
under review.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Mr. Hasan (Iraq): My delegation lost its right to vote
in the General Assembly for reasons beyond its control —
namely, the comprehensive embargo imposed by Security
Council resolutions and the freezing of its assets abroad.
However,
if we did have the right
to vote, my
delegation would have abstained in the voting on operative
paragraph 7 and on the draft resolution as a whole.
Mr. Serme (Burkina Faso)
(interpretation from
French): The delegation of Burkina Faso voted against the
amendment to draft resolution A/50/L.11 submitted by Iraq
and contained in document A/50/L.12. Our delegation
wishes to stress that if there had been a separate vote on
each of the two paragraphs of the amendment, it would
have voted in favour of paragraph (a) because of its factual
nature. That paragraph reproduces the terms of
the
Agency’s report submitted to the Security Council on 6
October 1995 and is also in keeping with the conclusions
described by the Director General of the Agency in his
presentation of the report
this morning. My delegation
would have voted against paragraph (b) of the proposed
amendment because the original version reproduced the
terms of the resolution referred to in paragraph 7 of the
draft resolution.
Israel
Mr. Yativ (Israel):
supported the draft
resolution as a whole. However, it is our firm position that
the application of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes
should be conducted, as prescribed by the Agency’s statute,
on a basis of equality, regardless of whether or not a State
member of the Agency is a State party to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Therefore,
Israel opposed the fourth preambular paragraph of the draft
resolution and voted against it.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in explanation of vote.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
make statements in exercise of the right of reply.
May I remind members that statements in the exercise
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes for the second intervention
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): This morning the South Korean representative
spoke about our “non-compliance” with the safeguards
agreement, and he also defined the DPRK-US Agreed
Framework as a complementary device to induce us to
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
comply with the safeguards agreement. Unless it is South
Korea’s ulterior intention to impede the implementation
of the Agreed Framework, I think he may be ignorant of
the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula. I therefore
think it useful to take this opportunity to educate him on
the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula.
The DPRK-US Agreed Framework, which was
welcomed by the Security Council and the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), clearly stipulates the
obligations to be implemented by the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States, respectively,
and identifies explicitly a certain stage at which the
DPRK is to cooperate fully with the IAEA. The DPRK-
US Agreed Framework is for the final resolution of the
nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula.
I advise the representative of South Korea to read
carefully the statement made this morning by the
representative of the United States. We are not fools to be
induced into something by false documents — if that is
what the Agreed Framework is. We therefore suspect that
the representative of South Korea may be an ignorant
person who cannot even understand clearly the Agreed
Framework, one of the important international documents
of our times.
Only today South Korea revealed its
sinister
intention to lay obstacles in the path of implementation of
the Agreed Framework between the United States of
America and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
and thus save face since it could not intervene in the talks
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and
the United States. What South Korea should bear in mind
is that the dogs may bark but the train moves on.
Mr. Chon (Republic of Korea): North Korea put
forward the Agreed Framework as an excuse for non-
compliance with the safeguards agreement under the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT). North Korea is, of course, obligated to implement
the Agreed Framework, just as it is obligated to abide by
the South/North joint declaration on the denuclearization
of the Korean Peninsula signed in December 1991.
We have no doubt that these bilateral arrangements
are important for the ultimate resolution of the North
Korean nuclear issue. However, from the multilateral
perspective of the United Nations and the International
Atomic Energy Agency
bilateral
arrangements have relevance and significance by virtue of
the way in which they can strengthen the global non-
(IAEA),
these
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
proliferation regime. As such, the Agreed Framework can
be a supplementary step, in support of multilateral efforts
under the auspices of the Security Council and the IAEA,
towards resolving the North Korean nuclear issue; it cannot
replace,
from North Korea’s
multilateral obligations to all States parties to the NPT.
supersede or detract
Acting upon the Agreed Framework,
the Security
Council, in its presidential statement of 4 November 1994
(S/PRST/1994/64), underlined that the safeguards agreement
between the IAEA and the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea remains binding and in force. As long as the
safeguards agreement remains binding and in force, it is
clear that North Korea has the legal obligation to comply
fully with the terms of an agreement it entered into of its
own free will. When it does not, that constitutes an act of
non-compliance.
commitments under
Given the important responsibility of this world body
to monitor and ensure compliance by States parties with
their
the NPT and safeguard
agreements, we feel we can take it for granted that the
Assembly registers due concern over North Korea’s
continuing non-compliance with its safeguards agreement,
and urges North Korea to come promptly into full
compliance.
The IAEA General Conference sent an unmistakable
message to this effect when, at its thirty-ninth session, last
September, it adopted the resolution on the North Korean
nuclear issue without a single vote against. We are pleased
that this world body has just endorsed the resolution by the
General Conference on the IAEA on the non-compliance by
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea with its
safeguards agreement.
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): The South Korean representative has once again
revealed his ignorance. I should like to advise him to read
carefully the Agreed Framework between the United States
and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The
Agreed Framework was welcomed by the Security Council
and the IAEA. It stipulates when we should cooperate fully
with the IAEA, and I wish to state clearly, once again, that
any resolution in any organization is worthless if the
Agreed Framework is not implemented.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration
of agenda item 14?
It was so decided.
20
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
Agenda item 156 (continued)
Multilingualism
Draft resolution (A/50/L.6/Rev.1)
Amendments (A/50/L.8 and A/50/L.9)
The Acting President: I call on the representative
resolution
of France to introduce the revised draft
contained in document A/50/L.6/Rev.1.
Mr. Ladsous (France) (interpretation from French):
I should like to introduce the revised version of draft
resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1, which was distributed as an
official document yesterday and on which we will be
taking a vote.
The only paragraph of the draft which differs from
the version of the text distributed previously is operative
paragraph 3, and I should say right away that
the
sponsors have striven in this paragraph to take as much
account as possible of the legitimate concerns expressed
by some delegations,
in particular within the Asian
Group.
These delegations have asked us to show some
sympathy for the situation of nationals of countries which
do not commonly use one of the official languages of the
United Nations. It seemed to them too much to ask that
on recruitment, all United Nations staff members should
speak two of the official languages, at least one of which
must be a working language. This, they said, imposed on
them a need to acquire two languages in order to join the
Organization, which could be discriminatory in favour of
the nationals of countries which use one of the official
languages and who would thus have to acquire only one
more language in order to enter the Organization.
being
encouraged
However, some of the Asian representatives told us
they saw no obstacle to the practice of a second official
language
the
Organization and that account should be taken of the
efforts in this regard by officials who, during their
careers, acquire a degree of linguistic competence which
no one can deny is of great
importance for an
Organization such as ours.
strongly within
The sponsors agreed entirely with this point of view
and therefore took a major step towards the position of
the countries which had made that comment. This was not
it meant giving up an element
a matter of course:
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
introduced in draft resolution A/50/L.6 — the requirement
for a second official language on recruitment, which was
new. In this regard, the revised draft reverts to the legal
status quo going back to resolution 2480 B (XXIII) of 21
December 1968.
I would stress that there is no difference between new
paragraph 3 and what derives from the set of provisions in
resolution 2480 B (XXIII): the recruitment requirement of
proficiency in at least one of the working languages of the
Secretariat reproduces subparagraph 1 (a) (i) of the 1968
resolution and the fact that it is nevertheless possible to
recruit, on contracts of under two years, people who speak
one of the working languages of an organ of the United
Nations to fill posts in services working for those organs
reproduces the next subparagraph of subparagraph 1 (a).
The request that the use of a second official language
be taken into account when promotions and incremental
steps are under consideration is precisely what emerges
from the two subparagraphs of subparagraph 1 (b) and
paragraph 3. The provisions of the resolution of 1968 make
it clear that promotions are subject to
“Adequate and confirmed knowledge of a second
language”. (resolution 2480 B (XXIII), para. 1 (b) (ii))
When we say, in our text, that due account must be taken
of such knowledge we are not going beyond the 1968
text — quite the contrary. We stick to reaffirming the 1968
text, without any addition. Also, the notion of linguistic
balance within the Organization is itself drawn from the
chapeau to paragraph 1 of resolution 2480 B (XXIII).
This being the case, I ask all delegations here to
please understand that the sponsors went as far as they
possibly could while still staying true to their own draft. As
I said when I presented it almost a fortnight ago, this draft
is in no way a modification of the law in force in the
United Nations: rather, it is an appeal for the fundamental
provisions governing United Nations practice with regard to
languages to be better observed, accorded more respect and
more fully applied.
I believe that this is a very strong imperative on the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary, at a time when a
regrettable drift towards monolingualism is becoming more
widespread and more entrenched. Hence,
the sponsors,
though they would like to see the text adopted by
consensus, are determined not to give in to manoeuvres that
are all-too-obviously designed to intimidate. The proposed
amendments that have been circulated to Member States by
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
practice
current United Nations
one delegation are totally unacceptable in this connection
because they would all have the effect of reducing the
scope of the text to nothing and of causing a regression
in
towards
impoverishment, towards discrimination in favour of a
single Secretariat language, and towards the death of any
United Nations action to promote cultural diversity. That
is why France, in solidarity with all the other sponsors of
the draft resolution — and I should point out in this
connection that the following countries have been added
to the list: Afghanistan, Cape Verde, China, Kazakstan
and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic — feels that
the draft resolutions, in its revised form, is a compromise
that should be acceptable to all delegations of good will
that do not want to depart from the rules on these matters
that the Organization has built up over the course of its
history.
I therefore commend this text to all our colleagues
and ask them not to accept without substantiation the
allegations on its supposed content that have been made
by one delegation and thus demonstrate their commitment
to a living and effective United Nations that truly works
in diversity, to the benefit of the Member States.
Mr. Deineko (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): As has been noted by the General
Assembly on many occasions,
the use of different
languages in the United Nations enriches the Organization
and is a means of achieving the purposes set out in the
Charter. On many occasions, the General Assembly has
reaffirmed the need to ensure equal treatment of the
official and working languages of the Organization, in
accordance with the Assembly’s rules of procedure. The
fact that there are both official and working languages
and the status accorded them under the rules of procedure
reflect the universal nature of the Organization and, in a
mediated form, of
the
international community.
cultural diversity of
the
The political importance of this question is obvious
right now, just as the results of the Organization’s first 50
years’ work are being reviewed. The experience acquired
over those years shows that
the United Nations has
succeeded in striking an extremely successful balance
between the need for the fullest possible reflection of the
world’s linguistic and cultural diversity and considerations
of ensuring the viability of the Organization’s machinery.
It is precisely this factor which, of all others, has made
possible the harmonious integration of new countries into
the practical activities of the United Nations — and the
the number of
current membership exceeds by far
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
founding States. Of course, this all has to do with the
events of the past few years and the accession to active
participation of new, independent States that can use, within
the Organization, a language that a majority of their citizens
know.
Naturally, the legally backed principle of the equality
of the official and working languages — a principle that
has stood the test of time — ought to be reaffirmed by the
Assembly. Nor is it any less important to adopt measures
that would make it possible to avoid violations of that
principle. Here,
thing is to ensure that
Member States are simultaneously provided with equal
services — equal in terms of both volume and quality —
in all languages, official and working.
the important
light,
In that
the Russian delegation joined the
sponsors of the original draft resolution on multilingualism,
and guided by the spirit of compromise and having tried to
ensure that the comments expressed at previous meetings
were taken into account as fully as possible, is prepared to
support the draft in its revised form.
Mr. Shongwe (Swaziland): My delegation has a
problem with regard to this draft resolution, which seeks to
outlaw some bona fide Members of the United Nations. Let
it be said that in the past 50 years the question of language
has never been in any way responsible for either the
failures or the successes of the Organization.
Instead, unity of purpose and political will have been
the paramount factor in the strength and operation of the
United Nations, and it is on this that the Organization is
entirely dependent. This draft resolution will tend to create
a split among the Member States at a time when unity
among them is a prerequisite for the success of the
Organization.
My delegation,
through you, Sir, appeals to the
Assembly to spend its energy, time and effort on those
issues that pertain to development, especially of
the
developing nations. This draft resolution, if adopted, will
have negative financial implications for the developing
nations. It will also require that budgets be set aside by
both the United Nations and the Member States towards
manpower development
for purposes of meeting the
demands of the draft resolution.
My delegation therefore urges the Assembly to reject
further
resolution or defer
the voting for
this draft
consultations.
22
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
I call on the representative of the United States, who
has asked to speak on a point of order.
Mr. Birenbaum (United States of America): The
United States believes that further time is needed for
discussions with the co-sponsors of the text contained in
document A/50/L.6/Rev.1 in order to seek to achieve
consensus on the draft resolution.
As a multicultural society, the United States fully
appreciates and respects the value of multilingualism. For
this reason, we attach considerable importance to adopting
a forward-looking resolution under this item and doing
that by consensus. Unfortunately, the text we have before
us contains ambiguities and inconsistencies. We regret
that there has not been adequate opportunity to discuss
the provisions of draft resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1 with its
co-sponsors, although that would surely be the appropriate
way to proceed.
resolution A/50/L.6/Rev.1,
As a result, portions of the text remain unacceptable.
Our principal concern is that operative paragraph 3, even
as revised, deviates from the current rules contained in
General Assembly resolution 2480 (XXIII) B. Operative
paragraph 3 of draft
for
example, does not conform to that earlier resolution.
Provisions in that resolution relating to promotions apply
only to professional-level positions. Any revision of the
rules must
first be given due consideration by the
appropriate committee of the General Assembly. That
important step has been skipped in formulating this draft
resolution. We believe that this concern can be met by
appropriate consultations that could result in a consensus
text.
If we are required to consider this draft resolution
today, we, along with other delegations, will have no
choice other than to vote against it. That is not a desirable
way to deal with this important matter and that is not the
way we would prefer. We would strongly prefer that a
reasonable time be allowed for those of us who have
problems with the draft resolution to consult with the co-
sponsors with a view to reaching consensus. If the
objective of the co-sponsors is to reaffirm our shared
commitment to multilingualism at the United Nations, and
not to change the relevant rules, I can assure them that
there should be no difficulty in achieving consensus after
appropriate consultation.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
There is no compelling reason why the draft resolution
before us must be adopted today. Why not take the time
necessary to bring the world together on this text so that we
can all join in adopting by consensus a resolution on the
subject of multilingualism?
I move, under rule 74 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly, to defer consideration of this item to a
future meeting later this month, after the conclusion of
consultations. We would hope that we can look to the
President’s good offices to organize these consultations.
The Acting President: The representative of the
United States has moved, within the terms of rule 74 of the
rules of procedure, the adjournment of the debate on the
item under discussion until later this month.
According to rule 74 of the rules of procedure:
any matter,
“During the discussion of
a
representative may move the adjournment of the
debate on the item under discussion. In addition to the
proposer of the motion, two representatives may speak
in favour of, and two against, the motion, after which
the motion shall be immediately put to the vote. The
President may limit the time to be allowed to speakers
under this rule.”
I call on the representative of Japan.
interest and great
Mr. Kumamaru (Japan): The draft resolution before
us is of great
importance to my
delegation as well as to many others. My delegation
the preservation and promotion of cultural
supports
diversity
in
that
multilingualism is one important factor in doing this.
this Organization.
It
believes
However, we should all be aware that
there are
numerous cultures not associated with the six official
languages. Personnel who come from those cultures should
not be penalized and unduly discriminated against. Fairer
treatment of these people would serve the overall objectives
of cultural diversity.
The second part of paragraph 3 of draft resolution
A/50/L.6/Rev.1 would give advantage to personnel whose
mother tongue is one of the six languages and would
penalize those whose mother tongue is not one of those six.
The latter deserve due consideration and fair competition.
Unfortunately, therefore, paragraph 3, as revised, does not
meet our modest request.
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
In the view of my delegation, this draft resolution is
too important for us to deal with in a hasty manner.
Careful consideration by as many delegations as possible
would contribute to the improvement of
the draft
resolution and to its successful adoption by consensus.
Unfortunately, no real consultation has taken place so far.
My delegation seconds the proposal put forward by
the United States delegation to defer action on a
resolution so that the resolution will be blessed with
adoption by consensus.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of Fiji.
Mr. Bune (Fiji): My country also attaches great
importance to this item and we therefore support the
motion that a decision on this draft resolution be deferred
until we have had further consultations with a view to
adopting a resolution by consensus.
the official
languages and that
We understand the preoccupation of those who are
concerned that the proceedings of the Organization be
conducted in all
the
documentation of the Organization be made available
simultaneously. However, that is different from trying to
impose additional foreign languages on nationals of States
whose mother tongue is not one of the six official
languages of the Organization. It is difficult enough for
them to communicate in one of these official languages.
We recognize that there are two working languages
of the Secretariat and that these should be used as far as
practicable. The Secretariat has worked quite well for the
past 50 years. Perhaps its use of languages should be
improved, but to create conditions for recruitment and
promotion within the Secretariat of the kind envisaged in
the draft resolution contained in document A/50/L.6/Rev.1
is deliberately to discriminate against nationals of States
whose mother tongue is not one of the official languages
of the Organization or of the Secretariat.
There is in fact nothing wrong with the present rules
regarding language. The problem is that the Organization
does not provide enough resources in the form of
interpretation, translation and other aspects of document
services. This cannot be resolved by imposing the
discriminatory conditions contained in the draft resolution.
Since the purpose of this draft resolution is to
change the Secretariat’s recruitment and promotion rules,
we believe that this matter should first be considered in
23
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the administrative and budgetary Committee, since there are
both administrative and budgetary implications. In any case,
a decision on this draft resolution should be deferred until
we have had further consultations and I therefore support
the motion made by the representative of the United States
of America.
The Acting President: I call on the representative of
Argentina.
Mrs.
Fernández
de Gurmendi
(Argentina)
(interpretation from Spanish): A proposal has been made to
defer the debate on the draft resolution on multilingualism.
However, this draft resolution which we are considering
today is practically identical to the one which has been
considered by delegations for two weeks, since 20 October,
when we met in this Hall to deal with this item.
Since that day, some delegations have expressed to us
their concerns on one of the paragraphs of the draft
resolution, operative paragraph 3. It was pointed out to us
that this paragraph would result in a modification of the
system of recruitment and promotion of staff.
In response to those concerns, the co-sponsors of the
draft resolution began a process of consultations, which led
to the revised version now before the Assembly. In the new
version, operative paragraph 3 has been modified in such a
way that it is limited to summarizing the existing rules in
the matter contained in Assembly resolution 2480 B
(XXIII) of 1968 which relates to the linguistic abilities of
personnel.
With this modification, the draft resolution we are
considering is in its totality confined to reaffirming
resolutions and other provisions which are in force with
regard to the use of the Organization’s official and working
languages, and to highlighting the need to strictly respect
these provisions. There has been no modification of any of
the existing provisions; there has been no amendment of the
system of recruitment and promotion of staff.
In the light of what I have said and of the process of
consultations which has taken place since 20 October, it
does not
seem reasonable for delegations and the
Organization to continue to allocate time and attention to
the consideration of a question which in no way changes
the existing system.
In those circumstances, we consider that the process
of consultations has been concluded and that the motion to
24
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
defer the adoption of a decision on this question should
be rejected. We hope a decision can be adopted today.
The Acting President: I call on the representative
of France.
Mr. Ladsous (France) (interpretation from French):
I am speaking in order to request members of the
Assembly not
to vote in favour of this motion for
adjournment that has just been presented under rule 74 of
the rules of procedure.
I should like to say first of all that France, with all
the co-sponsors of the draft resolution submitted to the
Assembly, has engaged in extremely broad consultations
on this text since this item was inscribed as a new item
on the agenda of this session. In this connection, I should
like to respond to my colleague from Japan by saying that
he should take into account
these
consultations took place. All the requested amendments
which were based on important and legitimate concerns
of some States, and which could be included without
distorting the text, have been included in our revised draft
that members of the Assembly have before them.
the fact
that
Hence, we have reached the conclusion that
additional consultations would not at this stage be likely
to improve the draft resolution. We think that the proposal
made by the delegation which presented the motion for
adjournment is not, in fact, designed to improve the text,
but, rather, would deprive it of any practical effect, and
render it totally meaningless.
I regret that I have to say this, but the motion does
not seem to us to be made in good faith. It seems to us
that it is nothing but a delaying tactic designed to bury
this draft resolution, or defer it sine die, indeed to bury it
in the sand, from which it may emerge only in an
unrecognizable form, if that.
I think that no one here is deceived by the deep
meaning of this operation. In fact, the idea is to have us
endorse a monolingual trend, which is only too obvious
in the Secretariat and in the United Nations organ as a
whole.
We also had hoped that this text could be adopted
by consensus, and we believe we have done all in our
power to achieve that goal. But if an effort is being made
to force us to move backwards, and to stop championing
the linguistic principles of the Organization, then we
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
believe it is our duty not to yield, regardless of the source
of the pressures.
That is why, Sir, through you I should like to request
all delegations to vote against the motion for adjournment
presented under rule 74.
The Acting President: We have heard two speakers
in favour of and two against the motion. In accordance with
rule 74 of the rules of procedure I shall now put to the vote
immediately the motion to adjourn the debate on the item
under discussion until later in the month.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belize, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Croatia, Cyprus, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Israel, Jamaica,
Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lesotho, Lithuania,
Malaysia, Maldives, Marshall
Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Myanmar, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Republic of
Korea, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka,
Suriname,
47th plenary meeting
1 November 1995
Swaziland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, France,
Gabon, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Haiti, Honduras, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,
Italy, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger,
Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Spain, Sudan, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam
Abstaining:
Belgium, Czech Republic, Kazakstan, Russian
Federation, Rwanda, Yemen
The motion was rejected by 75 votes to 70, with 6
abstentions.
The Acting President: The Assembly will continue
consideration of agenda item 156, “Multilingualism”, as
the second item tomorrow morning.
The meeting rose at 6:20 p.m.
25
