United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
19th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 4 October 1995, 3 p.m.
New York
A/50/PV.19
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Obadi (Yemen),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 120 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/50/444/Add.3)
The Acting President: I should like to draw the
General Assembly’s attention to document A/50/444/Add.3.
Mr. Fofanah (Sierra Leone): Permit me, first of all,
to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on his
election to the presidency of the current session of the
General Assembly. Indeed, as we commemorate 50 years
of the existence of our Organization, his unanimous
election to preside over this Assembly is a fitting tribute
to his country and an eloquent testimony to his personal
experience and skills as a seasoned diplomat. I therefore
want to assure him of my delegation’s fullest cooperation
as he directs and guides our deliberations on this historic
occasion, and to wish him every success
in that
endeavour.
In a letter contained in that document, the Secretary-
General
informs me that since the issuance of his
communications dated 19 and 22 September and 2 October
1995, Niger has made the necessary payments to reduce its
arrears below the amount specified in Article 19 of the
Charter.
To his immediate predecessor, and our esteemed
Brother, His Excellency Mr. Amara Essy
of
Côte d’Ivoire, I convey my delegation’s gratitude and
appreciation for the exemplary manner in which he
conducted the affairs of the forty-ninth session of the
General Assembly.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes
note of this information?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: The first speaker
is the
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and International
Cooperation of Sierra Leone, His Excellency Alhaji
Mr. Alusine Fofanah, and I now call on him.
I would also like to thank our eminent Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
for his bold
initiatives and his firm guidance of the work of the
Organization.
The world has come a long way from 26 June 1945,
when 50 States appended their signatures to the Charter
document, creating this enduring body. In spite of the
undoubted advancement of science and technology, and
indeed the enormous strides made by the Organization
during the past 50 years, the world continues, alas, to be
gripped by the same age-old problems of poverty,
95-86208 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
disarmament, maintenance
development and many more.
of
peace
and
security,
Certainly, on the economic front there is no cause for
comfort or complacency. Most developing countries,
especially the least developed, continue to be strangled by
negative economic trends,
stagnating resource flows,
seemingly unstoppable reductions in export earnings, rising
unemployment and, above all, the phenomenal increase in
the number of people living in absolute poverty, occasioned
largely by wars, famine, drought and the heavy burden of
foreign debts.
The debt burden,
in particular, continues to be
excessive and harmful to the sustainable development of
developing countries, especially the least developed among
them. In this connection,
the initiative of the British
Chancellor of the Exchequer earlier this year to put in place
measures to help reduce the stock of multilateral debt of the
most indebted developing nations is a step in the right
direction. Nevertheless, we continue to hold the view that
unless the debt
issue is seriously addressed by the
international community, no meaningful progress for the
next 50 years can be accomplished in the foreseeable future
by the developing countries, especially the least developed
among them.
We
that
a
and
believe
permanent
definitive
comprehensive solution to the debt problem must be found
without further delay. That is why we commend the current
Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, His Excellency
President Soeharto of
for his initiative in
convening in August last year a Ministerial Meeting of
Non-Aligned Countries on the subject of debt and
development with the theme “Sharing of Experiences”, at
which a number of general principles for debt reduction
were adopted, marking significant progress in the search for
a lasting solution to this nagging problem.
Indonesia,
We continue to appeal to the international community,
particularly to the international financial institutions, to give
those modest recommendations serious consideration in the
formulation of policies and actions on the debt issue.
The persistence of these problems has undermined
political stability and threatened regional and international
peace and security. Determined as we in the developing
countries have been to improve the lot of our people and to
redress the economic plight facing our various countries, we
still labour under excruciating circumstances. It is now
abundantly clear that the developing countries cannot go it
alone. We need the involvement of other, dependable,
2
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
partners, particularly among the developed countries and
the major international financial institutions. Additional
resources at multilateral and bilateral levels are essential
from these partners to achieve rapid improvement in the
lives of the millions of our affected people.
As for Sierra Leone, since April 1992, when the
National Provisional Ruling Council took over the reins
of government, we have set for ourselves the task of
implementing anti-poverty programmes
and socio-
economic reforms,
including deregulation of prices,
exchange control and interest rates, and the reduction of
fiscal deficit.
Despite the limited scope of the success attained so
far, we are determined not to relent in our efforts to cater
for the special needs of the most vulnerable groups in
society.
Calling upon the international community to pay
special attention to the problems of developing countries
by providing them with financial and technical support
should not be considered as an appeal simply for charity
but rather an investment in the future development and
well-being of mankind. Indeed, we realize that the key to
sustainable development in any State is in the hands of its
citizenry. Developing countries are now very much aware
of this and are taking responsibility for working towards
improving the lot of the peoples of their respective
countries.
Indeed, during the 50 years of its existence, the
United Nations has also been studying ways and means of
improving the economies of the developing countries of
the world. None the less, as our export prices have been
on the decline, our economic plans have remained
unfulfilled and the rate of growth of our gross domestic
product, which was never fast, is in great danger of
slowing down to a complete standstill. The technical
assistance schemes which have been formulated to study
the problem are numerous. My delegation firmly believes
that the time has now come for positive action that would
lead to the eradication of the largely known causes of
economic stagnation, particularly in Africa. We call for a
speedy implementation of
the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s as
well as for the consolidation of efforts towards the
diversification of the African economies.
In a world of growing interdependence,
the
liberalization of trade, the globalization of the economy
sustainable
and
integration,
increasing
regional
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
that
rather
development and the eradication of poverty cannot be
ensured in the absence of peace and stability. “An Agenda
for Peace” and “An Agenda for Development” not only
show that peace and development are inseparable and
indivisible but
they contain the essential
ingredients of a new vision of our one world. No
development is possible anywhere, save in an environment
that is peaceful, stable and secure. This holds true for
national development, as
regional and
international cooperation. That is why we in Sierra Leone
have always believed that peace at home is incomplete
unless our neighbours enjoy peace too. Today, more than
ever before, we should all be aware that we are our
brother’s keeper and that we can no longer afford to be
indifferent to developments in any part of the globe.
it does
for
Three years ago, my Head of State, Captain Valentine
E. M. Strasser, acquainted this body with the devastation
visited on Sierra Leone initially as a spillover from the civil
war in Liberia. He explained to this Assembly the pain and
the agony that our people have had to endure as a result of
that conflict and its ramifications for regional peace and
stability.
for
peace
repeated
overtures
Regrettably, I am again constrained to inform you that
the lives of many
the conflict has persisted and that
innocent Sierra Leoneans continue to be lost. In spite of my
Government’s
and
reconciliation there is as yet no let-up in the fighting on the
ground and the rebel attacks against
innocent and
unsuspecting civilians in provincial cities and several towns
and
unabated.
Consequently, we are witnessing today the internal
displacement of hundreds of thousands of our people and
thousands more have had to seek refugee status in
neighbouring countries, not
to mention the devastation
caused to the national economy.
continue
villages
in
the
country
What all this means is that the Liberian situation is
inextricably linked with the situation in Sierra Leone. It is
therefore our ardent hope that with the budding peace in
Liberia, Sierra Leoneans can realistically expect a lull in the
fighting on their own soil
to enable them embark on
economic reconstruction and rehabilitation. We would, in
this regard,
like to express our profound thanks and
appreciation to the West African leaders who have made
the success achieved in Liberia possible. The leadership of
Nigeria, Ghana and the countries contributing to the
Monitoring Group
the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) deserve
special commendation. So do the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), organizations which
(ECOMOG)
of
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
in their own diverse ways, have contributed to the
peaceful developments in Liberia.
in Liberia. At
We therefore call upon this Organization and all
peace-loving people the world over to support the new
government
the same time, we would
fervently appeal to the Liberian people to rise to the
occasion, for in the final analysis, it must be Liberians
themselves who should find a lasting solution to their
problems. We wish the New Liberian Council of State
and the people of Liberia success in their search for
durable peace in their country, for we believe that such
success will have a positive impact on Sierra Leone.
The need to strengthen the peace momentum in
Liberia is particularly important because during the
disarmament process there are going to be thousands of
hardened former combatants, some of them probably still
armed, who might be tempted to relocate the theatre of
war unless they are effectively disarmed, brought under
control and suitably reintegrated into Liberian society.
Closely linked to the search for peace in Sierra
Leone is the implementation of
the programme of
democratization announced by my Head of State, His
Excellency Captain Valentine E. M. Strasser, three years
ago for the return of Sierra Leone to multiparty civilian
rule. I am happy to report that this programme is still on
course, despite the unavoidable delays resulting from the
rebel war. The ban on political parties has now been
lifted and indeed the registration of political parties
completed. A National Consultative Conference convened
by the Interim National Electoral Commission was held
in mid-August
to seek national consensus on how
elections could be conducted in a war situation and to
discuss some other related issues. At that Conference, it
was agreed that both presidential and parliamentary
elections will be held not later than in February 1996. The
Revolutionary United Front, the rebel faction, was invited
to participate in that political process, but unfortunately,
their response, as has consistently been the case, was
negative. Yet, in spite of this, we continue to persist in
pursuing peace and continue to state clearly that the peace
option is still on the table. Be that as it may, I should also
state that as a responsible Government, we cannot give up
the armed struggle, if only out of the sense of legitimate
obligation to protect the lives and properties of innocent
Sierra Leoneans, who have borne a large measure of the
brunt of our senseless rebel war.
At this juncture, my delegation would like to express
its appreciation to this Organization, to the OAU and to
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
in the country offering assistance.
the Commonwealth for responding positively to our request
for help by way of exploratory fact-finding missions to
Sierra Leone. In the case of the United Nations,
the
Secretary-General subsequently sent a resident Special
Envoy in the person of Ambassador Berhanu Dinka, who
is still
is an
encouraging sign that the international community, through
the United Nations, the OAU and the Commonwealth, is
just as anxious as the National Provisional Ruling Council
Government to see an early end to our destructive war so
that our peaceful citizens may once again be able to live in
an environment free of fear and anxiety and to engage in
their ordinary daily pursuits. At
the same time, while
appealing to the international community to help us with
logistical,
the
implementation of our political programme, we will also
require similar assistance, at
in
rebuilding and rehabilitating our devastated economy. In
this connection, we would like to express our deep and
sincere
friendly Governments,
particularly Nigeria, Guinea and Ghana for their assistance
in our trying moments.
the appropriate time,
appreciation
financial
support
related
and
to
all
It
in
The world-wide problem of refugees and displaced
persons continues to be our concern, particularly as we
ourselves have become victims of this scourge. More than
half a million of our citizens have become displaced in
Sierra Leone, and hundreds of thousands more are refugees
in neighbouring countries. The yearning of all these people
is for an opportunity to finally return to their homes, settle
down and rebuild their lives. We urge the international
community to urgently help us bring our people back home.
the inherent danger
The use of narcotic drugs has for some time now been
a source of concern, mainly to developing countries,
because of
it poses to society,
especially the young. Today, no country can claim to be
insulated from this scourge, as it
is now a global
phenomenon. The abuse of drugs and drug-related
substances is gaining in prominence, not only in Sierra
Leone, but in the whole West African subregion, and there
is no doubt that with the prevalence of rebel wars it will
continue to plague us long after these wars are over,
thereby threatening social peace and stability in the
countries concerned.
The Government of Sierra Leone is determined to take
all necessary measures against drug abuse and illicit
trafficking domestically, as well as through subregional and
international cooperation. To this end, my Government has
ratified the 1961, 1971 and 1988 Conventions dealing with
illicit drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking, and has set up
4
relevant
both inter-ministerial and technical committees comprising
all
the
Government on effective measures to contain drug abuse
and other related ills.
departments
sectoral
advise
to
No one can deny that the threat of global nuclear
destruction posed by the cold war has receded. However,
it is becoming increasingly clear to us that where one
type of peril has been combated others are swiftly arising
to take its place. Today, the breakdown of bipolar control
has lifted restrictions on long- simmering civic, ethnic and
territorial disputes. Violence has brought
the very
existence of some States into question and, with it, gross
violations of human rights,
including instances of
genocide exceeded only, perhaps, by those of the Second
World War. Conflicts are becoming more numerous and
more complex, and are scattered all over the globe, even
as there are glimmers of hope.
In like manner,
In Africa, for example, we welcome the recent
developments whereby both parties in the Angolan
conflict are moving towards allowing the will of the
Angolan people finally to prevail over the barrel of the
gun. My delegation also notes with satisfaction the
agreement by UNITA to join with the MPLA in a
government of national unity.
the
acceptance by the Mozambican opposition leader,
Comrade Afonso Dhlakama, and his men of the outcome
of the electoral process should be a source of relief to all
Africans and peace-loving people everywhere. It is our
fervent hope that
the Mozambicans will emulate the
example of their neighbours in Zimbabwe, South Africa
and Namibia — societies which have shown that, with the
right political attitude and good will, it is quite possible
to replace strife with reconciliation and hatred with
accommodation.
In the Middle East, we view the developments that
started a few years ago with the mutual recognition of the
PLO and Israel, followed later by the signing of the
Washington Declaration between Jordan and Israel, which
ended the state of war between them, as extremely
important positive steps towards the full realization of
peace in that region. In like manner, we welcome the just-
concluded Interim Agreement on Jericho and the West
Bank, signed by Israel and the PLO in Washington.
In the same vein, we commend Norway, the United
States, Egypt and all those others that in one way or the
other have played, and are continuing to play, a role in
moving this historic
a peaceful
resolution.
towards
conflict
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
On the other aspect of the Middle Eastern equation,
we urge Israel, Syria and Lebanon to join fully in the
historic
of
accommodation, in the interest of all the people of the
Middle East and mankind as a whole.
process
display
peace
and
a
spirit
the relevant
With regard to the dispute between Kuwait and Iraq,
we call upon Iraq fully to respect the sovereignty and
territorial integrity of Kuwait, in accordance with the terms
of
the Security Council.
However, we call upon the international community, in
applying sanctions against Iraq, not to lose sight of the
suffering being experienced by the innocent civilians of that
country.
resolutions of
It was
My delegation welcomes the decision to extend
indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons
(NPT), a decision which my country co-
sponsored.
indeed a decision of momentous
importance, which heralded what has been described as a
major success of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament. However, we are disappointed that indications
since the extension are that
final agreement on an
immediate and comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty seems
uncertain. If humanity is to maintain any lasting hope for
the future, we must act now with courage and decisiveness
to achieve a nuclear-free world. In this regard, we call
unequivocally for the cessation of nuclear tests of any kind
in all environments, and call upon the Conference on
Disarmament to work towards the speedy conclusion of a
comprehensive test-ban treaty within the shortest possible
time.
International peace can hardly be maintained in a
world in which some men are free while others are under
the yoke of colonialism. Being fully aware of that problem
and imbued with the idealism that brought this Organization
into being, Member States solemnly resolved to remove any
vestiges of colonialism from the world. This line of
thinking achieved full stature at the United Nations in 1960,
when the landmark resolution 1514 (XV), incorporating the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, was adopted.
Today, as the world celebrates the fiftieth anniversary
of our Organization, its considerable success in the field of
decolonization is universally acclaimed. We remember the
history of the struggle against colonialism and pay tribute
to all those who were part of that struggle. We remain
mindful of the sacrifices that made it possible for hundreds
of millions of people to achieve self-determination and
independence. We commend the work of the Special
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
Committee of 24 for its effective contribution to the
application of
the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. My
country has had the honour of serving that Committee —
it is, in fact, currently chairing it — and we are proud to
have been able to make some contribution to its work and
to bringing freedom to a good portion of the human race.
In that regard, while we welcome with profound
pleasure the State of Palau to this world Organization as
the 185th Member, it is my delegation’s view that the
task of decolonization remains unfinished. Further
concerted and determined action is still required on the
part of all involved to win freedom for people who are
still unable to exercise their right to self-determination —
mostly peoples of small island States, located mainly in
the Pacific and Caribbean regions. These territories are
confronted with unique problems that require new and
innovative solutions geared towards the implementation of
the
the Eradication of
Colonialism by the Year 2000, launched by the General
Assembly in 1988.
International Decade
for
support of
We believe that the situation of these Territories
should not be seen as an impediment to the application of
the principle of self-determination. The wishes of the
people of the Non-Self-Governing Territories are what
count most. We appeal for the strengthened and continued
support of the administering Powers, whose cooperation
with the Special Committee is essential for the progress
of the Territories towards self-determination. We count on
the
and the
international community as a whole to continue to assist
the Non-Self-Governing Territories in enhancing their
standard of living and promoting their self-sufficiency.
We also truly believe that our combined and unrelenting
efforts will ensure the fulfilment of the promise of
freedom, lasting peace, sustained growth and sustainable
development
in
accordance with the purposes and principles of the United
Nations.
the people of our planet
specialized agencies
for all
the
International Conference
My delegation welcomes the successful outcome of
the Conference on the Environment and Development in
1992, the World Conference on Human Rights in 1993,
the
and
the World Summit for Social
Development
Development convened in Copenhagen in 1995 and the
recently concluded United Nations Fourth World
Conference on Women in Beijing. Referring to the
Beijing Conference, we note with satisfaction that the
history of the United Nations for the past 50 years has
on Population
in 1994,
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
also been one of steady progress for women, from a drive
for their civil and political rights to their recognition as
equal partners in the broader societal context.
We appeal for the urgent
implementation of the
recommendations, conclusions and decisions adopted in
these various international Conferences. We believe that in
their realization partly lies the possibility of lasting peace
and security, economic progress and social emancipation for
all humankind.
We note with satisfaction the positive role played by
our Organization in facilitating international agreement on
thorny issues, whose resolution would certainly have been
more difficult, if not impossible, in other forums. In this
connection, my delegation welcomes the new Agreements
signed at Marrakesh in April last year, establishing the
World Trade Organization. However, we stress the need for
a continuous assessment of its likely impact on developing
countries, especially the least developed among them. We
fear that countries which are net importers of food, such as
Sierra Leone, might face the prospect of higher food import
bills arising from the liberalization of
trade in the
agricultural sector. Other areas in the Agreements which
open up competition between developed and developing
countries also need to be constantly reviewed to ensure that
the latter do not suffer unduly.
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
laundering, poverty and many more yet unknown. We
sincerely hope that the final outcome of the work of the
Open-ended Working Group on institutional reforms will
adequately address these concerns and offer appropriately
bold suggestions and solutions.
every nation no longer
The relevance of the United Nations after 50 years
as an instrument for the peaceful existence and orderly
development of
requires
justification. We commend the Secretary-General and the
Secretariat for initiating a restructuring process which will
ultimately ensure the enhanced viability and efficiency of
our Organization. We also pay tribute to all
their
predecessors whose own efforts contributed to the
survival of the Organization. Member States owe it to
posterity to adopt a firm commitment to the provisions of
the Charter and not to undermine the credibility of our
common Organization. We renew our call for all Member
States to be resolute and uncompromising in the quest for
global peace, security and social and economic justice as
we move into the twenty-first century. Let me,
in
conclusion, reaffirm my country’s commitment to the
United Nations Charter and dedication to the principles
which undergird our Organization.
The Acting President: I now call on the Deputy
for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan, His
Minister
Excellency Mr. Abdul Rahim Ghafoorzai.
the cold war,
Since the end of
it has become
increasingly clear that the United Nations is finding it
difficult to deal with the challenges of the post-cold-war
era. As we enter the next millennium, we believe it should
be a strong, revitalized, effective and purposeful United
Nations, able to play its full role as envisaged in its
Charter.
of
anniversary
Mr. Ghafoorzai (Afghanistan): On the eve of the
fiftieth
the
representatives of the world’s nations are gathered here
with hearts full of hope for a better future, as well as for
the cause of the peace and prosperity of mankind, in an
atmosphere of great enthusiasm and animation.
the United Nations,
With democracy taking root among nations, logic and
common sense dictate that decisions of the United Nations
should also carry the necessary imprint of the collective
will of its Members. Indeed, the Security Council, which is
charged with the primary responsibility for the maintenance
of international peace and security, should be perceived as
legitimate in its decision-making process. My delegation
takes the view that a more efficient,
transparent and
democratic Security Council, embracing the views of a
wider sector of the international community, could stand it
in good stead to deal with the challenges of the next
millennium — challenges which touch humanity generally,
rather than individual States which often lack the capacity
and the ability to handle them successfully. Such challenges
include the problem of drugs, devastating diseases like
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), money
6
The Afghan nation,
the immense
difficulties it has encountered, shares that optimism with
many of
the nations represented here, as well as
confidence in its ability to overcome those challenges.
in spite of
War and conflict always bring with them miseries
and devastation. The last 17 years have taught our
children only to differentiate the various sounds of guns,
rockets, tanks and mortars, rather than teaching them
literacy or providing them with basic nutrition, security
and peace of mind.
We turn to this world family, as an institution
dedicated to the cause of humanity, the self-determination
of nations, human rights and democracy, to pronounce
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
itself opposed to the forces aiming to create a bloodbath in
an already devastated Afghanistan.
When I return to my homeland — the home of 1.7
million martyr graves, tens of millions of unexploded land-
mines, 2 million disabled people, hundreds of thousands of
orphans and widows — I am expected to be carrying
answers as to why this world, which claims to be
committed to human rights and justice, has remained a
spectator of the sufferings of Afghans, brought about by
foreign interference. Why, in spite of the complete peace,
security and tranquillity prevailing in the capital for many
months past, have the United Nations offices unjustifiably
abandoned us by remaining outside?
the
Our people find it astonishing that in an era of such
developed mass communication, which leaves no distance
between different corners of the globe,
the apparently
insurmountable difficulties — in particular,
the actual
continuing imposed war — are not
causes of
understood. I am confident
there are people who
clearly see the factors contributing to the continuation of
the conflict. There are forces that insist on seeing our
political system subordinated to their political and economic
designs and policies. This is the actual source of the
conflict.
that
The crisis in Afghanistan is often perceived as a
subject of academic studies. Some call this a civil war in a
society that they consider “fragmented”. Others look at it as
the scene of a contest, a struggle for power. Yet others try
to find the roots of the conflict in the ethnic and tribal
composition of the country. The truth is far more clear:
whatever it is, it is not a civil war; nor is it a tribal or
ethnic conflict; it is an imposed war.
We have learned from history that our existence
depends on our unity. We, like many other nations, want to
live in peace and security, as well as benefit from economic
development, welfare and democracy, which will be
available only in peaceful circumstances. We want to live
in peace with our neighbours and to engage in good-
neighbourly relations. We leave it up to the astute observers
of the United Nations and the impartial analysts of the
world community to judge the efficacy of the United
Nations in alleviating the sufferings in Afghanistan.
The year 1995 opened with good omens
for
Afghanistan. The country witnessed positive changes
towards peace and political stability. Following the removal
of the sources of danger from the southern part of the
capital, the people of Kabul found a moment of peace after
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
years of being rocketed indiscriminately. Every day since
mid-March an average of
about 3,500 refugees
returned home — mostly to the capital — according to
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR). Prices fell sharply. Goods and
services became plentiful in the markets. The Government
reopened 156 schools for girls and boys, and the
universities reopened in an atmosphere of security and
peace.
Official delegations
from the United States,
Switzerland, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the
Republic of Korea, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan,
Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Tajikistan, the Russian Federation,
Uzbekistan,
the People’s Republic of China and the
Sudan, as well as many international organizations and
others, came to Kabul. High-ranking Afghan delegations
also travelled abroad.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan even won an
opportunity to take steps towards peace and regional
security. Among the Tajikistan peace mediators, Professor
Burhan-ud-din Rabbani, the President of the Islamic State
of Afghanistan, accomplished the most. We remember
that his peace initiative conduced to unprecedented and
positive changes regarding the civil strife in Tajikistan.
Kabul city, for the first time, hosted direct talks between
His Excellency Imam Ali Rakhmanov, the President of
Tajikistan, and Sayed Abdullah Nouri, the leader of the
Islamic Revival Movement, representing all the Tajik
opposition. In a historic press conference the two leaders
embraced each other and agreed on a longer-term cease-
fire.
Confidence-building measures were taken on the
basis of domestic endeavours between Afghanistan and
the opposition. The Islamic State of Afghanistan, with the
aim of putting an end to all problems in the country,
presented to the United Nations a peace plan, on most of
whose items there emerged, for the first time, a sense of
agreement among all sides. The plan pledged to the nation
the convening of a Grand National Assembly — Loya
Jirga, as we call it — within a year. The Islamic State of
Afghanistan, while leaving to the United Nations Special
Mission the question of the creation of an appropriate
mechanism for the convening of the Grand National
Assembly, promised to agree to the participation of the
opposition groups in the current Supreme State Council
and in the present one-year-term transitional Government
until the convening of the Grand National Assembly.
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
As a result of these proposals the people of our
country and of the region felt more optimistic about the
return of peace to Afghanistan. However, those needlessly
afraid of an independent, stable and self-reliant Afghanistan
sought to change the course of events to coincide with their
own interests. They once again used the made-up Taliban
group — whose actual
identity and character and the
sources of whose funding and arming are yet to be made
known to most of the members in this Hall — equipped
with arms, light and heavy, from across the border of our
country and with air power. Ironically enough, they recently
chose to target the west of Afghanistan, which, according
to earlier statements of Ambassador Mahmoud Mestiri,
head of the United Nation Special Mission to Afghanistan,
was the best model of healthy administration, order,
stability and people’s welfare.
Intent on exposing the Islamic State to instability,
military intelligence services across the border tried hard to
unite the opponents of the State under a single command.
They boosted the Taliban mercenaries with their own
frontier militia. Thousands of those being trained across
Afghan borders launched attacks against the Shindand air
base and a number of other western provinces of the
country, including Herat, as a result of which the peaceful
city of Herat was on 5 September turned into a place of
occupation, chaos and insecurity. A great number of
civilians lost their lives. Tens of thousands were forced to
leave their houses. The bands of the so-called Taliban, or
religious students, began their rule by closing schools for
girls and the universities, as well as banning women from
working in offices or teaching in schools. They have even
forbidden the use of televisions and videos, and all movie
theatres are closed down in the areas under
their
occupation.
As the so-called Taliban are said to have the capability
of jeopardizing any viable peace process in the country, I
deem it necessary to register some basic facts about this
mysterious movement.
In Islamic countries there are many religious schools
or “Madrasas” where several subjects related to Islam are
taught. The purpose of these schools is to prepare Muslim
youth for religious service to their countrymen. In no
“Madrasa” in the world is the subject of modern warfare,
such as the use of artillery and rockets, or the flying of
warplanes, taught. That is the work of military academies.
The only modern items the Taliban mercenaries are
aware of are advanced armaments. As for their links with
the outside, the most pertinent and very important question
8
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
is: if their numbers are about 30,000, as they claim, and
each of them would require $100 for daily and military
expenses, who is paying the more than $88 million a
month for their expenses?
As for logistical support, for instance, it is calculated
that
in order for the Taliban to keep their transport
vehicles, tanks and other armoured vehicles running they
need more than 15,000 gallons of fuel each day. That is
separate from almost the same amount of fuel that they
require as reserve. Again, who is providing them with
such huge logistical support?
The Taliban have no single leader. They claim to
have a Central Council
in Kandahar. However, no
platform or political agenda has been made known yet.
The declarations of their many leaders are not consistent.
On 20 September one of their leaders, Mullah Mishr, told
Peter Greste, a correspondent of the Reuters news agency,
that the problem of Afghanistan could only be solved
through war.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan expressed the
intense indignation of its people and Government in its
letters of 5 September 1995 (S/1995/767) and 14
September 1995 (S/1995/795) addressed to the Secretary-
General, calling for immediate measures to end the state
of occupation in western Afghanistan. We specifically
requested the United Nations to send a fact-finding
mission to the western part of the country to investigate
and assess the reality of the state of occupation. That is
the responsibility of the Security Council.
The resistance of our people together with the forces
of
the Islamic State of Afghanistan, against
the
mercenaries and foreign militia, has been further
strengthened. As a result, the Province of Ghowr, east of
Herat, once occupied, has been liberated. The foreign
armed intervention, however, reached a new dimension.
The bands of mercenaries were reinforced west of Kabul
to attack the capital, the plan of attack being engineered
and guided from abroad.
We strongly demand that the United Nations Special
Mission break its silence regarding those mercenaries and
answer the relevant questions, including whether this band
is a threat to peace. This is particularly pertinent because
the Special Mission once considered the Taliban to be a
positive factor for peace. Is it not time for the Special
Mission to find out
the intentions of the Taliban in
relation to General Assembly resolutions on Afghanistan?
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
Mr. Odlum (Saint Lucia), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Election of the future leader of Afghanistan for a
subsequent fixed term of office.
Events have proved that the United Nations Special
Mission encountered many difficulties and challenges,
owing to the lack of an adequate capability to carry out the
mandate entrusted to it by General Assembly resolutions
48/208 and 49/140. To enhance the capabilities of the
Special Mission, the Islamic State of Afghanistan submits
the following five-point proposal.
First, the necessity to reinforce the Mission requires
the formation of a contact group on Afghanistan to speed
up the peace process. The contact group on Afghanistan
should be composed of one representative of the United
Nations Special Mission; one representative of
the
Secretary-General of
the Islamic
Conference, which is already active in the peace process in
Afghanistan; one representative from among the member
States of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, but
not a country directly involved; one representative from
among the members of the European Union; and one
representative from among the members of the Non-
Aligned Movement.
the Organization of
Secondly, the contact group would promote the peace
process in Afghanistan by focusing its endeavours in the
light of information, evidence and documents provided to
the Special Mission pertaining to the violation of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan.
Thirdly,
the contact group on Afghanistan would
search for ways and means to end foreign intervention and
interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, and make
effective and appropriate recommendations to the Secretary-
General of the United Nations and to the Security Council.
Fourthly, the various proposed programmes to bring
peace to Afghanistan should be studied by the contact
group in consultation with the involved Afghan parties.
These endeavours would have the following objectives:
Creation of a commission for the convening of the
Grand National Assembly, or “Loya Jirga”;
this
commission would also have the mandate to draft the
Constitution, to include a firm disposition guaranteeing
democracy
future
Afghanistan.
human
rights
and
for
the
Convening of the Grand National Assembly, or “Loya
Jirga”, within one year.
Adoption of the Constitution.
Formation of the first parliament from among the
members of the Grand National Assembly, which
could represent
the
country on the basis of
their proportion of
population.
the administrative units of
Fifthly, the contact group on Afghanistan would
immediately approach all Afghan groups and invite them
to participate in the Supreme State Council and
Government, until the formation of the Grand National
Assembly, or “Loya Jirga”.
The contact group on Afghanistan would also play
a crucial role in the reconstruction of the country, as
required by General Assembly resolution 49/140, adopted
on 20 December 1994.
We consider that proposal, which has already been
submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
to be a secure and short path towards peace, national
rapprochement and stability, through the cessation of
hostilities.
To those who refuse to accept the one-year lapse of
time for that peace process, insisting on an unconditional
and immediate transfer of power, we say that a period of
one year is not long in the life of a nation. Had there
been an agreement a year ago for the transfer of power
and for the consolidation of the political process, we
would by now have been in the process of transferring
power.
We solemnly ask the General Assembly to take this
proposal into consideration when discussing the agenda
item on Afghanistan during this historic fiftieth session.
Having said this, we would like to state — for those
who insist on the need for a military solution to the
problem — that the Islamic State of Afghanistan, while
willing to transfer power to a legitimate and lawful
authority, has the capacity and capability to respond to the
terrorist acts of mercenaries linked to foreign quarters.
Afghanistan would not
to
undermine the process of the peaceful transfer of power
and the normal political process that is to be implemented
under the supervision of the United Nations and the
allow any circles
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Organization of the Islamic Conference. Those cliques of
outsiders who are recruiting, training, arming, and providing
financial assistance to the mercenaries — as well as
reinforcing them with their own militia — and using such
reactionary groups to destabilize a moderate Islamic system
which believes in democracy and human rights, are wrong
in their assessments and calculations. Such foreign circles
may think that after the usurpation of power by the Taliban
all will go well for them. In fact, they will add a further
problem, especially by bringing onto the scene a faction
which has no factual presence on Afghanistan’s political
scene. These circles should be aware that the peace and
security in the capital, the actual relative peace and stability
in the country and in the region, would be jeopardized by
such an erroneous miscalculation. The same error was made
by the former Soviet Union in 1979.
For the record, we would like to emphasize that those
who ignite a fire in our country will burn themselves. It
would then be too late to return to the peaceful political
process on which we are now trying to embark.
The statement made by His Excellency the Foreign
Minister of Pakistan on 27 September 1995 before this
Assembly pertaining to the relation between Afghanistan
and Pakistan was
illustration of his
Government’s unfriendly intentions towards my country.
The assertions of His Excellency the Foreign Minister of
Pakistan, as contained in his statement, need to be
responded to for the sake of the record.
itself a clear
First, the Pakistani Foreign Minister was trying to
confuse our friends and to divert the attention of world
public opinion from his country’s own acts of blatant
interference in Afghanistan and from the invasion by its
militia in assisting the so-called Taliban in Western
Afghanistan to the tragic incident in the Pakistani Embassy
at Kabul.
In this regard the following explanations are necessary.
I express, on behalf of His Excellency the President and the
Government and the people of Afghanistan, profound regret
about the very sad and grievous incident that occurred in
the Embassy of Pakistan at Kabul on 6 September 1995.
This message has also been forwarded by an official note
of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan to the
Foreign Ministry of Pakistan. Furthermore, I have conveyed
two messages by telephone from Kabul to His Excellency
Mr. Najmuddin Sheikh, Foreign Secretary of Pakistan.
The
tragic
traditional
hospitality of the Afghan people. While we express our
contradicts
incident
the
10
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
grief at the incident, which we consider unjustifiable, at
the same time we say that some aspects of the events
have been overlooked by the Foreign Minister of
Pakistan, whose Government tried to use different forums
for political gains through a distortion of the facts.
Allow me, for the sake of the record, to point out
the sequence of
incidents as they occurred. On 6
September 1995, on the morrow of the occupation of
Herat City by the so-called Taliban mercenaries, with the
help of foreign militias,
the people of Kabul held a
peaceful demonstration. Tens of thousands of peaceful
demonstrators gathered outside the compound of the
Embassy of Pakistan at Kabul chanting anti-Pakistani
slogans. The staff of
the Embassy, contrary to all
recognized principles of international law, used a firearm
from inside the Embassy premises against the peaceful
demonstrators. This caused the death of one of the
students, a student by the name of Badruddin Muslim, an
eleventh grader in the Naderia High School of Kabul.
This highly unjustifiable and provocative act of the
Embassy staff incited the fury of the demonstrators, who
in the beginning were non-violent and peaceful, gathered
only to express their deep resentment at the occupation of
part of their country.
It
is noteworthy that
the security forces of the
Government were already active in the early morning,
having observed the spontaneous gathering of people in
different parts of Kabul city. The security forces formed
two security belts around the Embassy premises.
However, the death of the young demonstrator caused a
sudden reaction and, unfortunately, the crowd got out of
control. The security forces tried their utmost to prevent
the upsurge of violence and to protect the Embassy and
its staff. Regrettably, despite the losses suffered by the
security forces, five of whose personnel were killed while
protecting the Embassy,
succeed in
preventing this tragic event. Mr. Ejaz Ali,
the Third
Secretary of the Pakistani Embassy at Kabul, a witness to
the event, acknowledged in an interview at Islamabad
airport on 7 September 1995 that the security forces of
the Afghan Government exerted efforts to avert the tragic
happening.
they did not
We declare from this rostrum that the Afghan nation
never had recourse to terrorism, even during the long
years of resistance against the invasion of their country by
the former Soviet Union. That fact clearly shows that,
despite heavy sacrifices by the Afghan nation, it never
had recourse to terrorist acts against any consulate or
embassy of the former Soviet Union.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Secondly, in his statement the Foreign Minister of
Pakistan referred nine times to the Islamic State of
Afghanistan as the “Kabul
the “Rabbani
regime”. We do not intend to reciprocate with similar unfair
language because of our sincerity and commitment
to
friendship towards Pakistan.
regime” or
Thirdly, it is ironic to witness His Excellency the
Foreign Minister of Pakistan prescribing the type, nature
and characteristics of a government that he would like to
see in Afghanistan. My delegation, however, reciprocates
the sense of good will and brotherhood he expressed
regarding our
two nations. Moreover, we recall with
appreciation the strong sense of brotherhood and Islamic
solidarity by which the fraternal nation of Pakistan extended
its support to the just struggle, the Jihad of the Afghan
nation, against the invading forces of the former Soviet
Union. We trust that our Pakistani brothers are also fully
aware of the sacrifices we made when Afghanistan served
as a shield for the protection of Pakistan territories against
the most important mobilization of an army since the war
in Viet Nam.
authorities,
(ISI), which is
the manifest
especially
However, our complaint is addressed, not to the nation
interferences of
of Pakistan, but against
Inter-Service
Pakistani
Intelligence
the Pakistani military
intelligence. Sometimes the explanations of the Pakistani
Government, which claims to remain impartial, seem to be
justified owing to the fact
the Pakistani civilian
administration is not capable of containing the operations of
the ISI, a powerful military-intelligence body which has
emerged as a State within the State.
the
that
Secondly, we wonder which of the internationally
accepted norms and principles governing relations between
nations justify the Pakistani desire to prescribe the type and
characteristics of government
sovereign and
independent neighbour. Could there be any clearer example
of Pakistani interference in our internal affairs?
for
a
The Foreign Minister of Pakistan has repeatedly
interfering in the internal
claimed that Pakistan is not
affairs of Afghanistan. Let us leave aside all evidence
pertaining to the aggression of the Pakistani frontier militia
on Afghan territory, as set out in the documents of the
Security Council that we have submitted, as well as the
comments and statements of independent
international
reporters and scholarly analysts on Afghanistan identifying
and highlighting the interference of Pakistani military
intelligence in the internal affairs of Afghanistan as the only
source of the present-day conflict in Afghanistan. We need
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
only refer to internationally recognized newspapers: The
Washington Times, in its issue of 24 September 1995, The
Times of London, 26 September 1995, and The Canberra
Times, 11 September 1995.
Both The Washington Times and The Times of
London quote Ambassador Mestiri’s comments regarding
the so-called Taliban and Pakistan’s involvement
in
supporting them.
The Times of London of Tuesday, 26 September
1995, under the headline “Student army gives notice of
attack on Kabul”, states,
“Mahmoud Mestiri, who heads the United Nations
peace efforts in Afghanistan, said he was convinced
Pakistan was behind the Taliban group”.
The Washington Times of 24 September 1995, in an
article entitled “Pakistan aid to rebels has Kabul talking
war”, states,
special
“Even the United Nations
envoy to
Afghanistan is suspicious ... The power of Taliban
is mysterious', envoy Mahmoud Mestiri said.
I
think they are getting money and help, maybe from
Pakistan'.”
The same article, written by Ian Stewart of the Associated
Press, contains a description of a Taliban fighter:
a new breed of noble
“One of
in
Afghanistan, the dust-caked 19-year-old is armed
with a Kalashnikov and the writings of the Muslim
Prophet Mohammed and trained, he says,
in
Pakistan”.
fighter
In his statement, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan
cannot conceal the true intention of his Government with
respect to Afghanistan. He inadvertently uncovers the
intention:
“provocation will not deter us from our steadfast
path of neutrality towards the Afghan people and the
unity of Afghanistan or from non-interference in
Afghanistan’s internal affairs, nor will it affect our
abiding friendship and brotherhood with the Afghan
nation”. (Official Records of the General Assembly,
Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 8th meeting,
p. 22)
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
However, subsequently the Foreign Minister of Pakistan
negates the spirit of the above by saying,
“In the meantime, we would like to assure the people
of Afghanistan that we shall stand by them in their
hour of trial. We shall not abandon them.” (ibid.)
I am certain that the words “we shall stand by them in their
hour of trial” will raise a question in the minds of the
Members of the Assembly: what could Pakistan’s intention
be in making such a statement?
The former Soviet Union’s aggression in Afghanistan
is long over. Our nation would like our neighbours and the
world to assist us in our endeavours towards national
reconciliation and peace.
Moreover, His Excellency the Foreign Minister of
Pakistan promises that they will not abandon the Afghans.
The Assembly should realize that this amounts to assuring
the opposition of the Afghan Government that Pakistan will
continue interfering in Afghanistan’s affairs in their favour
until
the Islamic State is destabilized and a proxy
Government obedient to the will of Pakistan’s Government
is brought to power.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Pakistan has cast
into doubt
the legitimacy and legality of the Afghan
Government and the territory governed by it. We call on
His Excellency the Foreign Minister of Pakistan to allow
any impartial observer to visit the north-western agencies
and find out if the central Government of Pakistan has any
administrative authority over them. Is it not a fact that the
production of
firearms has continued, as an ongoing
traditional trade, ever since the establishment of Pakistan?
Where is heroin, the most dangerous enemy of humanity,
produced and refined? John F. Burns of The New York
Times wrote,
“Top army officers have been accused in the past of
conniving with drug lords, to the extent of running
heroin shipments to Karachi aboard army-owned
trucks”. (“Heroin scourges million Pakistanis”, The
New York Times, 5 April 1995, Section A, p. 12)
The Islamic State of Afghanistan and Pakistan will
both be losers if they try to confront each other. The only
way leading towards securing both countries’ highest
interests is to re-establish, broaden and consolidate their
mutual brotherly relations on the basis of equality of States,
respect for each other’s territorial integrity and sovereignty
and the right of each to determine its own future.
12
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
President Rabbani
is a strong believer
in the
perpetual necessity for both countries to establish ties of
fraternity and cooperation. Both countries, and the entire
region of Asia where they live side by side, will gain
through Afghan-Pakistani friendship.
While the international community is deploying
efforts to prevent conflicts and wars,
the peace and
security of individuals and of human communities are
under the threat of an undeclared and inhumane war
waged by the world’s terrorists. This year the world has
witnessed terrible terrorist acts, such as the tragedies in
Oklahoma City, Paris and Tokyo, in which many innocent
civilians lost their lives.
Prosperity and the welfare of the human being
cannot be secured without tranquillity and peace of mind.
If the international community does not
take drastic
measures to eradicate terrorism, people in different
regions of the world will continue to live in fear and
under the menace of terrorist acts. Islam teaches the
principle of the rights of innocents to live in safety and
dignity. The Islamic State of Afghanistan considers that
there is a great need for the signing of an international
treaty ensuring meaningful cooperation between States, in
the form of a convention to combat terrorism.
Afghanistan, as one of the early Members of the
United Nations, contributed to the drafting, discussion and
adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and participated in the drafting of both Covenants of
Human Rights. We once again reaffirm our deep
commitment to these international instruments.
as
law,
international
humanitarian
The Islamic State of Afghanistan considers respect
for human rights one of its fundamental objectives.
During the year under consideration, however, the human
rights of a number of Afghan citizens in the country, as
well
have,
unfortunately, been violated as a result of the continued
terror perpetrated by the so-called Taliban. The Taliban
mercenaries’ closing of schools for girls and depriving
women of their right to work has been a major violation
of human rights. The Islamic State of Afghanistan has the
conviction
effective
international measures towards putting an end to foreign
interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan would
serve as a major step towards the realization of human
rights in the country.
that
taking
appropriate
and
As far as the issue of women’s rights in Afghanistan
is concerned, as brought to the attention of Mr. Paik, the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
new United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights
in Afghanistan, during his recent
trip to Kabul, such
concerns do not seem to be appropriate in the case of a
country where 383 women army officers, ranking from the
position of Lieutenant-General to lower positions, defend
their people and country; where women are serving as
pilots in the Army, as well as parachutists; and where
women are representing their country at Afghanistan
diplomatic missions and are serving in various branches of
the Administration. Women’s rights are guaranteed in the
presently enforced laws and regulations governing the life
of our nation.
I turn now to the question of land-mines. For the first
time, an international meeting was held in Geneva on mine
clearance. This meeting further enhanced international
awareness of different dimensions of the land-mine crisis
and contributed to strengthening international cooperation.
It is an alarming fact that every year, while 100,000 land-
mines are removed, more than 2 million land-mines are
laid. An estimated 30 people are killed by land-mines, and
as many as 60 are maimed, every single day. The slow
pace of demining operations is another major concern to be
noted. According to the International Committee of the Red
Cross (ICRC), at the current pace of the mine-removal
process, it will take 1,100 years to get rid of existing mines
- and the laying of mines continues in different regions of
the world.
As we already stated in the Geneva meeting on mine
clearance, only the adoption of a convention which would
ban the production, sale and stockpiling of all varieties of
land-mines, and especially a sincere commitment on the
part of mine-producing countries to such an instrument,
would serve effectively to put an end to this problem.
Afghanistan, a war-stricken country, where the largest
number of
land-mines have been laid, needs further
assistance from the international community. This assistance
would further help the cause of the repatriation of refugees
and the revitalization of agricultural activities all over the
country.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan expresses its serious
concern at the acts of aggression and genocide that continue
to be committed against the people of the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Effective measures should be
taken to put an end, once and for all, to this tragic crisis.
Srebrenica and Zepa must be restored as safe areas and the
siege of Sarajevo must be ended. The International Tribunal
on war crimes in the former Yugoslavia should bring to
justice those Serbian civil and military individuals who
perpetrated crimes of war and genocide, and crimes against
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
humanity. Afghanistan has repeatedly maintained the view
that the arms embargo against the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina is not applicable de jure. The right of the
victim to self-defence has to be respected and restored.
spent
through
in Afghanistan
I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to one
of the great threats to the life, health and well-being of
present and future generations. This man-made plague is
narcotic drugs, and its production, sale and smuggling.
The expansion of
the poppy fields in my country,
Afghanistan, as one of the legacies of war, is unfortunate.
Statistics show that the cultivation of poppy increased
during 1994, as compared to 1993. This is in spite of the
allocation of about $25 million, which the international
community
non-
governmental organizations. The
Islamic State of
Afghanistan cannot agree to the procedure through which
the assistance was channeled. Perhaps an evaluation is
needed to correct the procedure. The Islamic State of
Afghanistan declares its sincere readiness to cooperate
effectively with regional and international organizations.
We are working for the preparation of a master plan to
effectively combat narcotic drugs on the regional and
international levels. We have invited Mr. Giacomelli, the
Executive Director of the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme, to visit Afghanistan and speed
up the drawing up of such a master plan.
We have had critical episodes in our life, but we
have a vision of a peaceful and stable Afghanistan; an
Afghanistan which it is hoped this Assembly will render
free of foreign interference in its internal affairs; an
Afghanistan where our people come to be blessed with
brotherhood and understanding, national conciliation and
unity; a country to which its 3 million refugees will have
returned with confidence and assurance, and where our
intellectuals, as a source of hope, will dedicate their vast
energy and experience and their scientific and physical
potential
to the cause of rebuilding their country; a
country that will once again serve as a major factor in the
strengthening of regional peace and stability; a country
that will be actively involved in the common efforts of
this world family in combating extremism, adhering to a
positive and dynamic impartial and non-aligned policy,
and firmly participating in combating terrorism and drug
abuse. Such a vision takes its source from the heart of our
nation.
Our expectation of the world community is that it
assist us in achieving these goals. The objectives of the
reconstruction and economic development of Afghanistan
cannot be achieved without economic assistance from
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
industrialized nations and other countries that are able to
furnish such assistance. Afghanistan has
enormous
economic capabilities. During the time the former Soviet
Union thought of our country as its strategic backyard, the
world’s major corporations were prevented from becoming
involved in the exploration of Afghanistan’s natural
resources and wealth. At the threshold of Afghanistan’s
reconstruction and rehabilitation, possibilities exist for the
exploration of our natural wealth, such as natural gas, oil,
copper,
uranium.
Afghanistan can become a major producer and exporter of
fruit. Once the crisis is over, Afghanistan will emerge as
one of the most attractive sites for private investment.
Afghanistan, a land-locked country, is now vitally important
at the heart of Asia, connecting Central Asia to the south
and the Middle East as a historical transit route.
precious
stones
even
iron,
and
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
The attempt to assassinate President Gligorov is an
attack against the independent and peace-loving position
of Macedonia. It is directed against life in peace and
against the well-being of all our citizens. This terrorist act
has been strongly condemned and decisively rejected by
all of my countrymen, as well as by the international
community.
of
The
efforts
the United Nations
against
terrorism — a criminal phenomenon — must continue
with a strong determination to wipe this scourge out
completely. We should all fight unabatedly against the
forces of darkness and the power-hungry demagogues
who are the main source and generator of criminal
terrorist activities.
From this
rostrum, we invite the industrialized
countries, as well as private sectors, to benefit from the
enormous investment opportunities in our country. In this
context, the Islamic State of Afghanistan warmly welcomes
delegations determined to conduct relevant studies, as it is
expecting a number of potential investors in the coming
month. This move would itself contribute towards the
further strengthening of stability and an early return of
peace to Afghanistan.
The Acting President: I call on the next speaker, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of The former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, His Excellency Mr. Stevo
Crvenkovski.
Mr. Crvenkovski (The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia): I extend to Mr. Freitas do Amaral my warm
congratulations on his election as President of this jubilee
fiftieth session of the General Assembly. At the same time
I wish to express appreciation to his predecessor,
Mr. Amara Essy, for his very successful work.
On 3 October 1995, in a cowardly terrorist act, an
attempt was made on the life of the President of the
Republic of Macedonia, Kiro Gligorov. This assassination
attempt was a deliberate political act intended to destabilize
my country. It was carried out, not insignificantly, at a time
when the centuries-old dream of the Macedonian people for
their own State and for an equal role in the international
community had come true. Furthermore, it happened at the
very time when the resolution of the situation in the
Balkans was in sight and when all of our neighbours and
the world had come to accept the fact that the Republic of
Macedonia was a reality, and a factor of peace and
stability.
14
The
attempt
to assassinate my President on
3 October 1995 shall not, under any circumstances, divert
us in our pursuit of democracy,
reforms, and the
development of good-neighbourly relations with all of our
neighbours, in brief, our efforts to transform our country
into a modern European State.
I wish to take this opportunity to express to the
President of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General
and all delegations in this body our sincere gratitude for
their sympathy and solidarity and for their wishes for the
speedy recovery of my President.
As our Organization approaches the next 50 years,
as we approach the twenty-first century, it is timely to
acknowledge and pay tribute to the great achievements of
the United Nations in bringing about a better and safer
world and to stress the need to work together to improve
our Organization and prepare for the challenges of the
future.
right place
Throughout the past 50 years, the United Nations has
been the
in which to build better
understanding among nations, the right place in which to
address some of
the basic problems and needs of
humanity and the right place in which to coordinate
actions towards a brighter future for mankind. The United
Nations assisted in achieving peace in many regions of
the world; it succeeded in preventing many conflicts; it
helped in decolonization;
it delivered humanitarian
assistance; it succeeded in minimizing the nuclear threat
and in building bridges over many gulfs between
countries all over the world.
In the past few years, very important decisions have
been adopted at many United Nations conferences, such
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
as the Earth Summit in Rio, the World Conference on
Human Rights in Vienna, the International Conference on
Population and Development in Cairo, the World Summit
for Social Development in Copenhagen, the Fourth World
Conference on Women in Beijing, the 1995 Review and
Extension Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in New York
and the discussions on land-mines at the Conference on
Disarmament in Geneva. We must work to implement the
decisions made at these conferences. We must work on
finalizing the comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, and on
furthering the disarmament process. At the same time, we
must also begin working towards finding solutions to, and
preventing, the new problems and challenges that we are
facing in this ever-changing world. Rapid technological
progress brings new hope for a better future but also puts
dangerous power into the hands of some of the worst
enemies of our civilization. We have to design new
mechanisms
to face these new
challenges and enable the United Nations to achieve new
successes in the next 50 years.
that will enable us
On the basis of the experience of the past 50 years, we
will have to examine the functioning of the United Nations
system as a whole, to restructure some of its parts, and to
assign new tasks to some of the others for the purpose of
achieving the efficiency of the Organization as a whole.
The United Nations must have as its vision a world that is
more stable, politically and economically. The recent
agreement between Israel and Palestine gives hope for
lasting peace in the Middle East. We strongly support the
Secretary-General’s Agenda for Development and hope that,
at
important
undertaking successfully.
this session, we will carry out
this most
Economic development is necessary for political and
social stability. For many countries access to markets and
the question of finances for development are of essential
importance. We must also ensure that the United Nations
shall continue to be financially viable. Each Member of the
United Nations, however large or small, has an obligation
to do its share. We must also discuss the possible
improvement of the work of the Security Council. To this
end, my delegation fully supports the inclusion of Germany
and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council.
At this session of the General Assembly, I can assure
the President of the General Assembly that he will have the
full support of the Macedonian delegation in bringing to a
successful conclusion the many important issues we have
on the agenda. I would like to take this opportunity to
thank this General Assembly for giving us the important
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
duty of presiding over the Second Committee. We attach
particular significance to the economic issues that will be
discussed there.
The Republic of Macedonia, despite difficult
conditions, achieved its independence peacefully, without
the use of force and with respect for all international
norms. In a region so burdened by tragic wars, a region
with violations of human rights, with a high degree of
instability, we have pursued the path of our independence
with a strong commitment to resolve all of our problems
and conflicts peacefully, through dialogue, with good will,
with readiness for cooperation with all of our neighbours
and with all international organizations.
We are determined to contribute, within the
framework of our capabilities, to the overcoming of all of
the divisions and conflicts in the Balkans inherited from
the past and to pursue the integration of our country into
Europe as soon as possible, with respect for all of the
European norms and standards of
relations between
countries as the only means to avoid repeating the tragic
incidents of this region.
One of the basic principles of our foreign policy is
that of equidistance in our relations with our neighbours,
a readiness to establish equally good relations with all of
our neighbours, based on mutual respect, the inviolability
of borders, non-interference in the internal affairs of other
countries, and non-use of force.
Recently in this building, under the auspices of the
United Nations, through the mediation of Cyrus Vance,
Special Envoy of
the Secretary-General, Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, and Matthew Nimetz, Special Envoy of
President Clinton, my country,
the Republic of
Macedonia, reached an accord with the Republic of
Greece which regulates many aspects of relations between
the two countries, and creates a basis
for good-
neighbourly cooperation. We believe that this accord will
contribute to increased stability in the Balkans and will
have a positive influence on the future development of
events in the region. We believe this accord is a good
the international
illustration of
community, and especially of the United Nations,
in
pursuing peaceful solutions in relations between States,
based on the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations.
the positive role of
The Republic of Macedonia, during its four years of
independence, has faced many challenges. The economy
of the whole region was deeply disturbed by the war to
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the north of us. As a result of the United Nations sanctions
against Serbia and Montenegro, the usual route to our
traditional markets in Europe was cut off. The losses caused
to our economy by the sanctions amount to over $4 billion.
Since February 1994, we have also been under a unilateral
trade embargo from the south. In the same period, we have
undertaken a thorough transformation of our economy,
turning it into a market-oriented economy, with all of the
difficulties and risks that this transition brings. Despite all
of this, we have succeeded in maintaining a high level of
political, social and economic stability. We have built new
democratic institutions with provisions for full protection of
human rights and a political system in which all national
minorities are recognized and enjoy full participation. We
cannot claim that we have solved all of our problems.
However, we have built the right mechanisms for solving
them.
A great deal of attention has been given during this
session of the General Assembly to United Nations peace-
keeping operations. The enormous efforts of the United
Nations in many peace-keeping operations have had varied
results. Some of them have been more successful than
others. Allow me to say a few words about the United
Nations peace-keeping operation in the Republic of
Macedonia,
the United Nations Preventive Deployment
Force (UNPREDEP). It is a very successful operation and
is fully achieving its goals. It has contributed tremendously
to peace and stability in the southern Balkans and has built
confidence among the people of the Republic of Macedonia
in international organizations. This operation proves that
preventive deployment is the most effective channel for
United Nations peace-keeping efforts. This operation is the
best example that results can be achieved even with a
small, almost symbolic deployment of United Nations
peace-keepers, if it is done at the right time and with a
clear mandate. The full support the people of the Republic
of Macedonia are giving this operation shows that the right
decision was made by the Security Council when this
peace-keeping operation was approved. This has been a
very successful operation, and we hope it will serve as a
model for many future activities of the United Nations; if
so, I am confident that the same positive results will be
achieved.
These days there is new hope that peace in Bosnia can
be achieved. This tragic war has resulted in huge numbers
of victims, a large-scale humanitarian catastrophe and
massive destruction. We hope that
the efforts of the
international community will result in a solution which will
respect the basic principles of the modern world. Bosnia
should be preserved as an independent State within its
16
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
internationally recognized borders. Provision must be
made for full respect of human rights, and repetition of
atrocities and war crimes must never be allowed.
We believe that as soon as peace is achieved it will
be necessary to start the process of the reduction of arms
in the Balkans, to start the process of a Balkan détente.
This year the General Assembly, under item 81 of
its agenda, will consider the report of the Secretary-
General on the development of good-neighbourly relations
among Balkan States, prepared on the basis of resolution
48/84 B, adopted at
its forty-eighth session on the
proposal of the Macedonian delegation. It is expected that
special attention will be paid to measures and preventive
activities aimed at the creation of a stable zone of peace
and cooperation in the Balkans by the year 2000.
The only way to achieve long-term peace and
stability in the whole Balkan region is through the full
integration of all the Balkan countries into Europe, with
full respect for European standards and norms. The
independence, territorial integrity and inviolability of the
borders of all Balkan countries must be respected.
Problems of national minorities that have been at the root
of many conflicts in the Balkans throughout its history
should be addressed. All national minorities should be
recognized and their basic human rights fully respected.
It is our duty to work for peace and the democratic
development of the whole Balkan region now, and not to
leave burdens of the past to future generations.
Just as we must work for the stabilization of the
Balkan region as a whole, we must also recognize the
uniqueness of each of the countries of the region. The
problems are not identical, and therefore the solutions
cannot be identical. There are a lot of discussions about
the problems of former Yugoslavia. It is very important
to understand that there is no such entity as
former
Yugoslavia”. There are a number of new countries in this
area, each with their own set of problems and prospects,
and there is no way to find a unified solution for these
problems. Each country must be treated individually.
The hope and desire for a better world were the
foundations for the United Nations 50 years ago. At this
session of the General Assembly, it is our duty to lay the
groundwork for the role of the United Nations in the
twenty-first century. We should all work together towards
a safer world and to reduce the fears and threats of the
future as much as possible.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyzstan, Mrs. Rosa Otunbayeva.
on mutual respect for international law. The law is our
strongest argument in the family of the United Nations.
Mrs. Otunbayeva (Kyrgyzstan) (interpretation from
Russian): On behalf of the delegation of my country, I
would like to congratulate Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral on
his election to the lofty post of President of the fiftieth,
anniversary session of
the United Nations General
Assembly. We would also like to express our deep gratitude
to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, who is at the head of our Organization at
this momentous time, for his tireless efforts to strengthen
peace and security around the world.
As countries with economies in transition and as
developing democracies, we receive extremely important
and urgent aid and support from the United Nations:
medicine, food and technical equipment. The Gramin
Bank is fighting rising poverty by giving the people
microloans. We are trying to build a civil society by
educating the non-governmental organizations, lawyers
and journalists. On 24 December 1995, open presidential
elections will take place in Kyrgyzstan, to which we
would like to invite observers from all over the world.
The fireworks commemorating victory in the Second
World War still resounded when our Organization was
coming into being, but the world had already been divided
by military and ideological confrontation. In the Soviet
Union, Ministries of Foreign Affairs were founded in each
of
the republics and hastily staffed with diplomatic
personnel. However, the Soviet Union’s attempts to use its
republics to increase the number of votes in its bloc within
the newly formed international Organization were not
successful. Only three out of the 15 republics were accepted
as Members of the United Nations. Frozen by the years of
the cold war, we gained our independence without any
violence or bloodshed. Now, almost half a century later, we
have entered into the community of fully-fledged Members
of the United Nations.
Since then,
the world has gone through dramatic
changes. Today we need the United Nations as never
before.
Through the United Nations, we, the post-socialist
countries, enter into the world and interact with countries
of the North and the South, the West and the East. Within
only four years of attaining independence, Kyrgyzstan has
become a Member of the United Nations and has joined the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE), the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS),
the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC),
the
(NACC) and the
North Atlantic Cooperation Council
Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), as well as
many
financial
organizations. The United Nations represents the main axis
of the foreign policy of our young country, and we will
work without respite to increase the effectiveness of our
Organization.
international
other
political
and
As small countries, we see in the United Nations a
guarantor of our independence, security and justice, based
One of our most significant achievements during our
first years of independence, as our President, Askar
Akayev, has pointed out, is — in addition to our small
economic advances on the road to a free market — the
attainment of an inter-ethnic consensus, internal stability
and peace in our country.
Hidden tensions based on religious and ethnic
grounds erupted in Central Asia after the dissolution of
the Soviet Union, requiring the involvement of the United
Nations,
the OSCE and the CIS. We commend the
mediating role of the United Nations, which led to a
cease-fire agreement and the beginning of a dialogue
between the sides in the inter-Tajik conflict. The five
countries of Central Asia, along with the Russian
Federation, are doing their best to launch the fifth round
of talks on the conflict in Tajikistan. These should lead to
a dialogue regarding fundamental issues pertaining to the
political future of the country.
Actions taken by the organs of the United Nations
system, the donor countries and international financial
institutions should range from humanitarian assistance to
long-term development programmes. This is true for both
Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. I strongly support the proposal
by the Secretary of State of
the United Kingdom,
Mr. Malcolm Rifkind, for the establishment within the
United Nations of special programmes for stabilization
and transition.
It is a sign of the times that, in the face of horrible
and prolonged conflicts, all the major countries, for the
first time in half a century, have joined together to build
and keep the peace.
Step by step, the knot in the Middle East is being
untied. We would like to congratulate Israel and Palestine
on the recent signing of an agreement on the West Bank,
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and we hope that both parties will have patience, courage
and success on this difficult road to peace. There are
promising hopes for a settlement to be reached that will end
the conflict in Bosnia. Kyrgyzstan welcomes the peace talks
based on the Washington Agreements on the creation of a
State based on the federal principle. We are convinced that
the time has come to focus the world’s attention on the
situation in Afghanistan. There can be no peace in Asia
without the settlement of the conflict in Afghanistan.
It
is impossible to be a mere spectator when the
flames of wars and conflicts scorch our borders and
decrease stability. Kazakstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan
have announced their willingness to create a peace-keeping
unit under the auspices of the United Nations. We are
convinced of
the need to have such United Nations
operational peace-keeping forces in reserve, so they can be
called upon in extreme situations.
There remains an undiscovered potential when it
comes to cooperation among the United Nations and the
OSCE, the United Nations and the CIS, and all of them
together when it comes to solving conflicts in post-Soviet
territory. It is not by competing but by cooperating that the
regional security institutions can stop the violence and
explosions. They can use a wide spectrum of preventive
measures, such as “planting” the culture of peace, bringing
the sides to the negotiating table and constant monitoring.
Border issues, the distribution of water and natural
resources, the rights of ethnic minorities: we in Central
Asia need international legal expertise in all these areas, as
well as the introduction of proven legal, political, socio-
economic norms and regulations.
Fully sharing the responsibility for peace and security
in our region, the newly independent States of Central Asia
are trying to do all they can to keep peace and order on the
land given to us by God. Kazakstan is working with
persistence to organize a conference on confidence-building
measures in Asia. Uzbekistan is working on the idea of a
standing seminar on the subject of
regional security.
Turkmenistan declared its intention to become a neutral
State. During a meeting in May of this year at Lake
Issyk-Kul, representatives of the five countries, with the
support of the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), created a standing seminar on stable development
for Central Asia.
Kyrgyzstan and other Central Asian countries
supported with great enthusiasm the unconditional and
indefinite extension of the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty
18
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
the 1995 Conference on that Treaty. Along with
at
Uzbekistan, my country calls for establishing Central Asia
as a nuclear-weapon-free zone. It is our firm wish to
finalize work on the agreement on a comprehensive test-
ban treaty no later than 1996 and to make the moratorium
on nuclear testing universal and permanent.
in
instruments
Free economic and trade zones have become
efficient
and
development among countries and continents. To make
the world a safer place, we need other types of zones: not
just non-nuclear but “non-conflict” zones. Central Asia
could become such a testing ground.
speeding
trade
up
(WHO) — although
The lessons of the last decade require focused and
compassionate attention from the United Nations and the
world community in general on countries in transition
such as Kyrgyzstan. The United Nations and its
organizations — UNDP, the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the World Health
Organization
sometimes
overwhelmed by the unprecedented nature and scope of
problems such as those of refugees, natural disasters,
degradation of the environment, illegal drug trafficking
and the spread of AIDS, deserve a great deal of credit for
helping us to solve severe social problems in this difficult
transition period.
is not only professional office
managers who work there, but true implementators of
reforms. World forums of the United Nations — from
Cairo to Copenhagen, from Beijing to the Habitat II
Conference scheduled to be held in Istanbul — bind us
together in the United Nations in understanding the
magnitude of the social problems confronting humanity.
Implementing their decisions will require enthusiasm and
a huge concentration of effort. The most important thing
now is action — the political will of Member States to
go forward— effective international monitoring and
“glasnost”.
It
in
all
The
of women
participation
these
transformations is of critical importance. The world in the
twenty-first century means equal rights for men and
women, for my son and my daughter, my daughter and
millions of other young girls and women in Central Asia,
to be married in accordance with their own choice and
desires,
to have unrestricted access to education and
employment, to be elected to Parliament and to work at
all levels of government. It is for the sake of these goals
that I am tirelessly working today.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
We welcome the intention and determination of the
President for this session, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas
do Amaral of Portugal, personally to lead the activities of
a High-level Open-ended Working Group to report on the
subject of reform to the General Assembly at its fiftieth
session. We, the Member States of the United Nations,
expect not only thorough and precise reports, but seek
concrete, genuine reforms and changes.
Kyrgyzstan favours an enlargement of the Security
Council, while bearing in mind the need for appropriate
regional balance. Germany and Japan, in our view, deserve
to be elected to the Council as permanent members. Being
among the biggest contributors to the United Nations
budget,
they are playing an ever-increasing role in
strengthening peace and promoting development and
democracy. It is also necessary to increase the number of
non-permanent Security Council members.
The world at the end of the twentieth century is as
complicated and multi-faceted as we are — peoples and
countries on six continents who are burdened with their
daily problems and worries, their dreams and concerns.
Modern means of
communication and speed have
encouraged humankind to feel more united on an
unprotected Earth. It is likely that no one would have tried
to rule the world if it were a single voting district.
The United Nations, empowered by its 185 Member
States with a clear understanding of its responsibility, is
wisely and competently leading us to the new millennium.
My country is going forward consciously and confidently
under the United Nations banner with a hope for a better
future.
The Acting President: I shall now call on those
representatives who wish to speak in exercise of the right
of reply.
May I remind Members that statements in exercise of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes for the second intervention
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Abolhassani Shahreza (Islamic Republic of
Iran): Today we all listened to the statement made by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Arab Emirates,
who once again laid claims against the territorial integrity
of my country that have no basis in history or
in
international law.
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
The position of my Government is clear and needs
no reiteration in detail. We categorically reject
these
claims. Therefore, I will confine myself to making a few
brief remarks.
First, the Islamic Republic of Iran is fully committed
to its international obligations, especially those arising
from the Agreement of 1971. We firmly believe that
misunderstandings
or
interpretation
implementation of that Agreement,
if any, should be
addressed with good will and through mutually-agreed
mechanisms in order to find an amicable solution.
over
the
We thus oppose any measure that might cause
instability in the sensitive region of the Persian Gulf and
thus adversely affect the interests of all countries in the
region. For its part,
the Islamic Republic of Iran is
committed to respect and maintain peace, security and
tranquillity in the region.
Secondly,
the appropriate and practical step to
remove misunderstandings between nations is direct
negotiations between the parties concerned, a process
which allows all
those directly concerned to show
flexibility and to manage the whole mechanism of
settlement by themselves.
On the basis of this principle, my Government
remains prepared to take up the misunderstandings over
the island of Abu Moosa directly with officials of the
United Arab Emirates and stands ready to enter into
negotiations without preconditions. We have shown our
good will by dispatching two high-level delegations,
including our Foreign Minister,
to the United Arab
Emirates to resolve these misunderstandings.
Unfortunately, our brothers in the United Arab
Emirates have failed to come to Tehran for a continuation
of high-level talks, despite their prior agreement to do so.
They have a standing invitation to bilateral
talks in
Tehran aimed at resolving the issue in a friendly and
neighbourly atmosphere. We have consistently underlined
the efficiency of this mechanism, and do not really see
any genuine utility in the public exercise of this issue in
international forums, including the General Assembly of
the United Nations.
Thirdly, what we need in the Persian Gulf region is
peace, tranquillity, stability, good-neighbourly relations,
understanding and fraternal sincerity and honesty. Our
region, unfortunately, has witnessed two destructive wars
and many skirmishes, and is still paying the price to
19
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
mitigate
miscalculations.
the
consequences
of
those wars
and
Fortunately, we have a history of cordial relations with
the United Arab Emirates, and we are confident
that
wisdom and prudence will ultimately prevail. We are
determined to maintain and promote brotherly and good-
neighbourly relations between our two countries.
Mr. Kamal (Pakistan): It was with great dismay that
my delegation heard the intervention of the representative
of Afghanistan earlier this afternoon.
Pakistan, as is well known, has all along supported the
Afghan cause, expressed its solidarity with the Afghans and
has made tremendous
the people of
Afghanistan.
sacrifices
for
the end of
Events in Afghanistan after
foreign
occupation have obviously been a source of deep
disappointment to us. Pakistan has been following a policy
of strict neutrality and non-interference in Afghanistan’s
internal affairs. We have no favourites in Afghanistan and,
therefore, have no preference for one group over another in
the intra-Afghan rivalries. We believe that the solution to
the Afghan problem has to emerge from the Afghans
themselves.
Being an immediate neighbour, Pakistan does,
however, have a vested interest in peace and stability in
Afghanistan; only that would enable the 1.6 million Afghan
refugees still in Pakistan to return to their homes. That is
why we have whole-heartedly supported the efforts of the
United Nations and the Organization of
the Islamic
Conference for peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan.
Pakistan is also ready to assist the brotherly Afghan parties,
in any way possible, to arrive at a peaceful and durable
political solution that could bring an end to the ongoing
fratricidal conflict.
The
is
internal affairs
allegation that Pakistan is
interfering in
Afghanistan’s
totally baseless and
unwarranted. Pakistan does not support any one group
against any other. The Talibans’ take-over of Herat without
a single shot being fired and without any bloodshed was
reflective of the Afghan people’s disenchantment with the
continuous violence in Afghanistan and with the regime in
Kabul. The Afghan representative’s attempt now to blame
Pakistan for Kabul’s failure in Herat and elsewhere is only
meant to cover up the internal political difficulties being
faced by a Government
that no longer has support or
legitimacy.
20
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
Reference has been made to the dastardly attack on
and burning down of the Pakistan embassy in Kabul
about four weeks ago — on 6 September 1995 — by a
mob of 3,000 persons, instigated and led by the Kabul
authorities. The embassy was burnt down, one staff
member was killed, and others, including the Ambassador
and the Defence Attaché, received serious wounds. The
attack took place despite
the warning we had
communicated to the Afghan Government a day before
the incident.
There is ample evidence to suggest that the attack
against
the Pakistani diplomatic mission was aided,
abetted and, in fact, executed by the Kabul authorities
themselves. This was a gross violation of the norms of
diplomatic behaviour, and it runs contrary to the Geneva
Convention of 1961. It deserves outright condemnation by
all. All Afghan leaders other than the regime in Kabul
have condemned it — and rightly so. That is why the
statement of Afghanistan’s Acting Defence Minister,
Mr. Yunnus Qanuni,
the Kabul authorities had
nothing to apologize for in respect of this incident is
extremely deplorable and runs totally contrary to the
traditional and fraternal
ties between the peoples of
Afghanistan and Pakistan.
that
The Afghan representative’s statement today and the
wild allegations it contains represent the irrational actions
of a regime that is desperately trying to cling to power
despite being disowned by its own population. Today it
controls no more than 5 out of 32 provinces, and even the
capital is being progressively surrounded by Afghans who
no longer accept this Government. It is obvious, therefore,
that
the authorities in Kabul no longer enjoy the
confidence of the people of Afghanistan and no longer
have the legitimacy that can come only from the support
of the population.
Let me remind the Assembly that, according to the
Islamabad Accord entered into by the political parties in
Afghanistan, the tenure of Professor Rabbani was to come
to an end in June 1994. That commitment was not met,
and the regime in Kabul had its rule extended by
questionable means for another six months, up to
December 1994. Even then the handing over of power did
not
then informed the
Secretary-General’s Special Representative, Ambassador
Mestiri, that he would hand over power on 21 March
1995. That did not happen — yet again, for the third time
round.
take place. Professor Rabbani
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Ambassador Mestiri, in his address to the donors’
briefing conference in Stockholm on 2 June 1995, said:
“General Masoud, Professor Rabbani and others
associated with them have been arguing that by
pushing the Taliban out of Kabul they had achieved
victory all over Afghanistan.”
The reality is that the base of the Government has become
narrower and could be said to represent only the Tajik
ethnic group. The Pushtuns, Uzbeks and Hazaras have been
alienated. These three ethnic groups, combined, represent
about 60 per cent of the population of Afghanistan.
representative clearly enunciates
The frank and candid assessment by the Secretary-
General’s
the facts
regarding the legitimacy of the Kabul regime. The attempt
now to implicate Pakistan is clearly designed to divert the
attention of the people of Afghanistan from the core
issue — the transfer of power. It is interesting to note that
only the Kabul regime is making these strange accusations.
None of all the other groups and parties in Afghanistan has
made any such allegations. One can wonder why.
The truth is that the regime in Kabul no longer has
legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghan population. We can
only suggest
the regime in Kabul
acknowledges the loss of popular support and hands over
power,
the quicker peace will return to that war-torn
country.
the quicker
that
Mr. Samhan (United Arab Emirates) (interpretation
from Arabic): I should like to comment on the statement
made by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran
regarding the Iranian occupation of three Arab islands —
Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Moussa — which were
part of the United Arab Emirates but were occupied by the
Islamic Republic of Iran in 1971. My delegation regrets
Iran’s repeated refusal of all the Emirates’ peace initiatives
which called upon the parties to resort
to bilateral
negotiations or to have recourse to the International Court
of Justice in order to settle the dispute.
Since the very beginning of Iran’s occupation of the
three islands, the United Arab Emirates has continued to
voice its rejection of that occupation and to call for putting
an end to it in the interests of good-neighbourliness and
confidence-building
in
consonance with the decisions and resolutions of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference, the principles of
the United Nations Charter and the rules of international
law. Despite this peaceful approach, the Islamic Republic
countries,
two
between
the
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
Iran persists in adopting measures that aim at
of
entrenching its military and civilian occupation of the
three islands.
More disappointing still
is Iran’s persistence in
trying to divert all efforts towards side issues that have
nothing whatsoever to do with the issue of putting an end
to its occupation. The aim, of course, is to impose a fait
accompli policy that flies in the face of the international
community, which does not accept the occupation of the
territory of others by force.
By the same token we should like to reaffirm that,
under the established rules of international law, Iran’s
occupation of the three islands does not in any way
change their legal status and, no matter how long it may
last, it will not give the occupying Power any jurisdiction
or confer upon it any sovereignty. The facts on the
ground and the constants of history which are amply
documented under our hand rebut the illegal claims of the
Iranian Government.
time and again,
Since 1929, Iran has tried,
to
purchase or to lease those islands from the Government
of the United Arab Emirates. This, by itself, refutes Iran’s
claims. We, therefore, must ask ourselves how could the
three islands be Iranian when the Government of Iran,
following the failure by Iran to purchase or lease them,
resorted to occupation and the killing and expulsion of
their indigenous population in 1971.
The polices of hegemony and the use of or threat of
force pursued by certain States to secure certain regional
gains at the expense of neighbouring countries no longer
has a place in the context of the international order that
upholds the principles of mutual respect between States
and of non-interference and non-intervention in the
internal affairs of other States, irrespective of the size of
any State’s territory or density of population.
In conclusion, we hope that the Government of Iran
will review its unacceptable policies which have been in
place for over 23 years now, and respond to the peace
initiatives put forward by my country, with the aim of
engaging in unconditional bilateral negotiations or of
21
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
having recourse to the International Court of Justice in
order to reach a just settlement to the dispute, to return the
islands to their rightful owners and, thereby, to re-establish
peace and justice in the region.
19th plenary meeting
4 October 1995
Mr. Osmani
(Afghanistan):
In relation to the
comments made by Pakistan, my delegation wishes to
reserve its right to make a statement in right of reply at a
subsequent meeting.
The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.
22
