United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
53rd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 8 November 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
Agenda item 15
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of
the Security Council
The President: This morning the General Assembly
will proceed to the election of five non-permanent members
of the Security Council to replace those members whose
term of office expires on 31 December 1995.
The five non-permanent outgoing members are the
following: Argentina, the Czech Republic, Nigeria, Oman
and Rwanda. These five States cannot be re-elected and
therefore their names should not appear on the ballot
papers.
Apart from the five permanent members, the Security
Council will
include in 1996 the following States:
Botswana, Germany, Honduras, Indonesia and Italy. The
names of those States, therefore, should not appear on the
ballot papers.
Of the five non-permanent members which will remain
in office in 1996 two are from Africa and Asia, one is from
Latin America and the Caribbean and two are from the
Group of Western European and Other States.
Consequently, pursuant to paragraph 3 of General
Assembly resolution 1991 A (XVIII) of 17 December
1963, the five non-permanent members should be elected
according to the following pattern: three from Africa and
Asia, one from Eastern Europe and one from Latin
America and the Caribbean. The ballot papers reflect this
pattern.
In accordance with the established practice, there is
an understanding to the effect that, of the three States to
be elected from Africa and Asia, two should be from
Africa and one from Asia.
I should like to inform the Assembly that
the
number of candidates, not exceeding the number of seats
to be filled, receiving the greatest number of votes and a
two-thirds majority of those present and voting will be
declared elected.
In the case of a tie vote for a remaining seat, there
will be a restricted ballot limited to those candidates
which have obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret
ballot, and there shall be no nominations.
95-86570 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
53rd plenary meeting
8 November 1995
I now call on the representative of South Africa as
Furthermore,
I have the honour
to inform the
from the
Chairman of the Group of African States.
Mr. Jele (South Africa): In my capacity as Chairman
of the African Group for the month of November 1995 I
have the honour to inform the General Assembly that the
candidatures of Guinea-Bissau and Egypt for election to the
two non-permanent seats on the Security Council for the
period 1996-1997 were endorsed by the African Group on
22 May 1995 and 31 October 1995 respectively.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Brunei Darussalam as Chairman of the Group of Asian
States.
Mr. Abdul Momin (Brunei Darussalam): As
Chairman of the Group of Asian States for the month of
November 1995 I have the honour to inform the General
Assembly that the Republic of Korea is the endorsed and
sole candidate for election to the non-permanent seat on the
Security Council allocated to the Asian region for the term
1996-1997.
The President: The representative of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea has asked to speak on a point
of order. I now call on that representative.
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea): The statement that has just been made by the
Chairman of
the Asian Group is not accurate. The
delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
has expressed its strong objection to the Asian candidate for
the Security Council. South Korea’s membership of the
Council would not contribute to peace and security on the
Korean Peninsula and in the region, as the Korean
Peninsula is still in a state of war.
My delegation requests Member States to pay serious
attention to the deteriorating situation on the Korean
Peninsula as a consequence of meaningless competition for
a Security Council seat.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Albania as Chairman of the Group of Eastern European
States.
Assembly that
Group — Albania and Poland.
there are two candidates
The President: I now call on the representative of
Bolivia as Chairman of the Group of Latin American and
Caribbean States.
Mr. Camacho Omiste (Bolivia) (interpretation from
Spanish): In my capacity as Chairman of the Latin
American and Caribbean Group for
the month of
November, I wish to inform the General Assembly that
the Group has endorsed the candidature of Chile for a
non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period
1996-1997.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Albania in his national capacity.
Mr. Kulla (Albania): I have the honour to introduce
the candidature of the Republic of Albania for the non-
permanent seat on the Security Council allocated to the
Eastern European Group for the term 1996-1997.
The Charter of the United Nations stipulates that, in
electing non-permanent members of the Security Council,
the General Assembly will pay due regard to the
contribution to the maintenance of international peace and
security and also to equitable geographical distribution.
My country meets these criteria required by this supreme
document of the United Nations. Albania has respected
the Charter and has actively cooperated with the
Organization. It has faithfully implemented the resolutions
of the General Assembly and those of the Security
Council. It has joined in all constructive initiatives in
favour of international peace and security and has been a
factor for stability in its region by promoting good-
neighbourliness.
Albania and the Albanians endeavour to ensure that
dialogue and understanding are the first and the main
means of resolving conflicts. My country is on the list of
States that contribute personnel to United Nations peace-
keeping operations, and we have taken measures to
participate further therein.
Mr. Kulla (Albania): In my capacity as Chairman of
the Eastern European Group for the current month, I have
the honour to inform the General Assembly that the Group
has not been in a position to endorse one candidate from
the Group for the non-permanent Security Council seat
allocated to it for the term 1996-1997.
Meanwhile, the Republic of Albania has discharged
its financial obligations to the Organization in respect of
both the regular budget and the peace-keeping operations.
The election of Albania would also serve to achieve
a more equitable geographical distribution in the
2
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
53rd plenary meeting
8 November 1995
membership of the Security Council. It is some years since
any country from our subregion has served on the Council.
I should like to stress that during the 40 years of its
membership of
the United Nations — since 1955 —
Albania has never served on the Council.
community of States. This is why we count on the
support of the membership of the United Nations.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Egypt.
Expressing my country’s readiness to continue on its
path of contributing to the maintenance of international
peace and security, I assure the Assembly that Albania is
ready to play its role in the Council, fully aware of the
responsibilities that rest on a non-permanent member of this
main organ of the United Nations.
Finally, I express the hope that Member States will
vote for the candidature of Albania.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Benin.
Mr. Mongbe (Benin) (interpretation from French): I
have the honour to reconfirm to the Assembly the decision
of the Government of Benin, already conveyed on various
occasions by correspondence,
to present Benin as a
candidate for one of the non-permanent Security Council
seats allocated to Africa for the biennium 1996-1997.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Poland.
Mr. Wlosowicz (Poland): I wish to confirm that
Poland is a candidate for a Security Council seat for the
term 1996-1997.
I should like to emphasize that six years ago we
expressed our willingness to serve on the Council during
the period 1996-1997, and we started our campaign a
couple of years ago. I have extensively presented our
candidature in meetings with Permanent Representatives
here, pointing out our involvement
in United Nations
activities
including peace-keeping
operations, to which we are among the largest contributors.
in different
fields,
Let me just mention that this time, in a way, will be
the first time for Poland in the Security Council. Although
we already served on the Council, nevertheless it was under
totally different political circumstances. This time, for the
first time in the history of the United Nations and the
history of Poland, we will have a chance to speak with our
own voice, and we want to use it for the benefit of the
the African Group for
Mr. Elaraby (Egypt): I would just like to make
reference to the statement made a few moments ago by
the Ambassador of South Africa in his capacity as
Chairman of
the month of
November. I would like also to refer to the letter received
by you, Sir, on 31 October from the representative of
Sierra Leone in his capacity as Chairman of the African
Group for the month of October, where he conveyed to
you that the African Group met at the ambassadorial level
and endorsed the candidature of Egypt for the non-
permanent seat allocated to North Africa.
The President: In accordance with the rules of
procedure, we shall proceed now to the election by secret
ballot, taking into account the statements made by the
representatives of the different delegations.
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now be
distributed.
I request representatives to use only those ballot
papers that have been distributed and to write on them the
names of the five States for which they wish to vote.
A ballot paper containing the names of more States
from the relevant
region than the number of seats
assigned to it will be declared invalid. Names, on a ballot
paper, of Member States that do not belong to that region
will not be counted.
the invitation of
At
the President, Mr. Aliyev
(Azerbaijan), Mr. Ok (Cambodia) and Mrs. Onanga
(Gabon) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and
resumed at 12 noon.
The President: The result of the voting for the
election of five non-permanent members of the Security
Council is as follows:
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
53rd plenary meeting
8 November 1995
Group A — African and Asian States
Group C — Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Egypt
Republic of Korea
Guinea-Bissau
Benin
Ghana
Tunisia
Group B — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Numbers of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Poland
Albania
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Chile
Mexico
177
1
176
7
169
113
168
1
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority,
the following States were elected non-permanent
members of the Security Council for a two-year
period beginning 1 January 1996: Chile, Egypt,
Guinea-Bissau, Poland and the Republic of Korea.
The President: I congratulate the States which have
been elected members of the Security Council, and I
thank the tellers for their assistance in this election.
That concludes our consideration of sub-item (a) of
agenda item 15.
The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m.
177
0
177
0
177
118
159
156
128
60
1
1
177
1
176
0
176
118
128
48
4
