United Nations
General Assembly
Fiftieth Session
30th plenary meeting
Thursday, 12 October 1995, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Freitas do Amaral
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Portugal)
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
Tentative programme of work
The President: Members will recall that the tentative
programme of work for the month of October has been
circulated in document A/INF/50/5. I should like to inform
Members that item 41, entitled “Support by the United
Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote
and consolidate new or restored democracies”, instead of
being considered on Tuesday, 31 October 1995, is now
scheduled for consideration on Friday, 10 November 1995.
Additionally, I should like to announce the tentative
the month of
for
programme of plenary meetings
November.
On Wednesday, 1 November, in the morning, the
Assembly will take up item 14, “Report of the International
Atomic Energy Agency”. On Thursday, 2 November, in the
morning, the Assembly will consider item 27, “Necessity of
ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
On Monday, 6 November, the Assembly will consider item
40, “Building a peaceful and better world through sport and
the Olympic ideal”.
On Tuesday, 7 November,
the
Assembly will take up item 21, “University for Peace”;
item 49, “Report of the International Tribunal for the
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations
of
International Humanitarian Law Committed in the
in the morning,
Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991”; and item
162, “Universal Congress on the Panama Canal”.
On Wednesday, 8 November, in the morning, the
Assembly will take up sub-item (a) of agenda item 15,
“Election of five non-permanent members of the Security
Council”.
On Friday, 10 November, the Assembly will begin
consideration of item 33, “International assistance for the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua: aftermath
of the war and natural disasters”, and following that it
will consider item 41, “Support by the United Nations
system of the efforts of Governments to promote and
consolidate new or restored democracies”.
On Monday, 13 November,
the
Assembly will take up item 47, “Question of equitable
representation on and increase in the membership of the
Security Council and related matters”.
in the morning,
On Monday, 20 November, under item 112 (b),
“Human rights questions, including alternative approaches
for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights
and fundamental freedoms”, the Assembly will hold a
special commemorative meeting to mark the end of the
United Nations Year for Tolerance.
On Tuesday, 21 November,
the Assembly will
consider item 152, “Review of the role of the Trusteeship
Council”.
95-86298 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
On Monday, 27 November,
the
Assembly will take up item 22, “Return or restitution of
cultural property to the countries of origin”.
in the morning,
On Wednesday, 29 November, in the afternoon, the
Assembly will consider item 42, “Question of Palestine”.
The lists of speakers for all the scheduled items is
now open. Furthermore,
to remind
representatives
the
for
Development Activities will be held in the morning of
Wednesday, 1 November, and of Thursday, 2 November.
The Conference will be opened by the Secretary-General.
I
Pledging Conference
should like
that
The announcement of voluntary contributions to the
1996 programmes of the United Nations Relief and Works
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East will take
place on Thursday, 30 November, in the morning.
This tentative schedule which I have just announced
will appear in the Journal and the verbatim record of the
meeting. Members are aware that there are a number of
items which have not yet been scheduled. I shall inform the
Assembly as
their
consideration have been fixed.
I shall also keep the
Assembly informed of any changes in the announced
schedule. The tentative programme of work of
the
Assembly for November will in due course be circulated in
an addendum to document A/INF/50/5.
appropriate dates
soon as
for
I should like to reiterate that I would hope to keep to
that schedule as closely as possible, so that the Assembly
may discharge its responsibilities in an orderly fashion.
In that context, I should like to remind members that
draft resolutions involving expenditure require more lead
time in order
to allow the Advisory Committee on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth
Committee to review the programme budget implications
before the Assembly takes action on such draft resolutions.
that
Bearing in mind also the fact
the financial
facing the Organization have resulted in
constraints
stringent measures concerning Secretariat services, I would
appeal to those representatives wishing to submit draft
resolutions to do so sufficiently in advance for the reasons
I have just mentioned and so that the membership has
adequate time to examine them.
2
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
Agenda item 153
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Economic Cooperation Organization: draft resolution
(A/50/L.1)
The President: I call on the representative of
Turkmenistan to introduce the draft resolution contained
in document A/50/L.1.
Mrs. Ataeva (Turkmenistan) (interpretation from
Russian): Mr. President, please allow me to begin my
statement by extending to you on behalf of the member
States of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO)
our sincere congratulations on your election to the
presidency of
the General
Assembly.
the fiftieth session of
As representative of the current Chairman of the
ECO Council of Ministers and Chairman of the Contact
Group of ECO member States at the United Nations, it is
my proud privilege to address the General Assembly on
an agenda item which is of vital importance to us in the
ECO region.
As representatives are well aware, the Economic
Cooperation Organization is a major regional grouping
devoted to the socioeconomic well-being of
its 10
member States located in a region of special geo-strategic
importance encompassing more than 7 million square
kilometres and inhabited by nearly 300 million people. In
this richly endowed region, the ECO is playing a pivotal
role, not only in the revival and consolidation of the
historic, cultural and economic links among our peoples,
but also in providing access for the newly independent
Republics of the former Soviet Union in Central Asia and
the Caucasus to the rest of
the world through the
territories of Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Turkey.
These Republics are currently going through a critical
phase of political and economic transformation and need
the assistance and cooperation of international community,
not only in the restructuring of their economic systems,
but
their political
independence.
consolidation of
also in the
My own country, Turkmenistan, under the dynamic
leadership of President Niyazov, has opted to pursue a
policy of positive neutrality, which is enshrined in its
Constitution. It is noteworthy that on 16 March 1995 the
Majlis (Parliament) of Turkmenistan adopted a decree in
which the people of Turkmenistan endorsed the principle
of positive neutrality on the part of Turkmenistan as the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
and
identity
historical
basis of its foreign policy in full accordance with the
interests of the State, its prospects for development, the
national,
of
Turkmenistan and the mentality of Turkmen people. This
policy was welcomed by the Heads of State or Government
of ECO member countries on the occasion of the Third
ECO Summit Meeting held in Islamabad in March this
year.
geographical
Since then, a number of other countries have
expressed their support
for Turkmenistan’s status of
positive neutrality, which we hope will receive formal
recognition at the current session of the General Assembly.
Meanwhile, Turkmenistan continues to play a pivotal role
in promoting the ECO as a progressive and outward-looking
organization ready to cooperate with every country and
region in the world on the basis of mutual benefit.
Turkmenistan will be hosting the next ECO summit
meeting,
in Ashkhabad in April 1996 — a striking
manifestation of its commitment to the ECO’s goals and
objectives.
For its part, the ECO has come a long way in pursuit
of its objectives since its expansion from a tripartite entity
into a 10-member regional organization three years ago. It
has adopted two comprehensive plans of action — the
Quetta Plan of Action and the Istanbul Declaration, which
determine our long-term perspectives and define sectoral
priorities with concrete targets to be reached by the year
2000. At
the
development of a modern transport and communications
infrastructure linking the member States with each other
and with the outside world. A project-oriented outline plan
adopted at Alma-Ata in October 1993 is currently being
implemented at the national, bilateral and regional levels.
these action plans
the heart of
lies
Early this year Turkmenistan hosted a meeting of the
ECO Council of Ministers,
in which several regional
arrangements were finalized, paving the way for the signing
of final documents on the establishment of important ECO
institutions on the occasion of the Third ECO Summit
Meeting, in Islamabad. These institutions include the ECO
Trade and Development Bank,
the ECO Reinsurance
Company, the ECO Shipping Company, ECO Air, the ECO
Cultural Institute and the ECO Science Foundation. In
addition,
intraregional commercial
interaction, two agreements — one on transit trade and the
other on simplification of visa procedures for businessmen
of ECO countries — were signed.
to facilitate greater
With this process in place, we are now entering the
phase of implementation of our programmes. To achieve
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
the best results, and for the sake of a coordinated pursuit
of our objectives in harmony with global trends, we attach
great importance to working closely with other regional
and international organizations, particularly the United
Nations and its agencies that are active in the field of
social and economic development.
The United Nations and the Economic Cooperation
Organization, working together on the basis of mutual
cooperation, can greatly advance the realization of our
common objectives in the ECO region. Substantive
cooperation between the ECO and the United Nations has
already begun. For example, several joint projects have
been developed between the ECO and the Economic and
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. Indeed, some
of these have already been implemented. Likewise, we
contemplate many joint activities with the United Nations
Children’s Fund, the United Nations Population Fund and
the United Nations Development Programme. Details of
these joint efforts of ECO and United Nations agencies
can be found in the explanatory memorandum relating to
the draft resolution being considered under this agenda
item.
What we need at this stage is to develop a joint
strategy for closer cooperation and coordination between
agencies of the ECO and the United Nations with a view
to coordinating activities and optimizing the opportunities
offered by the vast human and material resources of the
ECO region. Adoption of
resolution and
inclusion of the question of cooperation between the
United Nations
the Economic Cooperation
Organization as a regular item on the agenda of General
Assembly sessions would indeed be a step in the right
direction and would establish a reliable mechanism for
monitoring the progress in that cooperation in the years
ahead.
the draft
and
To the best of my knowledge,
the countries
sponsoring this draft resolution believe that it will have
no budgetary implications for the United Nations.
for his
the Secretary-General,
Finally, I should like, on behalf of the countries of
the ECO, to thank His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali,
support and
cooperation in promoting our common aims and economic
development objectives in the ECO region. We hope that
in our future joint action he will, likewise, take all the
necessary measures to establish close liaison between the
two organizations, as well as to determine new areas of
collaboration, in keeping with the needs and resources of
our region.
3
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
We wish the General Assembly every success in its
deliberations on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary.
transport and communications, trade and investment and
energy as priority areas.
The President: In accordance with General Assembly
resolution 48/2 of 13 October 1993, I now call on the
Secretary-General
Economic Cooperation
Organization.
the
of
Mr. Ahmad (Secretary-General of the Economic
Cooperation Organization): I should like, at the outset, to
extend to you, Sir, my sincere felicitations on your
unanimous election to the presidency of
the General
Assembly at this historic fiftieth anniversary session.
I should like also to express our special thanks and
appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali, for his dedicated efforts to promote the aims and
objectives of the United Nations and its cooperation with
regional organizations, including the Economic Cooperation
Organization (ECO), which I am privileged to be
representing today in this forum.
The ECO is a purely economic organization seeking
to promote multifaceted regional cooperation with a view
to accelerating the socio-economic well-being of
its
member States. It comprises 10 States, including — besides
Afghanistan,
Iran, Pakistan and Turkey — six newly
independent Republics of the former Soviet Union. These
Republics are currently engaged in consolidating the fruits
of
their political and economic independence through
market-oriented structural
reforms and security-related
mutual confidence-building measures. One of them —
Turkmenistan — is even espousing a policy of positive
neutrality. They surely need the full support of
the
international community for their endeavours — particularly
in terms of liberal foreign investment and market-access
opportunities.
The ECO, for its part, is giving these Republics a
helping hand, not only by facilitating the smooth transition
of
their economies but also by providing them with
infrastructural links with the rest of the world through the
road, railway and shipping networks of Afghanistan, Iran,
Pakistan and Turkey.
Within the first three years of its expansion in 1992,
the ECO has embarked upon a comprehensive cooperation
programme based on two important plans of action — the
Quetta Plan of Action and the Istanbul Declaration, both
representing a comprehensive blueprint of our socio-
economic development strategy, with special focus on
4
To best accomplish its objectives, the Economic
Cooperation Organization attaches the utmost importance
to its cooperative relationship with the United Nations and
its agencies, particularly those engaged in the socio-
economic development activities of our region. Two years
back, on the eve of the forty-eighth session of the General
Assembly, the ECO acquired observer status with the
United Nations. Since then, several major United Nations
agencies have shown interest in ECO activities and are
co-sponsoring some of
its projects. These agencies
include the Economic and Social Commission for Asia
and the Pacific (ESCAP), the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA), the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO), the United Nations International
Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) and the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with which
the ECO has
already established institutionalized
cooperative relationships.
In view of the growing trend towards interregional
the ECO is also pursuing an annual
cooperation,
subregional
consultative process with Asia’s major
organizations — namely, the Association of South-East
Asian Nations (ASEAN), the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the South Pacific
Forum. Similarly, contacts have also been established
with the European Union, with both sides seeking to
identify a mutually acceptable framework and possible
areas of cooperation.
between
the
For us it
is indeed heartening that
the General
Assembly is considering this important agenda item on
cooperation
Economic Cooperation
Organization and the United Nations. We look forward to
the unanimous adoption of draft resolution A/50/L.1,
which envisages specific measures for strengthening
cooperation between the United Nations
and the
Economic Cooperation Organization,
including the
establishment of a regular consultative and monitoring
framework, and calls for a report on the subject to be
submitted for the General Assembly’s consideration at its
fifty-first session.
In conclusion, we wish every success for
this
session, which, coinciding as it does with the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, must revive the hope
and confidence of the international community in the
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
ideals of peace, development and social progress throughout
the world.
The President: There are no other speakers on this
item.
generous choices in the service of justice and progress —
as steward of the loftiest Assembly in the world. I would
also like to say how delighted the International Court of
Justice was to learn that an eminent professor of public
law had been placed at the head of the Assembly.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/50/L.1.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft
resolution A/50/L.1?
Draft resolution A/50/L.1 was adopted (resolution
50/1).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of the
General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda
item 153?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 13
Report of the International Court of Justice (A/50/4)
The President: The report of the International Court
of Justice now before the Assembly (A/50/4) covers the
period from 1 August 1994 to 31 July 1995.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note of
the report of the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The President: I call on Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui,
President of the International Court of Justice.
(interpretation from French):
Mr. Bedjaoui (President of the International Court of
Justice)
I am sure that
Portugal, its wealth of intelligent citizens notwithstanding,
was not long in doubt as to the choice of a politician to be
put forward for election by the nations of the world to the
office of President of the General Assembly. Beyond your
qualifications, Mr. President, as Prime Minister, Minister or
Head of a democratic party — posts that you have occupied
or still occupy — I am sure it was your standing as an
academic, intellectual and man of culture that first and
foremost determined that choice.
The international community is honoured to welcome
you — a man of political action, of course, but also a
thinker and a humanist whose life has been marked by
Moreover, how could the Court not rejoice in your
election when, in an unprecedented gesture, in your very
first statement as President on 19 September last, you
made a point of placing the work of the United Nations
under the banner of the primacy of international law and
paying tribute to the Court as one of the principal organs
of the United Nations, dedicated specifically to the
promotion of respect for that branch of law that you have
never stopped teaching to and inculcating in new
generations? The Court cannot
its
gratitude, through me, when you have issued such a lofty
appeal to all States to accept the jurisdiction of our Court.
to express
fail
You are presiding over the Assembly of the peoples
of the United Nations at an exceptional moment in its
existence: its admirable fiftieth anniversary. I am sure that
you will lead the commemoration with all the wisdom
and mastery that we expect. I offer you my warmest
wishes for the complete success of this exalted task that
is made to your measure.
Giving the floor to the President of the International
Court of Justice when the Court’s report
is under
consideration has become a tradition that the General
Assembly has accepted with good grace for some years
now. To me, this gesture seems to have symbolic value.
In this year in which we are commemorating the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, I would like to lay
particular emphasis upon the extremely special nature of
this regular contact, an exemplary expression of the close
collaboration that should unite the principal organs of the
United Nations as they strive to attain the purposes of the
Organization. However, it is also striking testimony to the
interest that the General Assembly — and through it, the
entire international community — takes in the activities
of the Court. Accordingly, I am pleased to thank the
General Assembly deeply for again being so good as to
devote a few minutes of its precious time to listening to
the President of the International Court of Justice.
The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations — and the fiftieth anniversary of the
International Court of Justice in a few months’ time —
provides me with an opportunity to share with the
Assembly, and with each of the States represented here,
5
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
some thoughts on the current role and on the future of the
principal judicial organ that I have the honour to represent.
When confronted by the large number of conflicts in
the world of today that fall outside the jurisdiction of the
International Court of Justice,
the general public is
frequently led to wonder: exactly what is an international
judge supposed to do?
To wonder about the role and the future of permanent
international justice is to try to find a proper answer to that
kind of question. It is to wonder how the “scales of justice”
can operate and extend their influence when not backed up
by a powerful “sword” — if I may transpose into the
international sphere the familiar thought patterns of the
municipal order which has accustomed us to the trilogy —
so dear to Montesquieu — of legislative, executive and
judicial powers. One is once again led to wonder whether,
given the requirements of the municipal “model”, one can
really conceive, in the international order, of a judicial
power in an international community whose real existence
is a matter of some doubt in certain quarters and in which
there is, moreover, neither an authentic legislature nor any
real power of enforcement.
justice. Indeed,
One could go on asking questions of this kind until
one reached the point of paradox, such are the difficulties
involved in resolving the mystery surrounding the future of
the International Court of
international
Justice, as the principal
judicial organ of the United
Nations, is no more than one part of a whole, a mere
cog — albeit an important cog — in a complex mechanism
conceived in accordance with a set of precise specifications.
One might properly be led to think that the future of that
organ naturally depends upon the future of the United
Nations. That is obviously a sensible line of argument but
none the less it implies a simplification which has to be
moderated in the light of the point I would now like to
make. It would seem that
the current situation of the
International Court of Justice is characterized by a certain
singularity — I would even say a certain paradox. This
relates to the good fortune currently attending the Court at
the very same time as the mother Organization as a whole
is confronting considerable difficulties on a variety of
fronts.
The world legislative power exists only in outline
form. It is represented by this distinguished Assembly,
which is strengthened by its composition representing as it
does all the peoples of the United Nations, but which can
only legislate by means of resolutions that are not, as a
general rule, legally binding. As for the Security Council,
6
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
which is constitutionally free from any such limitation, it
may doubtless be compared to a quasi-world executive
power but, as it has scarcely recovered from the paralysis
to which it was long condemned by the cold war, it is
currently experiencing new difficulties in maintaining and
consolidating international peace and security. However,
it
is in this context of the laborious building of the
proclaimed new world order that States, and even national
public opinion, are turning to the Court in a singular but
encouraging trend.
Now that we are engaged in a stock-taking exercise,
the Court’s stock seems at present to be in better shape
than that of some others. It would seem that the judicial
function may — on an international level as well — lay
claim to a necessary measure of
autonomy and
independence. When the founding fathers of the 1945
Charter forged close structural links between the Court
and the United Nations, they obviously intended that the
Court should be fully integrated into the new system for
the peaceful settlement of disputes that had just been
devised, but they did not in any way wish to deprive the
Court of
the autonomy indispensable to the sound
administration of justice. In that regard, they refrained
from making any fundamental changes in the situation
brought into being by their predecessors at the League of
Nations with respect to the former Permanent Court.
It would however be unforgivably imprudent — if
not totally disproportionate — to claim to be able to
predict a separate future for the United Nations and for
the Court, as their mutual and indissociable fate remains
sealed by the Charter, that Magna Carta of mankind.
For the time being, and to be more cautious, my aim
is to look briefly at the Court’s current good fortune and
to explore the reasons for it. I shall then consider the
improvements that could well be made to a judicial
institution that will soon be 50 years old, to enable it to
meet the new and numerous challenges with which it is
confronted.
As I have just said, the International Court of Justice
has been thriving for the past few years. Never before has
it been so much in demand, never before has it been so
active. There seems to be every indication that
that
tendency will only grow stronger in the years to come.
in the
Indeed, certain profound changes that have come
about
community and, more
particularly, by the end of a world divided into two camps
as a result of the cold war are still too recent to have
international
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
full positive effect upon
been able to have their
international
judicial settlement. This new period was
ushered in by a momentous event, the fall of the Berlin
Wall — on a memorable day in November 1989. However
it does seem that on all sides, other walls which have been
erected in the minds of some of the world’s leaders and
which
additional
impediments to the work of the Court are now also
beginning to fall — to such an extent that the States parties
to the 10 contentious cases now on the Court’s general list
are located on every continent.
constituted
previously
so many
The International Court of
Justice is currently
displaying unprecedented vitality. In line with the unusual
number of cases of which it is seized, the Court has seen its
jurisdiction steadily expand, both in terms of the number of
declarations made and in terms of the compromissory
clauses included in treaties — or in terms of the withdrawal
of reservations to such clauses. Moreover,
the Court’s
current vitality is not
to be measured merely by the
yardstick of the confidence currently placed in it by States;
it must also be assessed in accordance with the way in
which States comply with its decisions.
But what is the source of the Court’s new vitality?
References have been made in turn, and with a greater
or lesser degree of relevance, to the decisions reached by
the Court in certain cases, to the end of communism, the
greater trust placed in the Court by third world countries,
and a more widespread psychological
rallying to the
applicable international law.
I must stress that the Court’s success has not derived
from the “transactional justice” or “compromise justice”
which has sometimes been ascribed to it. It is of course true
to say that, in certain cases, the seizing of the Court has
been no more than a means of pressure exercised by one
party upon another in a bid to lead it
to a political
settlement, seen as preferable to a judicial decision.
Under such circumstances, the Court, fully aware of
its responsibilities as an integral part of the system of
peaceful settlement of international disputes established
under the Charter, has displayed judicial realism and has
considered itself obligated to assist in bringing the parties
closer together, while not at any time departing from its
primary task of applying the law. However that in no way
means that the Court hands down “judgments of Solomon”.
Far from it. It goes without saying that it has never tried to
do anybody any favours; nor has it ever compromised the
integrity of its judicial function or the principles governing
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
its mission. Its strength, and doubtless its success, will
have been that it knows how to do justice with full legal
rectitude, with full intellectual honesty and in a spirit of
total independence, but, for all that, without shutting itself
away in an ivory tower or failing to take account of the
facts of life.
is called upon to settle:
The vitality of the Court can be explained. The
International Court of Justice ultimately has the strengths
of its weaknesses — or, if you prefer, the virtue of its
principal vice. The international judicial function still
the international society whose
bears the image of
disputes it
it operates on a
consensual basis. The success of the Court may well be
due precisely to the fact that its role seems ultimately to
be fairly well adapted to the concerns and the system of
values predominating in the States to which it is open.
Has not consensualism become, more than ever, a value
in which to take refuge in a society of States that is still
resistant to the advances of supranationalism?
Of course, States may undertake in advance to
accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court, thus
giving it what may be described as a free hand, just as
they give a free hand to the Security Council when they
accede to the Charter. However, such a comparison
immediately requires one to relativize, in so far as the
abandonment of sovereignty conceded in each case is not
done under
identical conditions, or with identical
consequences. There can be said to be a far greater
exercise of free will in a State’s decision to accept the
jurisdiction of the Court than in a decision to submit to
the decisions of the Security Council.
Another partial reason for the present good fortune
of the Court might be found in a wider context, that of
the general development of international relations. It
would appear to be a truth borne out by experience that
legal settlement is more widely supported, and even more
sought after, when the international atmosphere is less
tense. The counterpart proof is provided by the fact that
it was during the periods of extreme international tension
in the cold war that the Court was bereft of cases and
could not perform its function. Moreover, is it not true to
say that tension per se, without any clearly defined object,
generally prevented the emergence of specific legal
disputes, which are the only ones appropriate for
submission to the Court?
However,
this argument must be treated with
caution, for it is no secret that the disappearance of the
bipolar international order has not resulted in the creation
7
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
of a peaceful world, since the world of freedom which has
succeeded it is also more fragmented and uncertain.
Be that as it may, if it is to guarantee its future, the
Court needs new means to enable it
the new
challenges with which it will be confronted in the coming
years.
to meet
Before briefly outlining some of these means, let me
make two introductory observations, which seem to me as
self-evident as they are fundamental and which seem also
to govern the future direction of the Court. The first is that,
although the Charter brought about progress for permanent
international jurisdiction, that progress was not as decisive
in this field as it was, for example, in the political sphere.
With the major changes that occurred on the world stage
after the Second World War and the outlawing of the use
of force, the overall profile of the political organs of the
United Nations and the links and relations between these
organs have been fundamentally reshaped and streamlined.
On the other hand, the judicial organ, the International
Court of Justice, has, barring a few details, virtually
remained a replica or a continuation of the Permanent Court
of International Justice. In other words, from the League of
Nations to the United Nations, the political organs would
appear to have matured more than the judicial organ,
which, 73 years after its birth, remains essentially the same.
My second introductory observation concerns the new
functions and powers that have been granted to the United
Nations and to many other international organizations since
1945. It cannot be claimed today, in 1995, that the world
Organization plays the same role, is vested with the same
mission and has the same legal status as its predecessor in
the 1920s. Still more, at a time when international
organizations have more legal means at their disposal —
which, admittedly, they do not always use — in order to
become full players in international relations, the State,
traditionally the exclusive subject of these international
relations, is undergoing internal and international changes
which affect this traditional role of solo player.
It is clear that these new situations create new needs
and that the future of the International Court of Justice will
be measured by its ability to win a status which is not
simply a replica of the status of the former Permanent
Court of International Justice. There can be no doubt that
adjustments are necessary.
These adjustments must first of all be made to the
contentious function of the Court. The Court’s jurisdiction
ratione personae has remained frozen, as it were, since
8
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
1922. The Court is open only to States. Today, when
intergovernmental organizations have grown up,
is
important to give them access to contentious procedure.
it
States, subjects traditionally described as primary or
necessary components of the international legal order, are
in reality no longer the only players in international
relations or the only interlocutors where peace-keeping is
concerned. International life shows us every single day
that at this level greater account must be taken of other
entities, notably the international organizations. Access to
the Court’s contentious procedure, currently reserved for
States alone, may therefore now seem too narrow. Among
the remedies found for these shortcomings has been the
incorporation into certain treaties, with which members
will be familiar, of ad hoc clauses laying down that, in
the event of a dispute between the international
organization and the States
that
organization will
for an advisory
opinion, which the two parties agree will have a decisive
or binding effect. The technique referred to as that of
compulsory advisory opinions, whose very name
underlines its singularity, is, however, no more than a
stopgap which cannot be a substitute for full access by
organizations with international legal personality to the
contentious procedure of the Court.
specified therein,
the Court
request
On the other hand, it would not seem that, where the
Court’s jurisdiction rationae materiae in the context of
contentious procedure is concerned,
there are any
measures to be taken with a view to increasing accession
to the optional clause of compulsory jurisdiction. To date,
59 States have acceded to the clause;
this number,
compared with the total number of Member States of the
Organization, represents a ratio of one third, which has
not appreciably changed since 1945. I fear that this ratio
cannot be significantly improved, unless, of course, there
is a spectacular momentum in international relations.
When President Mikhail Gorbachev called upon the five
permanent member States of the Security Council to set
an example by submitting their disputes
to the
International Court, this aroused great interest, which,
regrettably, quickly waned. The five members held a
number of meetings at the legal adviser level with a view
to drawing up a list of subjects which the Court would be
likely to entertain in the event of a dispute. But no
agreement was reached.
This
is, after all,
the natural and inevitable
consequence of the conception of international relations
which still prevails today. States remain legitimately
attached to the political and diplomatic freedom available
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
to them to settle their disputes in line with their own
interests and prevailing circumstances. All they want is to
see all existing procedures
relating to the peaceful
settlement of disputes open to them. And this, after all, is
what counts.
Moreover, since every case has its political aspects
and its legal aspects, it is difficult a priori to ask States to
draw a distinction, in general and definitive terms, between
cases which it would be desirable to submit to the Court
and those which it would be appropriate to settle by other
peaceful means. It is the States which must choose. This is
why it seems so rash to try and predict which categories of
cases could be submitted to the Court in the future.
The desire for the International Court of Justice to be
better known by all, so that it can be better utilized and
play a greater role in the daily life of ministeries and
international organizations, has often been expressed. To
this end, some jurists have suggested that it should be
seized of small cases, whose rapid settlement would enable
it to become part of the mechanics of international relations
in the everyday life of peoples. This is an interesting idea,
but it is, in fact, an unrealistic one; States and international
organizations cannot contemplate mobilizing the heavy and
complex procedural apparatus of the International Court of
Justice for small cases, nor expose themselves to expenses
which would seem substantial for such modest issues.
Other jurists have contended, on the contrary, that it
would rather tend to be cases of moderate importance
which would, by nature, be suitable for submission to the
Court, such as, for example, the existence, the scope or the
limits of States’ rights of jurisdiction, in particular where
land borders or maritime delimitations are concerned.
In reality, all these approaches, however ingenious
they may be, are not part of the political will of States,
which remains the only objective determining factor of the
Court’s activity. Today, the Court is not seized of minor
issues, nor is it seized only of disputes of moderate
importance. On the contrary, it is seized of a series of vital
issues ranging from the application of the Convention on
the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide
to the lawfulness of the use of nuclear weapons, a question
with which this Assembly is very familiar.
As regards the advisory jurisdiction of the Court, it
seems that thought should also be given to widening its
field of application ratione personae. The Secretariat,
represented by the Secretary-General, is to date — and I
have stated this on other occasions — the only principal
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
organ of the United Nations not authorized to request an
advisory opinion of the Court on any legal question
related to its activity in the service of the Organization.
the group of
A broadening of
international
organizations authorized to request opinions might also
usefully be considered, admitting certain organizations
that do not fall within the present definition in the
Charter, but whose access to the advisory procedure
would be desirable for various reasons. The authorization
of access to this procedure might also be extended to
include intergovernmental organizations with a more or
less universal
the World Trade
Organization or the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons, and regional
intergovernmental
organizations that work for the maintenance of peace.
such as
status,
Lastly,
should be given serious
the question of the participation of non-
governmental organizations in the Court’s advisory
procedure
study. Those
organizations are today important bodies representing
world public opinion. Many of them enjoy permanent
consultative status with the principal organs of the United
Nations. They may now have access to the Security
Council or the General Assembly. But this is not the case
of the Court.
In conclusion, the future of the International Court
of Justice depends on many factors which, to a large
extent, elude the control of the Court
itself. These
include: first,
the emergence of certain categories of
conflicts which are called internal but which have clear
international repercussions, and which international law
does not yet cover except in a very fragmentary fashion;
secondly, internal and external changes in States which
affect their traditional role as key players in international
relations;
international
intergovernmental organizations on the world stage,
including with respect to judicial settlement; fourthly, the
growing place of non-governmental organizations, voicing
the wishes of an international public opinion more
concerned with and motivated by world affairs; and, last
but not least, recognition of the essential role that the
Court must play in sanctioning a form of international law
governing a world and a society of law.
emergence
thirdly,
the
of
The President (interpretation from French): I would
like to tell the President of the International Court of
Justice and all the members of the Assembly that I will
do everything in my power to respond, in carrying out my
duties, to the lofty and demanding portrait which he has
presented of me.
9
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
feels at
learning of
the activities of
Mr. Lamamra (Algeria) (interpretation from French):
The pleasure that any jurist or practitioner of international
relations
the
International Court of Justice is, to my mind, for many
reasons all the greater when the report of the Court is
presented by President Mohammed Bedjaoui, who instils
into it such faith, conviction and commitment, and delivers
it with outstanding eloquence. The delegation of Algeria is
very pleased to extend a warm welcome to the Assembly to
the President of the International Court of Justice, to the
distinguished judges accompanying him, and to the
Registrar, Mr. Eduardo Valencia-Ospina. It appreciates the
opportunity for the General Assembly to assess, year after
year,
the Court’s authority and the
strengthening of its role, for the greater good of the
international community as a whole.
the assertion of
Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui, whose name, renown and
work are intimately linked with the noble objective of
strengthening the rule of law based on justice and equity,
has shared with the Assembly his exemplary reflections,
which will naturally find their proper place in the plans
being developed by Member States with a view to
launching the United Nations into the next century with the
certainty of a future that is brighter than the tumultuous
past 50 years of its existence.
When we think of the past, we remember with
emotion all the jurists who never gave up hope of blazing
a pathway for international law through the minefields of
relations based on force and power politics. Among them,
I wish to mention Judges Nicolaï Tarassov, Roberto Ago
and José María Ruda, who died recently and who will
always be remembered and honoured by the community of
jurists for their erudition, conscience, honesty and open
minds.
The recent election of Mrs. Rosalyn Higgins as a
judge on the Court
is a very hopeful sign that by
welcoming this great advocate of the rights of peoples and
of human rights, along with judges Vereshchetin and Ferrari
Bravo, the Court will be able to tap its full potential.
It is a well-known fact that among the cold war’s
many, even damaging, effects, impeding friendship and
harmony among nations, was the adverse effect it had on
the promotion of
justice and the very
perception long held by States of
the capacity and
limitations of the Court in terms of regulating international
relations in a judicial capacity. It is true that certain terms
used in the very Statute of the Court to describe a given
source of law, as well as certain aberrations in case law,
international
10
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
were enough to sow doubts as to the Court’s readiness to
pick up the deep pulsations of today’s international
society, even though advisory opinions and far-reaching
rulings have proved full well that the International Court
of Justice had, on many an occasion, been able to go
beyond the political situation and to demonstrate its strict
observance of the requirements of justice and law.
Today, when the international political situation
opens up vast prospects for frequent recourse to the
jurisdiction of the Court, anachronisms, conservative
tendencies and all kinds of interests unfortunately prevent
the total flourishing of an international judicial order
binding on all, beginning with the most powerful among
us.
But, along with the jurisdiction of the Court
in
contentious cases, a jurisdiction whose extension and
expansion depend on individual sovereignties, there is
enormous potential for turning to the Court for advice,
but the principal competent United Nations organs have
not always made full use of this. From this viewpoint, the
discussions now under way with regard to the reform of
the Security Council will not be sufficiently coherent or
exhaustive unless and until they take fully into account
the untapped and unexplored resources inherent
in
constitutional control by the International Court of Justice
of the Council’s acts. Besides, action by the Court may
also prove to make a substantial contribution to a large-
scale effort at preventive diplomacy.
international
cooperation for peace
On this fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, all
legitimate ambition as regards the strengthening of the
fabric of
and
development or the strengthening of the system for
collective security and the peaceful
settlement of
international disputes must involve the International Court
of Justice. At the same time, the General Assembly must
always be solicitous of this principal organ when it comes
to preserving the dignity of eminent international judges
and their staff and when human and material resources
are required to enhance the efficacy of this institution and
to promote good and diligent
administration of
international justice.
Mr. Yoogalingam (Malaysia): My delegation would
like to thank the President of the International Court of
Justice for presenting the report of the Court for the
period 1 August 1994 to 31 July 1995. In studying the
report, my delegation notes that
its composition and
structure are similar to those of last year’s report.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
We congratulate the President of the International
Court of Justice for his excellent exposé, in his introduction
of the annual report, of the issues facing the Court. The
international community is truly fortunate to have a jurist
of such eminence presiding over the Court. My delegation
also wishes to take this opportunity to express our sincere
condolences to the families of the late Judges Nicolaï
Tarassov and Roberto Ago, former Judge and President
José María Ruda, and former Judge ad hoc, Mrs. Suzanne
Bastid. Their meritorious service during their terms of
office will always be remembered and appreciated.
Similarly, we wish to express our congratulations to Sir
Robert Jennings on his long, dedicated and exemplary
service. To the newly elected judges, Vladlen Vereshchetin,
Luigi Ferrari Bravo and Rosalyn Higgins, we extend our
congratulations.
it has become increasingly clear that
As the United Nations commemorates its fiftieth
anniversary,
the
multilateral system needs to be reformed. This has been
reflected in the statements made by our leaders in this
Assembly in the last two weeks. In this context, there is an
obvious need for a review of the role and composition of
the International Court of Justice, given its fundamental
importance as the principal judicial organ of the United
Nations.
My delegation notes that there has been increasing
recourse to the Court by Member States over the years.
This is a positive sign and augurs well for the future of the
Court. The International Court of Justice has an important
role to play in the promotion of peace and harmony among
the nations and peoples of the world. The processes
provided for under the Statute of the International Court of
Justice advance the rule and role of international
law.
However, much still remains to be done before full respect
for international law is achieved.
While we have always expressed our confidence in the
International Court of Justice, my delegation is of the belief
that it has yet to realize its full potential. Article 96 of the
Charter of the United Nations provides that the General
Assembly or the Security Council may request the Court to
give an advisory opinion on any legal question. We would
like to see greater use made by the General Assembly and
the Security Council of the Court as a source for advisory
opinion. In addition, the General Assembly and the Security
Council not only should utilize the Court as a source of
interpretation of the relevant applicable law, but should also
refer controversial decisions to the Court for review.
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
The Security Council was established as a principal
organ of the United Nations. The International Court of
Justice was established as another principal organ of the
United Nations. There are undoubted linkages between the
Security Council and the International Court of Justice.
Both these organs, with their important tasks, should be
representative of
today’s global community. As we
continue with our efforts to reform and restructure the
Security Council, it is equally pertinent to review the
composition of the International Court of Justice.
For my delegation, the views expressed by some
members that the rights, status and prerogatives of the
permanent members of the Security Council cannot be
altered are inconsistent with the provisions of the Charter.
The fact that some of the permanent members of the
Security Council should seek to assume similar rights in
other organizations of the United Nations is even more
unacceptable, considering that there are no provisions to
this effect in the Charter.
It
that
is vital
the role and composition of the
International Court of Justice be carefully considered
within the context of the review and reform of global
institutions. We should benefit from the current collective
desire to reform and revitalize these institutions, including
the
Justice. A revitalized
International Court of Justice can play its role more
effectively in the advancement of international law and
justice.
International Court of
of
the
Mr. De La Pedraja (Mexico) (interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation expresses its thanks to the
President
Justice,
Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui, for his lucid presentation of
the report of the Court. We are grateful for the high
quality of his comments. They undoubtedly enrich the
work of this session.
International Court
of
We heard with deep sorrow the news of the death of
Judges Nikolaï Tarassov, Roberto Ago and José María
Ruda, as well as that of Professor Suzanne Bastid. They
were outstanding jurists who contributed with talent and
hard work to the cause of international law. We pay
tribute to their memory.
The judges elected to fill the vacancies on the Court
during the period covered by the report, Vladlen
Vereshchetin, Luigi Ferrari Bravo and Rosalyn Higgins,
confirm the excellence of the composition of our principal
judicial organ. In particular, we express our satisfaction at
the election of Rosalyn Higgins, the first woman who is
11
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
the
a permanent member of the Court. We hope that
international community’s objective of seeing a larger
number of women in international judicial organs will make
further headway in the future.
The presentation of the report of the International
Court of Justice before the General Assembly is of vital
importance. Indeed, in recent years Mexico has stressed the
need for the members of the Assembly to reflect on its
importance. This exercise gives Member States
the
opportunity of understanding the judicial work of the Court,
and it gives the Court the opportunity of forging closer
bonds of cooperation and communication with the
Assembly.
My delegation would have appreciated having more
time to study the report of the Court. We respectfully urge
the Secretariat and the Court to ensure that in future the
document will be distributed far enough in advance of its
consideration here. We are certain that in this way the
dialogue will become more useful and fruitful.
are
convinced that
Respect for and due compliance with the norms of
international law are and have been one of Mexico’s main
commitments. We
international
coexistence based on respect for the fundamental norms of
law and justice is the best guarantee of peace. Hence, in
this and other forums we are promoting the codification and
progressive development of international
law, and we
support all those activities that result in the strengthening of
the International Court of Justice.
The number of cases now before the Court
is
undoubtedly encouraging. More and more States are
considering the Court as a viable alternative means of
resolving their disputes. At the same time, as has been
pointed out in the past by the President of the Court, the
increase in the number of cases should not be viewed too
optimistically. We note with concern that sometimes the
enthusiasm with which declarations of acceptance of the
Court’s jurisdiction are made turns into reluctance to accept
that jurisdiction in practice.
The advisory proceedings are a dynamic and simple
mechanism that allows the organs of the United Nations to
benefit from the experience of a high-level institution and
to contribute to the clarification and development of
international law. Mexico emphasizes the importance of the
advisory proceedings and urges those entities that are
authorized to request opinions of the Court to make more
systematic use of this mechanism. We particularly urge the
to reflect on the advantages of this
Security Council
12
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
mechanism and to use it more frequently. We are
convinced that this would be of benefit to the Council
itself and to the international community as a whole.
At the same time, in touching on the subject of
advisory opinions, I must point out that Mexico attaches
particular importance to those currently being processed
by the Court. In our view, the requests mentioned in
chapter III of the report bear witness to the significant
work that can be done by the Court through its advisory
opinions. We believe that
the Court now has an
invaluable opportunity to support other organs of the
United Nations in the fulfilment of their functions and to
contribute to defining the norms of international law. We
are convinced that
itself of this
opportunity.
the Court will avail
Mr. Villagran Kramer (Guatemala) (interpretation
from Spanish): First of all, we should like to congratulate
you, Mr. President, on your election. We also wish to
thank the President of the International Court of Justice
both for the Court’s report and for the thoughts he kindly
shared with us on the extremely sensitive and important
work of that lofty forum.
We also wish to express our sorrow at the death of
three very distinguished judges: Judge Tarassov, Judge
Ago and the Latin American Judge Ruda.
The report submitted to us not only covers the work
of the Court itself but also coincides with the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations and of that important
tribunal. Although the Court will celebrate its anniversary
in April 1996, since it was established in 1946, it is
logical at this time that we consider the Court’s current
report in the context of the fiftieth anniversary of that
institution.
We are very satisfied with the way the report deals
with the subject of the jurisdiction of the International
Court of Justice. At the same time, it gives our delegation
a great deal of food for thought. On the one hand, 59
States have accepted the Court’s jurisdiction under an
optional clause; on the other, there is a movement afoot
to restrict
the Court’s
jurisdiction through the method of making reservations
when jurisdiction is accepted. While we are delighted that
a large number of States are accepting jurisdiction
through this optional modality, we are also concerned that
the tendency to resort to the unilateral act of acceptance
of jurisdiction is motivated by a desire to set conditions
on appearances before the Court or to raise reservations
the scope of acceptance of
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
that ultimately restrict its jurisdiction. In any case, this is a
subject which my delegation believes should be discussed
and studied, either in the Sixth Committee or in a working
group that is undoubtedly to be established on the matter.
There is yet another element of jurisdiction that offers
us a strong option which is being used with increasing
frequency and which strengthens the role of the Court.
When international treaties are signed between States, this
option allows them to bring disagreements over
the
implementation and interpretation of these treaties before
the Court. This option demonstrated its soundness precisely
in the case of two Central American countries that were
involved in 1988 in a dispute over the implementation of
the so-called Bogotá Pact and that were able to resolve a
jurisdictional problem in an exemplary manner.
Another comment we wish to make concerns the
Court’s current workload, which shows us that it is possible
for the work of international tribunals to be diversified. For
example, in the future States will certainly wish cases of
maritime delimitation to be
considered within the
framework of the International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea. Furthermore, we feel that international criminal cases
would undoubtedly be dealt with by an international
criminal tribunal, if the Assembly decides to establish such
a tribunal. This obviously would restrict the International
Court of Justice’s sphere of action, and we could then
envisage the idea of a counterpart. Such a counterpart has
been referred to this morning in the context of the need for
constitutional control over the activities of some of the
organs of the United Nations. I should like briefly to refer
to this subject.
The period when we are considering an expansion of
the Security Council’s work and membership and are all
expressing our views on the appropriateness of such an
expansion is undoubtedly the time to reflect on whether or
not we should give the Court the power to monitor the
legality of the actions of the Council and the Assembly.
This issue has been raised this morning. Our delegation
acknowledges
concept of
constitutional control and firmly associates itself with the
comments made on that subject.
takes note
and
the
of
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
number of judges on the Court. My delegation does not
have a position on this subject but
it is prepared to
consider whether, in the light of the fact that there are
now 185 Member States, the number of judges — 15 —
provided for the Permanent Court of Justice from 1922 to
1945 should be increased.
Furthermore, we are sympathetic to and favour the
possibility of giving international organizations access to
the Court and of enabling them to initiate procedures.
Similarly, we believe that
it would be prudent and
appropriate for the Secretary-General of our Organization
to have the power to request advisory opinions on very
specific cases, and the nature of such cases would have to
be established.
international
Lastly, the new dichotomy in international relations
relations and transnational
is obvious:
relations. We know that, in the context of international
relations, States and international organizations are
intensely involved with one another. We all work in those
circles. But we also know that we are players and
participants in a transnational arena. State enterprises,
private corporations and organizations established to
promote economic activity are growing and intensifying
their work to such an extent that we may eventually have
to consider the possibility of their being allowed to
accede to the Court or to other mechanisms to be
established.
Finally, we wish to thank the President of the
International Court of Justice for having shared with us
his thoughts, which are born of his judicial wisdom and
experience as a judge and, above all, as an eminent jurist.
You, Mr. President, are another such jurist.
(Libyan Arab
Mr. Muntasser
Jamahiriya)
(interpretation from Arabic): I am pleased to associate
myself with those who preceded me in welcoming
Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui,
the
International Court of Justice and his fellow judges. I am
also delighted to congratulate him on his presentation of
the Court’s report.
President
the
of
In conclusion, I should like to point out that the future
of the Court, which is so strongly linked to the future of the
United Nations, must be viewed in the context of a
changing world that is presenting us with new realities. The
first of these realities is that the membership of the United
Nations has increased. It has increased to the extent that we
might ask whether it would be appropriate to increase the
My country has had recourse more than once to the
International Court of Justice,
the haven to which
countries go in search of justice under the rules of
international
the
Court’s judgments are received with full respect, whether
or not they are in our favour. My country has consistently
implemented them fully and without delay. It is sufficient
to refer to the last ruling on the border dispute between
legality. I am pleased to state that
13
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
Chad and my country, which we applied without delay, as
attested to by the statement of the Secretary-General.
My country hastened to the International Court of
Justice and presented to it the so-called Lockerbie case, as
we hoped that the provisions of the Charter and of the
Montreal Convention in respect of civil aviation cases
would be applied.
The matter is still under consideration by the Court.
This is a purely legal case, which some parties have
transformed into a political issue and have presented it as
such to the Security Council. Economic and political
sanctions have been imposed on my country, as a result of
which the Libyan people as well as the neighbouring
peoples continue to suffer.
As a small developing State, we look up to the
International Court of Justice, as represented by its
President and judges, and we attach great hopes to it. We
trust that it will emphasize the rule of law and thereby put
paid to the ambitions of certain circles to impose the law of
force, a tendency which, regrettably, became noticeable
after the end of the cold war in using the Security Council
as a tool to impose such hegemony.
The President: We have now heard the last speaker
on this item for this meeting. May I take it that it is the
wish of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 13?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 155
Observer status for the Central American Integration
System in the General Assembly: draft resolution
(A/50/L.2)
The President: I call on the representative of El
Salvador to introduce the draft resolution contained in
document A/50/L.2.
Mr. Castaneda-Cornejo (El Salvador) (interpretation
from Spanish): On behalf of
the Central American
countries, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua,
Panama and El Salvador, I have the honour to make this
statement by way of an introduction to the draft resolution
on agenda item 155, entitled “Observer status for the
Central American Integration System in the General
Assembly”.
14
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
In 1987, when our Governments decided to take up
the historic challenge of achieving a political solution to
the Central American crisis through the peace process
adopted in Esquipulas II, they also recognized that peace
and development were
the
consolidation of democracy presupposed the establishment
of a system of well-being and economic and social
justice, which is indispensable in helping to overcome the
deep-rooted causes of that conflict.
inseparable
and that
to be
the
II
adopted for
led to progress
The fulfilment of the commitments contained in
Esquipulas
in the process of
peacemaking and democratization, thus creating space for
the analysis, negotiation and agreement of measures and
mechanisms
coordination,
consultation and follow-up of the commitments adopted
by the Central American Presidents at
the summit
meetings, and particularly as regards national and regional
efforts to meet
the priority challenges of a political,
economic, social, environmental and security-related
nature. Indeed, the Declaration of Antigua, Guatemala, of
12 June 1990 reaffirmed their statement that “we have
Central American paths to peace and development”.
Accordingly, as of 1990,
the Central American
Governments in the process of strengthening peace and
democracy saw the need to examine the restructuring,
strengthening and reactivation of
regional economic
integration, and the need to make this a means to promote
development objectives and to readapt and improve
Central America’s position as part of its efforts to align
itself with the new international environment. All this
culminated in the signing of the Protocol of Tegucigalpa
to the Charter of the Organization of Central American
States on 13 December 1991, which established the
Central American Integration System. The System began
to operate on 1 February 1993.
The Central American Integration System is a
for
renewed and dynamic mechanism responsible
promoting not
the sectoral, economic or commercial
integration of the past, but rather a global process, which
encompasses the political, economic, social, cultural and
environmental spheres, ensuring effective coordination
among the organs, agencies and institutions of
the
Integration System. It guarantees sustainable development,
in balance and harmony, to facilitate the attainment of the
vital objectives established in the Framework Treaty
creating the system to turn Central America
“into a region of peace, freedom, democracy and
development” (A/49/580, annex I, para. 51 (a))
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
respect
for and protection and
on the firm basis of
promotion of the human rights of Central Americans. This,
in the final analysis, can contribute to regional unity in
response to the traditional aspirations of our peoples.
shape
through
the Alliance
It is essential to emphasize that the promotion and
implementation of the new integral development strategy in
Central America at the national and regional levels should
take
for Sustainable
Development, in which priorities are set in the areas that I
have just mentioned,
in accordance with presidential
decisions. This is based on the support for the Central
American Integration System, through close cooperation
between its General Secretariat
technical
secretariats of the regional subsystems and entities. Further
information on this development strategy and on the Central
American Integration System can be found in documents
A/49/580 of 27 October 1994 and A/50/146 of 20 July
1995.
and the
of
in
The
regional
relevance
integration
its
multidimensional design and in the framework of respect
for pluralism and ethnic diversity was reaffirmed, in the
Declaration of San Salvador II, at the Central American
Summit Conference held in El Salvador in March this year
in response to the challenges resulting from recent regional
and global changes caused by the globalization of
production, new computer-based technologies and new
organizational methods. That meeting made headway in the
process through the adoption of the Treaty on Central
American Social Integration, which established within the
Central American Integration System the legal, institutional
and operational framework to promote this objective. This,
in turn, reflects the commitment of Central American
Governments to making every effort
to improve the
standard of living of our peoples.
Bearing in mind the new development strategy and the
role assigned to the Central American Integration System,
our Presidents have
to
strengthening the System as an institution and its
participation and approach at the national, regional and
international
its role
efficiently.
thus enabling it
attached prime
importance
to fulfil
levels,
It is in this context that the Central American countries
took the initiative to request the inclusion of item 155 —
the item that we are now considering — on the General
Assembly’s agenda. The draft resolution under this item is
entitled “Observer
the Central American
Integration System” and is sponsored by countries from
different regional groups. At this time I wish to inform the
status
for
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
to the list of sponsors contained in
Assembly that
document A/50/L.2 the following countries have been
added: Algeria, Barbados, Canada, Cuba, Cyprus, Greece,
Guyana, Iceland, Japan, the Marshall Islands, Poland, the
Russian Federation, Sweden and Trinidad and Tobago.
The draft resolution, in its preambular part, refers to
the Tegucigalpa Protocol — which has been registered in
the United Nations Secretariat — through which purposes,
principles and institutional structure in Central America
have been modified by the establishment of the Central
American Integration System. It also points out that one
of the basic principles of the System is respect for the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations.
In the operative part of the draft resolution the
General Assembly decides to invite the Central American
Integration System to participate in the sessions and the
work of
the General Assembly in the capacity of
observer, and it requests the Secretary-General to take the
necessary action to implement the resolution.
Convinced that the granting of observer status to the
Central American Integration System will
facilitate
attainment of the primary objectives of Central America,
we have no doubt that, with the complete support of
Member States, the draft resolution will be adopted by
consensus.
I should like to conclude by quoting from a decision
adopted by the Central American Presidents at their last
special session, which was held in Costa del Sol, El
Salvador, on 5 October this year:
“We reaffirm our desire that observer status at the
United Nations be granted to the Central American
Integration System (SICA), and we are grateful for
the many expressions of support for this desire by
State Members of the United Nations. At the same
time, we urge the international community as a
whole to provide its valuable support for putting this
initiative into effect”
and for the achievement of the objectives and aspirations
of the Central American peoples.
Mr. Dumitriu (Romania)
(interpretation from
Spanish): Romania is among the sponsors of draft
resolution A/50/L.2, which requests that observer status at
the General Assembly be granted to the Central American
Integration System.
15
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
My delegation has many reasons for supporting the
draft resolution. We should like to underscore just two of
these.
in
the
international
sphere
First, we believe that
the efforts of the Central
American countries to adapt to a new regional reality — in
other words, a Central America that is more orderly and
democratic — deserve our support. The determination of
these countries to broaden and strengthen the region’s
participation
also
commendable. Not too long ago, when we referred to this
region we talked about wars, conflicts and peace-keeping
operations. Fortunately, now, as is emphasized in the
explanatory memorandum related to document A/50/146,
what we are talking about is the quest for integral well-
being
for Central
Americans — making Central America a region of peace,
freedom, democracy and development. This is a change of
profound significance, which we should all commend.
development
is
and
sustainable
integration. Romania itself
Secondly, my delegation sincerely believes in the
is seeking full
virtues of
integration into European economic, political and security
structures. For this reason, Romania sympathizes deeply
with the integration efforts of Central American and other
countries.
In conclusion, my delegation takes great pleasure in
supporting the draft resolution now under the General
Assembly’s consideration and hopes that it will be adopted
by consensus.
Mr. Laing (Belize): The delegation of Belize is
honoured to be a sponsor of draft resolution A/50/L.2. The
Government of Belize, a country in the very heart of
Central America, has observed the recent evolution of the
Central American integration process with increasing
satisfaction.
is doubly
gratifying to reflect that in this effort of integration those
States of Central America which are members of this
Integration System are merely continuing a distinguished
tradition of close, organized cooperation now nearly 200
years old. We applaud our neighbours for continuing to
lead the world in this matter.
In an era of convergence,
it
The Government of Belize has had the signal honour
of regularly cooperating with the member States and the
institutions of this Integration System. In particular, I wish
to advert to our participation in the Alliance for Sustainable
Development and the Alliance for Social Development. We
have been particularly gratified by the fact that the activities
within that framework now embrace the cultural, social and
16
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
individuals
political spheres. Only by integrated action can there be
genuine, harmonious and balanced development of
peoples,
and member States. Belize’s
participation in these activities reflects the wisdom of the
parties to the treaty viewing the region as an organic
whole in which historically diverse cultures can make a
dignified contribution. We are grateful
that Belize’s
participation now transcends its being a passive recipient
of internationally displaced persons from the rest of
Central America, who are now over 20 per cent of our
population.
The delegation of Belize fully agrees that
the
cooperation and integration to which this draft resolution
adverts will most probably conduce to the furtherance of
regional peace and reconciliation for which we all yearn.
My delegation fully supports the request for the
deepening of cooperation with the United Nations through
the according of observer status to the institution. Of
course, such details as the applicability of Chapter VIII of
the Charter, referred to in the explanatory memorandum,
will bear
in general, my
delegation fully supports the text of this important draft
resolution and requests that it be adopted by consensus.
further examination. But
The President: We have heard the last speaker on
this item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/50/L.2.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/50/L.2?
Draft resolution A/50/L.2 was adopted (resolution
50/2).
The President: In accordance with the resolution
just adopted, I now call on the Secretary-General of the
Central American Integration System, His Excellency
Mr. Roberto Herrera Cáceres.
Mr. Herrera Cáceres (Secretary-General, Central
American Integration System)
(interpretation from
Spanish): It is an honour for me, as a Central American,
to reiterate the congratulations expressed to you, Sir, by
the representatives of Central American States on your
rightful election to the presidency of the Assembly. Your
presence ensures that it will be wisely guided.
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
As Secretary-General of
the Central American
Integration System (SICA), I wish also to express our deep
appreciation for the decision to invite the Central American
Integration System to participate, as an observer, in the
work of the General Assembly at this session.
The granting of observer status at the United Nations
is very significant, as it is a manifestation of the ever
greater understanding in the United Nations of
the
fundamental role of subregional organizations, such as the
Central American Integration System,
that have been
recognized and followed by the General Assembly itself, as
can be seen in resolutions 48/161 of 1993 and 49/137 of
1994,
situation in Central America:
procedures for the establishment of a firm and lasting peace
and progress in fashioning a region of peace, freedom,
democracy and development”.
entitled “The
In those resolutions it is recognized that the Central
American Integration System
“constitutes the institutional framework for subregional
integration through which integrated development can
be promoted in an effective, orderly and coherent
manner”.
third
preambular paragraph)
(resolutions 48/161 and 49/137,
In addition, the General Assembly stresses
“the importance of honouring the commitments to
accelerate the establishment of a new model of
regional security in Central America as established in
the Tegucigalpa Protocol of 13 December 1991, which
established the Central American Integration System
(SICA)”.
(resolution 48/161, ninth preambular
paragraph)
In its earlier resolutions the General Assembly also
highlights
“the functioning of the Central American Integration
System since 1 February 1993 and the registry of the
Tegucigalpa Protocol with the United Nations
Secretariat, expresses its full support for the efforts
made by Central Americans, under
the political
leadership of their Presidents, to stimulate and broaden
the integration process in the context of the Central
American Integration System, and calls on Member
States and international organizations to provide
effective cooperation to Central America so that it can
steadily
subregional
integration in order to make it an effective mechanism
strengthen
promote
and
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
for achieving sustainable development”. (resolution
49/137, para. 5)
In keeping with this appeal, the United Nations has
now fraternally embraced us, bearing witness to the great
ecumenical interdependence characteristic of the present
day. It has done this by granting us observer status on
this day which coincides with the celebration of Hispanic
Day and, in particular, on the day on which we Central
Americans are celebrating the first anniversary of the
signing, at the meeting of Central American Presidents
and the Prime Minister of Belize, of the Alliance for the
Sustainable Development of Central America, which
constitutes the strategy for the integral development of the
Central American isthmus.
judicial organ of
On this day we Central Americans are also
celebrating the first anniversary of the entry into force of
our Central American Court of Justice, which is the
principal
the Central American
Integration System (SICA), entrusted with ensuring
respect for the law in the interpretation and application of
the Tegucigalpa Protocol, the Alliance for the Sustainable
Development of Central America and of other instruments
and acts that complement them and stem from them. This
makes it clear that
the Central American isthmus is
advancing steadily towards the perfecting of a Central
American community of law.
by
its
and
guided
spheres,
The Central American Integration System,
in
addition to working towards the integral development of
the isthmus in the economic, social, cultural, political and
ecological
regional
development strategy, is also working to conclude a treaty
of regional democratic security based on the strengthening
of civil authority; on the promotion of sustainable
development; on the protection of the environment; on the
eradication of
extreme poverty and of violence,
corruption, terrorism, drug trafficking and the traffic in
arms; on a reasonable balance of
forces; and on
confidence-building measures.
This new model of Central American democratic
security also includes a regional plan for disaster
reduction and an institutional force for Central American
solidarity, whose task it is to coordinate the capacities and
the resources of the Central American States with those
of SICA in order to combat natural threats and disasters.
With all these arrangements, the Central American people
will be working with greater confidence and resolve to
achieve sustainable development, in the knowledge that
there exists the political will, the legal system and the
17
General Assembly
Fiftieth session
30th plenary meeting
12 October 1995
progressive
action-oriented mechanisms whose
implementation will protect them from the military and
non-military dangers and risks that could jeopardize their
lasting development.
the part of the world where these factors are being
strengthened. Only in this way will it be possible for us
to move from a world divided for all to a world shared by
all.
The broad-ranging and open design of the Central
American Integration System reflects the importance we
attach to effective give-and-take with other
regional
systems, with the inter-American system and with the
United Nations system, in order to promote actions and
interactions of mutual advantage that can enable the
organizations and their member States to benefit from the
best experiences and from the progress of mankind.
In this context, the progress and democratization of
organizations and of the international order have as a
common denominator humanistic criteria and the criteria of
solidarity and the promotion of equal opportunities for their
societies to enjoy in a just and fair fashion the fruits of the
economy, of trade, of information and training, of science
and technology — in a word, of development, regardless of
The Central American Integration System and the
Organization of American States (OAS) began their
international cooperation in 1994. The
relations of
two organizations have
Secretaries-General of
concluded a cooperation agreement
that will make it
easier to exploit
together the possibilities for mutual
support with a view to integral development.
the
The General Assembly of the OAS has requested
that we effectively coordinate American regional action
with Central American subregional action and we, in
SICA, are prepared to coordinate our work in the most
effective way possible.
For these and other reasons, the granting of observer
status requires all
the organs and institutions of the
Central American Integration System to offer all our
experience as a juridical and political organization of the
Central American isthmus to this prestigious universal
Organization and to its Member States. At the same time,
it
the wealth of
experience of the United Nations, which we also hope to
apply in our daily work through efficient and harmonious
coordination that will increasingly make possible the best
use of the efforts and the resources of the member States
of our respective organizations.
requires us to avail ourselves of
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 155?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.
18
