United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
18th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 2 October 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I call on His Excellency Mr. Domingo
Siazon, Jr., Secretary for Foreign Affairs of the Philippines.
Mr. Siazon (Philippines): On behalf of my delegation,
Sir, I take pleasure in extending to you our heartfelt
felicitations on your election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at
its fifty-first session. We in the
Philippines and in the Association of South-East Asian
Nations
special gratification from
congratulating you, a citizen of an ASEAN country, on this
great honour.
(ASEAN) derive
The Philippines pays tribute to Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has led our Organization in the
most difficult circumstances.
I must beg your indulgence, Mr. President, and that of
our colleagues to speak briefly about recent events in my
country, developments which we consider historic, opening
a bright new chapter in the history of the Philippines.
Exactly a month ago, on 2 September,
the Philippine
Government and the Moro National Liberation Front
(MNLF), which had waged a rebellion for more than a
quarter of a century, signed an agreement ending the
conflict in Mindanao and establishing a zone of peace and
development in that island-region.
On 9 September, Professor Nur Misuari, leader of
the MNLF, ran for and was elected to the office of
Governor of
the Autonomous Region of Muslim
Mindanao, which is, by virtue of a plebiscite, composed
of four provinces in which Muslim Filipinos are in the
majority.
At
the same time,
in accordance with the 2
September agreement, the Southern Philippines Council
for Peace and Development is being organized under the
leadership of the MNLF to help promote peace and
development
in 14 provinces and nine cities in the
southern Philippines. Thus has the Philippines opted for
national reconciliation as the only true road to peace and
development.
Here,
I pay tribute and give thanks
to the
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), and to the
OIC’s Committee of Six on the Situation of the Muslims
in the Southern Philippines, under the wise and vigorous
leadership of Indonesia and with the especially active
involvement of Libya, for guiding us along that road
towards the goal which we have now achieved.
I mention this because I know that what
is
essentially a domestic development in the Philippines
finds resonance in other places and in the world at large.
We all know only too well that conflicts arising
from ethnic and cultural differences are not unique to the
Philippines. But just as the Mindanao conflict was not
unique, neither was the process of reconciliation that
96-86359 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
in Mindanao a
ended it. We consider the settlement
reflection of
the salutary trend towards peace and
reconciliation in the world, as well as a modest contribution
to it.
In South Africa,
the racist abomination that was
apartheid has been abolished, and a multiracial Government
based on the rule of the majority and the rights of the
minority has been put in place, lending new stability to
southern Africa.
In the Middle East, nations in contention agreed to
take the road of peace. Regrettably, recent events have
shown that the road is still strewn with obstacles. We retain
the faith that these obstacles are surmountable with good
will and a firm conviction that peace must not be destroyed
again in a land so revered by people of many faiths. Our
most fervent prayers go to the leaders and nations involved
that
they may soon return to the path of mutual
understanding, reconciliation, justice and peace, for both the
Palestinian and the Israeli peoples.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we can at least hope that
the Dayton accords, as well as the 14 September and
subsequent elections, will put behind us the singular horror
of “ethnic cleansing” and lead to a situation where different
ethnic groups can live once again in peace and tolerance.
In this hemisphere, the Government of Guatemala and
armed dissidents have achieved an accord of security and
justice.
In our own region of South-East Asia, we look
forward to the completion of a new Constitution by
Myanmar that will provide a place in the nation’s political
life for the nationalities that have for so long been in
rebellion and for political groups of many persuasions.
Unfortunately, inter-ethnic conflicts in far too many
places continue to inflict suffering on innocent people —
notably, for example, in Rwanda and Burundi.
Around the world, simmering beneath the surface, are
grievances arising from growing disparities in economic
well-being and social status within States and nations.
However, on a global scale, there is a clear trend towards
reconciliation and tolerance. As it is within nations, so is it
between nations. We may be witnessing a new era, one not
only of relative peace but also of close cooperation in
dealing with the global challenges of today.
2
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
The cold war has ended, and with it the deadly
reality of armed confrontation between nuclear-armed
blocs.
such as
arrangements,
Even the old North-South economic divide is being
subsumed in a new global trading regime and in regional
economic
the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation, in which the interests of both
developed and developing countries are taken into
account. These developments
in reconciliation and
cooperation give us hope that mankind can find the will
to work together in meeting the old and new challenges
that confront the world as a whole.
I see six major challenges that are central to the
future welfare and the very survival of mankind.
The first has to do with the surfeit of weapons that
continues to plague the world, particularly the continued
deployment and development of nuclear arms and other
weapons of mass destruction, the expanding volume of
the traffic in conventional arms and the continued
production and persistent use of especially injurious
devices of war.
The second lies in the potential for conflict over
maritime jurisdictions and resources and the need for
stable maritime regimes. Another is mankind’s continuing
assault on the environment, putting into question the
sustainability of the world’s development. Yet another
challenge is the need to maintain the momentum of the
liberalization of
trade while cushioning
weaker nations and vulnerable sectors of society from its
undesirable effects. The fifth challenge is the necessity of
ensuring human welfare and dignity within the nation-
State and within society. The sixth and last is the growing
menace of organized criminal gangs purveying terror,
deadly weapons, illicit drugs, indentured labour, and the
bodies of our women and children across international
borders.
international
We have made significant progress in the control of
arms; but the world remains a dangerous place, and much
work remains to be done. We have extended indefinitely
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT). Many of us have signed the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty that
the General Assembly
adopted last month. But we should not stop there, for
these are but steps on the road towards complete nuclear
disarmament. We continue to call upon the nuclear-
weapon States to take seriously their commitment under
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Article VI of the NPT to negotiate in good faith the
abolition of nuclear weapons.
Towards this end, the Philippines once more joins the
call for the parties to the NPT to draw up an international
convention prohibiting the use and threat of use of nuclear
weapons. As another step, we reiterate the call for the
conclusion of an international convention against
the
production and stockpiling of fissile materials.
Sir, last December in Bangkok, your Prime Minister
and my President, together with the Heads of Government
of the eight other countries of South-East Asia, signed the
South east Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone Treaty. We
urge the nuclear-weapon States to commit themselves to
respect this Treaty’s provisions by adhering to its protocol.
Together with the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear
Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of
Tlatelolco), the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty
(Treaty of Rarotonga), the Pelindaba Text of the African
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, and that for Antarctica,
the South-East Asian Treaty is a major step towards a
southern hemisphere free of nuclear weapons. We support
the political linkage among these nuclear-free zones, as was
recently proposed.
Of particular concern to us is the unacceptably large
number of innocent persons, including a disproportionate
number of young children, killed or maimed by landmines.
The Philippines has ratified the Convention and its Protocol
restricting the use of excessively injurious weapons,
landmines, booby traps and similar devices. We have joined
the move towards a global ban on anti-personnel mines.
In this spirit, President Ramos while on a visit last
December to Cambodia, a country ravaged by landmines,
ordered the immediate destruction of the Claymore mines
which were then still in the inventory of the armed forces
of
the Philippines. Compliance with the President’s
instructions has been completed.
Another potential threat to global and regional peace
and security has been the developing scramble for
jurisdiction, resources and strategic position in the world’s
oceans. This has been strongly evident in the situation in
the South China Sea, which for the most part is surrounded
by South-East Asian States.
Fortunately, the international community has had the
collective wisdom to agree on a set of rules, primarily in
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to
the Convention
govern the use of the sea. Not
least,
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
subjects maritime jurisdictions to the rule of law, defining
the nature and limits of those jurisdictions and providing
the legal framework for their establishment and for
negotiating settlements where they overlap.
its
national
fragile
The world is threatened not only by weapons of war
and by disputes over territory, but also by mankind’s
assault on the world’s
environment. The
Philippines is firmly committed to the protection of the
environment within
jurisdiction.
Environmental protection is a vital consideration in the
approval of major development projects. We shall
conserve the ecological
the Philippines
exclusive economic zone as well as of its internal waters.
As an archipelagic country whose exclusive economic
zone extends to a portion of the South China Sea, the
Philippines places particular importance on preserving the
ecological integrity of that body of water, and would
welcome the sharing of knowledge and experience gained
from efforts to protect the environment in similar bodies
of water elsewhere in the world.
integrity of
A potential threat to the environment arises from the
growing use of nuclear energy in the generation of
electricity. This growth has been particularly rapid in East
Asia, producing nuclear waste with corresponding
rapidity. While nuclear power is relatively clean as a
source of energy, accidents in the operation of nuclear
plants and in the disposal of nuclear waste can cause
devastation for the environment as well as for human
lives. Equally damaging is the reckless manner in which
decommissioned nuclear power plants and nuclear-
powered vessels are discarded.
the
international community to address this burgeoning
problem with the seriousness and urgency that it deserves.
Last May, President Ramos proposed the possible
organization of ASIATOM, an international body to look
into this concern in East Asia and to devise measures to
deal with it.
is time for
It
Along with the breakup of empires, the dissolution
of hostile alliances, and the spread of the spirit of
reconciliation within and between nations, one salutary
global development
in recent years has been the
establishment of an international trading regime based on
the increasingly free exchange of goods and services. This
development was made possible by the embrace by nearly
all the world of market forces as the most efficient way
of creating wealth for the world’s people.
The efficacy of
international
economic relations has been demonstrated in South-East
this principle of
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Asia, where countries have opened up their markets to one
another, through the Free Trade Area of the Association of
South-East Asian Nations, and to the world for the benefit
of all. Next month the Philippines will have the honour of
hosting the annual meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council
including an informal
meeting of leaders of the 18 participating economies on the
Pacific rim.
(APEC),
At
that meeting, we will consolidate plans of
individual APEC economies into a coherent Manila action
plan for APEC that will free up and ease trade, and that
will attain the target set for free trade by the year 2010 for
the developed participants and by 2020 for the developing
economies. The plan includes ways of engaging in
economic and technical cooperation, particularly in order to
help the less developed economies to adjust to the free-
trade regime envisioned in APEC.
A few weeks after the APEC meeting,
the first
Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization, to be
held in Singapore, will review the implementation of the
Uruguay Round agreements and seek to develop a work
programme to sustain the momentum of global
trade
liberalization through further negotiations on specific
sectors.
The Philippines is strongly committed to the opening
up of its economy. In affirming this basic policy of our
country, we must ask our economic partners, particularly
the developed ones, to desist from circumventing their own
commitments to a free international
trading regime by
providing subsidies to their uncompetitive sectors and by
extending them protection in the guise of labour rights or
environmental conservation. We must reject this kind of
tactic.
We must also urge that the subject and object of
development — human beings, their welfare and dignity —
not be overlooked. We also believe that
the status of
women is central to both economic growth and human
development. The Philippines therefore calls upon all of us
to carry out effectively and in full the Platform of Action
adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women and to
devote adequate resources to make this possible.
In accordance with our convictions on the status and
rights of women, validated at the Beijing conference, the
Philippines has actively pressed for international action to
combat those scourges that plague the human race: violence
against women and trafficking in women and children.
Because of the international dimension of these blights on
4
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
the United Nations and the
the human condition,
international community must keep them high on the
international agenda until the human race is freed of
them. The Philippines and other countries similarly
situated have a special concern for women migrant
workers because of their peculiar vulnerability to violence
and abuse.
The Philippines’ stand on the rights of women and
children rests on our people’s deep conviction of the
inherent sacredness of the rights of all human persons,
families and communities everywhere on this planet —
their rights to freedom, dignity, participation in their own
governance and to development.
Our
lives, our well-being and our
rights are
constantly threatened by the activities of transnational
criminal gangs. Some of these gangs traffic in drugs.
Some steal and smuggle cars. Some deal in the illicit
buying and selling of arms. Others engage in terror for a
variety of causes. Still others traffic in women, children,
or people eager for work.
The Philippines is prepared to consider the draft
convention proposed by Poland on measures to combat
organized crime. We commend Poland for this timely
initiative.
The United Nations is the keystone of mankind’s
efforts on behalf of disarmament, the rule of law in the
world’s oceans, the preservation of the Earth and its
environment, economic and social development, the fight
against organized crime, and the protection of human
rights. Because of its central and growing importance in
human affairs, the Philippines firmly believes that the
United Nations must be
constantly renewed and
invigorated to enable it to respond to the challenges that
face each generation.
The Philippines favours the enlargement of the
Security Council’s permanent membership through the
addition of countries that are politically and economically
able and willing to assume the responsibilities of such
membership. At the same time, we believe in greater
representation on the basis of equitable geographical
distribution. The various innovative proposals now on the
table deserve close examination. But
the issue of
membership cannot be considered in isolation; it has to be
the Security
addressed in the context of
Council — reform towards greater
transparency and
democracy of its working methods and reform towards a
more balanced relationship with the General Assembly,
reform of
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
which must retain pre-eminence in the affairs of the United
Nations.
However, no structural changes in the United Nations
will be effective unless it is assured of the necessary flow
of financial resources. Our Organization, no matter how
much reform takes place, can function effectively only if it
knows with reasonable certainty whether and when it can
pay its staff and meet the other obligations arising from
operations that, after all, are mandated, often unanimously,
by the Member States themselves.
Simple mathematical calculations will demonstrate that
the financial crisis of the United Nations cannot be eased
unless we all comply with the financial obligations that we
freely undertook. We must pay our dues in full, on time
and without conditions. Specifically, the United Nations can
rest on fairly stable financial foundations if all of us pay
our contributions to the regular budget for each year by the
end of January of that year.
The Philippines favours a revision of the scale of
assessments for United Nations contributions so as to
reflect current political and economic circumstances.
However,
similar
adjustments be made in the shares of the countries affected
in the
financial
institutions,
including the World Bank and regional
development banks such as the Asian Development Bank.
logic and consistency dictate that
capitalization of
international
the
The world’s peace, stability and progress, and the
welfare and dignity of its inhabitants, depend in large
measure on the United Nations — not on the Secretary-
General or the Secretariat alone. Although their role is
crucial, they depend above all on us, the Member States,
which, together with our peoples, make up the United
Nations. We are the United Nations. Let us make it work.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and International Cooperation of Kenya, His
Excellency The Honourable Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka.
Mr. Musyoka (Kenya): On behalf of the Government
of Kenya, I should like to convey to you, Sir, my sincere
congratulations and best wishes on your unanimous election
as President of this session of the Assembly. Your election
to this high office is a fitting testimony to Malaysia’s
commitment to, and support for, the United Nations. Your
country has been an ardent champion of the cause of
developing countries. I am confident that your sterling
qualities and versatile diplomatic capabilities will steer this
Organization to greater heights.
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
I also wish to pay tribute to your predecessor,
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who presided over the last
session with great skill and dedication.
In the same vein, allow me to reiterate my
delegation’s appreciation to the Secretary-General for the
able manner in which he has borne the mantle of this
Organization. We wish to commend him for his
achievements during the last five years, despite the many
obstacles that the Organization has faced.
Mr. Baumanis (Latvia), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
Since its inception,
the General Assembly has
provided Member States with the opportunity to exchange
views on issues of common concern to the international
community, with a view to securing a stable and peaceful
world. To this end, I wish to assure you, Sir, of Kenya’s
commitment and determination to work together with
other Member States in order to realize the Organization’s
ideals and objectives. We believe that the success of the
United Nations depends on the collective resolve of its
Members.
The international community still faces a number of
conflicts that are of great concern, as they continue to
undermine international peace and security. We are
painfully reminded by history that good and evil coexist,
and that without societal restraints, humanity is in eternal
danger. As we approach the twenty-first century, and with
the cold war behind us, the international community now
faces numerous new and complex challenges posed by
globalization,
and
marginalization. There is a need to redesign the
these challenges. In this
international order to meet
initiatives by the
regard, we welcome the recent
Organization
its
conflict-prevention
mechanisms and to promote preventive diplomacy and
confidence-building measures.
democratization
fragmentation,
strengthen
to
The scourge of armed conflicts in certain parts of
Africa constitutes one of the most urgent socio-political
problems facing the continent, resulting in a serious threat
to security, social cohesion and economic progress. These
conflicts have posed serious challenges primarily due to
the complexities associated with their internal character.
Inter- and intra-State conflicts have led to a multitude of
problems, including loss of life, destruction of property,
poverty, ethnic tensions and underdevelopment in the
countries where they occur.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
These conflicts have been compounded by natural
calamities resulting in a large number of refugees and
displaced persons. We wish to reiterate our call to the
international
community to increase
in
alleviating the suffering of these people.
support
its
Since the inception of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) in 1963, we have witnessed no less than 20
full-fledged civil wars on the African continent. Over the
years, some of these wars have been resolved, while others
have intensified. We are pleased that peace has been
achieved in most parts of Africa. Sadly, however, there are
still some intractable conflicts going on, notably in Burundi,
the Sudan, Somalia and Liberia.
The conflict in Burundi, with its accompanying ethnic
character, is of great concern to Kenya and the countries of
the subregion. The recent coup d’etat in that country, which
overthrew a constitutionally established Government, has
compounded the political crisis. It negates the efforts of the
OAU to bring to an end the era of military coups which
have bedeviled the continent and remains an obstacle to
Africa’s quest for peace and stability.
In their efforts to find a lasting political settlement, the
countries of the subregion — Ethiopia, Rwanda, Tanzania,
Uganda, Zaire and Kenya — held a series of meetings
culminating in the imposition of sanctions against
that
sisterly country. These sanctions are aimed at putting
pressure on the new regime to restore a democratically
elected Assembly, unban political parties and enter into
unconditional negotiations with all parties to the conflict.
While we welcome the recent Security Council
resolution on Burundi, we appeal to the Council to take
more decisive steps to ensure that the leaders in Burundi
comply with the peace initiative of the second regional
summit on Burundi held in Arusha. In this regard, my
delegation wishes to take this opportunity to commend the
efforts of Julius Nyerere, former President of the United
Republic of Tanzania, who continues to facilitate the peace
process in Burundi. We take this opportunity to urge the
international community to render
to these
measures and initiatives.
support
this
The situation in Somalia continues to be worrisome.
prolonged
its
of
nature
The
accompanying negative
effects on the neighbouring
countries, remains a matter of great concern to my country.
It is now time for the international community to bring
pressure to bear on the Somali faction leaders to come to
the negotiating table and reach agreement that will, once
conflict, with
6
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
and for all, relieve the agony and suffering of the Somali
people. Kenya will continue to provide its cooperation
and support.
With respect to the search for a durable peace in the
Sudan, Kenya, as the Chairman of the Intergovernmental
Authority on Drought and Development
(IGADD)
subcommittee on the peace initiative on Sudan, is working
together with the other member States to find appropriate
remedies to the conflict. While there are no easy solutions
to this conflict, the countries of the region, which remain
seized of the matter, are hopeful that, through preventive
diplomacy, there will soon be an end to the atrocities and
that peace will be restored in the Sudan as well.
I wish to take this opportunity to express the
appreciation of my Government for the confidence the
OAU has bestowed upon my country by endorsing Kenya
as the sole candidate for the non-permanent seat in the
Security Council allocated to Africa for
the period
1997-1998 at the elections to be held later this year. The
election of Kenya to the Council will provide us with the
opportunity to contribute even further to the continued
search for international peace and security.
The maintenance of international peace and security
is a collective responsibility of us all. It was with this in
mind that the General Assembly at its fiftieth session
urged the Conference on Disarmament to conclude the
negotiations for a comprehensive and truly verifiable
treaty banning all nuclear testing. It was also with this
understanding and expectation that Kenya and other
African countries affirmed their commitment to outlawing
nuclear testing and the possession of nuclear weapons on
the African continent. Towards this end, the Pelindaba
Treaty was signed in Cairo on 11 April 1996, declaring
Africa a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. We commend
similar efforts that have been undertaken to declare other
regions nuclear-free zones.
Kenya reaffirms its commitment to total nuclear
disarmament. There is no longer any justification for the
possession of nuclear weapons nor for their testing. We
must work towards the achievement of the goal of
complete elimination of all nuclear weapons within a
given time-frame. Kenya therefore welcomes the recent
conclusion of
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty as an important step in this direction.
The United Nations has a critical role to play in
consensus- building in international economic cooperation.
Kenya is confident that the Organization will continue to
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
uphold its principles of universality, sovereignty and
multilateralism in its decisions and operational activities.
We are of the view that the United Nations should be
strengthened in order effectively to carry out its mandate
and follow-up on the programmes of action that have been
agreed upon at the various international conferences. The
continuum of global conferences in recent years has
enabled us to create a new vision of cooperation towards
global development needs. Indeed, the most recent of these,
the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II), which took place in Istanbul, Turkey, endorsed
the need for quick action in addressing the dual objectives
of adequate shelter
for all and sustainable human
settlements. To realize these objectives, the Conference
called for new and additional
the
strengthening of the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements in order for it effectively to carry out
its
mandate. In this context, Kenya believes that, for this to
become a reality, international commitment is imperative.
resources and for
We also view the World Food Summit to be held in
Rome this year as a major United Nations conference that
will address itself to the primary needs of mankind by
ensuring food security and sustainable development. We
expect the international community to render appropriate
support in order to realize these objectives.
While most developing countries continue in their
strenuous economic reform efforts, the question of the debt
burden and debt servicing remains a major obstacle. Kenya
calls for an early consensus on debt relief, reduction and
possible cancellation. It is expected that the Bretton Woods
institutions will quickly conclude their consultations on the
steps to be taken to address the debt problem of developing
countries. These should include additional
innovative
measures that would provide social safety nets to vulnerable
groups, particularly children, women and the poor.
My own country, Kenya, under the leadership of
President Daniel arap Moi, has undertaken far-reaching
political and economic reforms. These reforms have been
undertaken at painful costs and with adverse effects on the
population. However, after suffering a decline in economic
growth as a result of the stringent reform measures, our
economy is now on the path of recovery and has registered
a growth rate of between 5 and 6 per cent this year. The
Kenyan economy is now totally liberalized. All foreign
exchange restrictions have been abolished, making Kenya
one of the most attractive investment destinations anywhere
in the world. In order to achieve higher growth and to
maintain the development momentum, Kenya appeals for
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
the continued commitment, understanding and support of
our development partners.
We are also committed to regional integration and
the widening of economic space, designed to integrate
national economies into formal groupings, centring on
trading blocs. The inauguration of the East African
Cooperation in Arusha early this year by the three Heads
of State of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, marks an
important milestone in our efforts towards political and
socio-economic integration. This arrangement, which
brings together a population of over 70 million people,
has created vast opportunities for investment
in our
subregion. It also constitutes an important building block
towards
the African economic
the
community.
realization of
We have also recently revitalized IGADD and
expanded its mandate to focus on issues of development
and conflict prevention, management and resolution. The
revitalized IGADD will require full support from our
development partners for a speedy implementation of the
regional initiatives. In the wider subregion, the Common
Market for Eastern and Southern Africa continues to be
the main vehicle for regional integration in eastern and
southern Africa.
Kenya’s greatest asset is its environment. The herds
the
of wildlife which migrate through the plains,
mysterious forests,
the
the snow-peaked mountains,
ancient lakes and the extraordinary landscapes of the
Great Rift Valley have attracted generations of visitors
and have become to many a symbol of the beauty and
purity of the African continent. Throughout the world,
space is being taken up for development purposes by
expanding populations. Inappropriate land practices run
counter to the conservation of natural resources. Precious
species are becoming either endangered or indeed extinct.
resisted all pressures
In Kenya, our policies have been designed to
preserve the environment as a common heritage for
mankind. We have
against
conservation and have created a sanctuary for a great
variety of biodiversity in all its grandeur. Furthermore, the
Government of Kenya has recently initiated major
innovative steps that will ensure the protection of the
ecosystem for the enjoyment of future generations. These
include public awareness, environmental education, and,
most
the Great Rift Valley Conservancy
Programme, which will ensure integrated utilization of
land. We wish to appeal to the international community
to make available the necessary resources to augment
importantly,
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
such efforts, in order to realize the objective of sustainable
development as called for in Agenda 21.
In the face of
the complex nature of emerging
problems in the world today, the demands on the United
Nations continue to increase as Member States expect more
and more from it. The pressures of facilitating conflict
resolution
sustainable
development and combating social problems associated with
poverty, disease and famine, have made the demands even
more urgent.
peacekeeping,
promoting
and
We therefore welcome efforts to reform the United
Nations so that it can serve the interests of Member States
more effectively. However, as the United Nations continues
in its reform endeavours, the General Assembly must be
given greater visibility and authority. The Security Council
must be reformed to reflect the principles of democracy,
transparency and equitable representation. My delegation
wishes to urge Member States to exercise greater flexibility
on the various innovative positions with regard to reform of
the Security Council in order to reach an early consensus.
Similarly,
reforms, bold and
practical measures are necessary to ensure adequate and
predictable resources. The obligation of Member States to
pay their assessed contributions for
the regular and
peacekeeping budgets,
in full, on time and without
conditions, cannot be overemphasized.
in undertaking financial
We wish to underscore that reform cannot be an end
in itself but must be seen as a necessary tool for enabling
the Organization to achieve its objectives in a more
efficient and cost-effective manner.
We welcome the recent arrangements to establish
Nairobi as the location of one of the four United Nations
Centres — the only one in the whole of the developing
world. We regret, however, that the two United Nations
programmes with their Headquarters in Nairobi continue to
suffer
from lack of adequate funding and capacity
underutilization, despite their enormous potential.
The recent
institutional
tendency to locate environment-related
secretariats away from Nairobi has had a negative effect on
the strengthening of the Centre and should be discouraged.
We are convinced that
linkage is a vital
component for the enhancement of efficiency and capacity-
utilization of the limited resources. In this respect, Kenya
wishes to record its appreciation to the Secretary-General
for holding the meeting of the Administrative Committee on
Coordination in Nairobi in April 1996 — a first for the
developing world. We in Africa were particularly proud to
8
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
that
place
took
high-level meeting, which
host
immediately after the Secretary-General
launched the
United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa.
for
Finally, we wish to take this opportunity to
commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali,
initiating far-reaching reforms within the
United Nations system since his assumption of the high
office of chief executive of
the Organization. My
delegation wishes to express its satisfaction at his untiring
efforts to steer the Organization to greater heights as we
move into the next century.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister
the Syrian Arab Republic,
for Foreign Affairs of
Mr. Farouk Al-Shara’.
It
Mr. Al-Shara’
(Syrian Arab
Republic)
(interpretation from Arabic):
is my pleasure to
congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the
its fifty-first
presidency of the General Assembly at
session, and to congratulate his
friendly country,
Malaysia, on his election to that high international post.
We are confident
that his political experience and
diplomatic skill will lead to the success of this session’s
deliberations. May I also extend our
thanks to his
predecessor for conducting the work of the fiftieth session
of the General Assembly.
On this occasion, we should like to express our
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his efforts to
enhance the role of the United Nations, and our concern
that his international standing, and his mandate under the
Charter be respected. We also believe that the common
interest of Member States requires the support of his
candidature for a second term.
We live in a region which, because of the injustice,
occupation and aggression it has witnessed for decades,
has had more than its share of victims of wars and
violence. It was impossible to envisage a solution to end
such tragedies and to respond to the aspirations of the
peoples of the region as long as the Arab-Israeli conflict
continued to prevail
in the absence of a just and
comprehensive peace.
Many people do not know how many international
endeavours were made, how many meetings were
convened, how many parties contributed, how many
letters were sent and assurances given before agreement
was reached between the parties on the foundations and
rules that made up the terms of reference of the Madrid
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
interruption,
Peace Conference. It is now five years since the Madrid
Conference was convened and, in turn, bilateral negotiations
set up. Those negotiations survived various periods of
tension,
set-back — and progress. They
generated thousands of pages of records. Both Syria and
Israel agreed on Israel’s withdrawal from the Golan back to
the boundary of 4 June 1967. Negotiations then proceeded
to the other elements of peace — all under the supervision
of the United States of America, and with its participation.
Now, after all those international efforts, which were
unprecedented in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict, a
new Government has taken office in Israel. It has set itself
the opposite course to that of its predecessor, and has
declared “no” three times: no to withdrawal from the
Golan; no to withdrawal from occupied Palestinian lands;
and no to a Palestinian State.
To anyone who has followed the declarations and
practices of the Israeli Government since it assumed power,
it is clear that it has not wasted a single opportunity to
underline its insistence on changing the foundations and
rules of the peace process, to attempt to demolish all the
achievements of the past five years and to call for a return
to negotiations from square one, without preconditions —
in other words, without the Madrid terms of reference, in
accordance with the “peace for peace” formula, with the
objective of imposing its fait accompli on the Arabs.
President Hafez Al-Assad has said:
“If this is what the Israeli Prime Minister has in
mind, why should Syria want peace? If peace does not
return the land to its rightful owners, why should we
call for it? Can any thinking person in this world
expect Syria to establish peace with the Israeli
Government while Syrian land remains in Israeli
hands? That is why I say that if Netanyahu stays that
course, I do not believe there is any window for a just
and comprehensive peace in the region.”
One of the dilemmas facing the Middle East peace
process is that certain Israeli leaders are encouraging, rather
than discouraging, extremism in Israeli society. They are
the ones who add fuel to the fire whenever a better climate
for the achievement of peace begins to develop. There are
many examples of such an attitude, which we do not have
time to provide today. It is sufficient to recall that in the
aftermath of the Hebron massacre voices were raised
everywhere, even in Israel itself, calling for the Jewish
settlers, who number less than 400, to move from the heart
of Hebron, which is home to more than 120,000
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
Palestinians. However, the Israeli Government refused to
withdraw from Hebron, portraying such a move as the
ultimate painful concession.
The bloody confrontations that broke out following
the opening of the tunnel that Israel dug under the wall of
the Al-Aqsa Mosque, as well as previous deliberate Israeli
provocations and the unjustified escalation of tensions
against Syria and Lebanon over the past few weeks, all
confirm that the Israeli Government did not take office in
order to resume peace negotiations on the basis of
international legitimacy, the Madrid terms of reference
and the “land-for-peace” formula, but rather in order to
launch new negotiations with no terms of reference,
entrenching a fait accompli.
During his European tour, Prime Minister Netanyahu
announced that his decision to open the tunnel was
designed merely to ease the movement of tourists and
spare them a walk of a few dozen extra metres. Imagine
how guilty those tourists would feel if they believed that,
in order to secure their comfort, the Israeli authorities
killed about 80 Palestinians, caused the deaths of 15
Israelis, and wounded more than a thousand people. They
would not, of course, believe it; we do not believe it —
and neither does the head of the Israeli Government, who
revealed his true expansionist intentions when he later
claimed that the tunnel had been there for two thousand
years, and arrogantly declared that it would remain open
for ever.
Perhaps the huge number of innocent victims who
fell in Jerusalem and in the towns of the West Bank and
Gaza have hastened the unmasking of such deceit. In this
way the Israeli Government appears to public opinion as
it truly is: neither desirous of a just peace nor keen to
pursue it. This was reflected in the statements made by
many Foreign Ministers in the Security Council, where
Israel appeared totally isolated, besieged on all sides by
statements deploring and denouncing its action, with the
voices that usually volunteer to defend it dying away.
The Israeli Government’s fuelling of extremism did
not stop there. General Sharon, the Israeli Minister for
Infrastructure, issued a decision last week allocating three
new sites on the occupied Syrian Golan for building 600
housing units. Perhaps a large segment of international
public opinion and some politicians are not aware that
without the financial aid and huge governmental subsidies
given to Jewish settlers, they would not settle in the
Golan, especially as they are well aware that the Golan is
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Syrian territory, which they will have to leave sooner or
later.
Given my comments, it might be concluded that the
Israeli Government has no strategy for peace but has, it
seems, chosen the path of confrontation. The path of
confrontation, however, is very costly for several reasons.
First, Israel can start a war whenever it chooses, but cannot
end it when it chooses. Israel might wreak considerable
destruction here and there, but it can never destroy the will
of a nation that has deep roots of civilization which spread
all over the world. Many Israelis may be unaware that all
the wars they have fought between October 1973 and April
1996 have gained them nothing except human and political
losses and further international condemnation.
Secondly, the path of confrontation is very costly
because the international community rejects war and
aggression and calls for the achievement of a just and
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. Israel knows that
the Arabs have opted for peace as their strategic option,
including at the summit level. In taking this stand they have
been supported by the summit of the States of the Non-
Aligned Movement, the summit of the European Union and
the summit of the Group of Seven industrial countries, all
of which have stressed the need to adhere to the
foundations of the peace process, relevant Security Council
resolutions and the “land-for-peace” formula, as well as
respect by the parties for the agreements and commitments
reached so far.
Given these facts, it would be unacceptable if peace
were not also a strategic option for Israel — indeed, it
would be a real catastrophe. The achievement of a just and
comprehensive peace, to which the peoples of the region
and the world aspire, requires Israel’s withdrawal from all
occupied Arab land, pursuant
to Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978).
Syria reaffirms its attachment to the unity of both the
territory and the people of Iraq. Syria rejects any attempt to
violate the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq’s territory
or to interfere in its internal affairs, including the attempt
to establish a so-called security zone in northern Iraq. Syria
also calls for an end to the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi
people, and for a continuation of the implementation of
Security Council resolutions, including a solution to the
issue of Kuwaiti detainees.
With regard to the Lockerbie crisis, Syria expresses its
concern for the human and material harm that has been
done to the brotherly people of Libya as a result of the
10
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
continuing coercive measures imposed on them by the
Security Council. Syria reaffirms the statement made in
the final declaration on the issue of the recent Arab
summit, and calls for a response to the initiative
submitted by the Arab League for solving this crisis.
Syria hopes that the United Arab Emirates and the
Islamic Republic of Iran can find a peaceful solution to
the crisis over the three islands in a way that will
preserve good-neighbourly relations and contribute to the
strengthening of security and stability in the region.
Syria expresses its support for the principles agreed
upon by the Governments of Yemen and Eritrea for a
solution to their conflict through international arbitration.
Our position flows from our desire for good-neighbourly
relations between them and our belief in the importance
of re-establishing security and stability in the Red Sea
region.
Syria also expresses its concern at the continuing
deterioration of the situation in Somalia and reiterates the
call of the Arab summit to the leaders of the Somali
factions to achieve national reconciliation and to work
towards
the establishment of a national authority
representing our brothers, the Somali people, as a whole.
With regard to Korea, Syria expresses its support for
measures that would guarantee peace and stability in the
Korean peninsula and for the aspirations of the Korean
people to reunification.
The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the
founding of the United Nations provided an important
opportunity for us to forge a common vision of the future
of international relations. On that occasion, we said that
the crisis facing the United Nations does not arise from
the purposes and principles of the Charter, but rather from
the United Nations decision-making mechanism and the
selective way in which decisions are implemented. We
also observed that the Organization’s serious financial
crisis is, in fact, merely the reflection of a political crisis
that essentially revolves around the identity of the United
Nations and its role in the post-cold-war era.
In the light of those comments, the obvious question
is: Will it be possible to introduce meaningful reforms
into the structure of
the United Nations that are
acceptable and satisfactory to Member States? That is the
true challenge, requiring that we all strive to strengthen
dialogue and international cooperation. This will ensure
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
that reforms take place which fulfil, in substance and in
form, the aspirations of Member States.
Today, as we stand on the threshold of the next
century, we are all faced with serious challenges that
require us to create an environment that will allow future
generations to live in peace, security and cooperation within
a system of international relations free from violence and
confrontation. That is the hope of our peoples. This is what
we must endeavour to achieve as we look forward to a
better future, one both more just and more humane that will
benefit all mankind.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria, Mr. Georgi Pirinski.
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
With the transition from the post-war bipolar system
to a world of multi-centrism, the regional format will
acquire ever-growing importance. This has been our
experience in the Balkans, at least, a region which has
sustained the full blast of the forces of both globalization
and disastrous fragmentation.
In line with its consistently maintained positions,
Bulgaria welcomed from the outset the Dayton and Paris
agreements. We provided observers as well as police
personnel to the international missions in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The recent elections in that country,
notwithstanding their deficiencies and problems, represent
a vitally important step forward. They opened the way for
yesterday’s welcome and important Security Council
resolution to lift the sanctions imposed on Yugoslavia.
attended by 128 Heads of State
Mr. Pirinksi (Bulgaria): A year ago this month, the
General Assembly adopted by acclamation the Declaration
on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United
Nations. Thus, the special commemorative session of the
Assembly,
and
Government, solemnly reaffirmed our commitment to the
purposes and principles of the Charter. As Ambassador
Butler of Australia,
the Preparatory
Committee, stated, that Declaration must serve as a set of
guidelines for cooperation amongst all nations in the years
ahead.
the Chairman of
The fiftieth session,
so ably presided over by
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, took the initial
step towards translating these new guidelines into practical
action aimed at the twenty-first century. In congratulating
Mr. Razali Ismail upon his election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session, I wish him every
success in his highly responsible mission to carry further
the new tasks and endeavours of the Organization in the
course of this session.
Last year’s Declaration spelt out four main areas for
action in fulfilment of the mission of the United Nations in
the coming decades: peace, development, equality and
justice. The world of the twenty-first century will confront
two great opposing forces: globalization and fragmentation.
Bulgaria, as an active member of
the international
community, has felt both the new opportunities and the new
risks. In developing its policies and responses, Bulgaria has
proceeded on the basis of its European identity, particularly
its association with and prospective membership of the
European Union. I would therefore like to state that we
share in and attach importance to the European Union
memorandum to this session and to the statement delivered
by Mr. Dick Spring on behalf of the Union.
At the same time, even during the active phase of
the conflict, we have worked for the promotion of the
positive trends of good-neighbourliness throughout the
region. At last year’s fiftieth session, the Prime Minister
of Bulgaria highlighted this priority feature of Bulgaria’s
foreign
regional
cooperation. In particular he stated our intention to
convene a meeting of Central and South-East European
States in order to examine a broad range of issues
concerning long-term stability, security and cooperation
throughout the region.
comprehensive
favouring
policy,
level. At
foreign ministerial
Today, it is my pleasure to inform the Assembly that
such a meeting took place in Sofia on 6 and 7 July 1996
at
that meeting, seven
countries — Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria,
Greece, Romania, Turkey and Yugoslavia — adopted a
comprehensive document, the Sofia Declaration on Good-
Neighbourly
and
Cooperation in the Balkans.
Relations,
Stability,
Security
The President returned to the Chair.
format of
including representatives
The text of the Declaration was duly circulated as an
official document of the General Assembly and the
Security Council. The Declaration was fully supported by
the Sofia
all participants in the broader
ministerial meeting,
from
Croatia, Slovenia, Italy, Hungary, and the five Contact
Group countries — Germany, France,
the Russian
Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States of
America; Ireland, which holds the presidency of the
European Union; representatives of countries chairing the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
the Central European Initiative, Black Sea
(OSCE),
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Economic Cooperation; and high-level representatives from
the United Nations, the European Commission, the Council
of Europe, the United Nations Economic Commission for
Europe,
the World Bank and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. The High Representative,
Mr. Carl Bildt, was also present, took part in the meeting
and made a valuable contribution to its success.
I should like to outline very briefly the main spheres
of activity launched at the meeting in Sofia in July. In the
first area — enhancing regional peace and stability, and
building confidence and good-neighbourliness — the point
of departure was for the countries in the region to reaffirm
their allegiance to the fundamental principles of inter-State
relations as spelt out by the Charter, as well as in Helsinki
and Paris.
In line with these principles, Bulgaria has been
actively promoting confidence-building with all
its
neighbours and has already concluded agreements to this
effect with Turkey, Greece and Romania. We stand ready
to enter into such agreements with our other neighbours, as
well as on a multilateral regional basis.
Another important step in this direction will be the
convening in Sofia of a meeting of Ministers of Defence as
provided for in the Declaration of the Balkan countries.
This meeting should contribute significantly towards
strengthening
and
considering future arms-control measures in the region.
confidence
enhancing
security,
Recent regional multilateral cooperation in South-East
Europe has focused on infrastructure development and
upgrading as important factors for economic growth and
regional stability. There is an emerging consensus that it
should be oriented towards upgrading and linking local
infrastructures with trans-European ones, as well as with
those in other adjacent areas — the eastern Mediterranean,
northern Africa and across the Black Sea and into Asia.
Transport infrastructure development is the subject of local
cooperation between Albania, the Republic of Macedonia
and Bulgaria, with direct financial and technical assistance
being provided by the United States of America; a
quadrilateral agreement has recently been signed with
regard to this matter. It is also the subject of trilateral
cooperation between Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. An
important contribution to the cause of good-neighbourliness
and infrastructure development are the Bulgarian-Greek
cross-border cooperation and water-sharing agreements,
which recently entered into force and will be submitted to
the OSCE under the Pact on Stability in Europe.
12
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
Furthermore,
information and contacts
in accordance with the agreement
between the Balkan countries, the Bulgarian Government
began preliminary consultations towards setting up a
for
transregional
infrastructure
further
contributions to be made to the positive developments in
this field from the forthcoming meeting of Ministers of
Transportation of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
and Central European Initiative partner countries in Sofia
in November 1996.
development. We
expect
centre
freedoms,
Together with its neighbours in South-East Europe,
Bulgaria is building regional cooperation on the basis of
the rule of law and full respect for human rights and
fundamental
including those of persons
belonging to different national, ethnic, religious and
cultural minorities. The countries from the region once
again reaffirmed their commitment to these principles and
values. They also adopted specific guidelines in the
various areas of cultural contacts and cooperation through
exchanges and joint programmes. These should add to
existing bilateral or multilateral programmes that promote
better mutual understanding and the overcoming of
negative stereotypes inherited from the past.
through
regional
communications
Joint action in the field of crime prevention and the
elimination of international terrorism envisages closer
and border
cooperation between central,
authorities
efficient
and
exchange of information; a commitment to accede to all
relevant international conventions that prevent and punish
international crime and terrorism; joining and participation
in specialized regional forums for discussing the problems
of illicit drug-trafficking, organized crime and regional
anti-terrorist cooperation; and the elaboration of a regional
programme to combat organized crime. This already
represents a tangible contribution to the implementation
at
level of a zero-tolerance approach to
terrorism.
the regional
The Sofia Declaration thus
set out both the
framework and the terms of reference for comprehensive
regional cooperation. To this end, follow-up activities are
being elaborated in all areas and we hope that all States
from the region will take part at the next ministerial
meeting in Greece in 1997.
Proposals on cooperation in South-East Europe have
also come from outside the region. The Florence
conference of the Peace Implementation Council last June
identified the three initiatives fostering such cooperation:
the Balkan conference initiated by the Bulgarian
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Government, the stability process under the terms of the
Royaumont declaration of 12 December 1995 and the
South-East Europe cooperation initiative of the United
States Government. There is
for
interaction between the three initiatives, with the process
launched in Sofia serving as a comprehensive basis which
could link up with the other two initiatives in specific areas
of common interest.
important potential
This regional endeavour represents an integral building
block in the development of an all-European system of
security and cooperation. We expect the Lisbon OSCE
summit in December 1996 to address in a comprehensive
manner this set of issues and provide guidelines for future
action at both the European and regional levels. Various
bodies and agencies of the United Nations system, such as
the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, the
United Nations Development Programme,
the United
Nations Environment Programme,
the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs, the United Nations Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice Branch and other bodies could also be
highly effective in encouraging and promoting at
the
regional level the ideas and initiatives that I have outlined.
level. We fully share the view that
I would like to state Bulgaria’s position on some
the
United Nations-led and other major endeavours at
global
the recent
conclusion of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
is an achievement of truly historic proportions. In pursuit of
Bulgaria’s long-standing policies in favour of nuclear arms
control and disarmament, I had the honour to sign this
Treaty on the very first day it was opened for signature. For
Bulgaria, a convention on the ban on the production of
fissionable material for military purposes would be the next
logical
the Conference on
Disarmament, in which Bulgaria is an active participant.
in the work of
stage
From the point of view of global as well as regional
security, another priority task is the early entry into force
and implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention.
As for the Biological Weapons Convention, Bulgaria is
fully in favour of upgrading its control and verification
mechanism and is ready to contribute to this end at the
forthcoming Review Conference and thereafter.
Bulgaria took an active part in the Review Conference
of the States Parties to the Convention on Prohibitions or
Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons
Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to
Have Indiscriminate Effects, and its Protocol II. During the
negotiations, we made special efforts
to take into
consideration the new technical requirements on mines as
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
the purposes of mine-
an absolute prerequisite for
clearance and the normal conduct of United Nations
peacekeeping and humanitarian operations. Furthermore,
by a decision taken on 2 May 1996,
the Bulgarian
Government imposed a three-year ban on exports of anti-
personnel mines. Bulgaria, which currently hold the
on Sustainable
chairmanship
Development, attaches particular importance,
together
with the other United Nations Member States, to the
special session of the General Assembly on the review of
the follow-up process to the United Nations Conference
on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro.
the Commission
of
In October 1995, Sofia hosted the third Ministerial
Conference on Environment for Europe. The Conference
provided further impetus to the Environmental Action
Programme for Central and Eastern Europe. The
ministerial declaration adopted is an important document
in the field of environmental protection in Europe and a
further step towards implementing the global concept of
sustainability.
In recent years, we have witnessed rapid changes in
the world economy, changes that can be described by the
general trends of liberalization and globalization, both of
which are important factors for development. I am happy
to inform this Assembly that, after
long years of
strenuous negotiations, today, 2 October 1996, Bulgaria
is becoming a member of the World Trade Organization
(WTO). By joining WTO, Bulgaria shall become fully
integrated into the world trading system which is essential
for us to be able to achieve stable economic growth.
Bearing in mind the new challenges in the social and
economic areas in today’s multipolar and interdependent
world, my country supports the efforts of the international
community to enhance and streamline United Nations
activities in this field.
that
It
should be
believe
implementation.
instruments. We
Bulgaria is a party to all major international human-
rights
international
cooperation in the field of human rights is essential for
their
conducted in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the
principles of international law, such as the sovereign
equality, political independence and the territorial integrity
of States. We are in favour of constructive and open
dialogue on even sensitive issues related to human rights
in individual States. This approach is not directed against
any country. The situations in different parts of the world
should be examined in a way that takes into account the
individual countries in a
specific characteristics of
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
comprehensive context and be aimed above all at
encouraging positive developments and tendencies.
Transnational crime and international terrorism are
increasingly emerging, as stated by many speakers in this
forum, as one of the major security challenges facing the
international community today. They directly affect
development and quality of
life and erode the very
foundations of democratic society. It has become more than
obvious
addressed
effectively by national institutions alone. Today, there is a
pressing need to develop new cooperation in the field of
crime prevention and criminal justice. Such cooperation
could also include more information sharing,
including
inputs from intelligence sources.
cannot be
challenges
these
that
At this session, the General Assembly must carefully
examine all valuable ideas and proposals in this field put
forward by preceding speakers. My country will readily
support the efforts of the international community aimed at
the elaboration, on a global level, of efficient measures to
combat crime and to eliminate international terrorism.
Allow me to digress for a moment from the prepared
text of my speech in order to share with the Assembly a
most regrettable and tragic piece of news concerning a
political assassination which took place just over 24 hours
ago in Sofia. The target was a former Prime Minister of
Bulgaria, Mr. Andrei Lukanov. I would like to inform the
Assembly that Mr. Lukanov was one of the principal and
personal driving forces behind the democratic changes that
took place in Bulgaria after 1989. He staked his personal
introduction into
efforts and future on the successful
Bulgarian society of
the
promotion of human rights and economic reform. He was
also well-known within the United Nations family,
in
particular in Geneva, having been an active promoter of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
since its early years and having promoted Bulgaria’s
participation in the world trading system and the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. In an ironic twist of fate,
today marks, as I said, Bulgaria’s accession to WTO.
the values of democracy,
The Bulgarian Parliament adopted a declaration on this
occasion several hours ago. It firmly declares the will of all
political forces in Bulgaria — Mr. Lukanov having been an
active member of Parliament for the last seven years — not
to permit this act in any way to divert Bulgaria from the
path towards economic and political reform or to infringe
on the peaceful and lawful process of political and public
life, including the forthcoming presidential elections at the
end of this month.
14
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
I have instructed my Mission to transmit the text of
this declaration, with a short covering note,
to you,
Mr. President, the Secretary-General and Member States.
I invite all of you to share our feelings of support and
sympathy for the family of Mr. Lukanov and to send
messages of support to the Bulgarian Parliament. I invite
the Assembly, at this point in time, without rising, to
share
of
Mr. Lukanov.
remembrance
a minute
silence
of
in
Improvements in the effectiveness and functioning of
the principal organs, a better balance in their authority
and the streamlining of the subsidiary machinery are
important conditions for the reform of the United Nations.
Italy just a few days ago. One of
The issue of equitable representation on and increase
is a key
in the membership of the Security Council
component of this process. We share the view that some
Member States — developed, for instance Germany and
Japan, and developing alike — are able to assume the
responsibility of permanent membership. A number of
proposals for the reform of the Security Council have
already been put on the table and should be examined
with due attention. In this respect, I would like to mention
the valuable ideas presented by Minister Lamberto Dini
of
the major
developments over the past several years has been the fact
that the number of States in the Eastern European Group
has almost doubled. We reiterate our conviction that such
a rise in membership requires one additional non-
permanent seat
to be allocated to this Group. Some
Balkan countries have already indicated their willingness
to apply for non-permanent membership in the Security
Council. With its consistent regional policies of good-
neighbourliness and cooperation in South-East Europe, as
well as in the broader United Nations framework,
Bulgaria is equally justified in seeking membership on the
Council in the years to come.
It would be remiss of me, however, not to mention
some serious flaws in the United Nations peacemaking
machinery. The question of finding an adequate solution
to the complicated problems arising for third countries as
a result of United Nations Security Council-imposed
sanctions is one of them. At
its fiftieth session the
General Assembly once again expressed concern at the
persisting special economic problems confronting States
affected by sanctions implementation. It also renewed its
invitation to the international financial
institutions to
continue to pay special attention to these problems and
their adverse social impact, and to consider ways and
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
for mobilizing and providing resources on
means
appropriate terms for mitigating the negative impact of the
sanctions on those States. The Assembly also renewed its
request
and
specialized agencies of the United Nations to take into
consideration the special needs of the affected States and to
consider providing assistance to them from their special
programme resources.
competent organs, programmes
to the
the
steps
practical
few are
Regrettably,
in
implementing these recommendations. These problems,
since they are long-lasting, will continue to exert their
negative impact long after the lifting of sanctions. It would
be highly counterproductive if the peacemaking essence of
sanctions were to be distorted by major economic
dislocation in affected third States. Being among the
countries suffering most
from the implementation of
sanctions, at this session Bulgaria will again submit a draft
resolution on the subject and I invite all Member States to
give it their unanimous and firm support.
The proceedings of
the fifty-first session of
the
General Assembly provide new, important opportunities to
continue on the path of reform and increased efficiency.
They open up new opportunities to render support to those
trends in the modern world, our global village and each of
its neighbourhoods, making for societies with greater
security and promise in which our children can look
forward to a more fulfilling life. Bulgaria is firmly
committed to contributing actively and in a constructive
spirit to the accomplishment of this new mission of the
world Organization.
The President: I share in the shock and sorrow over
the loss of a great Bulgarian leader and nationalist.
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Viet
Nam, His Excellency Mr. Nguyen Manh Cam.
Mr. Nguyen Manh Cam (Viet Nam) (interpretation
from French): On behalf of the delegation of the Socialist
Republic of Viet Nam, I would like to congratulate you
warmly, Sir, on your election as President of the General
Assembly at its fifty-first session. We are truly proud that
you, an experienced representative of Malaysia, a member
country of the Association of South-East Asian Nations
(ASEAN), have been elected to this important position. We
are confident that, under your guidance, our session will
achieve many fine results.
Let me take this opportunity to express our high
the performance of your predecessor,
appreciation of
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral. We also hold in high
regard the dynamism and perseverance of Secretary-
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali
in the service of our
common cause.
Last year at this time, we had the opportunity to take
a retrospective look at the world’s development over the
past half-century and the role played by the United
Nations in this long journey. One year later, the world
landscape is still full of contrasts, interwoven with factors
and trends of hope and with events and tendencies that
give rise to the concerns of the international community
at this end of the twentieth century.
to
of
peace
nations
achieve
In a world of teeming changes, what emerges as
invariable are the legitimate aspiration and vigorous
determination
and
development based on equality, democracy, respect for
the independence and sovereignty of each country and the
identity of each nation. In this grand endeavour, peoples
turn to the United Nations for timely support and fruitful
assistance because the Organization, having waded
through the vicissitudes of a half-century of history, has
been daily affirming its crucial role for the world as a
whole. Today’s challenge for our world Organization is
how to reform and adapt itself to the new international
circumstances in order to meet the expectations of the
peoples.
As the system of international relations in the post-
cold-war era takes shape, we can already see its trend
towards diversification and multicentrism. In this context,
multilateral institutions and mechanisms, especially the
United Nations, have assumed an ever-more essential role.
However, there are various ways of interpreting the role
of our Organization today. As regards the vast majority of
the Member countries, the United Nations, in its capacity
as a centre for harmonizing inter-State relations, should
play a fundamental role in firmly defending international
law and in encouraging States’ strict and consistent
respect for and observation of the United Nations Charter.
In this spirit, the United Nations must use its weight and
responsibility to stem the practices — such as coercion
and imposition, arbitrary embargo and sanctions that bring
suffering to innocent people, and flagrant interference in
the internal affairs of States,
their
independence and sovereignty — that run counter to the
current general trends.
in violation of
To play its role adequately, the United Nations must
reform itself so as to increase the representativeness of its
institutional organs and to democratize and ensure greater
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of
the
Security Council
transparency in our Organization’s working procedures and
methods. The cornerstones of the democratization of the
United Nations system are the reform of the Security
Council and the enhancement of the role of the General
task which
Assembly. This is a complex and difficult
requires utmost perseverance. The expansion of
the
composition
the
and
democratization of its decision-making procedures constitute
an urgent demand of the international community. At the
same time, the authority and role of the General Assembly,
the broadest and most
representative body, must be
strengthened in response to the legitimate appeal of us all.
Certainly, the reform must be undertaken on the basis of
the agreed principles, particularly that of consensus,
reflecting to the fullest extent the views and aspirations of
the majority of the member countries and ensuring the
interests of the different regions.
of
its
citizens,
democracy
participation
If in today’s world democracy in a society means the
active
in
international relations requires the active participation of all
countries, large or small, rich or poor. Only an increasingly
democratized United Nations can enjoy the prestige and
confidence necessary for playing its role in harmonizing the
actions of States on the basis of international law, as all
desire it to. Let us build upon the momentum gathered at
the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations so that on
entering the twenty-first century, the United Nations can
truly serve as an example of democratization in the world’s
political life.
The wise way to achieve the common objectives of
national independence, peace and development is that of
cooperation in the spirit of equality, mutual respect and
mutual benefit. The globalization of the world economy, the
liberalization of trade and investment and the dizzying
advances of science and technology now present every State
with both unprecedented opportunities and imposing
challenges. It is no mere coincidence that the recent summit
of the seven major industrialized countries, the G-7, in
Lyons, focused on the theme of globalization.
However, the developing countries, and especially the
underdeveloped ones, are approaching this trial that is so
vital for their development and prosperity poorly equipped
and in extremely difficult conditions. Therefore,
is
incumbent upon the international community and in
particular the developed countries, to give the required
attention and adequate assistance to help solve this crucial
equation, because it is impossible to accept, in the context
of
interdependence, a world in which affluence is
concentrated in a small number of countries while the
it
16
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
majority of countries continue to struggle against
increasing poverty and the gap between the rich and the
poor grows inexorably wider.
Given its strength and prestige, the United Nations
is able to and needs to play a useful role in this process.
In implementing the Agenda for Development, our
Organization should concentrate first on the regions in
difficulty and on the essential issues. With its financial
resources and groups of experts,
the United Nations
system can assist the countries of the South to overcome
their disadvantaged position and succeed in their efforts
for timely regional and global integration, in the context
of an economic, trade, scientific and technological race on
a global scale.
In Viet Nam, for instance,
the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) is carrying out projects
to assist us in our integration into the Association of
South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). UNDP is also
playing an active and effective role to facilitate the
establishment of a framework for cooperation among the
countries along the Mekong. UNDP is currently working
on a national capacity-building project so that Viet Nam
can be prepared to participate more effectively in the
World Trade Organization (WTO) in the near future.
Such practical bilateral and multilateral development
projects are to be welcomed.
However, we are now facing a glaring paradox: the
need for
international cooperation for development
continues to grow, while the available means become ever
more scarce and natural resources more depleted. In the
fierce
development, States must
concentrate their resources on domestic needs in order to
restructure their economies and solve the pressing social
problems, thus enhancing their internal strength. That is
quite understandable.
competition
for
Nevertheless, in the current context of increasing
interdependence among States, international cooperation,
especially the flow of capital and technology transfer
from the developed to the developing countries is
indispensable, and it is also necessary and beneficial for
the sustainable development of the developed countries
themselves. Moreover, today, when urgent global issues
are strengthening links between all States, a danger to one
nation may also affect others, and the stability and
prosperity enjoyed by one society may contribute to an
environment favourable for the stability and prosperity of
other societies.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Hunger, illness, social injustice and other phenomena
are all potential threats to the security of each country and
the world as a whole. Allocating of
the stability of
resources to support
the development of developing
countries and contributing in various ways to bilateral and
multilateral international cooperation for development are
wise investments for peace and for the shared future of all
of our societies.
and the needs
increasing; on the contrary,
The United Nations is not immune to this discrepancy
between resources
for development
assistance. Today, the resources available to the United
Nations are not
they are
shrinking or being overextended. This worrisome situation
calls for the attention and responsibility of all Member
States, especially of the major Powers and developed
countries that possess greater resources and potential. The
measure to be taken immediately, in the unanimous view of
Member States, is for every State to fulfil its financial
obligations. Moreover,
provide
supplementary resources for the United Nations should be
encouraged. Recently, scholars and renowned personalities
have advanced numerous interesting proposals in this
regard. We are of the view that the General Assembly
should assign the Working Group on the Financial Situation
of the United Nations and other relevant working groups
the task of seriously studying these proposals in order to
explore all possible ways of providing the United Nations
in
with the
development for all — first and foremost,
that of the
underdeveloped countries.
resources necessary to actively assist
initiatives
all
to
The United Nations has a rather weighty responsibility
regarding the demands of development. Its role in the
globalization process is therefore no less crucial. Since the
beginning of this decade the United Nations has initiated
and organized a number of world summit conferences on a
set of global issues ranging from environment to social
development,
from
women to children — and coming up we have the World
Food Summit, the aim of which is to find and implement
coordinated measures at all levels — national, regional, and
international — to solve problems of importance for the
future of all nations.
from population to human rights,
If
in the resolution of crisis and conflicts the
participation of the majority of countries is somewhat
through an intermediary
limited or
mechanism,
issues for
development the United Nations has been able to mobilize
the direct participation of all countries, big and small, rich
and poor, developed and developing, because these are not
even indirect,
in the resolution of the global
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
just “to whom it may concern” issues. In this manner, the
United Nations can succeed in its efforts to emerge from
a mere reactive role to crises and conflicts and play a
proactive role in preventing such conflicts and crises.
Clearly, the resolution of global issues is always broadly
democratic in nature.
For all
these reasons, we hold that
the United
Nations should further strengthen its role of assistance
and coordination in this essential field and continue to
advance the implementation of programmes of action
already adopted. It is evident that no organization can
replace the United Nations in this vital role. In fulfilling
this role, the United Nations will see its prestige enhanced
and its image brought closer to the life of each nation and
each human being.
The year 1996 will go down in the history of Viet
Nam as the beginning of a new stage of development of
the Eighth Congress of the
our country. Last June,
Communist Party of Viet Nam was
successfully
concluded. The special significance of this historic event
is that, based on the successes achieved over the last 10
years of
the
Congress decided to lead the country into a new phase of
industrialization and modernization, with a view to
doubling by the year 2000 the 1990 per-capita gross
domestic product and essentially transforming Viet Nam
into an industrialized country in the next 20 to 25 years.
reform and national
renewal,
revival,
At the same time, we have reaffirmed the pursuit of
our foreign policy of independence and sovereignty,
openness, the diversification and multilateralism of our
international relations, and regional and international
integration. It is because of this direction that the foreign
policy of Viet Nam has achieved and continues to achieve
outstanding results, assisting in the work of nation-
building and development
in a practical way, and
effectively contributing to the resolution of international
problems.
Viet Nam has established diplomatic relations with
over 160 countries, including all the major Powers and
the most prominent world political-economic centres. Viet
Nam has commercial
relations with more than 100
countries and investment ties with over 50 countries and
territories. In addition to expanding its relations with
countries of all continents, last year as a full member of
the Association of South-East Asian Nations, one of the
most dynamic and successful of regional organizations,
Viet Nam actively contributed to regional and world
cooperation and development.
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
We are participating more actively in the work of
international organizations, especially those of the United
Nations system, as well regional organizations. This year,
Viet Nam begins its term as a member of the UNICEF
Executive Board, and will present its candidature for a seat
on the Economic and Social Council at this session of the
General Assembly. We hope to receive the support of
Member countries of the United Nations to be able to
contribute our share to the work of that important body,
developing and coordinating policies of economic and
social development and cooperation. We are currently
preparing for the successful organization of the upcoming
seventh Francophone summit to be held in November 1997
at Hanoi. As regards broader integration, Viet Nam is also
actively preparing to participate soon in other international
organizations, such as the World Trade Organization and
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum.
As a new member of the Conference on Disarmament,
Viet Nam played an active part in the negotiations on the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which it recently
signed. By signing that Treaty, Vietnam joined in the broad
appeal of the international community that all States refrain
from all nuclear testing, regardless of the form, strictly
observe the ban on all nuclear-tests and undertake concrete
steps and measures towards the total elimination of all
nuclear weapons. Viet Nam stands ready to cooperate with
all countries for the effective implementation of the Treaty,
contributing to a cleaner environment, to greater confidence
and to consolidation of international security, aimed at a
more secure and healthy world. At the same time, we hold
that the verification activities of the Treaty implementation
process must be carried out in a fair and impartial manner,
with strict respect for the sovereignty of States. In this
spirit, we view that the proposal for a programme of action
for the elimination of nuclear weapons submitted recently
at the Conference on Disarmament by 28 States, including
Viet Nam, deserves serious consideration.
To achieve the objective and sincere desire to build a
Viet Nam with a prosperous people, a strong nation and a
just and civilized society, we are determined to bring into
full play the achievements of the reform and renewal
process and equip ourselves with the internal strength
needed to move forward steadily on the path of integration.
On the basis of our current international relations, we will
strengthen our cooperation with other countries and
international and regional organizations; we will enhance
productivity; we will consolidate the peaceful environment
and create international conditions still more favourable, in
the service of the prosperity of our nation as well as for the
prosperity of the region and the world.
18
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
At the threshold of the third millennium, all nation-
States are subject to strong pressures of both opportunity
and challenge. The vast ability of mankind in this age,
together with the extraordinary advances in science and
technology, offers us hope for development and prosperity
for all nations. Yet the poverty that afflicts more than one
fifth of the world population and the gap between the rich
and the poor raise concerns. The opportunities seem great
but the challenges are acutely felt. To begin the twenty-
first century with more hope than anxiety, it will be
important
sense of
responsibility and broaden our overall long-term interests:
those of peace and development. There is no doubt that
the United Nations, the Organization to which we all
belong, will contribute actively towards achieving that
end.
to enhance our
for us
first
The President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Belarus (His Excellency Mr. Uladzimir
Syanko).
Mr. Syanko (Belarus): Allow me first of all
to
congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the post of
President of
its fifty-first
session.
the General Assembly at
General debates over a number of years have already
clearly indicated that virtually all Member States consider
it of vital importance to transform the United Nations into
an Organization with enhanced potential in the service of
peace and security in the world.
Belarus advocates a pragmatic approach to the
reform of
the United Nations based on a realistic
assessment of the Organization’s ability to enhance the
practical efficiency of the entire United Nations system
along the strategic lines of its activities. One of these is
peacemaking, which in the aftermath of the cold war
acquired new substance and quality.
Mr. Baumanis (Latvia), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
The New Testament reads,
“Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be
called children of God.” (Matthew, 5:9)
Today’s efforts by the United Nations to maintain
peace are noble indeed. Belarus supports actions to
further perfect peacekeeping operations as an important
practical instrument at the disposal of the United Nations.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
A crystal-clear understanding of peacekeeping operations as
a specific means used in conflict settlement, aimed at
maintaining peace rather than imposing it and at preventing
highly explosive situations from emerging,
is a sure
guarantee that
such operations will be successfully
implemented.
We note with satisfaction a substantive breakthrough
in the peaceful settlement of the conflict in the former
Yugoslavia. Belarus emphasizes the key significance of
restoring close economic, scientific and cultural
ties
between the States of the region for the normalization of
the situation in the Balkans. That is why we support the
idea of making the decision of lifting the economic and
trade embargo against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
a permanent one.
Belarus attaches great significance to the process of a
peaceful settlement in the Middle East, based on respect for
the right of all States of the region to live in peace within
internationally recognized borders.
As regards the ways and means to further perfect the
Security Council’s activities, Belarus would like to
emphasize the principle of balanced representation for all
regional groups of Member States, in particular the Eastern
European group,
in a renewed and expanded Security
Council.
their
Given
particular
significance,
concerted
international efforts in the field of disarmament are required
in shaping the global security system that would befit the
twenty-first century. We consider it a great privilege and
honour that our practical actions and initiatives in this
domain have been recognized and supported through the
election of a representative of Belarus to the post of
Chairman of the First Committee at the current session.
This year has been marked by momentous events in
Belarus. Very shortly the last nuclear missile will leave the
territory of our Republic, thus making the entire territory of
Central Europe, from the Baltic to the Black Sea, a nuclear-
weapon-free zone. This brings into particular prominence
the initiative put forward by Alyaksandr Lukashenka,
President of Belarus, to establish a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in Central and Eastern Europe.
Efforts aimed at setting up and consolidating nuclear-
weapon-free zones in various regions of the world are
gaining momentum. Hence, we consider it illogical for
Europe to remain the only continent where no practical
steps have been taken in this direction. We strongly believe
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
respect and partnership in that part of
that setting up a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central and
Eastern Europe would further enhance the spirit of trust,
the
mutual
European continent
solid
contribution by the European nations to nuclear non-
proliferation.
and would serve
as
a
In the search for an efficient arms control regime,
the delegation of Belarus intends to initiate further
consideration at this session of the General Assembly of
the item on prohibition of
the development and
manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction
and new systems of such weapons. Ecologically safe
destruction of weapons, conversion of military enterprises,
legal aspects of
the transfer of sensitive advanced
technology and of their impact on the development of
science and technology stand high on the list of our
priorities.
From this lofty rostrum I am proud to say that,
despite the formidable economic, social and financial
constraints we have had to overcome, Belarus has
completely fulfilled all its obligations under the Treaty on
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe. Equally significant
is the fact that Belarus submitted to the Secretary-General
of
the United Nations in July 1996 its ratification
instruments
the Chemical Weapons
Convention.
joining
on
Located in the geographical centre of Europe, my
country has set itself the goal of preventing dangerous
tensions from evolving in the region which, more often
than any other part of the planet, has been a seat of world
wars, in order to help prevent the emergence of new lines
of separation, curtains, walls and other constructions that
seemed gone for ever.
is worth noting that a considerable part of
From that perspective, we must bring to the
Assembly’s attention the concern of the Belarusian people
regarding the eventual rapid expansion of North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) and the deployment of its
military infrastructure in close proximity to our borders.
It
the
population of Belarus no longer considers NATO a hostile
organization. Yet, being realistic, we must admit that
much more time is needed to transform that attitude into
a sympathetic stance. It would be appropriate to expect
that such large and drastic transformations in the
European security system to evolve gradually.
In these new circumstances,
the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
the role of
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
(OSCE) acquires new significance. In all confidence, we
pin our hopes on the forthcoming OSCE summit in Lisbon.
The results of the summit, I am convinced, will prove to be
a solid basis for enhancing coordination between the United
Nations and the OSCE, as well as for better distributing
between them the functions of ensuring regional security in
Europe in order to help create a comprehensive security
model for Europe in the twenty-first century and to further
the efforts towards concerted actions by European States
aimed at strengthening stability on the continent.
Globalization of the world economy made it possible
for the States to considerably expand their markets, as well
as the flow of goods, services, finance and technologies, to
adjust economic relations and to improve the economic and
social well-being of their populations. At the same time, the
removal of trade and other economic barriers exposed the
vulnerability of countries with less-developed economies.
Many of those countries find it difficult to keep pace with
the rapid transformations now under way and to break the
vicious circle of backward development.
That is why the countries with economies in transition,
Belarus included, have every reason to expect that special
measures will be taken by the United Nations in order to
facilitate their integration into the world economic and trade
systems and to help them join existing and emerging
multilateral economic institutions and mechanisms.
We reiterate our intention to host an international
conference on the sustainable development of countries with
economies in transition, to be convened in Minsk in May
1997. I am convinced that the results of the conference will
prove a valuable contribution to the five-year review of the
implementation of Agenda 21, at the special session of the
General Assembly next June.
in
of
the
course
complex
The activities of the United Nations in the social and
environmental fields have a particular significance for
Belarus. The problems in these areas are extremely acute
due to the negative impact of a number of factors that
emerged
economic
transformations. The leadership of Belarus is undertaking
considerable efforts to improve the quality of life of its
citizens. At the same time, we are not always able to
resolve acute social problems by our own means alone.
Decisions adopted at six world summits, held in Rio de
Janeiro, Vienna, Copenhagen, Beijing, Cairo and Istanbul,
have prompted the needed and long-overdue adoption of a
global programme of assistance to the countries that have
embarked on the road of market reforms.
20
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
The problem of refugees, displaced persons and
repatriates is also very acute today. Our Republic
welcomes the results of the Geneva regional conference
on refugees, displaced persons, other forms of forced
movements and repatriates in the Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS). I believe that the establishment,
under the aegis of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees, of a permanent regional centre on migratory
problems and refugees for the countries of Eastern Europe
could make a considerable contribution to the process of
complete and effective implementation of those decisions.
We propose that such a centre be headquartered in Minsk.
Taking urgent measures to combat terrorism, illicit
drug trafficking and organized crime is yet another
demand of the moment. Proceeding from this premise, we
welcome the initiative announced from this rostrum by
Poland to introduce a draft United Nations framework
convention against organized crime.
Our Republic does not possess nuclear energy, but
more than any other State in the world it is interested in
the implementation of effective preventive measures in
the field of nuclear safety that would make it impossible
for new Chernobyls to occur in the future. Belarus is in
favour of the comprehensive strengthening of the nuclear-
safety regime, including development and adoption of the
appropriate international convention with concrete and
strong commitments under international control. The
initiative to establish a global fund for environmental
protection deserves most serious consideration. My
country is grateful to the United Nations for its valuable
efforts
discussing
Chernobyl-related issues. This is extremely important to
us. At the same time Belarus is deeply concerned over the
fact that, alongside the ongoing discussion related to the
closure of
the problem of
mitigating the medical and environmental after-effects of
the Chernobyl catastrophe — the main burden of which
has been borne by our young State — are being pushed
aside.
the Chernobyl
coordinating,
initiating
reactor,
and
in
We are deeply concerned over the financial situation
of the Organization. Admitting that Belarus now finds
itself among the States with the biggest debts to the
United Nations, we cannot but underscore that
this
situation has emerged as a result of objective financial
and economic difficulties experienced by Belarus at this
complex stage of its development, as well as of the unjust
distribution of United Nations expenses among the
Member States. Excessive rates of assessment for the
United Nations regular budget and for peacekeeping
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
operations has now resulted in one of the founding States
of the United Nations being unable, for objective reasons,
to fulfil its financial obligations to the Organization. In
view of this, we support all-round measures aimed at
reforming the entire financial system of the United Nations
and the search for fair forms of financial cooperation
between the Organization and the Member States,
in
particular those whose arrears have accumulated due to a
number of reasons beyond their control.
Finally,
system coincides with
juncture in the development of
the wide-scale reforming of
the
the United
Nations
democratic
transformations taking place in a number of States, Belarus
being one of them. Given that the reforms now under way
are of immediate concern to each and every citizen of our
country, we are fully aware of their significance at this
crucial
international
relations. Comprehension of the importance of that factor
enabled Belarus to secure public law and order, stability
and peace in its territory. Yet sometimes it is not so easy
for the major political actors to achieve a coordinated
approach to tackling the intricate problems facing Belarus
at
it has
importance today to find an efficient
become of vital
balance between the legislative,
the executive and the
judicial branches of power and to ensure their stable
interaction. This is precisely the purpose of the upcoming
popular referendum in Belarus, which is being held at the
initiative of President Alyaksandr Lukashenka.
juncture in its history. Thus,
this transitional
The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations has also
breathed new life into its ideals and strengthened our belief
that the United Nations is a unique and genuinely integral
part of international life. I am convinced that the fifty-first
session of the General Assembly can and must become a
starting point for effectively reforming the United Nations,
which will be possible only through the joint efforts of all
Member States of the Organization.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency
Mr. Luis Valencia Rodríguez, Chairman of the delegation
of Ecuador.
Mr. Valencia Rodríguez (Ecuador) (interpretation
from Spanish): I wish to extend to President Razali Ismail
Ecuador’s warm congratulations on his election, which is a
tribute to his valuable contributions to the work of our
world Organization in his
capacity as Permanent
Representative of Malaysia. I wish also to convey our
thanks to Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, President of the
General Assembly at its fiftieth session, for the fruitful
work he accomplished.
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
I wish to express to the delegation of Bulgaria the
heartfelt condolences of the Government of Ecuador for
the irreparable loss it has suffered with the killing of
former Prime Minister Lukanov. Our condolences go also
to the family and friends of that eminent man.
scene,
resulting from the end of
On the threshold of the twenty-first century, we
remain immersed in a process of profound change on the
international
the
ideological confrontation between East and West. We are
seeing the emergence of new opportunities for peace-
building, for the strengthening of development, for the
diffusion of democracy and for stepped-up international
cooperation, especially politically. Ecuador believes that
we should take maximum advantage of these positive
factors and use them as a basis on which to devise the
most ambitious programme possible for the coming years,
with the goal of a world of equity and justice, a world in
which future generations can live well,
in secure
conditions, at peace with themselves and with the
environment on which their very survival depends.
In these circumstances, the essential objective of our
Organization, as established in the Charter, remains the
same: the maintenance of international peace and security.
To attain this objective, it is imperative that all Member
States reaffirm their faith in the purposes and principles
enshrined in the Charter. Most fundamentally, this means
banning the threat or use of force against the territorial
integrity or the political independence of any State, as
well as the obligation to settle international disputes
exclusively by peaceful means. The larger goal of
international security should be seen as embracing the
political, economic and social conditions in which all
nations develop.
continues
While the danger of worldwide nuclear destruction
has
receded, Ecuador
to maintain that
preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons is not an
end in itself, but an intermediate step towards the ultimate
objective of totally banning and completely destroying all
nuclear weapons. Ecuador regrets that the Conference on
Disarmament was unable to adopt by consensus the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). It takes
the view, however, that the text supported by most States,
which has been endorsed by the General Assembly and
opened for signature by States,
is an important step
towards
signed that
instrument. Although it is not the ideal instrument for
which the Conference on Disarmament was striving, it
would be a mistake to start this long and arduous process
all over again. Ecuador will also continue to work for
that objective. Ecuador has
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
general and complete disarmament, which will eliminate
once and for all the grave danger inherent in weapons of
mass destruction and end the squandering of scarce national
resources on weapons.
Ecuador voted in favour of resolution 49/75 K, by
which the General Assembly requested the International
Court of Justice to issue an Advisory Opinion as to whether
international law authorizes the threat or use of nuclear
weapons in any circumstances. We welcome the Court’s
unanimous finding that
“There is in neither customary nor conventional
international
law any specific authorization of the
threat or use of nuclear weapons.”
The finding also states that
“A threat or use of force by means of nuclear
weapons that is contrary to Article 2, paragraph 4, of
the United Nations Charter and that fails to meet all
the requirements of Article 51, is unlawful.”
In its finding, the Court also expresses the view that
“There exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and
bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear
disarmament
its aspects under strict and
effective international control.”
in all
The Government of Ecuador believes that
the General
Assembly should endorse these views, which form a basis
for the continued work of the international community to
bring about the definitive banning of nuclear weapons.
its
the
and
crime;
Terrorism in all
international
forms and manifestations;
organized
production,
consumption and trafficking of all illicit drugs continue to
pose grave threats that undermine international stability and
the security and well-being of society in general. To
eradicate these evils, we need a coordinated and persistent
international effort in which all States should be involved,
in accordance with their capacity and with their degree of
responsibility.
is complying
appropriately with its obligations.
regard, Ecuador
In this
We are currently experiencing the rapid globalization
and interdependence of the world economy, which requires
the adoption of rational domestic policies and a favourable
international economic environment. At present,
the
promotion of economic development is reflected in the
liberalization of trade agreements and the establishment of
22
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
an open multilateral commercial system. This new state
of affairs has favourable effects; however,
in certain
circumstances, it produces adverse consequences. For that
reason it is imperative that policies and the international
environment be structured so as to derive maximum
benefit from these trends and minimize the negative
effects. Ecuador is mindful of this situation, but would
also like to stress the need, as expressed by the Heads of
State and Government in the Declaration on the Occasion
of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, to
“Invigorate the dialogue and partnership between all
countries in order to secure the existence of a
favourable political and economic environment for
the promotion of
international cooperation for
development based on the imperatives of mutual
benefit and interest and genuine interdependence,
while recognizing that each country is ultimately
responsible for its own development”. (resolution
50/6, para. 8)
In this regard, direct foreign investment in developing
countries is particular important because it accelerates the
economic process to the benefit of both the investors and
of the recipient economies.
and
have
set
for
public
and initiatives
genuine
administration.
adopted at
priorities
The United Nations should continue to be an
important catalyst in support of the economic and social
development of the developing countries and of the
disadvantaged and marginalized sectors. The world
Organization has sponsored global conferences to address
vital problems related to the environment, population,
social development, crime, the advancement of women,
the protection of the family, human settlements, trade and
development,
The
those
recommendations
conferences
the
international community in the promotion of development.
Nevertheless, what has been achieved to date in many of
these fields is still uneven and insufficient. Therefore,
Ecuador reaffirms that, in order to effectively implement
these decisions, there needs to be a rapid mobilization of
the resources for development, as well as a more efficient
use of those resources. Without such an international
commitment, all the conferences’ recommendations and
other similar pronouncements will only enlarge the
overloaded archives of our foreign ministries. Given the
persistence of such environmental problems as the lack of
the
drinking water,
depletion of
the
productivity,
atmosphere,
security,
desertification
to biological diversity,
the warming of
the ozone layer,
the
diminishing
diminishing
threats
food
soil
and
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
Governments of both industrialized and developing
countries must take joint, concerted action.
Commissioner for Human Rights in his efforts to carry
out this broad and important programme of activities.
Ecuador, faithful
to its democratic traditions, has
recently provided an example of a transparent electoral
process and of respect for the popular will. As a result,
President Abdalá Bucaram was elected to lead the country,
and for the first time in Ecuadorian history, a woman, Mrs.
Rosalía Arteaga, has been elected Vice-President of the
Republic. The new Administration’s first and principal
actions are focused on social policies, especially on
combating poverty and on a wide-ranging national
programme of low-cost housing.
Given its faith in the will of the people, Ecuador
welcomes the growing trend towards democratization: more
and more countries have adopted multi-party systems,
organized free and fair elections and begun to transform
themselves into more open and participative societies.
However, Ecuador also believes that this process does not
happen spontaneously but requires the understanding and
support of the international community so as to create and
sustain conditions conducive to such changes. In other
words, democracy and hunger are antithetical elements that
cannot exist together.
is
force
gaining
steadily
practical
The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action —
which
and
effectiveness — reaffirm the solemn commitment of all
States to promote and protect all human rights and
fundamental freedoms. The interrelationship between human
rights, democracy and development articulated in that
Declaration and Programme, calls for a comprehensive and
global approach to ensure the promotion and protection of
human rights.
freedoms;
In the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the United Nations, the Heads of State and
Government reaffirmed that all human rights are universal,
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. They made a
commitment, among other things, to protect all human
rights and fundamental
to strengthen laws,
policies and programmes to secure the full and equal
participation of women in all spheres of political, civil,
economic, social and cultural life; to promote and protect
the rights of the child; to ensure protection of the rights of
people who are particularly vulnerable, including young
people, the disabled, the elderly and migrant workers; and
to promote and protect the rights of indigenous populations.
Ecuador considers that human rights has become one of the
most
It
the United Nations High
supports
important spheres of United Nations action.
the work
of
the instability of
It should be recalled that economic and social
problems are not restricted to the most disadvantaged
countries. A number of societies are seriously threatened
by increasing external debt,
the
international financial system, persistent unemployment,
intractable poverty and increasingly destructive waves of
crime and corruption. The inequality gap between
developed and developing countries remains unacceptably
large and continues to widen. More than 1 billion people
lack drinking water, and 1.7 billion do not have access to
proper health facilities. This means that poverty continues
to affect more than one fifth of the world’s population.
Hunger, malnutrition, health problems, a total lack of
housing, limited access to education and other public
services and resources, social exclusion, alienation and
violence are only a few of the many factors associated
with poverty. The fight against this scourge is one of the
greatest challenges that
the United Nations and its
specialized agencies must face in close cooperation with
non-governmental organizations and the international
community as a whole. Since 1990, commitments have
been made and goals established, with a view to
achieving the overall objective of eradicating poverty in
partnership with
associated with
development. In this context, and from this lofty rostrum,
Ecuador would like to issue an urgent appeal
to all
Member States to intensify international cooperation, in
its many aspects, in order to fight vigorously together to
ensure that these commitments and goals have practical
and effective application. We must remember that poverty
is not only a malady which destroys the societies directly
affected, it is also a corrosive contagion that prevents
international relations from developing on a basis of
justice and equity.
actors
the
all
this
that
reason,
it considers
Ecuador is a multi-ethnic country with sizeable and
indigenous groups and significant black
important
minorities. For
the
International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People,
declared by this General Assembly, establishes a
programme of action that will restore the rights of those
peoples, which have systematically been victims of a long
historical process of exclusion and discrimination. We
believe it
is incumbent on the entire international
community to build universal understanding of the fact
that protecting those populations also means preserving
the cultural heritage of humankind. Ecuador trusts that it
can rely on international cooperation in order
to
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
appropriately fulfil
coordination with its national programmes.
its obligation in this
respect,
in
work towards the achievement of the ultimate goal, which
is no less than a fair, definitive and honourable solution
to the problem.
is
that
to enable
sufficiently flexible
The founders of the United Nations must have realized
that they could not foresee exactly what the world would be
like 50 years hence. On the other hand, they established
basic objectives and principles and incorporated them in a
Charter
the
Organization to serve its peaceful objectives and to evolve
in response to new challenges. This is why the Charter, and
its purposes and principles, has endured. However, today’s
changed circumstances, which determine the functioning of
the United Nations, demand a modification in the structure
and the operational practices of our Organization. It is
necessary, among other things,
to increase the United
Nations capacity to prevent conflicts through preventive
diplomacy, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. We need better
ways and means to respond to the challenges of emergency
situations. And, along with all of this, it is essential to fully
carry out the work of economic and social development.
The General Assembly must be revitalized as the pre-
eminent organ in which all Member States exercise on an
equal footing their rights and duties as set forth in the
Charter. Equitable representation in the Security Council
must be assured, and its size must be in proportion with the
number of Member States. It must cease being an elitist
organ with antidemocratic privileges, and the efficiency and
transparency of its work must be enhanced. The Economic
and Social Council must
regain its essential original
functions as set out in the Charter: primarily, to promote
well-being and to improve living standards for all
the
inhabitants of the Earth. The current financial crisis is
seriously affecting the United Nations ability to fulfil the
lofty objectives set forth in the Charter. The greatest
debtors should set an example of their readiness to fulfil
their obligations. Only if there is a general willingness to
provide the United Nations with the resources it needs, as
well as the necessary political support, will it be possible
for the global Organization to live up to the trust and hopes
that humankind has vested in it.
I wish to inform the General Assembly that since the
last session, as regards the peacemaking process being
carried out pursuant to the Itamaraty Declaration between
Ecuador and Peru, and with the participation of
the
guarantor countries — Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the
United States — several meetings have taken place at both
the diplomatic and military levels. At these there has been
significant progress, progress that my delegation regards as
conducive to finalizing the procedures for discussions on
the substance of the border dispute between the two
countries. The Government of Ecuador will continue to
24
The Acting
on
Mr. Dioncounda Traore, Minister of State and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Mali and for Malians living abroad.
President:
now call
I
of
of Mali,
the Republic
Mr. Traore (Mali) (interpretation from French):
Allow me to begin by expressing, on behalf of the
delegation
heartfelt
congratulations to the President on his election to lead the
fifty-first regular session of the General Assembly. His
election reflects the trust and esteem he enjoys in this
Organization because of his great diplomatic skills and his
vast experience of international relations. While this is an
honour for him, it also honours his country, Malaysia, a
friend of my country’s and one that plays an important
role in international affairs, particularly within the Non-
Aligned Movement.
the business of
I am therefore convinced that the President will
conduct
the fifty-first session in a
competent and well-advised manner. He can certainly
count on the support of the Republic of Mali to contribute
to the success of his mission. Allow me also to thank his
predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral,
the
outstanding work he accomplished during his term of
office. Finally, I should like, on behalf of my delegation,
to pay well-deserved homage to the Secretary-General,
His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
for his
courageous action and tireless efforts for peace and
understanding among peoples.
for
The end of the cold war gave the peoples of the
world cause to hope for the advent of a new era marked
and balanced
by the promotion of more
international relations. To this end,
the international
community must mobilize to find just and lasting
solutions to the many hotbeds of tension and conflict that
jeopardize international peace and security.
stable
In this respect, Mali welcomes the qualitative
development of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We welcome the holding of elections on 14 September,
which marked a decisive stage for the future of the
country. We exhort the international community to work
to preserve and consolidate this newly restored peace.
We likewise welcome the possibilities that arose at
the latest Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) summit in Liberia for a settlement based on
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
national reconciliation and the restoration of democratically
elected institutions. Mali has worked steadfastly to find a
solution to the crisis in Liberia and is prepared to make
available a battalion to the ECOWAS Monitoring Group
(ECOMOG).
Likewise, Mali supports the efforts undertaken by the
international community to assist the people of Burundi to
establish a lasting peace and national reconciliation. Mali
also supports United Nations efforts to establish a just and
lasting peace in Angola.
The international community must do everything
possible in Somalia to help bring about reconciliation and
the establishment of national institutions that are supported
and trusted by all Somalis.
Recent developments on the question of Western
Sahara require that our Organization work even more
intensively towards the holding of a referendum, in keeping
with the relevant resolutions adopted on the matter.
has
Mali
always
reaffirmed
its
law and is concerned at
for
international
the continued
sanctions imposed on Libya, which have compounded the
sufferings of the Libyan people, with whom my country
reiterates it solidarity.
support
Like other countries in the international community,
Mali is seriously concerned over recent developments in the
situation in the Middle East. My country remains convinced
that in order to settle the Israeli-Arab conflict, there is no
alternative to the possibilities offered by the Madrid Peace
Conference. Mali therefore calls for the continuation of the
peace process and for compliance with the commitments
previously undertaken.
To promote more stable and balanced international
relations, the present mechanisms for the consolidation of
peace need to be strengthened; but we also need to find
new tools. The Agenda for Peace opens new possibilities in
this area.
Accordingly, Mali welcomed the adoption of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty as a historic stage
in the strengthening of general and complete disarmament.
We likewise welcomed the adoption on 11 April 1996 of
the Pelindaba Treaty, which made Africa a nuclear-weapon-
free zone. My country also hopes that further progress
might be made to eliminate anti-personnel mines.
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
its
has
Mali
commitment
demonstrated
to
strengthening the process of general and complete
disarmament through specific national and international
initiatives. Accordingly, in 1994, the President of the
Republic of Mali, His Excellency Mr. Alpha Oumar
Konaré, requested and obtained special assistance from
the Secretary-General of the United Nations to establish
a consultative mission responsible for studying ways and
means to stem the proliferation of small arms in the
Sahelo-Saharan region. Indeed, our countries, which are
not arms producers, have become lucrative markets for
the war industry. Where did these weapons come from?
What are their
to these
questions,
in my delegation’s view, would make it
possible to find ways and means to guarantee that the
people of the affected countries enjoy a safe environment
conducive to pursuing development.
transit points? An answer
Besides the support of other countries in the Sahelo-
Saharan region, Mali’s initiative was also backed by other
regions during the forty-ninth and fiftieth sessions of the
General Assembly, namely through the adoption of
resolutions 49/75 G and 50/70 H. Mali’s initiative helped
give rise to our Organization’s now-famous concept of
micro-disarmament, which seeks to draw the attention of
the
disastrous
consequences of small weapons, particularly in the
developing countries, where they are used mostly to fuel
conflicts.
international
community
the
to
A better-structured and more united international
order seems today to be the very precondition for
international peace and security. Development is one of
the major challenges that our Organization must meet
today. As Pope Paul VI has stressed,
“Development is another word for peace.”
problems
Thus, in order to establish the basis for a lasting peace,
the
social
marginalization must therefore be given priority at the
United Nations.
destitution
poverty,
and
of
I should like in this respect
to stress the great
importance Mali attaches to the drafting of an Agenda for
Development, the indispensable counterpart to the Agenda
for Peace. This entails the organization of international
cooperation for development on a new basis, an area in
which my country is working with resolve. The role of
the United Nations system in the development process
also must be strengthened.
25
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
attention
the world’s
In this connection, the Agenda for Development —
which my delegation hopes will be adopted at this session
of the General Assembly — will make it possible to
refocus
for
development, particularly by encouraging new, more
complete and more effective approaches to development. It
could also provide a way to strengthen coordination within
the United Nations system, particularly by recognizing the
Organization as a network of institutions responsible for the
economic and social development of the Member States.
cooperation
on
In this respect, because of the persistent foreign-debt
crisis of the countries of the South and the dwindling of
official
of
development financing requires special attention.
development
assistance,
question
the
The Agenda for Development should likewise take
into account the recommendations contained in the Plans of
Action adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro; the
International Conference on Population and Development,
held in Cairo; the World Summit for Social Development,
held in Copenhagen;
the Fourth World Conference on
Women, held in Beijing; and the second United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements, held in Istanbul.
The Agenda for Development clearly must give special
attention to Africa. The socio-economic situation of our
continent
is indeed of great concern. Africa, which is
confronting all kinds of epidemic and endemic diseases —
including malaria and AIDS — has only one doctor for
every 18,000 people, as compared to one doctor for fewer
than 400 people in developed countries. More than 80
million school-age African children do not have access to
primary or secondary education. More than one third of
Africa’s population suffers from famine, and more than 23
million children are malnourished. Finally, Africa is reeling
from an external debt that in 1995 was estimated to be
$322 billion, the debt servicing of which absorbs more than
one third of its export earnings.
Given this situation, in an increasingly interdependent
world, the international community must show solidarity
with Africa. That is why a solidarity pact between Africa
and the rest of the international community was sealed with
the adoption of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s. As we know, under
the terms of this New Agenda, Africa solemnly reaffirms
that Africans themselves are primarily responsible for the
economic and social development of the continent, while
the international community undertakes to support Africa’s
efforts in attaining its development objectives.
26
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
Commendable efforts have been made by African
countries in implementing this New Agenda. In the
political and economic spheres, in particular, these have
been achieved by consolidating the democratic process, by
promoting investments
and by taking account of
environmental and population problems in development
policies. Mali has thus established a policy for economic
recovery and improved public financing. Macro-economic
goals, on the whole, have been attained.
elimination or
A broad range of structural measures has been
implemented through price liberalization; privatization;
the
restructuring of many public
enterprises; and the reform of the agricultural sector, with
a view to reducing costs and to increasing and
diversifying production. These tangible results enabled
Mali in February 1996 to conclude a new three-year
agreement for the period 1996-1998 in the framework of
the Reinforced Structural Adjustment Facility.
Mindful of the need to accompany the promotion of
economic growth with resolute efforts in the social
domain to improve significantly the living standards of
peoples
and to reduce poverty permanently, my
Government has expanded social services. In addition,
priority in socio-economic development programmes has
been given to women.
Since 26 March 1991, Mali has continued its steady
progress towards consolidating its regained peace and
building a State based on the rule of law. The qualitative
developments that have taken place in Mali’s northern
regions show clearly the determination of Mali’s young
democracy to tackle and resolve all problems in a
concerted and peaceful way, with the active participation
of all players and with scrupulous respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms.
The organization of the “Flame of Peace” ceremony
was an eloquent illustration of this. It was a symbolic
ceremony to destroy the stockpiles of several thousand
weapons that were surrendered by ex-combatants of the
Mouvement et Fronts Unis de l’Azawad and the
Mouvement Patriotique Malien Ganda Koy. It took place
on 27 March 1996 in Timbuktu under the presidency of
the Head of State of Mali, His Excellency Mr. Alpha
Oumar Konaré, and in the presence of the President of
the Republic of Ghana, the current President of ECOWAS
and several ministerial delegations of Mali’s neighbouring
countries. The United Nations, which contributed to the
peace efforts through the Department of Political Affairs
and the United Nations Development Programme as well
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
to the
as
represented by an important delegation.
small-arms
collection process, was
also
During that ceremony the Mouvement et Fronts Unis
de l’Azawad and the Mouvement Patriotique Malien Ganda
Koy issued a joint declaration under which they
“solemnly and irreversibly proclaim the dissolution of
their respective movements and fronts”.
These positive developments in northern Mali mean
that real prospects now exist for integration and socio-
economic development in the region. We therefore appeal
to the international community to support the efforts of the
Government of Mali
to consolidate democracy in the
country; to continue to strengthen the peace that has been
established with the participation of the country’s various
communities; and to show its solidarity concretely, by
providing the necessary humanitarian assistance to meet the
needs of returning refugees and to help promote their
reintegration.
It
is thus important
to undertake urgent work to
develop the regions concerned by, inter alia, reintegrating
displaced peoples, restoring our administration, boosting
agricultural production and improving the functioning of
public services, in particular in the areas of education,
health and justice.
I take this opportunity to urgently appeal to Mali’s
development partners quickly and effectively to implement
this programme, which,
in the long run, aims at
development within a State based on a strengthened rule of
law and on democracy and human rights. Respect for the
rule of
importance to Mali’s Third
Republic, which makes the promotion and defence of
human rights one of its priorities.
law is of major
In
this
I
also
note
should
connection
the
institutionalization, which has now been going on for two
years, of the Space for Democratic Discourse, which
enables individuals, civil society and political parties to
make direct and public appeals to the Government on 10
December every year with regard to the respect of human
rights in Mali. We likewise have institutionalized a
children’s parliament, which provides a forum for the free
expression of Mali’s children to assist the public authorities
in implementing the national plan of action for the survival,
development and protection of children.
Mali — one of the six countries that initiated the
World Summit for Children in 1990 — welcomed the
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
commemorative meeting held on 30 September 1996 to
review the progress made and to give thought to the
additional steps that need to be taken on behalf of
children.
The consolidation of Mali’s young democracy
requires also the harmonious organization of relations
between civilians and the military. With the support of the
United Nations, the Government of Mali held a seminar
on this subject last July. A code of good conduct is being
drafted in this connection.
I should like to underscore here, simply but
forcefully, the importance Mali attaches to human rights,
in particular the rights of women and children. We are
convinced that the role played by our Organization must
be backed up by concrete actions that stress the right to
education, health and life.
The international economic situation clearly shows
that the gap between developed and developing countries
is widening. By generating an increase in inequalities and
in the risk of social upheavals, this imbalance is making
the future of the world increasingly uncertain. Given the
situation, the international community must find adequate
solutions.
It
is imperative that we find an answer to the
external debt problem of the countries of the South. In
spite of the progress made in this area, relief measures for
debt
servicing remain insufficient. My delegation
therefore makes an urgent appeal
the ongoing
discussions at the current meetings of the World Bank
and the International Monetary Fund on the creation of a
special
considerably reducing the
multilateral debt of poor countries under structural
adjustment result in a successful outcome.
fund aimed at
that
My delegation deeply appreciates the important
extension of $500 million, intended to reduce the debt of
African countries, made by the Group of Seven major
industrialized countries last June at their summit meeting
in Lyons. This is an encouraging sign and an example to
follow.
It is just as important to support the efforts of the
African countries to diversify their economies and the
range of their commodities. It is also necessary to reverse
the current trend towards disinvestment and dwindling
financial resources destined for Africa.
27
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
We should facilitate the access of African products to
world markets, particularly by lifting the tariff and non-
tariff barriers that affect its finished, semi-finished and
manufactured goods. They should also receive preferential
treatment, as provided in the Final Act of the Uruguay
Round concluded in Marrakesh.
Finally, the international community should give its
full support
to the Secretary-General’s United Nations
System-wide Special Initiative for Africa so that it does not
suffer the same fate as the United Nations Programme of
Action for African Economic Recovery and Development.
In addition to the critical economic and social situation
in Africa,
there is the problem of the least developed
countries. For this reason, my country appeals to the
international community to implement urgently the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s.
Mali also welcomes the proclamation of 1996 as the
International Year for the Eradication of Poverty. We hope
that the international community will achieve the goals of
the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of
Poverty.
My country hopes that the next World Food Summit,
to be held in November in Rome, will make it possible for
the international community to reaffirm its commitment to
ensuring that poverty-eradication strategies are fully
integrated into all United Nations initiatives.
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
must have a sound and adequate financial basis. It must
also carry out the necessary reforms so that it can be
more effective and thus meet the aspirations of peoples
for security, justice and development. Accordingly, these
reforms must apply to the Security Council, the General
Assembly and the Secretariat, but particularly to the
specialized and development agencies responsible for
elaborating and implementing development programmes.
This is an ambitious challenge, and Africa must
contribute significantly to efforts in that direction. The
international community must renew its trust in Africa by
giving a second term of office to the Head of our
Organization, in keeping with past practice.
Programme of work
The President: I should like to draw the attention of
all members to document A/INF/51/3, which contains a
tentative programme of work and schedule of plenary
meetings for the month of October and for the beginning
of November.
I should like to point out that this schedule was
prepared to facilitate the organization of the work of
delegations and to help ensure that
the relevant
documentation is
the
respective items. The lists of speakers for all the items
listed in document A/INF/51/3 are now open.
the discussion of
ready for
Mali has signed and ratified most
international
arrangements regarding the environment and therefore
welcomes the convening of a special session devoted to a
review of the progress made by Agenda 21. Mali intends to
continue to work towards the elaboration of the United
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those
Countries
and/or
Desertification, particularly in Africa. Mali
is therefore
pleased at how fast the necessary ratification of 50 Member
States was achieved. My delegation is nevertheless
concerned about the deadlock on the question of a world
mechanism. Mali believes that the mechanism should serve
as a data bank and a supplier of the resources necessary to
implement national plans to combat desertification.
Serious Drought
Experiencing
Our Organization faces new challenges, both in the
consolidation of peace and in economic and social
development. Its role is constantly growing, and increasing
numbers of voices throughout the world appeal to it. In
order to meet the challenges of the day, our Organization
28
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
I will,
in due course, announce the dates for the
consideration of other agenda items as well as keep the
Assembly informed of any additions or changes.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
18th plenary meeting
2 October 1996
29
