United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
10th plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 September 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Address by Mr. Glafcos Clerides, President of
Republic of Cyprus
the
the same time, we acknowledged that our main
responsibility for the future of the Organization is to
insure that it has the ability to address most effectively
the agenda of the twenty-first century.
The President: The Assembly will first hear an
In the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth
address by the President of the Republic of Cyprus.
Anniversary of the United Nations, we agreed that
Mr. Glafcos Clerides, President of the Republic of
Cyprus, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations the
President of
the Republic of Cyprus, His Excellency
Mr. Glafcos Clerides, and to invite him to address the
Assembly.
President Clerides:
I would like to begin by
extending to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your
election as President of the General Assembly. We are
certain that your long experience, outstanding ability and
diplomatic skill will guide us successfully in our work at
this fifty-first session of the General Assembly. Allow me
also to thank your predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas
do Amaral, for his untiring efforts during the previous
session.
At
last year’s session, which marked the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, we reflected on the birth
of
the United Nations, assessed its development and
influence on international relations to date, paid tribute to
its achievements and identified some of its difficulties. At
“In order to be able to respond effectively to
the challenges of the future and the expectations of
the United Nations held by peoples around the
world, it is essential that the United Nations itself be
reformed
50/6,
para. 14)
and modernized.”
(resolution
Now, as we begin the fifty-first session of the
General Assembly, we should take stock of what we have
been able to accomplish and redirect our efforts to what
remains to be achieved.
In 1996, we have continued our work towards the
institutional and financial reforms needed to make the
United Nations a more productive and dynamic institution
so that it will be better able to perform its key functions
and fulfil its mandates more effectively. In this regard, the
fundamental priority must be to ensure that the financing
of our Organization is placed on a firm and lasting base.
May I recall in this context that the Government of
the Republic of Cyprus is voluntarily contributing one
third of the total cost of the United Nations Peace-keeping
Force in Cyprus and, in addition, has increased by one
96-86277 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
third its contribution to United Nations peace-keeping
operations in general.
recommendations agreed upon in that all-important
Conference.
During 1996, various high-level working groups of the
General Assembly have continued their efforts on the
institutional and financial reforms of the United Nations. I
would like to reiterate that we consider the work of these
working groups, covering a very broad spectrum of issues,
to be extremely important. Such issues, ranging from the
strengthening of the main United Nations organs to the
further development of an Agenda for Peace and an Agenda
for Development, deserve deep and profound priority
consideration.
We subscribe to the need to reform the Security
Council,
to expand it and strengthen its capacity to
discharge the duties assigned to it by the Charter for the
maintenance of international peace and security. As for the
reform of its working methods, we recognize, that although
significant efforts have been made over the past two years
to ensure greater transparency and broader consultations
with non-members, more remains to be done. A good
precedent has been established with the holding of briefings
and regular consultations, including those with countries
that contribute troops to United Nations peacekeeping
operations.
The reports of the working groups of the General
Assembly and the proposals from Member States that we
have before us provide a good basis for further work. We
all understand and accept the need to reform and revitalize
our Organization. Our responsibility, then, is quite clear:
Let us make even more vigorous efforts and display the
courage and political will required to reach a successful
conclusion on these issues.
This year’s international conferences — HABITAT II,
the World Food Summit and the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development — have marked the completion
of a comprehensive series of United Nations-sponsored
conferences which covered the full range of civil, political,
economic and social issues that affect the peoples of the
world. We attach great
importance to the successful
follow-up to United Nations-sponsored conferences and
their impact on those areas of the world where the lack of
economic and social development often contributes to
conflict. In this respect, we welcome next year’s General
Assembly special session, which will be devoted to the
assessment and review of Agenda 21 and of the results of
the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development. It will be a unique opportunity to take stock
the
of what we have done so far
to implement
2
An area of particular concern in today’s world is the
persistent violation of human rights. The human rights
agenda has for many years been dominated by efforts to
establish international standards. Our duty must be to
implement these standards unequivocally and to take a
firm stand against all forms of human rights violations in
all cases. The full implementation of the commitments
entered into will encourage those around the world who
believe in the promise of the United Nations to help
restore and keep the peace, to promote respect for human
rights, to expand and broaden social progress, and to help
those in urgent need. My country is fully committed to
the universal
these
principles.
application and promotion of
Another area of particular concern to Member States
is arms control and disarmament. Under the auspices of
the United Nations, the nuclear non-proliferation regime
has been further strengthened by the indefinite extension
of
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons. We warmly welcome the adoption by the
General Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty. This represents the international community’s
determination to bring to completion one of the most
sought-after nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament
measures in the history of the United Nations. But the
Treaty is not the end of the process. There is need for
further systematic and progressive effort
in order to
achieve our ultimate goal of the elimination of nuclear
weapons and of general and complete disarmament under
strict and effective international control.
Another
important development
in the field of
disarmament and arms control
is progress achieved
towards the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons
Convention. Cyprus is in the final stages of ratifying this
Convention. It is our hope that it will soon enter into
force. While recognizing that much more needs to be
done in the realm of conventional weapons, we are
encouraged by the progress made during the review of the
Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of
Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed
to Be Excessively Injurious or To Have Indiscriminate
Effects and the agreement on Guidelines for international
arms transfers at this year’s United Nations Disarmament
Commission’s session.
We fully share the view espoused by many that arms
control and disarmament are and will continue to be
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
essential components of international security, contributing
to confidence-building and conflict resolution. It is in this
spirit that we proposed, as part of a comprehensive solution
to the Cyprus problem, the complete demilitarization of the
Republic of Cyprus, in which we have offered to disband
the National Guard of Cyprus and hand over all weapons to
an international
the complete
withdrawal of all foreign troops, as demanded by the
relevant United Nations resolutions.
force in exchange for
This body is familiar with the Secretary-General’s
report which characterizes the northern occupied part of
Cyprus as one of the most densely militarized areas in the
world. The presence of 35,000 Turkish troops and hundreds
of tanks and other armaments constitutes a clear and
present danger to peace and security in Cyprus and in the
region. Recent events in Cyprus have highlighted this clear
danger as well as the urgent need to implement our
demilitarization proposal. This year’s
twenty-second
anniversary of the invasion and occupation of substantial
territory of the Republic of Cyprus by Turkish forces was
marked by the brutal killings of
two Greek-Cypriot
unarmed demonstrators, witnessed on television screens by
the entire world, and the wounding of many others,
including two United Nations peace-keepers, by the Turkish
occupation troops and Turkish extremists imported from
mainland Turkey to the occupied part of the island.
Two United Nations reports on these tragic incidents
state clearly that the responsibility lies with Turkey and the
illegal Turkish-Cypriot regime, which used excessive and
unwarranted force against unarmed demonstrators who were
simply trying to remind the world that for 22 years Cyprus
has remained a divided country whose people are still
prevented by the Turkish occupation forces from returning
to their homes and lands and from moving freely in their
country. Furthermore, it has by now become abundantly
clear that
in
advance and involved the import from Turkey of 3,000
terrorists belonging to the Gray Wolves organization with
the goal of provoking bloody confrontation between Greek
and Turkish Cypriots. This sinister plan was aimed at
demonstrating that
live
peacefully together in Cyprus and therefore separatist and
partitionist solutions should be sought.
the Turkish action was orchestrated well
the two communities cannot
While we mourn and condemn the brutal murder of
the two unarmed Greek Cypriot protesters, we also feel
sorry for the subsequent killing of a Turkish soldier and the
wounding of another. We regret the haste with which the
Turkish Cypriot leader, Mr. Denktas¸, attempted to attribute
responsibility for this killing to the Greek Cypriot side
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
before an independent United Nations investigation
published its findings. The recent tragic events, however,
will not cause us to waver from our commitment to seek
a peaceful solution of
the Cyprus problem through
negotiations,
as provided by the United Nations
resolutions. These events only highlight
the need to
expedite and increase efforts to find a just, lasting and
workable solution to the Cyprus problem.
We are encouraged by the rekindled interest and
more active engagement of the international community
in the Cyprus problem, as witnessed by the appointments
of Special Representatives from interested countries,
including the appointment of the Secretary-General’s
Special Representative, Mr. Han Sung-Joo. We welcome
all initiatives set out to reinforce the United Nations in
the search for a just and viable solution to the Cyprus
question.
Various United Nations resolutions, and the United
Nations Secretary-General himself, have declared the
present status quo in Cyprus unacceptable, a view shared
by the international community. The time has come to
make a further determined and sustained effort to solve
the Cyprus problem. To that end, the Government of the
Republic of Cyprus will be working earnestly and
imaginatively with
Special
Representative and with all others supporting its efforts to
prepare the ground for negotiations on the main
outstanding issues.
the United Nations
Any settlement of the Cyprus problem should be
based on a State of Cyprus with a single sovereignty, an
international personality and a single citizenship. Its
independence and territorial integrity must be safeguarded,
and it must be composed of
two politically equal
communities, as described in the relevant Security
Council
in a bicommunal and bi-zonal
federation. Such settlement must exclude union, in whole
or in part, with any other country or any form of partition
or secession.
resolutions,
The security of both communities is a crucial issue,
which would be helpful in finding a solution. It will be
necessary to devise effective guarantees; demilitarization
and the stationing in Cyprus of an international force will
also be required. Demilitarization represents an important
contribution to this settlement.
We
are prepared to embark on face-to-face
negotiations in 1997 once the ground has been sufficiently
prepared to ensure success. We are not, however, willing,
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
after 22 years of negotiations that have yielded no results
on the main issues of the problem, to embark on another
round of fruitless talks. On the one hand, they destroy the
credibility of the negotiating process, and on the other, they
keep the attention of the international community focused
on the intercommunal constitutional aspect of the problem,
thus overshadowing the real issue — the invasion and
continued occupation, for 22 years, of substantial territory
of the Republic of Cyprus by the Turkish forces.
We, for our part, will continue to do everything in our
power to help the Secretary-General of our Organization to
succeed in his renewed efforts, through his newly appointed
Special Representative, in the search for a lasting solution
to the Cyprus problem.
At the same time the Government of the Republic of
Cyprus will pursue its application for membership in the
European Union, because such membership will have
benefits for both communities. While we hope to keep
accession negotiations to the timetable already foreseen, we
earnestly desire to reach a solution to our problem before
accession.
At the beginning of my statement, I spoke of the need
to reform and strengthen our Organization. From this
rostrum, I have repeatedly underlined the importance of
honouring the commitments we enter
into and of
implementing the decisions we take. I have stressed how
essential it is to uphold the principles of the United Nations
Charter and to hold to full account those who violate them.
things,
the respect of
The question of Cyprus continues to be such a case of
accountability, due to the refusal of Turkey to implement
solemn Security Council and General Assembly resolutions
calling for, among other
the
sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and unity of
the Republic of Cyprus,
the withdrawal of all foreign
troops, the return of the refugees to their homes and lands,
the respect of the demographic composition of the Republic
and the restoration of
the basic human rights and
fundamental freedoms of the people of Cyprus. In fact, not
only has Turkey not implemented these resolutions, but it
has grossly violated them. Even the immense humanitarian
problem of
the missing persons remains unresolved,
perpetuating the tragedy of their relatives. All efforts should
therefore be exerted by the Security Council, and by all
those in a position to do so, to bring about a real change in
Turkey’s attitude.
The fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations has
highlighted the need to maintain and reinforce our faith and
4
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
of
future
our Organization.
that
Implementation of United Nations decisions will go a
long way towards achieving this lofty goal.
generations
in
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank His Excellency the President of the
Republic of Cyprus for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Glafcos Clerides, President of the Republic of
Cyprus, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Italy, His Excellency Mr. Lamberto
Dini.
extensive
Mr. Dini (Italy): On behalf of Italy, I am pleased to
express to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your
election to the presidency of this session of the General
Assembly. Your
and widely recognized
knowledge and experience of the activities and functions
of the United Nations is the best guarantee of your
success. At the same time, allow me to sincerely thank
your predecessor, Professor Diogo Freitas do Amaral of
Portugal, who so ably led the historic fiftieth session of
the General Assembly.
In addition, I should like to express our great
appreciation for
the inspiring role and constructive
leadership of the United Nations provided by Secretary-
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
Italy shares and fully supports the statement made
before the General Assembly on Tuesday by the Deputy
Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Ireland on behalf
of the European Union. At the special commemorative
meeting for the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations,
there was a solemn reaffirmation of the need for the
United Nations to implement significant changes to keep
step with the new global realities. Italy believes that the
time has come to translate ideas into urgently needed
reforms. Let me briefly address them.
The General Assembly is the most representative
expression of the values of our Organization. Therefore,
we believe that the General Assembly must increasingly
reflect the opinions of our peoples and become more
democratic through direct links to the institutional realities
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of its Member States. The Italian delegation to the General
Assembly, for example, includes representatives of both the
Senate and the Chamber of Deputies of our Parliament,
which helps our political forces to have a fuller appreciation
for the role and activities of the United Nations. We hope
that this practice, which is also followed by certain other
countries, becomes more widespread and consolidated.
The General Assembly’s subsidiary bodies should be
simplified, merging some committees while streamlining the
agenda. Greater transparency is needed in relations between
the General Assembly,
the Security Council and the
Secretariat.
At the same time, we believe that the Secretariat
should be restructured, so as to organize resources and
functions around two focal points: on the one hand, peace
and security; and on the other, democracy and development.
In this context, Italy proposes that the three economic and
social departments of the United Nations Secretariat should
be merged into a single entity under the leadership of a
Deputy Secretary-General, who would also act as the
Executive Secretary of the Economic and Social Council.
Italy is actively committed to Security Council reform
inspired by the
equitable
and has presented a detailed proposal
fundamental
geographical representation, efficiency and transparency.
democracy,
principles
of
Reform should not lead to the establishment of new
regimes of privilege, which would diminish rather than
increase equitable representation on the Council. Last April,
in his address before the General Assembly, the President
of the Republic of Italy, Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, warned that
stressing the elitist nature of the Council
“could widen the gap and thus reduce the interest of
the excluded, demeaning their political commitment in
the process and perhaps marginalizing them and
giving them the dangerous feeling that they are token
presences, mere spectators.” (Official Records of the
General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings,
103rd meeting, p. 3-4)
Our goal instead must be to stimulate a greater involvement
of all countries,
through a rotation
mechanism.
large and small,
The Italian proposal would maintain a central role for
the General Assembly. In fact,
it would be up to the
General Assembly to decide, on the basis of objective
criteria, which countries could rotate more frequently. It
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
would be up to the General Assembly to elect these
countries, by a two-thirds majority and by secret ballot, in
a truly democratic way. And it would be up to the
General Assembly periodically to review the countries in
question.
The Open-ended Working Group on the Question of
Equitable Representation on and Increase
in the
Membership of the Security Council has found it difficult
to reach a consensus. Italy considers its proposal a
balanced way of
reconciling the new international
realities, namely the emergence of countries with notable
political and economic capacities — and I include Italy
among them — and the rise in developing countries, a
full 132 of which are Member States of the United
Nations today. However, we are willing to discuss and
adhere to a formula that is not inconsistent with the
fundamental principles that govern our own proposal.
A new generation of peace-keeping has begun. From
its original role as a force of interposition, peace-keeping
has gradually taken on the broader tasks of pacification,
support for the process of national reconciliation, and
today the protection of populations threatened by inter-
ethnic conflicts. Italy believes that in confronting these
tasks every Member State should responsibly consider
making, and be prepared to make,
larger and more
qualified military contingents available to the United
Nations. Italy is capable of doing its part, as demonstrated
in Mozambique and in Bosnia.
To make United Nations actions more effective in
this field,
Italy proposes the following 10 concrete
measures which would be designed to: involve troop-
contributing countries in the decision-making process;
conduct annual reviews of the mission, mandate, and
means of peace-keeping operations; have
readily
deployable military forces available as soon as Security
Council decisions are made; create a reliable and unified
command structure for peace-keeping operations; expand
logistical support for peace-keeping operations; prioritize
training programmes
for peace-keeping personnel;
improve the financing of peace-keeping operations; fill
the gap between peace-keeping and post-conflict peace-
building; entrust certain peace-keeping operations to
regional organizations; and, finally, enhance cooperation
between the United Nations and the Organization of
African Unity (OAU).
To go into these points more at length, first of all
we are glad that the Security Council, as suggested by
Italy and other countries, has made it a regular practice to
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
hold consultations with troop-contributing countries before
adopting decisions on peace-keeping operations. The next
step is a formal mechanism that guarantees the participation
of
troop-contributing countries in the decision-making
process. In this connection, Italy will lend its full support
to the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister of
Norway, Mrs. Brundtland, for an annual seminar to focus
on the three M’s of peace-keeping: Mission, Mandate and
Means.
The United Nations must be ready to deal with
conflicts where and when they break out, and to this end,
it must be able to count on readily available military forces,
as provided for by Article 43 of the Charter of the United
Nations. We would also support
the establishment, as
suggested by Canada, of a headquarters module for peace-
the United Nations Secretariat, whose
keeping at
composition should respect
the principle of equitable
geographical representation.
Italy intends to promote specific proposals to expand
logistical support, on the strength of its experience with the
United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the
Implementation Force (IFOR). Already, we have made
available the first United Nations logistic base in Brindisi,
which should be further expanded to ensure efficient
resource management for peace-keeping operations and we
suggest a separate allocation in peace-keeping budgets for
the creation of logistic bases.
receiving the maximum support of
The training of peace-keeping personnel is the duty of
the United Nations Staff College in Turin, which was
created on the Secretary-General’s initiative. The College
is
Italian
Government and will hopefully receive the support of other
Member States as well. Financing of peace-keeping
operations could be improved through a peace-keeping
surcharge for new, frequently rotating Security Council
members, as Italy has proposed. This would distribute the
burden of the surcharge to a larger number of countries.
the
Another essential component of peace-keeping is
humanitarian assistance during and immediately after a
conflict. Between the management of a conflict and post-
conflict peace-building there is a gap. To fill just such a
gap in Central America, Italy designed and funded the
Development Progress for Displaced Persons, Refugees and
Returnees (PRODERE) programme, which contributed
substantially to the process of reconciliation. A model effort
of the same type is now under way in Mozambique.
6
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
Closer coordination with regional organizations could
help provide the United Nations with the human and
material resources it needs. Without detracting from the
United Nations central role, certain peace-keeping and
peace-enforcement operations should be entrusted to
regional organizations or coalitions. A good example of
this
the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) in fulfilling the mandate it was
given by the United Nations in the former Yugoslavia,
where the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe has also played an increasing and important role.
the success of
is
Italy hopes for growing dialogue between the
Organization of African Unity and the United Nations,
and a strengthening of the peace-keeping capabilities of
African countries. The OAU must be concretely helped to
enhance its mechanism for conflict prevention and crisis
management. In line with Italy’s traditional support for
democratic development, we are planning a broad series
of initiatives in Africa aimed at supporting parliamentary
activities and strengthening judicial
structures and
training.
The United Nations is a global system, and it
pursues global objectives. Conflict prevention and the
promotion of peaceful solutions to controversies cannot be
pursued solely at the political and military level. The
conditions for peace are found, perhaps primarily, in the
economic, social and cultural development of peoples.
Poverty, underdevelopment, and cultural isolation disrupt
relations between countries and thus constitute threats to
international peace.
the United Nations plays a vital
Through its funds, programmes, and specialized
agencies,
role in
preventing these obstacles from jeopardizing peaceful
coexistence. It helps restore the conditions for orderly
global development after disruptions caused by internal
and
the
importance
post-conflict
reconstruction, and is determined to strengthen its
collaboration with the United Nations
specialized
agencies.
international
appreciates
conflicts.
Italy
of
both
prevention
and
With this in mind Italy has chosen the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) as one of the main points of reference for the
reconstruction of the city of Mostar. Collaboration with
the cultural agency of the United Nations will also prove
valuable in other areas of the former Yugoslavia on
projects to reconstruct prestigious landmarks such as the
Sarajevo library and historic buildings in Ragusa/
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Dubrovnik.
The reform process also concerns the economic and
social fields of the United Nations. The adoption of
resolution 50/227 is a significant step forward, especially
where it refers to strengthening the role of the Economic
and Social Council. Special attention should be paid to the
operative follow-up to this resolution.
The identification of priorities by the United Nations,
in accordance with changes in international reality,
is
essential to achieving greater efficiency to serve the best
interests of the beneficiary countries, as well as those of the
United Nations itself.
During the last five years the United Nations has
sponsored a series of global conferences to address
systematically the key issues facing humanity today. The
upcoming World Food Summit, which will take place in
Rome from November 13-17 of this year, will close this
important cycle. This summit will provide an opportunity
to define new strategic objectives for international action in
the field of food security in order to overcome structural
shortages, especially in the nutrition sector, in many regions
of our planet. In preparation, Italy is promoting a joint
development initiative for Angola with the three agricultural
agencies whose headquarters are in Rome.
The process of economic globalization and the
growing interdependence of markets offer enormous
economic and social growth possibilities. From this
perspective, the concept of global partnership provides for
an equitable sharing of responsibilities. The Ministerial
Meeting in Singapore is an excellent opportunity to focus
on these issues, consolidating the process of
trade
liberalization sanctioned by the Uruguay Round and
strengthening the regulatory role of the World Trade
Organization (WTO).
Italy is actively participating in the preparation of the
1997 special session of
the United Nations General
Assembly dedicated to the environment. While keeping in
mind the results of the Rio Conference and foreseeable
future scenarios for sustainable development, that session
should update the instruments for action and continue to
strive for implementation of Agenda 21. In 1996 significant
achievements have been made in the field of disarmament.
A major step on the road to nuclear disarmament has of
course been taken with the signing of the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. In the field of conventional
weapons, an important agreement was reached in Florence
last June on arms control in the former Yugoslavia. Our
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
next goal should be a cut-off in the production of fissile
material for military purposes.
The Italian Government pledges to renounce once
and for all the production and export of anti-personnel
land-mines. We will also initiate the destruction of
existing devices and promote further restrictions in the
hope that such measures will contribute to reaching a
solid international understanding and a definitive ban. To
this end, we propose the prompt opening of international
negotiations at
in
Geneva.
the Conference on Disarmament
The fundamental role of law in the creation of a new
world order must be upheld. National sovereignty has
nothing to fear from the consolidation of international
law. We believe that the cause of peace can only profit
from the establishment of an international criminal court
on violations of international humanitarian law and crimes
against humanity. Italy is committed to this goal and is
ready to host a diplomatic conference in 1998 to sanction
the birth of such a court. Italy is also promoting a
campaign for a worldwide moratorium on the application
of the death penalty.
The European Union has constantly emphasized that
financial reform is essential to any modernizing of the
United Nations
structure, and we share the ideas
expressed on this subject by the Irish presidency. We are
convinced that financial reform is a prerequisite to the
United Nations maintaining its crucial
function in
international
relations. The role that United Nations
Member States intend to play in pursuing the objectives
of the Charter cannot be independent of their specific
responsibility to honour their financial obligations. We
firmly reiterate the validity of the specific proposal for
financial reform presented by the European Union under
Italy’s presidency during the first half of this year.
A formidable
task awaits us:
to adapt our
Organization to the needs and the challenges of the
twenty-first century. Italy is prepared to spare no effort in
the pursuit of our common goals.
The President: I now call on His Royal Highness
Prince Mohamed Bolkiah, Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Brunei Darussalam.
Prince Mohamed Bolkiah (Brunei Darussalam): It
is a very special pleasure for Brunei Darussalam to greet
you, Mr. President, as a close friend and neighbour.
Please accept our warmest congratulations, both to you
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
and to all Malaysians, on your election. May I also express
our appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Freitas do Amaral
for his leadership during our fiftieth session.
Our fiftieth anniversary has come and gone. We still
remember the many fine statements made last year. Now,
however, we have to give them practical substance. In this
regard, Mr. President, I was very interested in your recent
statements on the role of the General Assembly. I was
particularly pleased that you emphasized practical economic
and social development.
It was also most encouraging to hear you say that you
intend to do all you can for the cause of United Nations
reform. Like you, I feel that the General Assembly must
not be paralysed by the analysis of reform. We need
concrete proposals from our working groups. Then we can
spend our time on the hard work of building consensus.
The need is urgent. Tension and conflict within
nations are growing. At the same time, the United Nations
is increasingly being asked to solve problems in many new
areas of international concern — social, economic and
sometimes even criminal — that transcend national borders.
It is also expected to address the deep-seated causes of
future instability, the widening gap between North and
South and the allied problems of overpopulation and
urbanization, which have been so sharply exposed by this
Organization at recent conferences. Above all, it has to face
the results of these problems in the form of mounting
intolerance, violent aggression and, all too often, extremism
and terrorism.
In trying to do all this, its resources are overstretched.
For this reason, I would like to thank the Secretary-General,
his representatives and all
those who are serving this
Organization in the field, often in extremely difficult
conditions. Their work represents a deep commitment to the
cause of peace and stability in the world and I admire and
greatly appreciate it. However, I also tend to think that
maybe we are asking them to take on new tasks with old or
outdated tools. If they are not provided with the means to
manage our affairs well, then we in the United Nations are
at fault.
In this respect, the tragedy of Bosnia is a warning to
us. Certainly, we in Brunei Darussalam welcome recent
developments and will continue to give our strong support
to the new Government in Bosnia. At the same time, I feel
that all of us in this Assembly should recognize the extent
to which the events of the last five years reveal our own
shortcomings.
8
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
We hope that the Security Council will now begin to
insist that all agreements be resolutely kept. We would
like to see it acting firmly against political pressure from
any quarter and ensuring that nothing is allowed to stand
in the way of the peoples’ recovery.
I say this with particular concern as we are now
facing what could become another emblem of failure for
us: the current situation in the Middle East. Until quite
recently, this was a problem which had defied solution
since the earliest days of this Organization. Then, at last,
a peace agreement was reached which gave us a realistic
glimpse of hope. Even though we realized that it would
be a very difficult process, we felt optimistic. However,
a new Government
to be
challenging the very basis on which our own hopes for
peace were founded. The solutions that appeared to be
within the grasp of the parties directly concerned are
under threat. Rather than becoming more manageable, the
scope of the so-called Middle East problem has now
extended to include the people of Iraq.
in Israel now appears
It is consequently with great concern that Brunei
Darussalam adds its voice to the many who wish to
impress on the leaders of Israel the need to continue the
peace process, not just by making statements, but in the
full spirit of the agreements reached in Madrid and Oslo.
What I have briefly described represents the sum of
economic, social and political problems, which in our
view calls for a new approach on our part. This can only
be developed, we feel, when the United Nations is
reformed. I say this because we are seeing the emergence
of a new type of international community, far more
diverse than the one our founders knew. At the same
time, it is one which is being drawn even closer together
through
and
communications — the “global village” of popular
description.
technology
of
the
advance
There are many reasons to welcome this. It could
mean that we all learn to acknowledge and appreciate our
diversity and to take on the best aspects of a real village.
However, there is no guarantee. Villages are not always
pleasant places to live in. They have their darker side.
Modern technology may well encourage neighbourly
cooperation, but it is just as capable of enhancing the
hostile elements of primitive village life. It could set up
a permanent division between the developed and the
developing worlds.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
That is why I feel it is essential for us to find an
effective new approach to the tremendous changes taking
place today. As members know, this is what we are trying
to develop in South-East Asia. The way we have chosen
has enabled us to promote programmes aimed at preventive
diplomacy and economic cooperation in our region. It has
also meant that we have been able to offer some wider
assistance to the cause of South-South cooperation.
These are specific measures with practical aims and
they are producing clear results, but
they also have a
broader and deeper effect. They enable us not only to
manage the diversity of our region, but also, at a very
human level, to learn to appreciate each others’ differences
and enjoy the challenge of working together.
By way of example, I would like to commend our
friends and colleagues in Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar for
their intention to join the Association of South-East Asian
Nations (ASEAN). They are making a lasting contribution
to peace and stability in our region. We are therefore
delighted to be on the verge of seeing the whole of South-
East Asia working together in cooperation.
What
this has led to in terms of strengthening
international peace and security is illustrated by our very
extensive dialogue process. One practical result of this in
our region was the signing of the South-East Asia Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone Treaty at the last ASEAN summit. This
is a Treaty which we would like all nuclear-weapon States
to join as a commitment to peace in our region. It was in
this
that we endorsed the resolution on the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, passed by this
Assembly earlier
this month, as a first step towards
worldwide nuclear disarmament.
spirit
What we are trying to stress is the need for inclusion,
drawing together all parties to a problem, working towards
consensus rather than demanding compromise and bringing
everyone into the mainstream of decision-making. The kind
of results we hope for were shown just this month in the
achievements of the Government of the Philippines and the
leaders of the Moro National Liberation Front through the
good offices of Indonesia. Their efforts brought to an end
more than 20 years of violence and hostility, and I would
like to congratulate all the parties involved.
We see this as reflecting the need that lies behind the
strong calls that many Member States have made for reform
of this Organization. It acknowledges that aggression must
be dealt with firmly, but it also recognizes what has been
tragically impressed upon us all over the past few years in
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
Europe, Africa and Asia. It is what guides all our work in
our region and, I suggest, must be the starting point for
any new approach to the conduct of international affairs
today. It is the knowledge that, if we do not accept and
willingly embrace diversity, there is a price to be paid
and it is unacceptable.
The President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Hennadi Udovenko.
It
is my honour
Mr. Udovenko (Ukraine):
the General Assembly at
to
congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the post of
President of
its fifty-first
session. On behalf of the Ukrainian delegation, I would
also like to express my appreciation to Mr. Freitas
do Amaral, who presided so efficiently over the last
session and encouraged an intensive exchange of opinions
on the role of the United Nations in today’s world.
A year ago, at the commemorative session of the
General Assembly, our Organization received a substantial
credit of trust as a universal
institution
which, in the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the United Nations, was called upon to
international
“create new opportunities for peace, development,
democracy and cooperation.” (resolution 50/6, third
preambular para.)
for
extremely important
Today, we can assert that the United Nations has
been and remains the key mechanism for maintaining and
strengthening peace and security — and there is much
proof of that. There is no doubt that the past year has
been
and
disarmament. Tomorrow, 27 September, I will have the
honour to sign, on behalf of Ukraine, the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), as adopted in historic
resolution 50/245. This important instrument calls for the
de jure affirmation of the end of the nuclear-arms-race
era. In signing this Treaty, Ukraine will make yet another
contribution to disarmament, the importance of which
cannot be overstated.
control
arms
In this context, I recall another historic event: the
final withdrawal of strategic nuclear warheads from the
territory of Ukraine. Having eliminated the world’s third-
largest nuclear arsenal, which we had inherited, Ukraine
became a nuclear-weapon-free State on 1 June 1996. In
doing so, we believe that Ukraine made an unprecedented
received adequate
contribution, which has not yet
recognition
to
threat and thereby
diminishing the global nuclear
international
community,
the
by
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
demonstrated to the whole world its peaceful, consistent
and reliable policy. Accordingly, we expect the nuclear
States strictly to adhere to their commitments relating to the
security assurances given to Ukraine by the United States
of America, Russia, the United Kingdom, China and France
in December 1994.
Mr. Michaelides (Greece), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Ukraine’s important role in the new European security
architecture has been recognized recently in several
international documents. For us,
this means a special
responsibility for the maintenance of stability in the whole
of Europe. We therefore believe that the process of nuclear
disarmament should become more dynamic. In this context,
the initiative put forward by the President of Ukraine,
Leonid Kuchma, with regard to the creation of a nuclear-
weapon-free zone in Central and Eastern Europe between
the Baltic and the Black Seas is the next logical step and an
important move in the right direction. I would like to
emphasize that the possible deployment of nuclear weapons
on the territories of our neighbours in Central and Eastern
Europe is a matter of great concern to us. We believe that
support for the idea of a non-nuclear Central Europe would
promote an atmosphere of confidence between and among
the States of the region and prevent the emergence of new
dividing lines on the European continent. By adding to the
existing zones in Antarctica,
the South Pacific, Latin
America and the Caribbean, as well as the nuclear-weapon-
free zones in South-East Asia and Africa, the creation of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central and Eastern Europe
would create the “critical mass” that would foster the
process of global nuclear disarmament.
In our opinion, the Conference on Disarmament, which
includes Ukraine as a new, full-fledged member, should
immediately start developing a programme of complete
nuclear disarmament with a view to bringing closer the
realization of Ukraine’s appeal for a twenty-first century
without nuclear weapons.
Among other important international achievements of
the past year, I would like to refer to the beginning of the
peace settlement in the former Yugoslavia. It is important
to remember that the peace-keeping efforts of the United
Nations were not in vain. Risking their lives in difficult
conditions, the Blue Helmets have fulfilled their mission
and prevented the spillover of the conflict. In this context,
I would like to draw the attention of the Assembly to the
necessity of the speedy entry into force and implementation
10
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
of the 1994 Convention on the Safety of United Nations
and Associated Personnel.
We hope that the peace process initiated in Dayton
has become irreversible. The proof of this will be in the
successful implementation of the military aspects of the
Peace Agreement by the Implementation Force (IFOR)
and of the recent elections held in Bosnia under the
auspices of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe (OSCE).
cooperation between various
In general, we think that recent international efforts
in the former Yugoslavia have been a success not only for
a peace settlement.
In my opinion, we have also
witnessed the appearance of a potential machinery for
effective
international
structures in crisis management. I refer in particular to an
important experience of the Implementation Force (IFOR)
operation carried out, under the mandate of the Security
Council, by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO), its partners — including Ukraine — and other
countries. At the same time, the ultimate success of the
peace process will be impossible without the active and
action-oriented involvement of
the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in the
implementation of civil aspects of the Agreement. The
concerted efforts by the United Nations, NATO and the
OSCE to settle one of the most tragic conflicts of our
time prove that political will and a clear division of
functions between the respective structures make it
possible to transform the idea of mutually reinforcing
institutions into reality. In the meantime, the international
community may have acquired a reliable mechanism for
the solution of its acute problems.
I believe that the experience of the peace settlement
in the former Yugoslavia could serve as a shining
example for the common elaboration of a future global
security architecture by all Members of
this world
Organization. This architecture should also contain a
comprehensive concept of peace-keeping, the elaboration
of which, within the framework of the General Assembly,
has to be accelerated. An essential element in this work
could be the eventual reorientation of peace-keeping
towards preventive diplomacy.
However, it is obvious that we will not be able to
build up a new global security architecture without radical
reform of the United Nations itself. The need for United
Nations
emphasized by virtually all
participants at the last session of the General Assembly.
This issue is also a matter of discussion at the current
reform was
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
session. Yet real changes can be achieved only on the
condition of a substantial revision of the existing financial
system of the United Nations.
mutually acceptable solution to the problem within the
framework of the relevant Working Group of the General
Assembly.
ln recent years
the United Nations has been
experiencing an unprecedented financial crisis which poses
a real threat to its very functioning. Experience shows that
financial crises are the result either of a wrong taxation
policy or of unsound spending. We think that in the case of
the United Nations both factors are involved. The inability
of a number of Member States to meet their financial
obligations is a direct consequence of the overassessment of
their contribution rates. It will be impossible for the United
Nations to avert financial crisis unless existing irregularities
in the scale of apportionment of its expenses are eliminated.
And we expect that the current session will find a proper
solution to this problem.
in the scale for
Against its will, Ukraine has been made one of the
United Nations debtors. This has occurred due to the fact
that the decision on the relocation of my country to group
(c)
the financing of peace-keeping
operations has been delayed for
several years. The
accumulation of a substantial debt is a direct result of the
General Assembly’s unfair decision 47/456, whose sponsors
were perfectly well aware that the decision would lead to
the current financial crisis. They refused to increase the
contribution of those nations which could afford to pay and,
contrary to the rules, placed larger assessments on the
shoulders of the countries which were unable to pay such
amounts.
Ukraine has always been aware of the need to provide
the United Nations with adequate financial resources. Upon
the instructions of my Government, I would like to inform
members that Ukraine will start paying off its debt to the
United Nations. As early as this year, the amount will be
reduced by $20 million. In coming years, its real payments
to the Organization’s budget will be increased.
The reform of the Security Council should become
another important component of transformation within the
United Nations. We support the desire of Germany and
Japan to acquire the status of permanent members of the
Security Council, but at the same time stand for increasing
the number of non-permanent members on the basis of
equitable geographical representation, which would also
take into account the interests of the Eastern European
regional group. I hope that the “two plus eight” formula
which was proposed by Ukraine and which, in principle,
coincides with the Italian approach and that of other
countries, will be conducive to the achievement of a
One of the essential features of general peace and
security in the next millennium should be qualitatively
new international economic cooperation, the globalization
of production and trade, the development of science and
technology and the broadening of the flows of finances
and services.
the attention of
We believe that
the world
community should focus today on more than the political
and military aspects of security. It must also encompass
the economic, social and ecological dimensions of peace
and sustainable development. For Ukraine, this is not just
its
an abstract
implementation. Chernobyl
ecological
dimension of our national security into a priority of
Ukrainian domestic and foreign policy.
idea without a fixed deadline for
turned
the
Ten years have passed since that catastrophe, but we
are still experiencing its grave consequences. Chernobyl
has not disappeared into the past. If humankind continues
to ignore common sense and to think only about today,
Chernobyl may be a reflection of our future.
We are encouraged by the Secretary-General’s report
on the work of the Organization (A/51/1) stating that the
United Nations
remains deeply concerned by the
consequences of Chernobyl and is committed to pursuing
measures aimed at their alleviation. We hope that the
international
create
conditions, including material and financial ones, which
would allow Ukraine to meet
its obligation and to
decommission the Chernobyl nuclear power plant by the
year 2000.
community will
continue
to
We should also remember that durable peace and
sustainable development on a global scale cannot be
achieved unless all countries secure adequate living
overcome
standards
for
unemployment,
and
environmental pollution.
their
poverty,
disintegration
populations
social
and
In this context, I would like to draw attention to the
initiative concerning the creation of the Council on
Economic Security put forward by the President of
Ukraine at the Special Commemorative Meeting of the
General Assembly last year. In our view, it is high time
to concentrate the efforts of United Nations Member
States on the formation of a legal basis which would
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
allow us to implement this important initiative as one of the
steps towards increasing the level of international economic
security, securing the global coordination of the activities
of international, regional and national economic institutions
and preventing economic coercion and discrimination.
The issues of international terrorism, organized crime,
illicit
trafficking of drugs and money laundering have
become matters of special concern. Ukraine has always
played an active role in international efforts, particularly
within the framework of the United Nations, aimed at
eliminating these scourges of the present, which not only
threaten the security and the health of people but have a
negative impact on the social, economic and political
situation in many countries. We believe that special
attention should be paid to the elaboration of specific
actions to be taken against transnational organized crime. In
this context, Poland’s initiative to place on the agenda of
the current session the question of the possible elaboration
of a convention on those issues is more than timely and
should be supported. Ukraine is ready to participate in the
drafting of this legal instrument.
In view of the present financial situation of the
Organization,
the search for new ways to revitalize
international cooperation in the field of development has
acquired new significance. One of the promising trends,
primarily in finding additional sources of financing, is the
promotion of regular dialogue between the United Nations
and the financial institution of the Bretton Woods system.
We are convinced that larger resources allocated by
these institutions for development would speed up social
and economic transformations both in economies
in
transition and in developing countries. They would also
create conditions for the successful reform of the global
system of international economic relations. It
is quite
obvious that the integration of those countries into the
world economic system would benefit the entire global
community. We believe that this very philosophy should
become a foundation for a new strategy of global economic
development. The United Nations is called upon to play a
decisive role in its elaboration.
In this context, we welcome the gradual deepening of
understanding among Member States of the problems faced
by the countries with economies in transition, as is shown
by the increased resources allocated by the United Nations
Development Programme for its operational activities in the
countries of Eastern Europe, including Ukraine. For its part,
Ukraine is considering becoming a full member of the
multilateral General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade/World
12
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
Trade Organization system as an integral part of its own
economic reform.
The successes of the United Nations depend upon
the stable development of each Member State. Steadily
overcoming the obstacles that befell our State in the
process of radically transforming its society, Ukraine has
recently marked the fifth anniversary of its independence.
From this rostrum I would like to reaffirm that the choice
of
independent
democratic development is final and irreversible.
the Ukrainian people in favour of
The adoption on 28 June of
the
Constitution of Ukraine has become an event of historic
importance for the Ukrainian people. As President Leonid
Kuchma emphasized,
this year of
“It is an event of a great significance belonging to
those few historical dates which unite people not by
the iron fist but by the imperatives of the heart, and
which turn a population into a nation and a territory
into a State.”
In adopting its fundamental law, Ukraine has chosen
its own model of State-building and for reformatting its
public life. In drafting the law, Ukrainian legislators
benefited not only from previous historical experiences —
such as that provided by Pylyp Orlyk, a famous
seventeenth-century Ukrainian public figure who wrote
one of the first European democratic constitutions — but
also drew upon the modern experience, in particular that
of the members of the Council of Europe.
We in Ukraine are consistently building a sovereign,
independent, democratic and socially-oriented State which
promotes human rights as the highest social value. Under
extremely difficult circumstances, we have managed to
follow the European model of public life.
I would like to emphasize that
integration into
European and Euro-Atlantic structures is a strategic goal
of Ukraine. At
the same time my country is still
committed to non-bloc status. Having yesterday become
an observer in the Non-Aligned Movement, Ukraine once
again proved this.
No less important for us remain relations with the
newly independent States of the former Soviet Union,
notably with the Russian Federation, to which we are
linked by common historical experiences.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Transformations initiated by the market reform of the
economy are becoming increasingly perceptible in Ukraine.
The recent introduction of a new currency, the hryvnya,
proves conclusively that the radical economic changes in
Ukraine have become irreversible. The first results of
monetary reform show that in addition to a positive impact
on business activities, it has had a stabilizing psychological
effect on the Ukrainian people.
Our society is in the process of formation. We realize
that ours is a long and difficult path. There are a number of
important objectives we have to achieve. This will require
the gradual revival of democratic standards and their
introduction into the fabric of Ukrainian society, which has
been scarred by the totalitarian policies of the last decades.
While advancing along this
road, Ukraine will
continue to count on the support of the international
community. At the same time, I would like to reaffirm that
Ukraine will continue to be committed to supporting the
United Nations which, like my own country, is experiencing
a difficult but vital time of transformation. This is the
imperative of our
this
challenge.
times, and we have to meet
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Paraguay, His Excellency Mr. Rubén
Darío Melgarejo Lanzoni.
its people and its Government,
Mr. Melgarejo Lanzoni (Paraguay) (interpretation
is an honour for me, on behalf of
from Spanish): It
Paraguay,
to wish the
President of the General Assembly, Ambassador Razali
Ismail, every success in his endeavours. We wish also to
emphasize the excellent work accomplished by President
Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who tirelessly led the proceedings
of the past session.
For Paraguay, the United Nations is a form that has
guaranteed the free debate of ideas and the participation of
all without discrimination or exclusion. For a long time, the
United Nations has been the mandatory beacon of our
nations when their essential rights were threatened. For
Paraguayans, the fundamental rights of men and women,
one of the pillars of the United Nations, are today vital —
and not just rhetoric — in the search for world peace,
freedom and security, which only democratic civilian
Governments can guarantee.
The new historical
reality we face — knowing
immediately what happens elsewhere in the world and
within or countries — means that we all must share a
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
greater responsibility and solidarity. The globalization of
today’s world is such that a problem besetting one nation
is not an isolated matter, but rather one that must be
considered by all.
This is why we will have to rethink the age-old
question of what path all men and women should take.
While we belong to diverse ideologies and cultures, we
must nevertheless secure equality, rights and freedoms.
Our contributions and suggestions for strengthening
the Organization and adapting it to the new realities of
today’s world therefore are made in the spirit of
cooperation. This is why we request that the reforms to
be adopted in the framework of the United Nations be
aimed at reducing its fragmentation in order to make it a
more functionally integrated structure. Such reform will
make possible more fluid communication and much more
efficient coordination. This is why we insist on reform to
eliminate unnecessary costs through the consolidation of
the programmes aimed at the harmonious development of
our peoples, and to rationalize and optimize existing
resources in order to avoid the duplication of human or
economic efforts.
aware of
The Government of Paraguay,
its
international commitments, has made enormous efforts to
fulfil its financial obligations to the United Nations. In
this regard, we send out an appeal for payments of
assessed contributions to be made within established
deadlines in order
the
Organization. The principle of equity so requires this.
to ensure the operation of
We must also state that Paraguay’s position on the
reform of the United Nations is clear with respect to the
General Assembly. We consider this body not only a
model of democratic decision-making, but also — given
its high degree of universality and free exchange of
ideas — the most important organ of the system. We
support the expansion of the Security Council, which
requires a larger number of permanent and non-permanent
members on the basis of equitable geographic distribution.
In this connection, we support
the view that Latin
America should be represented among the permanent
members, in addition to countries such as Germany and
Japan. Paraguay maintains that the exercise of the veto
should evolve towards innovative mechanisms that would
be used more objectively.
Programmes
economic
development possible constitute another aspect the system
must take into account. Our country is promoting a social
that make
sustainable
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
market economy, free and respectful of private initiative,
but without disregarding the share of responsibility borne
by the Government. We therefore view with satisfaction the
leading role of the United Nations in the field of sustainable
human development.
In this connection, we wish to
underscore the binding conventions on the environment, the
commitment made by 118 Heads of State and Government
to put an end to poverty, unemployment and social
marginalization, the important results achieved at Habitat II
and the Midrand Declaration of the ninth session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
We particularly endorse paragraph 17 of
that
Declaration, which states that
“The lack of
territorial access to the sea,
aggravated by remoteness and isolation from world
markets, imposes serious constraints on the overall
socio-economic development efforts of the land-locked
developing countries.” (TD/377, para. 17)
As such, those countries require sufficient international
cooperation to maintain and improve their transportation
and commercial-exchange infrastructure.
Having signed the aforementioned conventions and
having participated in the aforementioned conference, the
Paraguayan national Government adopted concrete measures
to implement the provisions of the plans of action that
emerged from those meetings. Thus, following the mandate
of the World Summit for Social Development, a secretariat
for social action was established at the ministerial level,
reporting to the presidency of the Republic. Its fundamental
purpose will be to prepare public policy on social projects
and to coordinate the actions of the Government and civil
society in order to improve our people's standard of living.
We have also prepared a strategic plan to improve
education,
in conjunction with the educational reform
currently being implemented by the national Government.
We have also devised a map of basic needs — which is
also known as poverty mapping. We have carried out a
household survey covering not only urban, but also rural
areas. We are at the moment preparing a system of social
indicators and social expenditures.
Furthermore, a year after the holding of the Fourth
the public and private
World Conference on Women,
sectors at
large have been made keenly aware of its
Platform for Action, thus fortifying policies relating to
gender.
14
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
I wish to express my Government's deep gratitude to
the United Nations system, and particularly to its
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has
constantly and tirelessly helped us work towards the well-
being of the people of Paraguay.
history
We are aware that our age is marked by unusual
characteristics. Contemporary
us
differently. Concepts have changed. Today we speak more
positively and effectively about integration, cooperation
and complementarity. The time of sterile confrontation is
behind us. This is a time of solidarity and of reciprocal
and diverse cooperation; constructive and creative
interdependence is the key to our daily coexistence.
defines
Today's world needs not only a new economic order,
but also a new international cultural order. Science,
knowledge and technology must be our universal heritage.
An awareness of solidarity is the way for which human
beings to understand themselves and others. We should
see that without
this understanding of others we are
insufficient, incomplete and lacking in humanity. Genuine
comprehensive development requires the cooperation of
all the men and women who inhabit this world. Only in
that way will development as a human right, with the
blessing of the Organization and with our strong support,
find its full meaning and its place in history. Either we
remedy our circumstances or we sink in them.
However, the disappearance of the rivalries of a
bipolar world has, unfortunately, not meant the end of
conflict. Throughout this year, we have seen ethnic and
nationalistic confrontations that have given rise to
overwhelming human crises that have cut down innocent
lives, destroyed property and — still more seriously —
brought about the loss of the value of coexistence. In this
state of affairs, Paraguay hopes
the military
confrontations that spill the blood of nations and violate
the right to live will very soon come to an end. We
encourage the consolidation of the peace process in the
former Yugoslavia and the resumption of the peace
process in the Middle East in order to find a just and
lasting solution in that region.
that
Our country also hopes that efforts will continue
towards the resolution of conflicts in Rwanda and
Burundi in order to bring about peace and stability in the
Great Lakes region. Paraguay views with satisfaction the
achievements made in Angola, and we hope that the
Organization of African Unity will continue to play an
important
role in the prevention and settlement of
conflicts in Africa.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
in Haiti,
its observers
Paraguay notes with great satisfaction the results
achieved by the United Nations through its peace-keeping
Missions
in Nicaragua and
El Salvador and its verification Mission in Guatemala,
which has achieved major success recently. Paraguay is in
favour of
the
mechanisms of preventive diplomacy and, above all, of
peace-keeping. Similarly,
the Republic of Paraguay
welcomes the spirit of reconciliation manifested by the
Government of the Republic of China. We hope that a
dialogue will be established to resolve the situation with the
People’s Republic of China.
continuing increasingly to promote
Now more than ever before, stability and peace are the
challenge. It is imperative to build a multipolar world to
guarantee the equitable development of nations and peoples.
Equity should be the cornerstone of universal harmony. In
this spirit, we trust that our Organization’s actions for
disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons will
prove effective and will strengthen our battle against all
threats to peace and world security. Faithful to this purpose,
Paraguay co-sponsored the resolution on the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which was adopted by the
General Assembly last 10 September. We encourage all
Member States of this great Organization to sign the Treaty,
as I did a few days ago as Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Paraguay. We urge that the Treaty be promptly ratified so
that it may enter into force.
Almost 50 years ago, on 10 December 1948,
the
General Assembly adopted and proclaimed the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. Thus did mankind achieve
one of its most precious goals: a Declaration of rights for
which peoples and nations, individuals and societies, had
always fought. In Paraguay today, we firmly believe that
we have learned the hard lesson of living in peace,
democracy and pluralism. The era of oppression and of a
lack of basic freedoms, economic backwardness and
cultural isolation is past. It is part of a sad history that we
will remember only so as not to repeat it. The democracy
we are building today, with the active participation of our
citizens and the solidarity of the international community,
is part of an irreversible process.
Of course, barely four months ago, a small group,
nostalgic for authoritarianism, tried to turn back the clock.
But thanks to the prompt support of friendly nations and to
the spontaneous and courageous action of young people
who took to the streets to defend the democratic process,
we were able to abort a military adventure that could have
caused irreparable damage to our country. Fortunately, our
country is today moving straight towards a strengthening of
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
all its freedoms and towards democratic stability in its
political system.
the press. No citizen was
We are greatly pleased that Paraguay was able to
overcome its institutional crisis with the weapons of
democracy. The threat of force against our institutions
was
combated with our democratic beliefs. The
Government averted the danger without resorting to any
measures in violation of the Constitution or our laws.
Even at the most difficult times, we maintained freedom
of
imprisoned and no
emergency laws were decreed. Our victory was based on
our belief in political pluralism and the right of dissent.
Thus, the calm and decisive action of the President of the
Republic of Paraguay, Juan Carlos Wasmosy, restored the
autonomy of civilian rule. We stopped being a democracy
under the protection of military power and became a
civilian democracy, free from interference or pressure
from outside forces.
step,
Having made this historic, political
the
Government and the people of Paraguay are deeply
grateful to the Member States of this Organization for
their support during that delicate crisis. In particular, we
are grateful to the Security Council for its clear and
unflinching support of Paraguayan democracy. This
support further strengthened our faith in the United
Nations
political
institutions, freedom, peace and international security.
to maintain
democratic
efforts
Paraguay's foreign policy is based primarily on
regional economic integration, at the centre of which is
the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR). We
are convinced that the Latin American integration process
is the key to our country’s integration into the world
economy and to the consolidation of our democracy.
Following this policy, we have undertaken many activities
with a view to expanding the links between our internal
market and international economic processes.
Another important element has been the frontal
attack on international organized crime. The task is not
easy. For years political and economic corruption were
the modus operandi of the dictatorship. None the less, the
Government of Paraguay is committed to fighting the
scourge of drug trafficking and money-laundering. We
encourage the public, national and foreign alike, to report
irregularities worthy of investigation, inspection or review
so as to eliminate the sources of corruption. With its new
attitude of political transparency, the Government has sent
a draft bill to the National Congress which defines and
the crime of money-laundering,
aims
to suppress
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
including the laundering of profits from the illicit sale of
narcotics, psychotropic substances and dangerous drugs. A
national drug-control plan is also being drawn up.
Fifty years after the establishment of the International
Court of Justice in The Hague, my country — fulfilling the
promise President Wasmosy made last year to the General
Assembly — yesterday deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations the instruments of acceptance
of the jurisdiction of the Court. This decision is one further
commitment on my country’s part to the universal society
in which we believe. As Minister for Foreign Affairs of my
nation, I will always remember having been the vessel of
this historic decision. We also reiterate, as a land-locked
country, the importance of the Convention and the reforms
to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We express our
faith in the principle of the universal heritage of mankind
through our presence as a member of the council of the
International Seabed Authority.
Here at the beginning of the fifty-first session of the
General Assembly of the United Nations, as Minister for
Foreign Affairs I would like to take the liberty of making
a declaration of faith. Too young to have known the
founding,
the
changes and the development of the institutions of the
United Nations, I belong to a generation destined to play a
role in the twenty-first century.
the first achievements,
the main crises,
When I was born, the human rights covenants had
already been written,
the environment was already a
concern for all peoples, and the universal diplomatic
conventions and legal system of treaties were already in
place. Such is our world at the end of the century. Thus, in
supporting reform, Paraguay believes that it is necessary to
mention through me that there is one thing that we will not
be able to change: our purposes and goals, which we must
preserve for future generations.
We will reaffirm time and time again the equality of
nations, large and small, and the importance of creating
conditions for the rule of international law. Here in the
General Assembly,
the United Nations,
representing a young nation which has yet enjoyed 200
years of independence and speaking before age-old peoples
and cultures, I reaffirm mankind’s utopia: a common belief
renewed that we can affirm this forever to be our home.
the soul of
The Acting President: I call on the Minister for
Excellency
Zimbabwe, His
Foreign Affairs
Mr. Stanislaus Mudenge.
of
16
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
I
(Zimbabwe):
Mr. Mudenge
congratulate
Mr. Razali on his election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session. We are more
than convinced that his vast experience and diplomatic
skills will prove to be vital assets at this session of the
Assembly. I assure him that my delegation will cooperate
fully with him in the fulfilment of his onerous
responsibilities.
Furthermore, I would like to pay tribute to his
predecessor, Professor Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who
steered the work of the Assembly through its historic
fiftieth anniversary in a commendable and honourable
way.
Our
tribute also goes to the Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali for his distinguished leadership of
our Organization during the past year. We are especially
grateful to him for his tireless efforts to enhance the
Organization’s role in maintaining international peace and
security as well as in promoting international economic
development and cooperation.
At the last session of the General Assembly, when
we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations, we witnessed the largest-ever gathering of Heads
of State and Government. On that occasion, the world
leaders made a historic reaffirmation of our commitment
to the purposes and principles of this Organization as
enshrined in the Charter. Besides taking stock of the
progress made and the lessons learnt during the past 50
years,
the world leaders endeavoured not only to
recapture the vision of the founding fathers of the United
Nations, but also to chart the institutional framework and
operational
the
Organization’s relevance and effectiveness in a changed
international landscape. My delegation sincerely hopes
that we will all be able to take full advantage of this
renewed commitment to the Organization to ensure that
the United Nations system as a whole is reformed,
revitalized and rendered more efficacious, transparent,
accountable and democratic.
parameters
enhance
could
that
The United Nations, as the universally accepted
matrix of multilateralism, must, in the post-cold-war era,
play a vastly expanded role in the domain of peace-
keeping and make a positive contribution to the new
phenomenon of globalization and its increased levels of
economic and social
interdependence, as well as the
technologically fuelled transnational linkages among the
countries of the world. The Organization therefore faces
an inescapable imperative for reform and revitalization.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
have
and Latin America
In this regard, my delegation is deeply perturbed by
the slow progress made by the Open-ended Working Group
on the Question of Equitable Representation on and
Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We in
Africa maintain that the present arrangement, in which
Africa
permanent
representatives on the Security Council, while Asia has only
one, is unjust and antidemocratic and must not be allowed
to continue. Those three regions should each have at least
two permanent seats, with incumbents enjoying the same
rights and privileges as the present permanent members.
Additional non-permanent seats should also be allocated to
each of those regions so as to ensure equitable geographical
representation proportionate to the numerical strength of
each region in this Organization.
no
In other areas of reform, our primary objective should
be to reaffirm the role of the General Assembly as the
highest decision-making body in the entire United Nations
system. Any process of restructuring, revitalization or
strengthening should necessarily redress the erosion of the
principle of
the accountability of all principal and
subsidiary organs and specialized agencies of the United
Nations to the General Assembly. My delegation will
therefore seek resolutely to uphold the authority of the
General Assembly as enshrined in the Charter and,
consequently, will
or
recommendations that might lead to the usurpation of the
authority of the General Assembly under any guise or form.
Accordingly, we will not agree to authorizing the
Secretariat
to amend, postpone or cancel any official
programme activities without the express approval of the
General Assembly, whose prerogative it is to give, change
or withdraw the mandates of such programme activities.
proposals
oppose
any
My delegation is of the strong view that reform should
not necessarily be equated with the downsizing of the
United Nations system. We also feel that an optimally
streamlined and strengthened United Nations system will
not necessarily be responsive to the needs of
its
membership as long as it is subjected to chronic cash-flow
problems. The appalling record of some Member States that
dishonour their financial obligations to the United Nations
and our endless lamentations over the resultant financial
crises have clearly brought into question the credibility of
the Organization and the commitment of its membership. In
our view, the time is long past for us to re-examine all the
efforts that we have been exerting in an endeavour to
identify and agree on the formulation and mechanisms to
deal with the current financial crisis that has beset the
Organization. Unless Member States take serious steps to
clear their arrears and improve their payment pattern by
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
remitting their assessed contributions promptly, in full and
without conditions, the United Nations will continue to
dither on the brink of bankruptcy and its efficacy will be
totally compromised. It is imperative that we, the Member
States, create a capacity for the Organization to fulfil the
mandate we have given to it.
The United Nations’ role in maintaining international
peace and security must of necessity have a global thrust
in both the geographical sense and the conceptual
framework. Peace-threatening conflicts in any part of our
global village should never be seen to attract differential
attention depending upon their geographical
location,
strategic interest, ethnic complexion or such other narrow
considerations of the big Powers.
The much-belated intervention and subsequent
failure of the United Nations in Somalia and its half-
hearted interventions in Rwanda, Burundi and Liberia
have exposed the Organization to harmful criticism, which
has led to a further decline in its credibility. United
Nations peacekeeping efforts in Africa have generally met
with mixed fortunes. We have yet to see the Namibian
and Mozambican success stories repeat themselves in
several other trouble spots on the continent.
Although the peace process in Angola continues to
run behind schedule, we are persuaded that the seeds of
lasting peace have been sown in that country. We need to
redouble our efforts in urging the Angolans to persevere
along the present bumpy road of peace on the basis of
national reconciliation and unity.
Although the humanitarian situation in Somalia has
improved somewhat since the intervention of the United
Nations, that country remains in political turmoil from
which it cannot rescue itself fully without the sustained
involvement of the international community. We therefore
call upon the international community, through the United
Nations, to review its current minimalist approach to
Somalia, explore new possibilities
for constructive
engagement and give peace another chance.
In Burundi, the fundamental challenge of having
democracy with security has now been compounded by
the need to stop generalized violence and to return the
country to constitutionality. The United Nations should
support the sterling efforts of Burundi’s neighbours to
assist that country to achieve peace and stability. The
tragedy of genocide in Rwanda must not be allowed to
repeat itself in Burundi. No!
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In Liberia, brute force and violence must not be
allowed to triumph. The parties should be made to honour
the peace agreement already reached through the good
offices of the Economic Community of West African
States. The people of Liberia have suffered enough. The
United Nations must send a clear message to the warlords
in that country that our common humanity may soon impel
us to try them for war crimes and crimes against humanity.
With regard to the stalled peace process in Western
Sahara, it is imperative that the international community,
through the United Nations, honour the spirit and letter of
the commitment it made to the disenfranchised people of
that territory and ensure that a free and fair United Nations-
supervised referendum takes place there on the basis of the
United Nations Settlement Plan for Western Sahara.
In the Middle East, we appeal to the new Government
of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization to
continue on the path of peace and reason, as espoused by
the late Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Yitzhak Rabin, who
paid with his life that the two peoples might live together
in peace and harmony. Renewing the construction of
settlements on Palestinian land is no contribution to peace.
It undermines the peace process. There is no alternative to
peace. We therefore urge the parties to remain committed
to the peace process until Palestinian self-determination and
a Palestinian State become realities. It
is only in this
context that the security of Israel can be guaranteed.
Commitment to peace has remained the centrepiece of
the Non-Aligned Movement. Thirty-five years ago,
the
founding fathers of this Movement had a vision of a world,
inter alia, living in peace and harmony, free of nuclear
threat and super-Power rivalry. Two days ago, we had
occasion to commemorate that vision. We found it to be as
relevant and powerful today as when it was first articulated
35 years ago. We recommitted ourselves, among other
things, to pursuing the goal of a world at peace, free from
the threat of weapons of mass destruction. We reaffirmed
that complete nuclear disarmament is a sine qua non for the
survival of humanity on our planet. We therefore appeal to
all nuclear Powers to agree to ban the production, testing
and use or threat of use of nuclear weapons and other
weapons of Armageddon.
To enhance this Organization’s accountability and
credibility,
the decision-making process with regard to
United Nations peace-keeping mandates must cater to an
increased role
the
Organization, starting with troop-contributing countries.
Furthermore, efforts such as those which entail preventive
the general membership of
for
18
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
diplomacy and post-conflict peace-building, as spelled out
in the Secretary-General’s report, “Supplement
to an
Agenda for Peace”, clearly fall within the domain of the
General Assembly. Moreover, it is our view that the
United Nations is the only Organization which is uniquely
charged with a global mandate to maintain international
peace and security. This means therefore that regional
peace-keeping efforts can only complement and not
substitute the leading role of the United Nations.
The United Nations should also enhance its role in
promoting international cooperation in other spheres of its
competence, particularly that of trade. Only a few months
ago, the international community celebrated the successful
launching of the World Trade Organization, following
protracted multilateral trade negotiations. For this new
multilateral trade regime to work, it is imperative that
member States resist the temptation to initiate practices or
policies that seek to compromise the sovereignty of other
member States or to reintroduce colonialism in another
guise. Developed countries should live up to their
commitments and abandon protectionist policies if all
countries
new trading
arrangements. Improved market access and increased
foreign direct investment must be accompanied by new
and innovative ways to tackle the debt burden of
developing countries, with a view to finding a
comprehensive and once-and-for-all solution to the debt
problem.
from the
benefit
are
to
Given the negative economic trends in some of our
the developed countries and international
countries,
financial
institutions should seriously consider debt-
forgiveness for low-income developing countries. Such a
course of action would stop the flight of much-needed
resources from these countries and create new possibilities
for real savings for investment and growth. I wish to
affirm that we, the developing countries, fully accept and
recognize that we bear the primary responsibility for our
own development; we have accordingly undertaken
various economic structural adjustment reforms, often at
enormous social and political cost. These ambitious and
painful reforms could flounder if developed countries fail
to complement these sterling efforts by taking decisive
measures to reduce the stock of our debt and by removing
the wall of protectionist barriers. We also call on the
developed countries to take decisive measures, as a matter
or urgency, to increase the flow of official development
assistance, private investment and the transfer of
technologies to developing nations.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In a few days, world leaders will assemble in Rome
for yet another world summit. This time, the international
community will
focus its attention on the important
question of food security and the good health of the people
of
the world. Unfortunately, even the increased food
supplies in the world are inaccessible to more than 1.5
billion hungry people who are acknowledged to be living in
abject poverty. We cannot accept that the legacy of hungry
and malnourished people is what our generation will
bequeath to the twenty-first century.
We expect development to bring food to our dining
tables, clean water
into our homes, better housing,
improved health and security to all our children. The
present
trend towards globalization and the deepening
interdependence among economies should foster a universal
feeling and sense of belonging to the global village whose
concept we have now come to take for granted, but whose
benefits accrue to only a few countries.
In the
in the 1990s.
Only last week, this Assembly carried out a review of
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
statements made by
Africa
representatives of African countries,
it was made
abundantly clear that the international commitments made
in 1991, like those made at the launching of United Nations
Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development 1986-1990 earlier, had not been fulfilled. We
therefore call on the international community, and our
development partners in particular, to mobilize the requisite
financial resources to augment our efforts and give fresh
impetus to the realization of the goals set out in United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s.
When the founding fathers of the United Nations
outlined the purposes and principles of this Organization,
they envisioned a United Nations that would
“be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in
the attainment of these common ends.”
As we seek to enhance the relevance of
this
Organization to the world today, it is imperative that we
understand that the vast majority of the people of this world
expect
the United Nations to be a principal actor for
progress and change, and to be equipped to play an
effective and leading role in improving the economic and
social
citizens. As we
commemorate the International Year for the Eradication of
Poverty, we are alarmed at the growing extent of abject
poverty, which now engulfs 20 per cent of the world’s
the world’s
situation
of
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
population. That poverty is the root cause of most of the
world’s social ills, including strife and peace-threatening
conflicts, cannot be overemphasized. We appeal
to
Governments the world over to respond in earnest to the
clarion call of the Copenhagen world social summit and
to spare no effort at both the national and international
levels, to roll back the advancing scourge of poverty.
It is needless to stress that the elimination of poverty
and the attainment of the broader goal of sustainable
development will remain impossible to achieve unless
nations show renewed political resolve to implement
policies aimed at enabling humankind to better manage
and live with its environment, as agreed to at the Rio
de Janeiro summit and at subsequent Conferences. The
ever-dwindling natural resource base, global warming,
persistent droughts and desertification are eloquent
reminders that humankind’s current destructive processes
of growth are pushing our planet towards the precipice.
Under
safer,
environmentally sound and sustainable approaches to
development,
including the utilization of new and
renewable resources, has become more urgent now than
ever before.
circumstances,
search for
these
the
role that
Only last week, leaders from 103 countries, from all
regions of the world, heeding this historic challenge of
our time, gathered in Harare, Zimbabwe, for the first-ever
World Solar Summit
to map out strategies aimed at
promoting the development and utilization of solar and
other forms of renewable energy. In recognition of the
important
solar energy can play in the
advancement of socio-economic development and in
reducing environmental degradation, the Summit adopted
a comprehensive World Solar Programme 1996-2005 with
a view to creating effective mechanisms to speed up and
facilitate the use of solar energy. We call upon the United
Nations Secretary-General, the specialized agencies of the
United Nations, non-governmental organizations and the
international community at large to lend the necessary
financial and other forms of support to the Programme to
enable it to succeed.
In
June
of
1997
another
conference
equal
environmental significance, the International Convention
on Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), will convene
in Harare. The challenges facing this conference will by
no means be small. Global conservation strategies and
policies have to be implemented in the national interest
and within the means available for the benefit of each
country. We in southern Africa have adopted effective
conservation policies over the years that have seen the
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
growth of our elephant herd beyond the levels our
ecosystem can support. It would be unfortunate, and indeed
an irony of our times, if we, who have conceived and
successfully implemented innovative wildlife conservation
policies, should find ourselves being penalized for our
success and the failure of others. The international
community has an obligation to adopt new, dynamic and
flexible policies that would enable countries such as South
Africa, Namibia, Botswana and my own country to reap the
benefits of their wildlife conservation successes. To act
otherwise would be counter-productive and an injustice to
the noble cause of wildlife conservation as a whole. My
country intends to make constructive suggestions on this
subject at the CITES meeting next year.
To remain relevant and effective, the United Nations
must stay at
the centre stage of global activities. Its
worldwide responsibilities cannot be delegated; nor can its
Charter-enshrined priorities be subordinated to issues
extraneous to its purposes and principles. We are taken
aback by the efforts of those who seek to prescribe to the
United Nations a reform exercise that would force the
Organization to diminish and to reorient
its Charter-
enshrined role in promoting development to the Bretton
Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization and the
blind forces of the market. The Charter envisaged an
identifiable role for the United Nations in promoting
development, which is a prerequisite for, and the ultimate
corollary of, peace.
My delegation maintains that the United Nations is
uniquely placed to play a policy-making and resource
identification role. Its decisions must necessarily set the
pace and direction for other institutions such as the Bretton
Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization.
In conclusion, the strength of the United Nations lies
in its universality and its impartiality in implementing its
mandate to promote peace and security, economic and
social development, human rights and international law as
outlined in its Charter.
Whereas
the Organization has clearly played a
significant
role in the containment and settlement of
disputes through peace-keeping activities, and in the
expansion and codification of international
it has
impact on the
largely failed to have any significant
development process in developing countries. The few
developing countries that have managed to score any
breakthroughs have done so in spite of the United Nations.
As the General Assembly outlines its medium-term plan for
the period 1998-2003, my delegation, together with others,
law,
20
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
the development process,
will seek to ensure that
particularly Africa’s economic recovery and development,
is underwritten by the Organization’s
irrevocable
commitment.
Finally, let me turn to the agenda item dealing with
the election of the Secretary-General of this Organization.
Since it is an item on the agenda of this Assembly, it is
imperative that Member States freely express their views
on this matter. We of Africa have a clear and
unambiguous position. We believe that it is Africa’s turn
to provide a Secretary-General. We have had one term so
far and, following the normal practice, are entitled to a
second term. The African leaders, meeting in Yaoundé,
Cameroon, this year, endorsed the candidature of the
incumbent, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
We stand ready to engage all Members of
this
Organization in the process of finalizing consultations on
this subject.
The Acting President: I now call on the Deputy
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, His Excellency Mr. Choi Su Hon.
Mr. Choi Su Hon (Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea) (spoke in Korean; English text furnished by the
delegation): I should like first of all, on behalf of the
delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
to congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his election as
President. We are pleased that Malaysia, an Asian
country, has assumed the presidency of the fifty-first
session of the General Assembly. We believe that the rich
experience he has gained in the course of dealing with
international issues will crown the current session with
good results.
I should also like to express my gratitude to
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal,
the former
President, for his great contribution to the success of the
the General Assembly. My
previous
appreciation
the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his efforts devoted to
strengthening the United Nations.
session of
goes
also
to
The building of a new world free from all forms of
domination and subjugation, and aggression and war has
long been the common and cherished aspiration of the
world’s peoples. However, domination and subjugation,
and subordination and inequality still predominate in
international relations — even today, after the end of the
cold war — and this constitutes a great challenge to the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
realization of world peace
democratization of international society.
and security and the
Recent developments in the international arena are
eloquent proof of the fact that every country should firmly
maintain its independence in order to safeguard its national
dignity and rights and to build a free and prosperous world.
For the Korean people, the last half-century has been
a period of struggle and progress in their efforts to
consolidate and develop our style of socialism and to
reunify the divided country despite all kinds of challenges
and difficulties.
themselves
Though caught
in the vortex of the complex and
fluctuating international situation surrounding the Korean
peninsula, the Korean people have been able to march
forward continuously along the road to socialism — which
they
vacillation,
disappointment or vicissitude, despite the fact that on an
untrodden and poorly paved path, every step is difficult.
This has been possible because they have firmly maintained
independence in all domains of state-building on the basis
of the Juche idea, the political philosophy of the Korean
people.
chose — without
any
The Juche idea, based on the philosophical principle
that man is
the master of everything and decides
everything, regards the popular masses as the driving force
of the socio-historical movement, and identifies the people’s
struggle for independence, sovereignty and development as
the way to realize their independence. We have carried out
our independent policy on the basis of the Juche idea,
relying on the strength of our own people. In international
relations, we have firmly adhered to the principle of not
infringing upon the sovereignty of others and of not having
our own sovereignty violated.
At a time when international relations and the situation
are becoming increasingly complicated, it becomes ever
more important for a small country like ours firmly to
maintain an independent stand. The Juche philosophy,
created by the fatherly leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, the
founding father of our socialist Korea, and our independent
policy, based on this philosophy, have been credibly
followed by the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il. The
great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il has guided wisely all the
affairs of our Party, State and army for more than three
decades, and thus has consolidated and developed our
unique style of socialism into an indestructible one.
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
The leader and the people are firmly united in one
idea and will, and the independent policy based on the
Juche idea has deep roots in our territory. As a result,
there has been neither a political vacuum nor instability
in our society, and our style of socialism is advancing
vigorously, regardless of what others may say.
It
and
politician
iron-willed
is the greatest fortune and happiness for our
people to have the respected Comrade Kim Jong Il, the
outstanding
brilliant
Commander, as the supreme leader of the Party and State
and the Supreme Commander of the revolutionary armed
forces. Under the wise leadership of the great leader
Comrade Kim Jong Il, our people will make their country
prosperous and realize the fatherly leader's lifelong
teachings on reunification, convinced of the victory of our
style of socialism.
We hold that the question of national reunification
should also be settled in the interests of the Korean nation
in the context of the maintenance of international peace
and security, based on the specific conditions of our
country. In view of current realities in the North and
South of Korea, characterized by different
ideas and
systems, national reunification through confederation is
the only way to achieve a great national unity
independently and peacefully, on the principle of neither
side conquering or being conquered by the other. It is
quite natural that the proposal for national reunification
through confederation set forth by Comrade Kim Il Sung,
the fatherly leader of our people, enjoys worldwide
support.
The pressing issue in the realization of national
reunification through confederation on the Korean
peninsula is the establishment of a new institutional
mechanism for easing tensions and ensuring peace and
security. Since the Armistice Agreement, signed in 1953,
and the Military Armistice Commission, the executive
body of the Agreement, remain paralysed by unilateral
measures on the part of
the
establishment of a new peace arrangement is imperative
in order to avert the danger of accidental conflicts, and
for the maintenance of security on the Korean peninsula.
the United States,
for
the
Accordingly, in April 1994 the Government of the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea advanced a
proposal
a new peace
arrangement to replace the outdated system of Korean
armistice in ensuring peace and security on the Korean
peninsula. It also advanced in February of this year an
epoch-making proposal to conclude an interim agreement
establishment of
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the
United States, a proposal that delineates in detail a new
peace arrangement that takes account of the United States
policy towards Korea and the present status of Democratic
People's Republic of Korea-United States bilateral relations.
The interim agreement may include issues concerning
the management of the Military Demarcation Line and
Demilitarized Zone; ways of addressing cases of armed
conflict and accidents; the composition, duties and terms of
reference of a joint military body; and other issues related
to the maintenance of security and order.
The United States and South Korean authorities,
however,
replied to our peace-loving proposal by
aggravating tensions with large-scale war exercises and an
arms build-up on the Korean peninsula. This situation
urgently requires the establishment of a legitimate channel
for contacts between military personnel, with a view to
preventing accidental armed conflicts and the recurrence of
war. It
the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea proposed to the
United States working negotiations for talks relating to the
conclusion of the interim agreement, and the establishment
of an interim mechanism responsible for its implementation,
between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and
United States military authorities, the real parties to the
Korean Armistice Agreement.
is on the basis of this consideration that
There is no doubt that the conclusion of an interim
agreement between the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea and the United States will constitute a breakthrough
for the negotiations on the signing of an agreement aimed
at the maintenance of a durable peace, and it will, in turn,
eventually lead to the creation of an atmosphere favourable
for the implementation of the Agreement on Reconciliation,
Non-Aggression and Exchanges and Cooperation, between
the North and South, adopted by the North and South of
Korea.
If
is
the United States
truly interested in the
maintenance of peace on the Korean peninsula, as it
mentioned while proposing the “four-party talks”, it should
be willing to withdraw United States troops from South
Korea. On the other hand, the United Nations should take
its own measures, without delay, to retrieve its name and
flag from United States troops in South Korea, thus helping
to establish a new peace arrangement on the Korean
peninsula.
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
of armistice into a durable peace and terminating the cold
war on the Korean peninsula. The United Nations
Command was not established by a United Nations
resolution. It is only a product of the cold-war era, which
came into existence through the abuse of the name of the
United Nations. The United Nations Command has moved
towards
any United Nations
resolutions during the post-war period, and consequently
only United States troops remain there today.
dissolution without
This stark fact presents a vivid illustration of the fact
that
the “US-ROK Joint Command” is usurping the
helmets of United Nations forces and the name of the
United Nations.
In the past two years since the adoption of the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea-United States
Framework Agreement, we have been sincerely fulfilling
our obligations under the Agreement, as we have shown
by freezing all of our nuclear facilities. For the full
implementation of the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea-United States Framework Agreement, which is
aimed at the fundamental resolution of the nuclear issue
on the Korean peninsula, the United States should, among
other
including lifting
the Democratic People's
economic sanctions against
Republic of Korea; and the present Democratic People's
Republic
of
confrontation should be transformed into a relationship
based on trust.
of Korea-United States
its obligations,
relationship
things,
fulfil
There is also a need for several other countries
pursuing unfriendly policies towards the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea to change their attitudes,
which would certainly be conducive to facilitating a
resolution of the issue. We will make every effort to
ensure peace and security on the Korean peninsula and in
the region of North-East Asia.
system,
including
On this occasion,
I wish to express my deep
gratitude to the Governments of various countries, the
affiliated organs and specialized agencies of the United
Nations
of
Humanitarian Affairs, non-governmental organizations,
and individuals for their moral, material and humanitarian
assistance and encouragement to our people, which have
been provided in the hope of removing, as quickly as
possible, the damage caused in recent years by successive
natural disasters.
the Department
The existence of the United Nations Command in
South Korea constitutes a legal obstacle to turning the state
In order to eliminate the legacies of the cold-war
era, which has been negated by history, and to enable all
22
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
countries and nations to exercise their sovereignty on an
equal footing, international society should be democratized.
The United Nations should, first of all, be restructured into
a democratized Organization. The restructuring of the
United Nations should be undertaken in a way that will
fully represent the interests of developing countries, which
form the majority of United Nations Member States, and
also ensure the exercise of their sovereignty in the process
of resolving major international issues.
Only when the United Nations is restructured will it be
able to do its part in the maintenance of international peace
and security and ensure democracy and impartiality in its
activities. The priority for the democratization of the United
Nations is to enhance the authority of
the General
Assembly,
the body in which all Member States are
represented equally. We consider that issues relating to
international peace and security should be brought directly
to the General Assembly for deliberation, and that a new
system should be established to endorse Security Council
resolutions on the use of force, sanctions and peace-keeping
operations. Such measures would enable the Security
Council
to give full consideration to the interests of
Member States and thus prevent the adverse effects suffered
by many countries as a result of the implementation of
Security Council resolutions.
The restructuring of the Security Council is the most
essential element
in the democratization of the United
Nations. There are a number of issues to be resolved in
restructuring the Security Council, and we consider it
reasonable to proceed with the restructuring gradually,
based on the principle of first finding issues on which
agreement can be reached and achieving consensus on each
of them. From this viewpoint, we believe that consensus
may be reached on issues concerning the enlargement of
the non-permanent membership of the Security Council and
the improvement of its working methods, both of which
have already been agreed upon in principle by Member
States.
it
In this regard, our delegation considers that
is
possible for Member States to agree upon, above all, issues
such as offsetting the imbalance in regional distribution
through an increase of more than 10 seats
in the
non-permanent membership of the Security Council, to be
allocated among the regions of Asia, Africa and Latin
America, and through providing the countries concerned,
including the parties to disputes, with access to informal
consultations of the Security Council.
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
Japan is
taking advantage of
the proposed
enlargement of the permanent membership of the Security
Council by attempting to become a permanent member
even though, as a defeated State of the Second World
War, it has failed to make an appropriate apology or
provide compensation for its war crimes but, instead, is
trying to justify them after more than half a century has
passed. This makes a mockery of Member States,
particularly the Asian countries.
Disarmament — especially nuclear disarmament —
remains one of the most
important problems for the
maintenance of international peace and security. We
believe that the nuclear-weapon States should provide
negative security assurances to the non-nuclear-weapon
States, commit
themselves to the non-use of nuclear
weapons, and draw up and implement a timetable for
their complete abolition.
Despite the end of the cold war, regional, religious
and ethnic disputes are being further aggravated in
various parts of our planet, and consequently world peace
and security are gravely disturbed and peoples are
suffering from untold misfortunes resulting from them. It
is our consistent stand that disputes between countries and
nations should be settled immediately through dialogue
and negotiation in the interests of the parties concerned
and in conformity with international peace and security.
At present, the maintenance of peace and security in
North-East Asia is one of the most vitally important
problems. In order to ensure peace and security in North-
East Asia,
the arms race and any attempt aimed at
fostering military collusion with outside forces should be
brought
the military collusion
between the United States and Japan is being intensified,
and furthermore,
the United States, Japan and South
Korea are becoming less disguised in their attempt to
build up a tripartite military alliance by repeatedly
launching joint military exercises in this region on the
pretext of North Korea’s so-called invasion.
to an end. However,
In particular, the arms race is further accelerated
because the Japanese authorities are resorting to the
unreasonable policy of trying to become a military super-
Power, building up their arms and developing nuclear
weapons. We strongly urge the Japanese authorities to end
their confrontational acts against the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea, including an arms build-up under the
veil of an “immediate response in case of emergency”.
23
10th plenary meeting
26 September 1996
the sovereignty of other countries, and we oppose all
forms of terrorism jeopardizing human lives, as well as
any activities encouraging or assisting terrorist acts.
Today, all justice-loving and peace-loving countries
and nations are making active efforts to establish a new
world order and equitable international economic relations
for the twenty-first century. We express our appreciation
to the Asian countries in their efforts to ensure peace and
stability and to achieve common prosperity in their
regions. It is good that the Asia-Europe meeting, held
early in 1996, agreed upon the strengthening of economic
links and cooperation between the continents.
We support the Arab and Syrian people in their
effort to strengthen unity and cooperation, and to achieve
a fair and comprehensive resolution of the Middle-East
question, including the Palestinian issue, and we express
solidarity with the Libyan people in their struggle to
defend the sovereignty of their country.
We appreciate the efforts of the Organization of
African Unity to resolve social and economic issues and
disputes in the African region. We express solidarity with
the just cause of the Cuban people to lift the blockade
against Cuba, and, with the Latin American people in
their endeavours for peace and prosperity in their region.
We will continue as before to develop relations of
friendship and cooperation with all countries of the world
on the basis of
independence, peace and
friendship and will endeavour to fulfil the obligations
entrusted to us in the achievement of the common cause
of humankind for world peace and security under the wise
leadership of the great leader Comrade Kim Jong Il.
ideas of
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea will make sincere efforts towards the successful
outcome of the debates on the agenda items before this
session of the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The question of social and economic development is
directly linked with international peace and security, and its
resolution is therefore one of the important tasks before the
United Nations. We hope that agreement will soon be
reached on issues with regard to the implementation of the
commitment to official development assistance and the
alleviation of external debt,
thereby facilitating the
completion of the Agenda for Development at the earliest
possible date in the Ad Hoc Open-Ended Working Group
on an Agenda for Development.
We consider that reform of the United Nations in the
fields of social and economic development should be
directed towards strengthening the agencies responsible for
development cooperation under the United Nations system,
thereby contributing to accelerating the implementation of
the declarations and action plans for the development of
developing countries.
The
application of
“selectivity”, which relates
development cooperation and technology transfer
to
questions of “human rights” and “terrorism”, should no
longer be tolerated, and measures such as economic
sanctions should be eliminated to ensure the economic
development of Member States and regions.
The Government of our Republic, which regards the
man-centred Juche idea as its guiding idea, is providing all
its people with political, economic and cultural rights and
legally protecting the lives and dignity of human beings.
We reject the politicization of human rights, which abuses
the “question of human rights” in order to infringe upon
24
