United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
26th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 8 October 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: The first speaker is the Chairman of
the delegation of Djibouti, Mr. Roble Olhaye, on whom I
now call.
Mr. Olhaye (Djibouti): My delegation offers its
warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at what will certainly
be a crucial session. We have come to know you over the
years, and have never failed to admire and appreciate your
relentless
valuable
contributions. We have no doubt
that your unique
experience, coupled with your keen awareness of the issues
on which we will have to deliberate, augur well for a most
productive session.
plain-speaking
activism,
and
We also wish to record our gratitude to Mr. Freitas do
the outgoing President, for his direction and
Amaral,
focused leadership during the historic fiftieth anniversary
session. Much of the pace and progress in United Nations
reform efforts and activities this year are largely due to his
commitment
to achieving a meaningful and balanced
outcome on this difficult issue.
We would also like to commend the Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the perseverance
and dedication with which he has undertaken his duties.
Saddled as it is with diminishing resources and increasing
uncertainty regarding its role and mandate, the United
Nations is going through trying times. The Secretary-
General, however, has, against all odds, maintained the
continuity and functioning of the Secretariat, tackling the
daily challenges facing mankind.
My delegation, in conformity with the decision and
recommendation of the League of Arab States and the
Organization of African Unity, supports the re-election
bid of the Secretary-General for another term in order to
enable him to accomplish the objectives of his mission.
Fifty years ago, with great energy, grand vision and
a considerable measure of optimism, the world embarked
upon a high-minded journey to end the scourge of war,
eliminate poverty and create a world of freedom and
justice for all. Much has been accomplished, and it cannot
be denied that humankind now has the power and
resources to achieve the goals we set ourselves.
Yet too many dreams remain shattered, too much
potential remains unfulfilled, and too many conflicts
remain in too many parts of the globe. The United
Nations is bracing itself for more turbulent times ahead,
with bankruptcy on the horizon as it confronts the threat
to either “reform or perish”. Remarkably, there is a placid
air of “business as usual” pervading this session of the
General Assembly — a dream state in which all is well
and normal. Given the dire predicament threatening the
existence of this Organization, does this reveal a measure
of resignation? Is this the beginning of the end of the
96-86411 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
enthusiastic hope for a new world order with which this
decade began? Does this explain why so many opportunities
to address the pressing problems of our day have not been
realized? While politically the world might be in a state of
flux and transition, economically, however, it has enjoyed
an unprecedented level of output — enough for every man,
woman and child on this planet to enjoy a happy and secure
life.
of
The vast majority of the people of the world, however,
have received minimal benefit. The facts are foreboding.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
informs us that over the last decade income levels in some
70 developing countries were lower than in the 1960s or
the United Nations
1970s. The Administrator
Development Programme tellingly reminds us that
the
belief that the developing world is doing very much better
is one of the great myths of the present. In fact, three fifths
of the world’s population live in poverty, millions are
forced to migrate every year, and 15 per cent suffer from
chronic hunger and malnutrition. All this is taking place
while world food production and reserves are declining in
the face of population growth. As most of us realize, much
of this stagnation is taking place in Africa.
For all the oft-cited reasons — historical, colonial or
contemporary — Africa has been lagging behind on the
march to self-sustaining growth. Consequently, 50 per cent
of its peoples live in poverty, with a quality of life that is
not expected to improve during this decade. While the
increasing flow of negative statistics on Africa tends to
mask the substantial efforts for reform, pluralization and
structural adjustment that are taking place in many countries
on the continent, for most people the situation is life-
threatening.
There are, however, a few hopeful signs that
the
extent of Africa’s predicament has begun to draw the
critical attention it needs from the international community.
In particular,
the 10-year United Nations System-wide
Special Initiative on Africa, launched in March by the
Secretary-General, deserves a special mention. Although it
does not represent new funding so much as the more
efficient use of available resources, it should prove useful.
Together with this initiative, the formal endorsement
last week by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and
the World Bank, during their
annual meeting in
Washington, of a plan to substantially reduce the debt
burden of the world’s poorest and most heavily indebted
nations, most of which are in Africa, is very encouraging.
If current economic reform measures are to have the
2
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
desired impact, debt relief is crucial, particularly in
reversing Africa’s increasing marginalization.
But
of
poverty
problems
degradation,
and
underdevelopment are hardly unique to Africa; they are
found in every corner of the world, and must be seriously
addressed if we are to rectify the frightening pace of
global polarization, both within and between countries.
According to the Administrator of the United Nations
Development Programme, we are creating a planet that,
increasingly, is not one world but two.
For all these reasons, the World Food Summit in
Rome next month, and the designation of the decade
1997-2006 as the first United Nations Decade for the
Eradication of Poverty will provide the international
community with an opportunity to renew its commitment
realistically to face those twin scourges of humankind.
The conventional wisdom of today argues that the basic
remedy for underdevelopment lies in embracing free and
open market economies, stimulated by private capital. To
this end, the bulk of the world is engaged in restructuring
to fit this mould. But with the dramatic shrinkage of the
resources
development —
particularly those for official development assistance —
self-sufficiency has become an almost impossible task.
Compounding this dilemma, total private investment has
quadrupled since 1990, but only in ways that bypass most
developing countries and fail to address their problems.
transitional
needed
for
The world remains laden with conflicts. It has been
said that as many as 25 complex emergencies now
threaten tens of millions of people worldwide every year,
that the convulsions are becoming larger, with wider
repercussions, and that this new generation of crises will
continue until
their underlying causes are properly
addressed. Cold-war identities have lost relevance, and
old identities and animosities have resurfaced. Many
nation States have lost considerable cohesion and are
being buffeted by external pressures and strains within.
The consequent void of economic and political instability
has provided an opening for many unscrupulous, self-
proclaimed “leaders” who, hungry for power, are
reigniting the myths, latent prejudices, hatreds and fears
lying in the dark recesses of so many minds. Employing
violence, propaganda and intimidation, such as we have
seen in Bosnia, Somalia, Cambodia and elsewhere, they
have successfully pitted peoples against peoples. The
predictable result has been an explosion in the number of
armed conflicts, accompanied by widespread devastation,
both human and physical, gross violations of human
is a situation
rights, and “ethnic cleansing”. This
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
increasingly in need of concerted international action and a
strong, focused and impartial United Nations.
The United Nations has, indeed, responded positively
in many instances. Cambodia and Mozambique are cases in
point. Some crises, however, have proved intractable,
invariably because of the nature of mandates or the political
will of Member States, whose changing views and policies
have affected the prospects for early resolution. Had the
international community acted with dispatch in crisis
situations, countless lives could have been saved and scarce
resources conserved by forcing the belligerents to disarm
unconditionally and to respect the rule of law.
The widespread and indiscriminate use of anti-
personnel mines in many conflict situations has been
consistently devastating. We therefore welcome the Security
Council statement of 30 August 1996 indicating the high
priority being given to demining. The effectiveness of
peacekeeping will be greatly enhanced by making demining
an integral part of it. Sadly, however, these commendable
measures will continue to fall short of what is required
unless the international community imposes a moratorium,
if not a total ban, on the manufacture and deployment of
such devices. In the same vein, we hope that the adoption
of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty will provide
an impetus to increased international cooperation,
in
addition to marking a first viable step towards the total
elimination of weapons of mass destruction.
The problems, conflicts and challenges of development
and international cooperation are growing in complexity.
Not surprisingly, therefore, as so many have noted, the
United Nations system needs to be renewed and enabled to
respond to these simultaneous challenges.
Over the past two years, and particularly in the first
half of this year, a number of High-level Open-ended
Working Groups of the General Assembly have extensively
explored and deliberated on issues of reform as they
impinge upon the financial situation,
the enlargement,
composition and transparency of the Security Council, and
the Secretariat and General Assembly. Considerable time,
energy and resources have been expended in these efforts.
However, differences persist among nations, reflecting
divergent national policies, views and interests.
As might be expected, a proliferation of ideas and
positions is emerging from individual countries, including,
to name just a few, the United States, Italy, Belize and
Malaysia, which have produced proposals and statements of
position. Regional groups, including those in Africa, and
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
including the Non-Aligned
alliances and coalitions,
Movement, have their own positions. All of them are
jockeying for position so as to advance and strengthen
their individual or collective interests. The stalemate over
Security Council reform is far from over and remains the
toughest problem. The real stumbling block is the number
and composition of the new permanent membership,
which must include developing countries from all parts of
the world, including Africa, Asia and Latin America. We
must also recognize that constructive participation in the
Council by many smaller States has demonstrated that the
possession of large economies and large populations
cannot
be
permanent
membership.
exclusive
criteria
the
for
The tense circumstances persisting in a number of
States in the Great Lakes region of Africa is a cause of
concern to my country. This is true of Rwanda, where
bloated prisons, camps swollen with refugees and the
slow pace of the judicial process are just a few of the
problems that continue to plague that country. The
International Tribunal for Rwanda has begun to function,
but with limited manpower and financial resources. The
Tribunal must be seen to function effectively, as the
message it sends is crucial to resolving the Rwandan
problem.
In
the
neighbouring Burundi,
international
community remains haunted by the fear of a re-enactment
of the horrors that took place in Rwanda over two years
ago, where tens of thousands were massacred. There has
already been a frightful human toll in Burundi since the
army murdered the first democratically elected President
in 1993, marking the advent of instability and violence.
Should the army — the de facto head of State and
supreme authority since 1993 — remain unprepared to
accept the authority of a democratically elected civilian
government, we may have a recipe for uncontrolled
bloodshed. That
is the real problem confronting the
international community in resolving the Burundi debacle.
Djibouti fully supports the efforts of the countries in the
region in imposing sanctions, whose objective is to
compel
the new regime in Bujumbura to restore
constitutional order and legality and to hand over power
to a legitimately elected government.
With the explosion of violence in the territories
occupied by Israel, we have witnessed an alarming
deterioration in prospects for peace in the Middle East.
The Israeli act of opening a tunnel under one of Islam’s
holiest shrines, the Al-Aqsa Mosque in East Jerusalem,
was yet another example of disrespect for, as well as
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
defiance of, international opinion. But more importantly, it
was yet another example of intransigent rule over East
Jerusalem.
and
the
the Arabs,
It is difficult to deny that the ultimate Israeli aim is to
change the ground rules — in effect, unilaterally to redefine
the peace process,
thereby rolling back the clock and
reversing years of hard work, concessions, sacrifice and
good faith on the part of the previous Israeli Government,
the Palestinians,
international
community. It is also disturbing that, while the world is
watching, Israel should decide openly to pursue a policy of
creating “facts on the ground” in total disregard of the
principles established in Oslo,
the Washington peace
agreement and United Nations resolutions, all of which
emphasize the return of occupied land in exchange for
peace. It is little wonder that the current talks between
Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat, which began last week in
Washington, have neither produced nor resolved anything.
What we see instead are Israeli promises or commitments
to keep talking to the Palestinians. But there has been
neither an action nor a promise to implement what had
already been agreed upon, or even to contemplate the start
of final status negotiations.
The depth of Arab disillusionment is obvious. The
hard line policies pursued by the new Government are
simply fuelling fires of hatred and violence. Djibouti hopes
that reason will prevail, and calls on key countries and
regions to continue providing the necessary direction,
leadership and reassurances for a return to previous
commitments. Having come so far and sacrificed so much,
and with so much at stake, we must not allow the peace
process to drift or wither away. In this context, we also
wish to underscore the urgent call of the Arab Summit in
Cairo in June for Israel to resume the peace process within
the framework of the Madrid Conference, in accordance
with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973)
and 425 (1978).
We share the anxiety in the Gulf region about the state
of the three islands of the United Arab Emirates that have
been occupied by Iran, and we hope that this long-standing
problem will be resolved peacefully.
Somalia continues to exist in a cycle of misery and
political impasse, lacking structures, an economy, a stable
civil society or legitimate authority. More disturbing, there
is neither peace nor war, and clashes continue unabated.
Mogadishu and its infamous warlords remain the maelstrom
of Somalia. Despite almost five years of incessant fighting,
there are no signs of compromise or reconciliation. The lust
4
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
for power of a few has resulted in disaster for the whole
country, whose condition is now a virtual replica of what
it was in the nineteenth century. There is simply nowhere
to lay the blame for Somalia’s wretched state except on
the warlords and their inability to reason and reach
agreement. This myopic vision of
leadership seems
unlikely to change until one faction prevails, and that may
take years. Meanwhile, the people suffer, and the world
is watching. Somalia, we must conclude, remains a
festering tragedy, a piece of unfinished business for the
international community, an international embarrassment,
and a permanent problem. It will not go away simply
because we refuse to address it, and it will certainly
continue to be an indelible blemish on the Charter of the
United Nations.
The sooner we consider the far-reaching implications
of the situation of this failed State, which is absent from
this Hall, the better it will be for the Somali people and
the international community. Somalia is simply consumed
by an interminable turmoil from which it cannot free
itself. It needs help — our help.
With the holding of elections, the saga of Bosnia has
reached a decisive juncture. The problem facing the
international community is the attempts to obstruct the
normalization process through the use of violence and
intimidation, which increase the pressure for secession.
However, one issue that is creating tremendous frustration
and confusion is the reluctance of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) to apprehend the prime
Bosnian Serb war crime suspects — Karadžic´ and
Mladic´ — who are accused of instigating, planning and
ordering the genocide and “ethnic cleansing” in Bosnia.
To date, 74 arrest warrants have been issued for suspected
war criminals, but only eight people are in custody. This
fact, perhaps, reflects a political decision; but it is a
paradoxical one whose effects may be with us in Bosnia
and beyond for a long time.
In conclusion, I wish to refer to an issue relating to
my own part of the world. Our corner of the globe, the
Horn of Africa, seems to be passing through a period of
renewed optimism and revival. This must be sustained.
With the regional economy slowly but steadily recovering
from the effects of past turmoil, the need for enhanced
cooperation cannot be overemphasized. Djibouti
is
umbilically linked to the pulse of its neighbours and
cannot, therefore, be indifferent to their economic and
trade realities.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
The conflicts and civil strife that have plagued the
Horn of Africa in the past
two decades have had a
devastating effect on our economic and social life. This can
be readily observed in the unacceptable number of
displaced persons and refugees in my small country, for
whom our continued commitment to care is proving to be
economically and socially overwhelming, if not disastrous.
Djibouti’s approach to regional affairs is based on
mutual respect, moderation and cooperation. We believe
that all the countries in the Horn of Africa must together
seek to resolve the common problems of poverty, conflict
and underdevelopment, bilaterally and within the framework
of
the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and
Development (IGADD), whose revitalization is crucial.
real sense, he is the first Secretary-General of the post-
cold-war period, and has had to contend with issues and
problems that were perhaps furthest from the minds and
intentions of the founding fathers of our Organization. To
his high office he has brought to bear clarity of vision
and purpose, and a remarkable ability — as we have seen
from two seminal reports, on the Agenda for Peace and
the Agenda for Development — to present complex
analyses and facts in a simple, distilled form. For nearly
half a decade, he has handled what was once described by
one of his predecessors as “the most impossible job on
this earth” with verve, dignity and integrity.
Mr. Samhan (United Arab Emirates), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Djibouti is in the midst of economic restructuring and
institutional reforms. Given the demobilization process that
is now under way, we require generous assistance from the
international donor community. Towards this end, we are
planning to organize a round table early next year, under
the aegis of the UNDP and the Bretton Woods institutions,
to address these problems and the accumulated effects of
regional instability. We have made a valiant effort, and we
remain convinced that the donor community will, for its
part, work with us in order to surmount our multiple
challenges and create a better future for our citizens.
Over two decades ago, the father of our nation,
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, addressed the
General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session, soon after
Bangladesh’s entry into the United Nations as a fully-
fledged Member. In his speech he outlined some cardinal
tenets, the basic focus and thrust of our foreign policy,
and our domestic priorities. These hold good even today,
in a world that has undergone radical transformation. As
Bangabandhu stated, our foreign policy is based on the
principles of peaceful coexistence and friendship towards
all.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Bangladesh, His Excellency Mr. Abdus Samad
Azad.
Mr. Azad (Bangladesh) (spoke in Bengali; English
furnished by the delegation): Mr. President, please
text
accept our heartfelt congratulations on the assumption of
your high office. Your unanimous election is a tribute to
your great country, with which we enjoy friendly and
fraternal relations. It is also a testimony to your diplomatic
skills and personal standing in this world forum, where, on
so many occasions, you have articulated most persuasively
the concerns of the international community, particularly
those of the marginalized and vulnerable. You are assured
of the unstinting support of my delegation in the discharge
of your very heavy responsibilities.
I should like to convey to your predecessor,
the
President of the General Assembly at its historic fiftieth
session, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, our
appreciation for a job well done.
I should also like to pay a special tribute to our
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. In a very
Our political party, the Awami League, has only
recently been returned to office, through the process of
general elections, after a gap of more than 20 years. As
was stressed by our leader at the twenty-ninth session of
the General Assembly, our total commitment to peace is
born of the realization that only in an environment of
peace can our people concentrate their energies and
resources in combating the scourges of poverty, hunger,
disease, illiteracy and unemployment that still beset a
large proportion of humankind. We naturally place special
importance and emphasis on the development of good-
neighbourly relations with the countries of our region, on
the basis of universally accepted principles of peaceful
coexistence, mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial
integrity and non-interference in each other’s internal
affairs. We identify wholeheartedly with the aspirations
and hopes of developing countries in general, particularly
those belonging to the Non-Aligned Movement, and share
a special affinity with the fraternal member States of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). We share
with our development partners the goal of improving the
quality of life of our people, and our relations with them
are of the greatest significance to us.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
The existence of
friendly and good-neighbourly
relations does not necessarily preclude the emergence of
problems. What these can ensure, however, is that the best
of political will, goodwill and good intentions are brought
to bear in seeking solutions to any outstanding problems or
any new ones that may arise. Such an approach would go
a long way towards resolving any differences or disputes.
international convention on freshwater resources along the
lines of those that already exist on biodiversity, ozone
depletion and climate change. In particular, the paper
stresses that the United Nations should develop principles
and ethics on sharing the joint planetary freshwater
resources. These are ideas that, in our view, warrant
serious consideration by the world community.
Our outstanding problem with India over the sharing
of the waters of the Ganges River is not unknown to this
forum. Water resources play a predominant role in the
socio-economic development of a country. For Bangladesh,
the availability of fresh river water in adequate volumes is
indispensable for purposes of agriculture,
irrigation,
fisheries,
and
environmental balance and preventing the intrusion of
salinity. The importance that we attach to this issue cannot
be overemphasized and we have resumed bilateral
in an atmosphere of mutual
discussions with India,
confidence and trust,
to resolve this vexed problem
amicably and equitably so that our legitimate concerns can
be met.
traffic, maintaining
river
ecological
On the subject of water resources, I should like to
digress a little from the purely national and also bilateral
context, because the shortage of fresh water resources is
not, let me emphasize, unique or peculiar to Bangladesh or
our region. Even from the international perspective, it is an
issue of primal significance. According to a recent strategy
paper of the Committee on Natural Resources of the
Economic and Social Council, by the year 2025, 52
countries with a total population of more than 3 billion
people will be water-stressed or face chronic water scarcity.
The problem has as much to do with the availability of
fresh water in the overall global context as with the fact
that such resources, even when available in abundant
quantities, may be found in the wrong places or are
available at the wrong times. The problem, therefore, is
intimately and intricately linked to efficient water
management.
The question of water is not new to the global agenda
and, since the Mar del Plata Conference in March of 1977,
there have been international programmes on water-related
issues. It has not, however,
in our view, received the
priority that it deserves. An international code of conduct
for water-sharing was provided for in the Mar del Plata
Action Plan and, as the strategy paper of the Committee on
Natural Resources suggests, an international code of water
ethics is needed more urgently today than ever before as a
guide to help countries in their efforts to reach bilateral and
multilateral agreements. The paper also suggests an
6
Reverting to the subject of our Government’s
priorities, let me just add that, in the domestic sphere, like
all other developing countries, we are striving for a
human development paradigm that will prioritize people,
especially the most vulnerable and disadvantaged sectors.
We will pursue a programme of reforms with emphasis
on our domestic considerations: poverty alleviation and
economic growth with social justice. The social sectors
will receive special attention.
The 1990s has been a period of democratic renewal.
Our Government firmly believes that it is as important,
and perhaps more difficult, to live up to great principles
and ideas as to fight for their realization. That is why we
shall strive to strengthen our polity through institutions
and laws.
Through constitutional amendment, an important
innovation for democratic institutions and practice was
effected in Bangladesh, following overwhelming popular
demand, prior to our general elections in June. Three
months before general elections are to be held,
the
Government will demit office and hand over power to a
non-partisan and neutral caretaker Government
to be
headed by the most recently retired Chief Justice of the
country and comprised of eminent apolitical personalities
appointed on his advice, keeping in mind the sensitivities
of the major political parties. The principal mandate of
the caretaker Government will be to ensure free and fair
general elections to be conducted by an independent
constitutional authority, the Election Commission. Foreign
observers were welcome to observe the electoral process,
completely unhindered,
in 1996 and 1991. Reports
submitted by international observers can be of help in
identifying any shortcomings or gaps that may exist and
also contain constructive suggestions for improvement.
These steps are the national equivalents of confidence-
building measures between and among States.
Democracy, of course, goes well beyond the holding
of periodic general elections. It is a continuous process
and even a culture and ethos, which above all denote a
certain approach and attitude to governance. We in
Bangladesh see democracy as more than a laudable and
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
desirable objective. In the long term, democratic and
accountable government affords the most efficacious and
stable medium to develop the economy of a State and to
achieve prosperity for its people. The very apposite point
has been made, however, that democracy cannot on its own
be a panacea for the diverse problems that confront many
countries. There must also be effective international
cooperation
economic
environment if the major socio-economic problems are to
be meaningfully addressed.
supportive
external
and
a
The cold war is now truly behind us and the object
now is to win the peace. Peace is not simply the absence of
war, but
should encompass every human condition,
necessity and amenity that make for a civilized and
dignified life. It is inseparable from security and is the flip
side of development. Political, economic and social issues
are today intimately and intricately intertwined. Political
internationalism without economic internationalism can only
be likened to a house built upon sand. Most emphatically
in this day and age of interdependence, no nation can
achieve its fullest development alone. This is an area where
the United Nations and the United Nations system clearly
have a constructive role to play.
The main purposes of the United Nations, as outlined
in Chapter I of the Charter, include the achievement of
international cooperation in solving international problems
of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character
and also to be a centre for harmonizing the actions of
nations in the attainment of these common ends.
The Bretton Woods institutions are, of course, major
players in the field of development policy and research.
There is also,
in our view, a patent need and ample
justification in the Charter provisions for the United Nations
and the United Nations system to play a meaningful role in
global macroeconomic policy and strategy formulation. The
United Nations is the universal forum for dialogue and
decisions on such issues. This is an area in which, in
particular, a revitalized Economic and Social Council can
play a constructive and fruitful role. While the United
Nations
focus on
operational, welfare and humanitarian activities, there is
certainly a need for greater harmony and coordination
between the United Nations systems on the one hand and
the Bretton Woods institutions on the other.
role provides
economic
special
On the subject of development, let me reaffirm that a
is an indispensable
supportive external environment
to national efforts and policies. Poverty is
supplement
arguably the prime source of world disorder and needs to
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
be addressed, inter alia, through sustained and enhanced
flows of resources from the North to the countries of the
South. The gap between North and South is widening at
an ominous rate. In 1890, the wealth of each European
was twice that of a South Asian. Today, the gap is 70-
fold. In 1960, the per capita gross national product of the
richest 20 per cent of States was 30 times higher than that
of the poorest 20 per cent. By 1989, the gap had widened
to 60 times. By 1994, only four countries members of the
Development Assistance Committee (DAC) had reached
the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national
product as official development assistance. The average
figure for DAC countries actually fell from 0.31 per cent
in 1993 to 0.30 per cent in 1994. The least developed
countries’ share of world trade has plummeted in two
decades from 0.8 per cent to a mere 0.4 per cent.
initiatives of
The problems of the 48 least developed countries
continue to deserve special consideration on the global
development agenda. The Mid-term Global Review of the
Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries
for the 1990s has pointed to the limited progress made in
the implementation of commitments by our development
partners. The development
the least-
developed countries are stunted by problems associated
with formidable structural adjustment programmes, the
decline of an already low level of development resources,
and the extremely low level of exports compounded by
limited market access. The debt-relief measures taken thus
far have remained grossly inadequate. We urge our
development partners to adopt specific and concrete
measures to redress these problems. We welcome the
statements of several delegations that asked the removal
of barriers on the products of
the least developed
countries. We believe that, at the forthcoming Ministerial
Meeting of the World Trade Organization in December,
every participant will work to remove all obstacles to
trade from this vulnerable group of countries.
The problems of developing countries are also, at
one remove, the problems of the whole world, because
prosperity, like peace and stability, is in the final analysis
indivisible. For developed countries, assistance to the
countries of the South will surely constitute an investment
in a more secure, stable and, I have no doubt, eventually
prosperous third world. The marginalization of developing
countries would be morally indefensible, politically self-
defeating and economically counter-productive. The
aspirations of the South and the prosperity of the North
are emphatically not mutually exclusive.
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
As the first United Nations Secretary-General put it,
the United Nations was as strong an Organization as the
representatives in San Francisco could agree upon. Half a
century later, the United Nations remains the indispensable
linchpin of any international order, a role for which it is
uniquely conditioned, equipped and mandated. I should like
to stress here that an effective and credible United Nations
is even more vital and relevant for the smaller and more
vulnerable States than for the more powerful ones.
In today’s vastly altered world, the United Nations and
its system offer even broader promise than what
its
founding fathers could have envisioned. However, like all
organizations, the United Nations system is also subject to
the Darwinian dictum of “adapt or perish”. Much thought,
effort and work are therefore being devoted to the goal of
making the United Nations more attuned and responsive to
changing times and requirements, charting its future course
and defining its new emphases and priorities.
The United Nations areas of responsibility should
clearly cover problems or issues between States, especially
those that are pandemic in range and global in consequence.
Environmental degradation, human rights, burgeoning
populations, the situation and rights of women and children,
the depletion of non-renewable natural resources, drugs,
migration,
terrorism and corruption in
international business could very well — in addition to
issues of international peace, security and development —
be the topical objects of United Nations policies and
actions. We would, of course, want a United Nations that
is streamlined and focused, open and accountable, with
professional management systems and structures.
international
On the subject of Security Council reform, a number
of proposals have been mooted, including a wide-ranging
one by Italy. There is a broad convergence,
if not
consensus, on the idea that the overall size of an expanded
Council should not exceed a figure in the low or mid-
twenties. An agreement as to whether expansion should
cover only the non-permanent category or both categories
of seats, or could even include a new semi-permanent
category, still continues to elude us. It is our view that
three aspects of the issue should be given priority.
Firstly, the smaller and the more vulnerable States that
by definition pose no threat to international security have
the most vital stakes in the United Nations. Their interests
and concerns may not be overlooked in any restructuring of
the Council. Experience also shows that smaller countries
with no vested interests have played a more constructive
role as Council members in general.
8
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Secondly,
the objective of
any reform and
restructuring should be a more effective and dynamic
Council. Nothing should be allowed to detract from this.
Thirdly, the moral dimension in determining criteria
for possible new categories of membership or for any
should be given due
addition to permanent
ranks
consideration. This would
include
country’s
commitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter,
to democratic government and the essential freedoms,
human rights and, in general, respect for United Nations
decisions.
a
The Secretary-General is the most visible symbol
and personification of the United Nations and the United
Nations system. We see him as something more than the
chief administrative officer of
the Organization, as
stipulated in the Charter, because he also has important
political responsibilities. A former Secretary-General was
of the view that the Secretary-General should be of help
in
“filling any vacuum that may appear in the systems
which the Charter and traditional diplomacy provide
for the safeguarding of peace and security”.
While efforts are being made to enhance the
effectiveness of the General Assembly,
the Security
Council and the operational arms of the United Nations
system, we could perhaps consider ways of strengthening
the office of Secretary-General. One idea that we would
commend for consideration is the establishment of a
committee, along the lines of the General Committee of
the General Assembly, that the Secretary-General could
consult,
informally, collectively or by
individual member, on important administrative and
political issues. Such a committee would serve useful
purposes, particularly in ensuring the rightful role of the
General Assembly.
formally or
First, it would ensure closer interaction and exchange
between the Secretary-General and the General Assembly.
Secondly,
the
benefit of dispassionate counsel and a feel
the
thinking of Member States on issues in an institutional
manner. And,
it would make for greater
transparency in decision-making.
it would provide the Secretary-General
for
thirdly,
The objective of any reform and restructuring
is
exercise is a strengthened United Nations
its mandate.
institutionally better equipped to fulfil
Reforms, however, can only supplement, not be a
that
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
substitute for the political will to do what is right and
warranted by the purposes and principles and other
provisions of the Charter. Over the years, when the United
Nations has floundered or failed, the predominant reasons
were more often, unfortunately, the lack of political will
rather than insuperable local difficulties or institutional
lacunas.
I should like to touch very briefly upon the dismal
financial situation of the United Nations, which has become
very serious indeed. Member States have every right and
even a duty to demand the best value for their money. The
United Nations, however, must be provided the wherewithal
to discharge its responsibilities. We welcome the United
States commitment to meet its financial obligations to the
United Nations and to pay its arrears over a five-year
period.
Some interesting suggestions on United Nations reform
have emanated from the Group of Seven Summit in Lyon
earlier this year. These envisage some savings from the
removal of overlap, improvement in the effectiveness of
some agencies and commissions, and consolidation and
rationalization of certain programmes. I have no doubt that
the Fifth Committee and perhaps the Advisory Committee
on Administrative and Budgetary Questions will
look
closely at these proposals. We, of course, welcome the
suggestion that any savings from such reforms are planned
to be reinvested in development programmes.
in 1992,
A more realistic perspective of
the expenditures
incurred by the United Nations is afforded by comparing
the United Nations budget with expenses incurred in certain
activities by national or even local Governments. For
example,
the United Nations regular assessed
budget was about the size of the New York City Fire
Department budget. In 1994, the cost of the entire United
Nations system, including all emergency operations, was
over $10 billion, or about $2 per capita of the planet’s
population. The expenditure on arms in the same year was
about $150 per capita.
While every scope and avenue for greater cost-
effectiveness should be explored, it is difficult to escape the
conclusion that the United Nations gives good value for
money. Expenditures on peacekeeping and the United
Nations system are in a real sense an investment in peace
and security.
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
there is an
priority. With the end of the cold war,
increasing awareness of the need to address this issue in
all earnestness. The indefinite extension of the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) last year
and the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty by an overwhelming majority in the General
Assembly are welcome steps towards the ultimate goal of
nuclear disarmament. The International Court of Justice,
in its recent Advisory Opinion on the issue of nuclear
weapons, stressed the obligation
“to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion
negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its
aspects under
strict and effective international
control”. (A/51/4, para. 182 (f))
Like chemical and biological weapons, nuclear
weapons must be outlawed. In the post-cold-war world,
they have became an anachronism. They do not enhance
international security and can only imperil world peace.
For Bangladesh, the pursuit of general and complete
disarmament is a fundamental principle of State policy.
As a new member of the Conference on Disarmament, we
are fully prepared to play a constructive role towards this
goal. Bangladesh, together with most members of the
G-21, has submitted a proposal in the Conference on
Disarmament on the elimination of nuclear weapons. This
has been circulated as a Conference on Disarmament
document. We accept that substantial reductions are being
made under START I and START II in the nuclear
two major nuclear Powers. The
arsenals of
uncomfortable fact remains, however,
that even after
START II is completed by the year 2003 at the latest,
there will still be more nuclear warheads in existence than
in 1970, when the NPT came into force. The need to
move speedily towards a third START treaty and beyond
is very obvious.
the
successes
Peacekeeping continues to be a most significant area
of United Nations activity. The United Nations has indeed
achieved some notable
in peacekeeping
missions in recent times, examples of which include those
in El Salvador, Cambodia, Haiti, Mozambique and
Angola. Bangladesh is proud to play an active role in
United Nations peacekeeping activities. Our peacekeepers
have shed their blood and sacrificed their lives in the
cause of peace throughout the world.
Disarmament has always been accorded a very high
priority in the United Nations. In particular, the question of
nuclear disarmament has always received the highest
There is room for cautious optimism on the issue of
the
Bosnia and Herzegovina. We sincerely hope that
Dayton Agreement will be implemented in its entirety and
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
that a genuine peace will return to that beleaguered region.
Bangladesh will continue to support all efforts towards this
objective through regional as well as multilateral forums.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
the delegation of
I now call on the Chairman of
Azerbaijan, His Excellency Mr. Eldar Kouliev.
Recent developments in the Middle East have been of
concern to us all. Bangladesh expressed its grave concern
and outrage at the recent violence and killings that took
place in the West Bank and Gaza and the disrespect shown
to the holy Al-Aqsa Mosque. We call upon all concerned
to honour their commitments under the peace accord with
a view to finding a comprehensive and lasting peace in the
Middle East, which Bangladesh believes will enable the
emergence of a Palestinian State with Jerusalem as its
capital. The Government and the people of Bangladesh
stand by President Yasser Arafat and our Palestinian
brethren. We also reaffirm our commitment and support to
the Arab and Palestinian cause.
In a very real sense, the United Nations belongs to the
entire human family. Over the years, it has been a potent
moral force and an influence for the good. It remains the
only credible vehicle that can move the world towards the
goal of international peace and prosperity. The institution
of the United Nations itself, comprised of Member States
large and small, attests to mankind’s wisdom and desire for
peace. We have every confidence and hope that, in the
crucial years ahead, a revitalized United Nations will
continue to play an effective role in deciding the
transcendent policy issues of the day.
Differences between peoples, countries and nations can
and do exist, and yet all share a common vision, hopes and
aspirations. Good men and women all over the globe must
surely dream the same dreams of
lasting peace and
happiness.
Over 50 years ago, a great world leader — one of the
architects of the Atlantic Charter and one of the first
persons to use the term “United Nations” — made an
impassioned plea for peace when he wrote:
“We are faced with the pre-eminent fact
if
civilization is to survive, we must cultivate the science
of human relationship — the ability of peoples of all
kinds to live together and work together in the same
world at peace.”
that
President Roosevelt did not live to speak those words,
which he wrote for what would have been his last address.
His words are surely relevant even today.
10
Mr. Kouliev (Azerbaijan)
(interpretation from
Russian): I wish to make a statement on behalf of the
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Razali
Ismail on his election to the high post of President of the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session, which attests
to the recognition of Malaysia’s authority in the
international arena. I am confident that, under his able
guidance,
the General Assembly will write another
exemplary chapter in the annals of United Nations history.
I also take this opportunity to extend our deep
gratitude to the President of the last, historic fiftieth
session of the General Assembly, Mr. Diogo Freitas do
Amaral, for the excellent manner in which he led the
work of the Assembly.
attaches
The Azerbaijani Republic
special
importance to the creation of a new world order, based
primarily on the strict observance by all States of the
fundamental principles of international law and on the
comprehensive system of international security. World
security must take into consideration the interests of all
sovereign States, irrespective of their size or population.
No single State should ensure its own security at the
expense of another.
In a transformed world in the late twentieth century,
the euphoria of post-bloc relations has begun to yield to
the sober realization that mankind is faced today with
acute problems of an increasingly global nature. The
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, aggressive
separatism, international terrorism, drug trafficking and
environmental pollution are common problems that must
be resolved through joint efforts. In these conditions, the
consolidated action of Member States will permit a
quicker identification of the real mechanisms needed to
address these serious problems.
adoption
of
the
Azerbaijan welcomes
the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, recently opened
for signature. The objective achieved had been sought for
many decades. It is a major contribution to the non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons,
in particular, and
disarmament in general.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Taking into account the historical experience of the
world community and striving to attain the highest human
values, the Government of Azerbaijan, in the person of
President Heydar Aliyev, having unified the nation,
is
heading with determination along the path of democratic
reform, since only a climate of peace and national accord
based on respect for civic rights and human liberties can
ensure the overall development of the individual and society
and create conditions conducive to normal interaction with
the world at
large and the country’s achievement of
democratic political, economic and humanitarian standards.
However, every aspect of life in my country has been
seriously affected by the aggression of the Republic of
Armenia. The occupation of about 20 per cent of the
territory of Azerbaijan and the seizure and plunder of towns
and villages, including tens of thousands of objects taken
from households, industry, agriculture, the infrastructure
and the social sector, continue to inflict enormous damage
on the Azerbaijani State. “Ethnic cleansing” has been
carried out in the occupied territories. The country faces an
extremely serious humanitarian situation. The number of
refugees and displaced persons has passed the one million
mark, a figure that is catastrophic for a country with a total
population of 7.5 million.
Still, we continue to consider peaceful negotiations
within the framework of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Minsk process to be the
only way to settle the conflict. It was for that reason that
Azerbaijan, despite the continuing occupation of its lands
and the presence of enormous numbers of refugees and
displaced persons, consented to the ceasefire which has
lasted for more than two years.
The Republic of Armenia, endeavouring to consolidate
the gains from its past aggression, refuses to recognize
Azerbaijan’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and thereby
entirely discredits one of the fundamental principles of
international law as a basis for settlement. That refusal has
become a major obstacle to the achievement of peace.
I would like to reconfirm our clear compromise
position on the settlement, which envisages the assurance
of unconditional and immediate implementation of the
relevant Security Council resolutions and OSCE decisions
regarding the conflict. The package of our proposals to
speed up progress in the Minsk process towards the
achievement of a comprehensive settlement consists of
these elements: the withdrawal of Armenian forces from all
occupied territories of Azerbaijan, including the Shusha and
Lachin districts; the return of the Azerbaijani population to
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
their previous places of residence, including the Nagorny-
Karabakh region of Azerbaijan; ensuring equal security,
monitored by the OSCE forces, for the Armenian and
Azerbaijani populations who have suffered as a result of
the armed conflict; and guarantees that autonomy will be
granted to the entire population of the region constituting
Azerbaijan.
At their meeting on 22 April 1996 in Luxembourg,
held within the framework of the conclusion of bilateral
agreements on partnership and cooperation between
Azerbaijan, Georgia and Armenia and the European
Union, the Presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia adopted
a joint communiqué expressing their agreement that the
resolution of
the conflict will make a substantial
contribution to regional stability and security as well as to
the socio-economic development of the peoples of the
region.
In reflecting on the establishment of a security
system at the regional and pan-European levels, we would
like to emphasize that in our view the forthcoming OSCE
Summit in Lisbon constitutes a real opportunity for the
elaboration of basic principles for the settlement, not only
for the settlement, not only of the Armenian-Azerbaijani
conflict, but possibly also other conflicts in the OSCE
area. The relevant provisions of the Summit’s final
document, agreed at the highest level, could play a most
important role in the positive development of negotiations
both within the OSCE Minsk process and in all other
current mediatory efforts of the OSCE.
international
For several years since the end of the cold war
active discussions have been taking place in the world on
the transformation of
relations. These
discussions are held at different levels and touch upon
almost all aspects of life of the world community. The
United Nations, as the leading international organization,
is the main forum for gathering and testing a majority of
ideas related to a vision and understanding of processes
taking place in the world in recent years, and the
possibilities for their implementation in the name of
human progress.
In recent years these have been wide discussions on
an increase in the membership of the Security Council or,
in a broader context, on its reform in the light of the
substantial increase in the membership of the United
Nations and the major changes in international relations.
In this regard, it is important to take into account the
need to maintain and even strengthen the ability of the
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Security Council
international peace and security.
to respond adequately to threats of
the same time,
Azerbaijan supports the candidatures of Germany and
Japan as potential permanent members of the Security
Council. At
the question of equitable
representation of all regions among the permanent members
should not disappear from the agenda. In this context, it
should be noted that many other ideas and proposals have
been put forward, in particular by Italy and a number of
other States, which must be thoroughly studies.
Azerbaijan fully supports the efforts undertaken by the
international community in response to the alarming
increase in terrorist acts in recent years. We unequivocally
condemn, as criminal and unjustifiable, all acts, methods
and practices of terrorism, wherever and by whomever they
are committed,
jeopardize friendly
relations among States and peoples and threaten the
territorial
integrity and security of States. Azerbaijan
supports the establishment of a specialized international
organization to combat terrorism.
including those that
Azerbaijan attaches crucial importance to the process
of
integration into the global economic system, and
considers it one of the main requisites for the formation of
a multidimensional, dynamic market economy and an open
democratic society. For this purpose legislation has been
adopted to strengthen market economy principles, notably
through laws on private property, free enterprise, banking
activities,
foreign investment protection, and so on.
Economic reform in Azerbaijan and the implementation of
economic projects are being carried out
in active
collaboration with the Bretton Woods institutions. Concrete
measures have been worked out and are being implemented
to shape State economic policy for the transitional period.
They include the reform of the monetary and credit system
and the development of pricing and tax policies. A three-
year programme to privatize State enterprises has been
launched. To achieve this goal Azerbaijan actively
encourages foreign investment, and has embarked on a
consistent course of liberalization of foreign economic
activity, the gradual elimination of non-tariff restrictions,
and encouragement of national exports.
The Azerbaijan Republic agrees on the need for the
structural reform and financial normalization of the United
Nations. In this regard, I would like once again to draw the
General Assembly’s attention to the problem of
the
assessment of fair contributions to the United Nations
budget that will reflect the real capacity of States to pay.
While we welcome the decision of principle to abolish the
12
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
system of limits, we nevertheless consider that the long-
windedness of this process is resulting in the deterioration
of the financial situation of the newly independent States,
including Azerbaijan, which is obliged, in order to clear
its debts to the United Nations budget, to cut down on the
already very meagre programmes of social support for the
population, particularly refugees and displaced persons.
to
for
the
need
attention
The Government of Azerbaijan would also like to
draw particular
fair
representation of the new independent States within the
staff of the United Nations. While we are aware of the
difficulties the Organization is now experiencing, we
cannot accept a situation in which Azerbaijan is still not
represented in the secretariats of the United Nations and
its specialized agencies.
the monthly income of
The economic reforms carried out in Azerbaijan are
aimed largely at improving the social situation of the
population. However,
a
considerable portion of the population is below the
subsistence
economic
difficulties in a country with an economy in transition,
which have been aggravated by the burden of providing
the necessary assistance to the refugees and displaced
persons.
persisting
given
level,
the
In such a situation, great importance attaches to
special humanitarian and other forms of assistance from
the United Nations, its specialized agencies and donor
countries, including assistance for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of a number of regions of Azerbaijan that
have suffered as a result of military action. While
expressing the deep gratitude of the people of Azerbaijan
for the assistance provided, we appeal to donor countries
not to reduce its scale.
I am confident that the United Nations will continue
to do its best to act as a catalyst in the achievement of
peaceful coexistence among States, and to reinforce the
notion of the interdependence of national aspirations and
the common welfare of humanity, thus creating conditions
conducive to the political
stability and sustainable
economic development of States.
The potential exists to reinforce and strengthen the
the United Nations. We are increasingly
work of
witnessing the expansion of the Organization’s sphere of
activity, when it goes beyond the bounds of the traditional
concept of maintenance of
international peace and
security and tackles more diversified tasks. Activities such
special
as
assistance,
provision
electoral
the
of
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
assistance,
rights monitoring,
humanitarian
assistance in nation-building and the creation of conditions
for the sustainable development of States have begun to be
associated around the world with the United Nations today.
human
In concluding, I should like to recall the well-known
maxim: “The best world is a world that belongs to all, and
it becomes possible only through the efforts of all.” So let
us unite our efforts for the sake of building such a world.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic): I
now call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs and
International Cooperation of the Royal Government of
Cambodia, His Excellency Mr. Ung Huot.
Mr. Ung Huot
Ismail, on behalf of
(Cambodia)(interpretation from
French): Allow me, at the outset, to warmly congratulate
His Excellency Mr. Razali
the
Cambodian delegation, on his election to the post of
President of this Assembly. His election is a tribute to his
professionalism, as well as to his country, Malaysia, with
which Cambodia has traditionally entertained close and
cordial relations. My delegation is convinced that with his
competence and experience, Ambassador Ismail will guide
our session with wisdom and perspicacity to a successful
conclusion.
My delegation would also like to congratulate and
thank His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of
Portugal for his successful presidency of the General
Assembly’s fiftieth session.
I wish also to take this opportunity to express our deep
appreciation to an individual to whom the Royal Kingdom
of Cambodia owes profound gratitude for the role he has
played in the peace process in our country — the Secretary-
General of
the United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-
Ghali — for his performance and sincere dedication in
accomplishing this lofty mission.
(spoke in English)
the signing of
The forthcoming 23 October will be the fifth
the Agreement on a
anniversary of
Comprehensive Political Settlement of
the Cambodia
Conflict. The Royal Government and people of Cambodia
will mark this historic event with a nationwide celebration.
The Agreement was forged
“to maintain, preserve and defend the sovereignty,
independence,
integrity and inviolability,
neutrality and national unity of Cambodia” (Agreement
territorial
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
the
on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of
Cambodia Conflict, DPI/1180-92077, p. 8, para. 3)
through the restoration of peace and the promotion of
national reconciliation in the country. The Cambodian
people will always remember the sacrifices made by the
international community on their behalf, especially those
eminent persons who dedicated themselves to the cause of
peace and democracy in our country. We are indeed
indebted to them all and remain deeply grateful for their
continued
and
development of Cambodia, allowing it once more to take
its proper place in the concert of nations.
reconstruction
contribution
to
the
The Royal Government of Cambodia, presided over
by His Royal Highness Samdech Krom Preah Norodom
Ranariddh and His Excellency Samdech Hun Sen, was
born of a free and fair election organized and supervised
by the United Nations in May 1993. It is now barely three
years old, but
the
Cambodian people and the invaluable assistance and
support given by this world body and its agencies, other
international organizations and friendly countries,
the
rebuilding of Cambodia has proceeded apace.
thanks to the determination of
In “An Agenda for Peace”, His Excellency the
Secretary-General Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali spoke of the
need for the United Nations to give careful consideration
to the requirements of post-conflict peace-building. As
can be seen from the Cambodian experience, this is a
complex and multifaceted process. The Secretary-
General’s Representative in Cambodia The Honourable
Benny Widyono commented in a recent article that
“post-conflict peace-building is not just a collection
of disjointed activities. It requires a holistic concept
encompassing political, institutional, legal, economic
and social objectives.”
This holistic approach has also been very rapidly
recognized by the Royal Government. Nine months after
the general elections, it launched the National Programme
for the Rehabilitation and the Development of Cambodia,
in February 1994. At the same time, it was able to ensure
political stability, improve security and engineer a rapid
economic recovery, as reflected by a strong gross
domestic product growth of 7.6 per cent, an inflation rate
kept at 3.5 per cent and a stable exchange rate of the
national currency throughout 1995. These figures,
combined with a liberal investment law and a low gross
domestic product of $287 per capita, are providing strong
incentives for foreign direct investment, in particular now
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
that Cambodia enjoys most-favoured-nation status with the
United States, the European Union and other important
countries in the world. Soon Cambodia hopes to obtain
Generalized System of Preferences status.
structural
In pursuing its aims of
reforms and
development while seeking to improve the quality of life of
its citizens, the Royal Government is conscious of the need
for environmental protection. Cambodia has become a
signatory of the United Nations Convention on Biological
Diversity and the Convention to Combat Desertification in
Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or
Desertification. The Government is ever mindful of its
responsibility to protect Cambodia’s rich natural heritage,
in the interests both of its people and of the world at large.
Therefore, as stated by the First Prime Minister at the First
Consultative Group Meeting, held last July in Tokyo, the
Royal Government
is committed to implementing a
sustainable and transparent forest policy in line with the
recommendations put forward in a joint study made by the
World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations (FAO).
Being profoundly conscious that development requires
security, problems linked with the Khmer Rouge have to be
addressed through their reintegration into the national fold,
and through the long-term policy of development of rural
areas. Military operations near the northwestern border are
designed to gradually reduce the nuisance they pose and to
convince them to join the national community. National
unity remains the target of the Cambodian Government.
The recent massive breakaway of the core groups of the
Khmer Rouge testifies to the correctness of the Royal
Government’s approach.
Recognizing that Cambodia’s tragic recent history
requires special measures to assure the protection of human
rights and the non-return to the policies and practices of the
past, the Royal Government has pursued an active policy to
ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
for all in Cambodia without discrimination as to race, sex
or religion. In these efforts, it has received the technical
assistance of the United Nations Centre for Human Rights,
for which the Royal Government is greatly appreciative. In
particular, Cambodia acknowledges the valued contribution
of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for
Human Rights, Ambassador Thomas Hammarberg.
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Constitution of the Kingdom, in 1993. This includes the
free exercise of political choice. In respect of its solemn
commitment to the Constitution, the Royal Government
is making preparations for the holding of local elections
in 1997 and national elections in 1998. To this end, it
welcomes international technical and financial assistance,
as well as international observers.
The achievements of the Royal Government in a
short period of time have given it the confidence to
pursue efforts towards the declared aims of building a
State governed by the rule of law, a market system that
secures social benefits and ensuring the long term and
sustainable development of the national economy within
the framework of regional integration. Hence, last April,
Cambodia
full
membership in the Association of South-East Asian
Nations (ASEAN) by July 1997, in the recognition that
ASEAN is the vehicle for peace, security, stability, shared
opportunities and common prosperity in the region of
South-East Asia and the Asia-Pacific region at large.
submitted its official
request
for
Cambodia also takes note that the ASEAN Regional
Forum is an invaluable setting to discuss in a frank and
friendly manner security issues of common concern and
interest to all participants in the Forum, whether large or
small countries around the world. The ASEAN Regional
Forum has in fact already provided a sense of mutual
confidence, as reflected in the comfort felt by all the
senior
the
participating countries. It can be viewed as a first step in
preventive, quiet diplomacy, thereby paving the way for
agreements on substantive issues in the coming years
based on the traditional consensus principle, which
characterizes ASEAN.
representatives
officials
of
and
high
Cambodia is particularly proud to be able to
associate itself with all the countries in the region and to
substantially contribute to regional and world peace
through the signing of the South-East Asia Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone Treaty on 15 December 1995. This
marks real progress towards the creation of a zone of
peace,
freedom and neutrality in South-East Asia.
Through the review of the Protocol to the Treaty, it is our
earnest hope that all nuclear-weapon States will accede to
the Treaty, in line with the aspirations of the peoples of
South-East Asia for a nuclear-weapon-free zone in this
part of the world.
Mindful that human rights encompass political rights,
the Kingdom of Cambodia adopted a policy of liberal
democracy and pluralism, as stated in article 51 of the
Cambodia’s position on the question of nuclear
weapons has been and remains that a complete prohibition
of nuclear weapons and their destruction are basic to
14
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
world peace. Thus, a complete test ban will lead towards
the ultimate objective of complete nuclear disarmament.
The Kingdom of Cambodia is proud to have been able to
co-sponsor and sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty, considered a significant step towards promoting
nuclear disarmament. This will be the greatest service that
our generation can perform to free future generations from
the terrible prospect of a world holocaust.
While we are addressing the issue of the CTBT and
the ban on weapons of mass destruction, we should not
overlook the issue of landmines in various parts of the
world. Cambodia is the hardest hit nation in the world. The
Royal Government and the people of Cambodia pay great
tribute to all the generous donor countries that have assisted
us in our efforts to rid the country of the scourge of
landmines. But how many millions of these cold, cruel and
silent enemies still await our unsuspecting and innocent
civilian population in remote areas of the country near the
western border? Banning them is an easy job. We need
international support to fully eradicate them.
In his message to the Review Conference of the States
Parties to the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional
Weapons last April, His Majesty Preah Bat Samdech Preah
Norodom Sihanouk Varman, King of Cambodia, appealed
to all countries and peoples, international organizations,
States and Governments to take, in a universal consensus,
concrete measures towards definitively outlawing, as soon
as possible, the production, export, utilization and sale of
mines.
The Kingdom of Cambodia is therefore gratified by
the recent Chairman’s statement for the Third ASEAN
Regional Forum held last July in Jakarta. On the issue of
the global elimination of anti-personnel mines, the Forum
welcomed the decisions of several States to impose
moratoria and bans on the production, export and
operational use of these weapons. It recognized the need,
following conflict, for reinforcing international support for
efforts to detect and remove landmines and to assist
victims. Cambodia welcomes the initiatives of the Federal
Republic of Germany and of Canada in this General
Assembly and gives its full support
to the proposed
resolutions.
Permit me to inform you, Sir, and all distinguished
delegates that my country is presently facing severe floods
affecting 1.3 million people, or one tenth of our population.
On behalf of the Royal Government of Cambodia and on
my own behalf, I would like to sincerely and deeply thank
the friendly Governments that have immediately given
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
generous humanitarian assistance to our afflicted people.
I would also like to take this opportunity to appeal to our
other friends to help relieve this blight.
The Kingdom of Cambodia recognizes the need to
focus attention on such issues as the trafficking in
narcotics and other criminal behaviour, which transcend
national borders and which can so intimately affect the
lives of each one of our citizens and undermine our social
structures. Such transnational
issues do not appear
amenable to resolution other than by immediate ongoing
management through shared information and coordination.
Of particularly urgent concern is the issue of drug
trafficking.
The Kingdom of Cambodia is a victim of a rapid
escalation in the traffic of drugs transiting through its
territory. Unfortunately, Cambodia at present lacks the
appropriate legal, technical and financial means to deal
effectively with this problem. It nevertheless affirms its
strong commitment
through effective
international cooperation. The Royal Government wishes
sincerely to thank the United States of America for its
strong support under
the United States-Cambodia
Agreement to Counter Narcotics.
to drug control
Cambodia is pleased with the decision taken by the
Third ASEAN Regional Forum to consider at the next
meeting the question of drug trafficking and other related
transnational issues such as economic crimes, including
money laundering, which could constitute threats to the
security of the countries of the region.
Through the good offices of the United Nations,
multilateral approaches to problems have provided useful
sources of information and highlighted issues close to the
hearts of many of our citizens. The past summit
conferences in Cairo, Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul
have contributed to the promotion of gender equality, and
have given recognition to the role of women and children,
the improvement of the quality of life through health care
and adequate housing, respect for human rights, and
protection of the environment.
A further vital, and perhaps fundamental, issue for
the attention of every member of
the international
community must be that of the widening gap between rich
and poor nations. This gap and its effects on the quality
of life of the citizens of the developing world is directly
related to the nature, organization and health of the world
economy. Vital decisions determining the shape and
nature of the world economy are, however, well outside
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the control of a vast majority of nations, particularly those
in the third world.
Since the Non-Aligned Summit in Jakarta in 1992, no
indications have been observed of a rapid and solid
recovery in the world economy. Instabilities spread more
quickly from one country to another, particularly to
developing countries, which are now more vulnerable and
sensitive to external factors. The continuing trend towards
a global economy, with the increasingly free flow of capital
throughout the world without reference to national borders,
means that the ebbs and flows of the world economy have
an almost immediate effect around the world. For many
poorer nations, this has resulted in an increased national
debt burden with the consequence of greater instability in
the daily lives of their citizens.
Notions of competition are not realistic for countries
that from the outset have a mammoth burden of debt,
limited access to technology, and populations ill-equipped
to meet
is
Cambodia’s strong hope that through the United Nations we
can go a long way towards ameliorating this situation,
which is already at a crisis point for many nations in the
world community.
the challenges of the global economy.
It
of
that
essential
Therefore,
to ensure
the
relations
democratization
is
international
economic
the
development interests of developing countries will be taken
fully into account. In this regard, it is also essential to place
development cooperation at the centre of the United Nations
mandate, role and functions. To do this, the United Nations
itself needs to begin the process of reform so that it is
better able to deal with the conditions of the new global
economy. The United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) and the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization should play a key role as focal
points of the United Nations system in the areas of trade
and development of developing countries. UNCTAD, in
particular, needs to study trends and issues in the world
economy, especially those that have an impact on
developing countries, and propose policies and measures
that
instance,
Generalized Special Preference (GSP) donors
should
simplify and harmonize the rules of origin. By the same
token, all political conditions attached to international trade,
development assistance and investment should cease. They
represent, in fact, a new wave of protectionism.
can address projected problems. For
(spoke in French)
16
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
intends
to meet
resources, Cambodia
The delegation of Cambodia is deeply concerned at
the financial crisis in the United Nations today. With its
modest
its
responsibilities to do what it can to ease the financial
crisis. But if this Organization is to continue to exist true
to the spirit of its Charter, an equitable and fair solution
must be found, taking into account the need for sweeping
reform in United Nations structures which must reflect the
rapid changes in various parts of the world that have
taken place since the end of the cold war.
The broad reforms and restructuring of the United
Nations must also extend to the Security Council
to
ensure that
its work is both democratic and more
effective. In particular, Cambodia supports closer relations
between the Security Council and the General Assembly
through greater accountability of the Council
to the
Assembly. Priority must be given to reform in economic,
social and other areas so as better to meet the challenges
and take account of the economic priorities of developing
countries against the backdrop of globalization.
As one of the founding members of the Non-Aligned
Movement in 1956 in Brioni, Yugoslavia, Cambodia has
consistently worked to promote
solidarity among
Members and cooperate in the search for lasting peace in
the world and economic development that goes hand in
hand with social justice for all humankind.
As His Majesty the King emphasized in his message
on the thirty-fifth anniversary of its creation, the Non-
Aligned Movement is currently meeting challenges unlike
those that existed when it was established. Many lofty
aspirations for national independence and freedom have
become fact, but as His Majesty said:
“The majority of our members still have to deal with
huge problems caused by unemployment, poverty,
famine, drought, landmines, illiteracy, deforestation,
racial discrimination and terrorism. We must
therefore try to reduce military expenditure and the
production of landmines in order to devote our
national
resources to the economic and social
development of our peoples.”
the world has
In recent years,
seen several
developments regarding the strengthening of regional
security and political stability. First of all, the Kingdom
of Cambodia wishes
the
establishment of the Southern Philippines Council for
Peace and Development and the peace process in
the peace agreements
Mindanao.
fully supports
to welcome
sincerely
It
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
concluded between the Government of the Philippines and
the Moro National Liberation Front on 2 September 1996.
These agreements will undoubtedly contribute to an end to
the conflict
in the southern Philippines, bringing both
lasting peace to Mindanao and prosperity and national
harmony to the fraternal people of the Philippines.
Cambodia welcomes the Dayton Peace Agreement and
the signing on 14 December 1995 in Paris of the General
Framework for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the
Framework Agreement) between the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina,
the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and other concerned parties.
the Republic of Croatia,
Cambodia welcomes the announcement of the end of
the war in Chechnya, thereby ending the suffering of the
warring parties, and particularly the innocent civilian
population.
Cambodia welcomes progress made since August 1995
in the Middle East peace process, particularly the
implementation of the Declaration of Principles on Interim
Self-Government Arrangements between the Palestine
Liberation Organization and Israel, the Israeli-Palestinian
Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of
28 September 1995, the first Palestinian elections on 20
January 1996, as well as the beginning of negotiations on
the final status between the Palestinians and Israelis in Taba
in May 1996. Cambodia calls for the continuation of the
peace talks, bearing in mind the inalienable right of the
Palestinian people
to self-determination and to an
independent State on its national territory with the support
of the international community.
My country is deeply concerned at the recent situation
in Afghanistan where war continues to bring death and
devastation. We hope that our Afghan brothers will be able
to overcome their differences and will soon find the path to
dialogue.
With regard to the situation on the Korean peninsula,
Cambodia supports the reunification efforts of the Korean
peoples on the basis of the principles set forth in the Joint
Declaration on Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula of
4 July 1972 and the accord of February 1992. We also
welcome initiatives
to formulate a definitive peace
agreement promoting solid peace and security on the
peninsula.
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
difficulties facing African States in bringing development
and prosperity to their respective peoples. Cambodia calls
for the speedy implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and
the consolidation of efforts to diversify the African
economy. We hope that with the helping hand of the
international community, particularly the donor countries,
this great continent will profit from the opportunities
available to it and join in the efforts to achieve
sustainable development, a major challenge facing all the
countries of the world.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now call on the Minister
for Foreign Affairs,
Cooperation and External Trade of the Comoros, His
Excellency Mr. Omar Said Ahmed.
the outset
(interpretation
Mr. Ahmed (Comoros)
from
French): Allow me at
to address to the
President the sincere congratulations of the delegation of
the Comoros on his brilliant election to the presidency of
the General Assembly at
its fifty-first session. My
country, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, is
delighted by his election because, in our eyes, it is a
unanimous tribute from the international community to his
great,
friendly country, Malaysia, with which the
Comoros maintains excellent relations of cooperation and
friendship. This choice is also a tribute to his personal
qualifications as a veteran diplomat respected by all.
I also take this opportunity to convey our profound
thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral
of Portugal, for the devotion and skill with which he
conducted the work of the fiftieth session of the General
Assembly.
To Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the Secretary-
General, that intrepid artisan of the lofty ideals of peace,
solidarity and justice, I should like to pay a well-deserved
tribute for the efforts that he continuously makes for the
benefit of our world Organization.
My country adheres entirely to the Yaoundé
and
Declaration adopted by the Heads of State
Government
the
of
Organization of African Unity (OAU), which recommends
the candidature of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali
for a
second term.
thirty-second session
the
at
In respect of Africa,
the Royal Government of
Cambodia welcomes the adoption by the General Assembly
of resolution 49/142. We are aware of the tremendous
Last year, the United Nations commemorated with
fanfare its fiftieth anniversary. More than 129 Heads of
State and Government solemnly reaffirmed the ideals of
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
In the Declaration adopted at
the peaceful settlement of
the maintenance of peace,
disputes and the strengthening of international cooperation
and development.
that
commemorative meeting,
the indispensable role of the
United Nations was recognized by all. That is why the
sovereign leaders of the world also called for the United
Nations to be reformed and attuned to the requirements of
modern times.
An objective analysis has made it possible to see that
the structure of the Organization no longer corresponds to
the realities of today’s world, which is changing at the
economic, political and geographic levels. At a time of
and
globalization, when
are
science
revolutionizing communications,
the interdependence of
nations is emerging as an incontrovertible fact, and
democracy is the only path of salvation for the peoples of
the world, our Organization simply cannot and should not
keep a body reserved exclusively to certain States on a
permanent basis while the great majority has only
temporary access to it.
technology
include the New York World Summit for Children, the
Rio Conference on Environment and Development, the
Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, the Cairo
International Conference on Population and Development,
the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development,
the Beijing Fourth World Conference on Women and,
more recently, the United Nations Conference on Human
Settlements (Habitat II) at Istanbul. We are also entitled
to hope that next November’s Rome World Food Summit
will offer effective guidance in this vital area.
The founding fathers of our Organization, recalling
the horrors and atrocities of the Second World War,
bequeathed to us an instrument that grants primacy to law
and dialogue. Unfortunately, other modern scourges, such
as genocide, ethnic cleansing, occupation and civil war
have continued to raise the clamour of weapons within
States.
The victims of these new wars are the same as those
of yesterday’s — women, children and the elderly.
In other words, Security Council reform is urgent and
imperative if we are to act in accordance with the principle
of the sovereign equality of States. In that connection, the
Italian proposal for the reform of the Security Council
offers specific advantages in terms of the possibility of
access to the Council for small and medium-sized States.
The resurgence of violence in the Middle East in the
past
few days, arising from the many provocations
orchestrated by the new Israeli authorities, throws into the
question the peace process, which recognizes
the
inalienable right of the Palestinian people to a sovereign
and independent State.
No one denies the considerable role of the United
Nations in the establishment of a global society that is more
just and peaceful and better integrated. But everyone
remembers the historic conditions of its creation. The end
of the cold war, the elaboration of a number of conventions
and treaties on disarmament and the non-proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction are, in our view, moral values
that guarantee the emergence of a world of peace in which
the right to life and well-being will win out over barbarism
and brute force.
At
the dawn of the third millennium,
the United
Nations represents the only recourse for the emancipation
of peoples and the eradication of poverty.
In this
connection, we must emphasize the considerable work done
by the Organization’s specialized agencies to help States
requiring assistance
against
underdevelopment.
in their daily struggle
There is no need to recall that, in the past five years,
our Organization has initiated and organized a number of
thematic conferences aimed at identifying solutions capable
of inspiring States in their national policy-making. These
18
For my country, the resumption of the peace process
necessarily involves a withdrawal of Israeli troops from
occupied territories of the Golan and southern Lebanon.
The closing of the tunnel under the Al-Aqsa Mosque is a
sine qua non for reducing tensions and halting the
violence. During the past 30 years of warfare in the
Middle East,
the victims have been and remain the
civilian populations. No one can forget the Gulf war or its
consequences for all parties concerned.
My country urges Iraq to seek a solution that would
ensure the peace and security of its neighbours and
include respect
the independence and territorial
integrity of Kuwait. In this connection, the question of
Kuwaiti prisoners detained by Iraq is a concern,
the
settlement of which would send a signal of willingness
for appeasement.
for
The illegal occupation of the islands of Tunb and
Abu Musa by Iran is also a source of tension in that part
of the world. The United Arab Emirates is sparing no
effort
integral part of its
territory.
to recover peacefully that
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The embargoes imposed on the Libyan and Iraqi
peoples are of concern to my country. Our Organization
must seek ways and means to enable the parties concerned
to begin a dialogue aimed at a solution that would alleviate
the suffering of the civilian populations of these countries.
The advent of a democratic and multiracial South
Africa and the peace restored to Angola and Mozambique
should not make us overlook the fact that the African
continent is still a theatre of conflict. Like the international
community, my country remains concerned over
the
deterioration of the situation and the persistence of violence
in Burundi. Only a return to constitutional order and to
republican legality can reduce tensions and foster a dialogue
between all the people of Burundi. We encourage President
Mwalimu Julius Nyerere in his mediation efforts aimed at
a peaceful solution.
The recent Abuja Agreement on Liberia offers a
glimmer of hope for peace, provided that all the factions
observe the current ceasefire and participate in the
disarmament and demobilization of troops.
of
Sierra Leone
The Government
the
Revolutionary United Front have made a commitment to
negotiation in order to put an end to the tragic fratricidal
war in that country. We can only encourage such initiatives
and commend Côte d’Ivoire for its mediation.
and
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
note that the Agenda has not had the desired impact on
development, despite its harmonized priorities and
objectives. But we dare to hope that the United Nations
System-wide Special
for Africa, which
complements the New Agenda, will stimulate the process
and accelerate the integration of Africa into the
international trading system. For now, small States can
only expect a continued drop in the prices of their raw
materials and an increasingly unbearable debt burden.
Initiative
The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, a
small island State that is among the least developed, is
one of those excluded from international trade because, in
addition to its limited natural resources and the high cost
of international transport, other political and structural
constraints have been brought to bear that bridle its socio-
economic development.
aroused the
The recent history of my country has been
characterized by a series of tragedies. The Assembly will
certainly recall the dramatic events of September 1995 in
the wake of the invasion of the country by mercenaries.
This
international
community and brought true economic and social disaster
to my country. The people of the Comoros have suffered
too deeply from repeated attempts at destabilization
fomented from abroad. We appeal to the international
community to ensure that such practices — which belong
to another era — come to an end throughout the world.
indignation of
the
The situation in Somalia warrants special attention. It
demonstrates the inability of the international community to
find a viable solution to the Somali tragedy.
The question of Western Sahara also requires in-depth
consideration on the part of our Organization, because this
question involves safeguarding the unity and territorial
integrity of a State Member of our Organization,
the
Kingdom of Morocco.
Fortunately, other conflicts are coming to an end.
Thus, the recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina mark
a decisive new stage in the consolidation of peace and
security — the only condition that would make national
reconstruction possible in that country long devastated by
war.
I take this opportunity to reiterate our profound
gratitude to France, whose military intervention, requested
by the Government of the Comoros in accordance with
the defence agreements between our two countries, made
it possible to rout the mercenaries. In the same context,
I am pleased to pay a vibrant tribute to the Organization
of African Unity for the decisive role it played in
restoring constitutional order.
those who, near or
We also extend our gratitude to the United Nations
and all
far, contributed to the
organization of the first free, democratic and transparent
elections, which brought President Mohamed Taki
Abdoulkarim to the highest office of my country.
its inhabitants.
The world has become a global village fraught with
inequality for
the new world
economic order and development strategies have not
bridged the gap separating the rich and poor countries. The
mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s has made it possible to
Indeed,
This short overview of conditions in the Comoros
demonstrates the extent to which the newly elected Head
of State
situation,
characterized by an exorbitant external debt, an empty
State treasury and months of unpaid salaries
for
government officials.
catastrophic
inherited
has
a
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Yet, strengthened by his popular legitimacy and the
support of a broad majority of the people of the Comoros,
in six months President Taki drafted the broad outlines of
political, economic and social reforms to overcome the
numerous obstacles
impeding the construction of a
democratic, prosperous and interdependent society in the
Comoros. A vast programme was set up in the economic
and financial sphere that included financial stabilization
measures, a State audit, monitoring of civil servants and a
recovery of State movable property and real estate. The
results are promising and, for the first time, there are cases
of corruption and embezzlement of government funds
before the Comorian justice system.
In this series of reforms, the private sector has pride
of place. That is why the Government is disengaging itself
from the monopoly it has enjoyed in many sectors which it
has turned over to dynamic privatization that generates
growth.
Official contacts have been opened with financial
institutions and development partners of the Comoros in
order to establish a structural adjustment programme with
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to
restore my country’s credibility.
In the social sphere, ministerial departments — inter
alia, those of national education and public health — have
mobilized their energies to rehabilitate these very sensitive
and vital sectors. An international conference on education
in the Comoros is planned for next December and we invite
all friendly countries, international and regional bodies to
participate in that important meeting, aimed at mobilizing
the necessary resources to finance education that meets the
expectations of Comorian youth.
In the political and institutional sectors, the incredible
proliferation of small political parties and a jury-rigged
Constitution that is ineffective and difficult to implement
have seriously hampered the new democratic process. Thus,
the new presidential majority, comprised of more than 18
political parties out of the 25 that have been officially
recognized, has merged into one great national political
movement. A consultative commission comprised of all the
active forces within the nation — political parties, trade
unions and human rights and environmental associations —
has been working to amend the Constitution. Their draft
will be submitted for approval this month to the Comorian
people in a referendum. As soon as it is adopted, legislative
and regional elections will be held to set up a parliament
for the country and municipal institutions for the regions.
20
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
After 2l years of independence, the Comoros are still
being built. President Mohamed Taki Abdoulkarim is
aware of what is at stake. He knows that we must first
rely on our own efforts, but he also knows that he may
rely on the effective support of
the international
community, especially the United Nations and its
specialized agencies,
including the United Nations
Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s
Fund, the World Health Organization and the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, to which
we reiterate our complete confidence and deep gratitude
for their efforts towards the development of the Comoros.
rostrum,
I
solemnly appeal
From this
to the
international community to give special economic
assistance to the Federal
the
Comoros.
Islamic Republic of
I cannot conclude my statement without mentioning
the question of the Comorian island of Mayotte, which is
on the fifty-first session’s agenda as a separate item. At
the appropriate time, I will not fail to detail developments
and to express our hope of a settlement in the wake of the
democratic changes that have occurred in the Comoros in
the past six months.
The end of the twentieth century challenges our
collective conscience to build a better world for future
generations — a world without war and without poverty,
a world in which injustice, violence, drugs, terrorism and
fundamentalism will no longer exist. Of course, one might
say that such a world is impossible because profit-
seeking, protectionism and intolerance are obstacles to
progress and hindrances to the well-being of humanity.
But progress
technology and medicine
reinforces our optimism.
in science,
It is in this spirit that our faith is revived in a United
Nations that is more dynamic and more democratic, a
United Nations in which the rule of numbers will carry as
much weight as the rule of strength.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now call on the Chairman of the delegation of Palau,
His Excellency Mr. David Orrukem.
Mr. Orrukem (Palau): It is my distinct honour to
address the United Nations during this historic session,
which I am confident will be remembered for all time for
its adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
The Republic of Palau applauds and thanks those
countries that will be signatories to the Treaty, for we
believe that it does much to advance our goal of ridding the
planet of nuclear weapons. The Treaty, by banning further
testing, will help prevent
the development of more
dangerous nuclear weapons. Furthermore, the Treaty will
help prevent other nations from obtaining existing nuclear
weapons. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty thus
clearly helps to make the world a safer place for us and for
all of our children.
However, to make sure that this affirmation becomes
a reality, action must be taken at all levels of government,
in particular at the international level. To help every
nation achieve this goal, developing countries, including
small
island nations, must be provided the necessary
resources to enable them to implement the decisions and
recommendations of the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, the Global Conference on
the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States and other significant international conferences.
The Republic of Palau’s commitment against
the
creation and proliferation of nuclear weapons is long-lasting
and resolute. When the people of Palau adopted our
Constitution in 1978, we became the first country in the
world to become a constitutionally mandated nuclear-free
country. Indeed, protecting our citizens from these horrific
weapons of destruction is at the very heart and soul of our
Constitution.
While not every country will sign the Treaty, the fact
that the world’s five recognized nuclear Powers — the
United States, China, France, Russia and the United
Kingdom — have agreed to abide by the terms of the
Treaty and that the overwhelming majority of other nations,
including the Republic of Palau, have also agreed to abide
by its terms gives the citizens of my country and of every
other nation on Earth the hope that one day we will be free
from these catastrophic weapons of destruction and of the
threat
they pose to each of us and to our global
environment.
Accordingly, I would like to thank all of those who
helped bring the citizens of the world this Treaty, including
the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on a Nuclear Test
the Netherlands, and
Ban, Ambassador Ramaker of
especially our close neighbour and great
the
Government of Australia, which took the lead at the United
Nations in making this Treaty a reality.
friend,
Another of my nation’s primary concerns is the issue
of how to protect
the environment while providing
sustainable economic development. This is a central issue
for small
island nations in particular and for other
developing countries around the world. The Republic of
Palau is therefore very pleased by the recognition and
affirmation that human beings are at
the centre of
sustainable development and that they have the right to a
healthy, productive and meaningful life in harmony with
nature.
The Republic of Palau, a small island nation in the
Pacific, cherishes its recognition as an independent
country and greatly values its membership in the United
Nations, which allows our voice to be heard on global
issues such as the importance of freeing the world of
nuclear weapons and protecting our global environment.
We believe that perhaps the most critically important role
of the United Nations is to provide a forum for nations
large and small to discuss, debate and reach agreement on
how best to serve economic, social, cultural and other
humanitarian problems. Consequently, we believe that
those countries which have made demonstrated efforts to
advance regional and global peace, security and prosperity
by establishing partnerships with other countries to further
these causes have much to offer the United Nations as a
whole and to its constituent Members individually.
In his inaugural speech to his country, United States
President Bill Clinton pointed out that it is very likely
that every problem we face has already been solved
somewhere in the world. The challenge for us all is to
communicate with each other so that we can discover
those solutions. The United Nations clearly provides the
forum for such dialogue and discovery to take place. The
Republic of Palau believes that a greater number of
voices invited to participate in these discussions can only
lead to better solutions to the myriad global problems we
all face.
support
given
to
The
overwhelming
the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
aptly
demonstrates that, through many people working together,
the cacophony of historically divergent voices can be
harmonized for the benefit of all the peoples of all the
nations on Earth.
Treaty
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now call on the Minister of State and Minister for
Foreign Affairs
and Cooperation of Gabon, His
Excellency Mr. Casimir Oye Mba.
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Mr. Oye Mba (Gabon) (interpretation from French):
On behalf of the Government of Gabon, it is an honour and
a pleasure for me to address this eminent gathering.
just
one
is
year
held
being
that
after
Like previous speakers, I wish to recall
this
meeting
the
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations. On that occasion,
the balance sheet of our
activities was examined many times. Fortunately, we are all
agreed that we must seek together to find solutions to the
major problems of the world,
thereby preventing the
outbreak of conflicts by establishing effective tools for
negotiation and cooperation.
For all of us who participate and who believe in it, the
United Nations is a valuable tool
in the service of a
common ideal. This has been reflected in some positive
achievements achieved through pragmatism. The essential
lesson to draw from our assessments is that, while it has
not yet been able to meet all the challenges before it, the
United Nations has nonetheless remained worthy of our
hopes.
That
is why delegations from nearly all nations
annually take the opportunity offered by the regular session
of the General Assembly to review the major concerns of
the moment and to devise new goals.
But before touching on that subject, I wish to convey
to Mr. Razali the sincere and warm congratulations of the
delegation of Gabon on his brilliant election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session.
It is a tribute to his country, Malaysia, and a recognition of
his great personal qualities. He has our best wishes for
success as he guides our proceedings.
I would also like to express our thanks and affection
to his predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, Minister
of Foreign Affairs of Portugal, for the manner in which he
carried out his term of office at the fiftieth session.
To Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
I
reaffirm here the support of the Government of Gabon for
all his work on the tasks of our Organization and for the
competence and authority he has demonstrated in carrying
out his mandate, which have coincided with the formulation
of United Nations reform measures. He is a worthy son of
Africa who has done honour to our Organization. As all
member States of the Organization of African Unity (OAU)
stated at the July 1996 Summit in Yaoundé, Gabon hopes
that he will continue his work.
22
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Building lasting and orderly peace based on the
sincere and active cooperation of sovereign nations is one
of the major missions of the United Nations. In our
interdependent yet fragmented and multipolar world, the
United Nations must play a more assertive role,
particularly in the emergence of a new political and
economic international order. It must help us to redress
the general imbalance that has gripped the world since the
end of the 1980s.
of
of
our
principles
community
The sovereign equality of all States is among the
main
nations.
Accordingly, we must cultivate flexible and dynamic
thought that transcends relations of power and allows our
Organization to achieve its goal of universality. This is
the approach one must follow with regard to United
Nations reform. Many countries have made contributions
and many initiatives have been taken, as can be seen in
the reports of the working groups established for that
purpose. Gabon is gratified.
On the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations,
the Gabonese
El Hadj Omar Bongo, President of
Republic, stated:
“The Security Council ... should be reformed in
order to embrace the present dimensions of our
Organization”. (Official Records of
the General
Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 36th
meeting, p. 15)
Restructuring the United Nations, we believe, should
also include sweeping reform of its various subsidiary
bodies, with a view to avoiding duplication in its
functioning and programmes.
To sum up Gabon’s position, we would like to say
three things. First, it seems desirable and possible that the
permanent membership of the Security Council could be
increased without
that body’s becoming unwieldy.
Secondly, and on this assumption, Africa should at least
have one permanent seat. Thirdly, that permanent seat
should be rotated among all African countries according
to modalities to be defined later.
The complexity of this reform and its many political,
economic and financial implications should not prevent us
from laying out the configuration of international relations
in the twenty-first century. Since a considerable number
of Security Council decisions affect Africa, that region
must not remain unrepresented on the Council, a body of
of
paramount
the maintenance
importance
for
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
international peace and security. In the context of reform,
Gabon subscribes to the objectives of rationalization and the
clustering of activities whenever
the
effectiveness of the work of the United Nations.
this enhances
We must
attach
to
priority
importance
the
establishment of a reformed international system that can
preserve the world from murderous conflicts that disrupt the
economies of the warring countries — a system that can
fight underdevelopment, preserve the environment and wage
a worldwide combat against pandemics such as AIDS and
malaria — in other words, an international system that can
break down the barriers to harmony and development in a
richly diverse world. It is certainly a daunting task, but only
through these efforts and under these conditions can our
Organization secure lasting peace in the world.
Also high on the agenda is the resolution of problems
relating to development and to social progress in a climate
of peace, with full respect for fundamental human rights.
Throughout the years differences of opinion have arisen
with respect to these issues — particularly on how to
resolve them. But given their decisive importance for our
future and that of the United Nations, the international
community must mobilize to act on them.
More generally speaking, the time has come for us to
work together to restore to the United Nations its political
dynamism and the means it still lacks. Clearly, then, we
have a great deal to think about.
I should like now to touch on some matters of
concern, such as peace and development — values and
hopes that are shared by all.
Dialogue is a prerequisite for — though not a
guarantee of — achieving peace, which is indispensable for
human society to develop and flourish. I refer not only to
the civilized dialogue of diplomatic relations — which, of
course, is essential, but rather to a dialogue that could give
rise to a culture — the culture of peace. Indeed, when
everything is based on violence, dialogue is impossible. As
Boris Pasternak wrote, “One cannot win others over by
violence”.
The Bantu people value dialogue. On the occasion of
the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the President
of Gabon, from this very rostrum, stated:
“I wish to propose that a real dialogue, a
permanent dialogue, be established, under the auspices
of the United Nations, between Heads of State and
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Government of the South and those of the North. In
that way, we may be able to find solutions to our
common problems.” (Official Records of the General
Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings, 36th
meeting, p. 16)
If each State were to refrain from attempting to
impose its views on others, whatever the cost, and agreed
that meeting the needs of peoples in a diverse and
interdependent world requires dialogue and solidarity,
then lasting peace and development can be achieved. That
is why we must usher
the era of
dialogue — genuine, honest and constructive dialogue.
in a new era,
We must continue to work together on an equal
footing, with respect for humankind’s interests and values.
We must denounce and put an end to political violence,
economic marginalization and social injustice. Dialogue
must begin again: in Africa, in the Great Lakes region, in
Liberia and Somalia; but also in the Middle East, in the
former Yugoslavia,
in Cyprus and in Chechnya —
wherever it may be necessary.
Gabon is contributing, and will always contribute, to
building the vast edifice of peace. Our duty, indeed our
interest — in keeping with the letter and the spirit of the
Charter of the United Nations — lies in undertaking this
task. History has taught us that no country can hope to
remain an island of peace in a sea of poverty, tension and
war.
it
I believe that
is imperative to enhance the
modalities of action available to the United Nations in the
field of preventive diplomacy. In this connection, we must
explore further proposals to equip the Secretariat with an
Early Warning System aimed at preventing conflicts from
erupting.
Our faith in dialogue and our relentless pursuit of
peace are the reasons why Gabon, whenever asked, has
always agreed to engage in mediation to resolve domestic
conflicts in neighbouring countries, with the particular
goal of paving the way for a lasting peace.
In January 1996 Gabon hosted a round table aimed
at inter-Chadian reconciliation. In March 1996 we also
enabled our Angolan brothers
to strengthen the
foundations for their future understanding, in the presence
of several international observers. In both cases, the goal
was to settle differences and clear up misunderstandings.
What was important for Gabon and its President was to
break through the wall of mistrust that barred the way to
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
reaching sincere and lasting agreements on solutions to such
crises.
We cannot claim victory. The peace process in most
countries is lengthy, and reversals, which can delay or
jeopardize its conclusion, are frequent. For this reason, the
international community must encourage and support those
brothers at war who have opted for the path of dialogue to
build peace. It must also promote goodwill, which will
enable the warring parties to resolve their conflicts. Africa
provides numerous examples of this.
sound initiatives
such as disarmament
The peace we seek requires not only dialogue but also
and
other,
denuclearization.
In this connection, we welcome the
indefinite extension last year of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Likewise, we are proud
of the fact that in March 1996, the African countries signed
in Cairo the Pelindaba Text of the African Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone Treaty on the denuclearization of our
continent. Finally, we warmly welcome the General
Assembly’s adoption, on 10 September 1996, of
the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
signed it
yesterday on behalf of my country.
I
The Central African States have decided to harmonize
their policies on conventional disarmament, with a view to
establishing a register of conventional arms. The success of
this subregional undertaking will depend not only on the
will of the States of the subregion, but also on the political
support and assistance of all States Members of the United
Nations.
Peace is also the result of confidence-building
measures. The adoption of binding legal instruments and
the effective use of preventive diplomacy will allow Africa
to be exorcised of the spectre of death-dealing conflicts.
The United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on
Security Questions in Central Africa is working towards
that end. It just passed an important test with the solemn
signature, on 8 July 1996, of a non-aggression pact during
the thirty-second ordinary session of the Assembly of
Heads of State and Government of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU). This important preventive diplomacy
measure shows that the Governments of the Central African
countries intend to give pride of place to dialogue in the
peaceful settlement of disputes among them.
The signing of this pact by the Heads of State of the
subregion proves the importance and priority that
the
countries of Central Africa accord to the Standing Advisory
Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa. The
24
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Government of Gabon thanks the General Assembly for
supporting that machinery through a trust fund, which
generous donors, such as Japan, are beginning to pay into.
In 1974, during the special session of the United
Nations General Assembly, President Bongo, using an
example from nature, and according to a Gabonese
maxim, stated that:
“When all the animals have been fed, calm reigns
over the plains. (...) When the peoples of the earth
have the vital minimum and maximum of dignity to
which they are entitled, peace and harmony will
finally have some likelihood of reigning on earth.”
(Official Records of the General Assembly, sixth
special session of the General Assembly, 2210th
Plenary Meeting, para. 30)
Development is certainly essential to peace. I would
even go as far as to say that it is an intrinsic element of
peace.
Although Africa has been wrestling with serious
economic, social and political problems for over two
decades, it is safe to say that henceforth it will vigorously
and courageously undertake the reforms needed for its
recovery.
However, African countries can make progress in
this direction only if they are given adequate support by
the international community, and by the developed
countries in particular.
The goals of sustained economic growth, social
development, environmental protection and respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms set in the plans
of action of several
international conferences have
sustainable development as their common denominator.
We are witnessing an era of
radical change
comparable to the Industrial Revolution of the nineteenth
century. The globalization of
the economy and of
information and communications is changing relations
among nations and increasing interdependence.
While these trends inspire great hope, they also raise
numerous concerns because the impact of globalization
varies from country to country. Those in Africa,
in
particular, where most come under the category of least
developed countries, are facing a worrisome economic
situation. Despite declarations and programmes of action,
resources are not forthcoming.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
International economic and financial relations are
changing radically and quickly, as is clear from the events
of recent years. The establishment of the International
Seabed Authority which is well under way and which we
welcome; the creation of the World Trade Organization in
1995, which is accelerating the easing of restrictions on free
trade and its globalization; and the gradual establishment of
large regional blocs in various parts of the world are all
features of the new international order.
This situation, which is conducive to the emergence or
consolidation of poles of integration, is far, on every score,
from benefitting African States, whose income, which
derives essentially from basic commodities,
remains
vulnerable to price fluctuations on the international market
that are out of their control.
In addition, our continent’s heavy debt burden means
that our region is responsible for the greatest volume of
reverse financial transfers due to debt repayment.
Structural adjustment programmes, although beneficial,
mean that populations have to make enormous sacrifices.
These programmes are now being followed in countries
undergoing political reorganization. Because of the way
democracy works, it is assumed that citizens support the
proposed programmes.
the
demands made by society. For Governments, it is truly
difficult
to find a balance between these contradictory
requirements.
Inevitably,
increases
this
Of course, to remain credible partners we must abide
by the requirements that go along with structural adjustment
and the recovery of our economies. But we are duty-bound
to include social needs when formulating and implementing
reforms. The adoption of measures to promote sustained
economic growth should not distract us from financing
basic social and economic infrastructures such as roads,
schools, hospitals, vocational training centres and so on.
This financing is essential if we are to improve our
populations’
living conditions and quality of life. As
representatives know, the United Nations remains sensitive
to this approach. Encouragement is needed, however, to
ensure that this feeling is shared by its various agencies.
Governments have been called on to include poverty-
people-oriented
eradication
development policies. How do we do this?
strategies
general,
in
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
countries that are willing to take this course of action. As
1996 marks the beginning of the United Nations Decade
for the Eradication of Poverty, common objectives and
the commitments entered into in the framework of
overseas development assistance must now become
reality.
However, since 1991, this assistance has declined in
real terms. Private capital flows have been exclusively
focused in some 20 developing countries. So far, there
has been no upsurge in private investment in countries of
the African Financial Community (CFA), despite the
considerable devaluation of the CFA franc in January
1994.
We hope that
the United Nations System-wide
Special Initiative on Africa recently launched by the
Secretary-General will ensure that the United Nations
system as a whole, including the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund, will help to mobilize the
the international
international community. Likewise,
community must
issue of debt,
because it
is jeopardizing the development of our
countries.
look into the crucial
My country believes that new solutions to deal with
debt, its conversion or refashioning in the interests of
economic and social development are essential to alleviate
its heavy burden and to make it compatible with
development, in the spirit of consensus prompted by the
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.
We reject and label as unjust any discrimination or
classification between developing countries, as
this
usually makes Gabon ineligible for much of the assistance
it requires for its development.
assistance
African peoples and Governments are not sitting idly
by, waiting for
international
community. They are tirelessly making tremendous efforts
to overcome the crisis they face. I am pleased to mention
in this respect the positive role that the Organization of
African Unity is playing in backing our efforts.
from the
OAU,
in submitting the Treaty Establishing the
African Economic Community in June 1991 in Abuja to
our Heads of State and Government
for signature,
understood that
scenario,
multilateral relations supersede bilateral relations.
in the new international
In establishing a favourable economic environment,
the international community must support the efforts of all
The Abuja Agreement entered into force in May
1994, and the first ministerial session of its Economic and
25
26th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
It was in this spirit that the thirtieth summit of the
Central African Customs and Economic Union was
convened in Yaoundé, Cameroon,
from 20 to 22
December 1994. The entry into force of customs reform
on 1 July 1995 and the signing in July 1996 in Libreville
of a text that establishes the Central African Economic
and Monetary Community are designed to coordinate and
strengthen the various regional integration efforts.
These are the main ideas that Gabon wishes, through
me,
to contribute to our consideration of the major
concerns facing the international community today.
Indeed, some of these questions are far from being
resolved. We hope that discussion of these issues will
continue, without getting bogged down and with the
participation of all, in order to find solutions that can
provide equitable and comprehensive guarantees for the
interests of all of our countries. These interests are,
basically, participation in forging a future for the United
Nations; the maintenance and consolidation of peace;
progress; and economic development.
Members may have noticed that I have dwelt on
economic development concerns. I have done so not
because I am biased, but because we in Gabon believe
that true peace cannot exist amid poverty and destruction.
As the Romans said, “Si vis pacem, para bellum” — “If
you desire peace, prepare for war”.
Today, on the threshold of the twenty-first century,
and in both domestic and international contexts, we
should say instead, “If you desire peace, prepare for
development”, because development
and economic
progress has truly become the face of peace.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the time. Outside institutional
Social Commission will be held next November in Abidjan.
Subregional economic communities are becoming stronger
all
these
economic blocs are implementing common programmes on
currency, payment methods, business law, the development
of scientific and technological capacity, energy resources,
the environment and so on.
frameworks,
In the Central Africa subregion, our countries are
involved also in subregional integration, which they see as
a major component of development policy.
26
