United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
48th plenary meeting
Thursday, 31 October 1996, 3 p.m.
New York
A/51/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 15 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(b) Election of eighteen members of the Economic and
Social Council
The President: This afternoon the General Assembly
will continue with the election of 18 members of the
Economic and Social Council to replace those members
whose term of office expires on 31 December 1996.
As members will
recall, when the 47th plenary
meeting was adjourned earlier today there still remained
one seat to be filled from among the Asian States.
In accordance with the rules of procedure, we shall
proceed now to the fourth round of balloting, by secret
ballot, for the remaining seat from among the Asian States.
This fourth round of balloting shall be restricted to the
two States from among the Asian States which were not
elected but which obtained the largest number of votes in
the previous ballot, namely Sri Lanka and Viet Nam.
This is in accordance with rule 94 of the rules of
procedure.
Ballot papers marked “B” will now be distributed.
May I ask representatives to write on the ballot
papers the name of the State for which they wish to vote.
Ballot papers marked “B”, for the Asian States, will
be declared invalid if they contain the name of a State
other than Sri Lanka or Viet Nam, as well as if they
contain the name of more than one State.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Amirbekov
(Azerbaijan), Mr. Brauwers (Belgium), Mr. Nor
(Brunei Darussalam), Mr. Soulama (Burkina Faso),
and Mr. Estévez (Guatemala) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 3.30 p.m. and
resumed at 3.40 p.m.
The President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Group B — Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Sri Lanka
Viet Nam
168
0
168
1
167
112
112
55
96-86670 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
48th plenary meeting
31 October 1996
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, Sri
Lanka was elected a member of the Economic and
Social Council for a three-year term beginning on
1 January 1997.
Cuba, Djibouti, El Salvador, France, Gambia, Germany,
Iceland, Japan, Latvia, Mexico, Mozambique, Republic of
Korea, Spain, Sri Lanka, Turkey and Zambia.
I wish to thank the tellers and the Secretariat for
The President:
I congratulate Sri Lanka on its
their assistance in this election.
election.
The following 18 States have thus been elected
members of the Economic and Social Council for a three-
year term beginning 1 January 1997: Cape Verde, Chile,
The General Assembly has thus concluded its
consideration of agenda item 15 (b).
The meeting rose at 3.45 p.m.
2
