United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
54th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 6 November 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.54
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 15 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c) Election of five members of the International Court
of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General (A/51/333)
List of candidates (A/51/334/Rev.1 and Corr.1)
Curricula vitae (A/51/335 and Corr.1)
Justice for a nine-year
The President: This morning, the General Assembly
will proceed to the election of five members of the
International Court of
term
commencing on 6 February 1997. The terms of office of
the
day:
Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui, Mr. Stephen M. Schwebel,
Mr. Mohamed Shahabuddeen, Mr. Vladlen S. Vereshchetin
and Mr. Luigi Ferrari Bravo.
previous
following
judges
expire
the
In connection with the election, I should like to bring
the following matters to the attention of the members of the
General Assembly.
First, in accordance with General Assembly resolution
264 (III) of 8 October 1948, a State which is a party to the
Statute of the International Court of Justice but not a
Member of the United Nations shall participate in the
General Assembly in electing the members of the Court
in the same manner as the States Members of the United
Nations. Therefore, on this occasion, the representatives
of Nauru and Switzerland may participate in the election.
Secondly, I should like to confirm that, at this time,
the Security Council,
the General
Assembly, is also proceeding to elect five members of the
Court. This procedure is in accordance with Article 8 of
the Statute of the Court, which provides that
independently of
“The General Assembly and the Security
Council shall proceed independently of one another
to elect the members of the Court.”
Accordingly, the results of the voting in the General
Assembly will not be communicated to the Security
Council until five candidates have obtained the required
majority in the Assembly.
Finally, I should like to draw the attention of the
Assembly to the documents relating to the election. The
list of candidates which have been nominated by national
groups is to be found in document A/51/334/Rev.1 and
Corr.1. The curricula vitae of the candidates are to be
found in document A/51/335 and Corr.1. The Assembly
also has before it document A/51/333, containing a
memorandum by the Secretary-General on the present
composition of
the Court and the procedure to be
followed in the Assembly and the Security Council with
regard to the election.
96-86730 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
54th plenary meeting
6 November 1996
Votes may be cast only for those whose names appear on
the ballot papers.
the invitation of
At
the President, Ms. Kraulyte˙
(Lithuania), Mr. Augusto (Mozambique), Ms. Lind
(Norway), Ms. Peña (Peru) and Ms. Santipitaks
(Thailand) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 10.30 a.m. and
resumed at 12.40 p.m.
The President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
I should like to remind representatives that, pursuant
to rule 88 of the Assembly’s rules of procedure,
Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui (Algeria)
Mr. Vladlen S. Vereshchetin (Russian
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In accordance with article 10, paragraph 1, of the
Statute of the Court,
those candidates who obtain an
absolute majority of votes both in the Assembly and in the
Security Council shall be considered as elected.
The consistent practice of the United Nations has been
to interpret the words “absolute majority” as meaning a
majority of all electors whether or not they vote or are
allowed to vote. The electors in the General Assembly are
all 185 Member States, plus the two non-Member States
which are parties to the Statute of the Court, namely Nauru
and Switzerland, for a total of 187 electors. Accordingly,
for the present election, 94 votes constitute an absolute
majority in the General Assembly.
The General Assembly will now proceed to a secret
ballot. If in the first ballot fewer than five candidates obtain
an absolute majority, it will be necessary to proceed to
further ballots until five candidates have obtained that
majority. Pursuant to the decision taken by the General
Assembly at its 915th meeting, held on 16 November 1960,
these ballots shall be unrestricted.
“After the President has announced the beginning
of voting, no representative shall interrupt the voting
except on a point of order in connection with the
actual conduct of the voting.”
Therefore,
any announcements,
those
concerning withdrawals of candidatures, should be made
prior to the commencement of the voting process, that is to
say, before the distribution of ballot papers.
such as
May I
take it
that
the Assembly agrees to the
procedures I have just outlined?
It was so decided.
The President: Ballot papers will now be distributed.
The voting process has now begun.
appear
Representatives are requested to use only the ballot
papers now being distributed. Only those candidates whose
names
eligible.
Representatives will indicate the five candidates for whom
they wish to vote by placing crosses to the left of their
names on the ballot papers. Ballot papers on which more
than five names are marked will be considered invalid.
papers
are
on
the
ballot
2
183
0
183
0
183
94
149
123
111
110
97
83
70
69
55
26
12
Federation)
Mr. Pieter H. Kooijmans (Netherlands)
Mr. Stephen M. Schwebel (United States
of America)
Mr. José Francisco Rezek (Brazil)
Mr. José Antonio Pastor Ridruejo (Spain)
Mr. Mehmet Güney (Turkey)
Mr. Patrick Robinson (Jamaica)
Mr. Mohamed Shahabuddeen (Guyana)
Mr. Francisco Orrego Vicuña (Chile)
Mr. Murat K. Azimov (Uzbekistan)
The following five candidates have obtained an
absolute majority
the General Assembly:
Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui, Mr. Pieter H. Kooijmans,
Mr. José Francisco Rezek, Mr. Stephen M. Schwebel and
Mr. Vladlen S. Vereshchetin.
in
I have communicated the result of the voting to the
President of the Security Council.
I have received from the President of the Security
Council the following letter:
“I have the honour to inform you that at the
3709th meeting of the Security Council, held on 6
November 1996, for the purpose of electing five
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
54th plenary meeting
6 November 1996
members of the International Court of Justice for a
term of office beginning on 6 February 1997,
Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui, Mr. Pieter H. Kooijmans,
Mr. Francisco Rezek, Mr. Stephen M. Schwebel and
Mr. Vladlen S. Vereshchetin obtained an absolute
majority of votes.”
Schwebel and Mr. Vladlen S. Vereshchetin. They are,
therefore, duly elected members of the International Court
of Justice to serve for a nine-year term commencing on
6 February 1997. I take this opportunity to extend to them
the Assembly’s congratulations on their election and to
thank the tellers for their assistance.
As a result of the independent voting in the Security
Council and in the General Assembly, the following five
candidates have obtained an absolute majority in both
organs: Mr. Mohammed Bedjaoui, Mr. Pieter H.
Kooijmans, Mr. José Francisco Rezek, Mr. Stephen M.
We have thus concluded our consideration of sub-
item (c) of agenda item 15.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
3
