United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
43rd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 October 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.43
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 3 (continued)
Credentials of representatives to the fifty-first session of
the General Assembly
(b) First
report
of
the Credentials Committee
(A/51/548)
The President: The draft resolution recommended by
the Credentials Committee in paragraph 19 of its first report
(A/51/548) reads as follows:
“The General Assembly,
“Having considered the first
the
Credentials Committee and the recommendation
contained therein,
report of
Mr. Al-Habib (Islamic Republic of
Iran): My
delegation would like to express its reservations regarding
those parts of
the Credentials
Committee, contained in document A/51/548, on the
credentials of Israel.
report of
the first
In line with the position of the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran on the issue, my delegation
wishes to dissociate itself from the parts of the said report
referring to the approval of the credentials of Israel.
The President: We have heard the only speaker in
explanation of vote before the voting.
We shall now take action on the recommendation of
the Credentials Committee set forth in paragraph 19 of its
first report. The Credentials Committee adopted this draft
resolution without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly
wishes to do the same?
“Approves the first report of the Credentials
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 51/9).
Committee.”
We shall now proceed to consider the draft resolution
recommended by the Credentials Committee in paragraph 19
of its first report.
I call on the representative of the Islamic Republic of
Iran for an explanation of vote before the voting. May I
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited to
10 minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
The President: I now call on the representative of
the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, who wishes to explain his
delegation’s position on the resolution just adopted. May
I remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from
their seats.
Mr. Matri (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): I should like to indicate that the fact that
my delegation did not object to the first report of the
96-86639 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Credentials Committee in document A/51/548 in no way
implies recognition of the credentials of the delegation of
Israel.
The President: We have heard the only speaker in
explanation of vote.
We
stage
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 3.
concluded
have
thus
this
of
our
Agenda item 14 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Agency (A/51/307)
Draft resolution (A/51/L.9/Rev.1)
Amendments (A/51/L.10, A/51/L.11 and A/51/L.12)
Mr. Tasovski (The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia): At the outset, I should like to thank on
behalf of my delegation the Director General of
the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Mr. Hans
Blix, for his annual report on the work of the Agency, for
his remarks and for his continued successful efforts to
promote the work of the Agency. The report reviewed the
work of the Agency in various fields in the past year and
the progress it has made. It also identified the problems and
difficulties confronting the Agency.
During its nearly 40-year history, the IAEA has played
an important role in the efforts to promote the peaceful uses
of nuclear energy and to stop the spread of nuclear
weapons. The indefinite extension of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) last year was
a crucial step towards achieving this goal. One of the most
significant additional tools to curb the spread of nuclear
weapons this year was the adoption of the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which represents a
concrete measure in the spirit of article VI of the NPT. It
is the intention of my Government shortly to sign and ratify
the CTBT. The conclusion of a multilateral and effectively
verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material
for nuclear-weapon purposes,
so-called cut-off
convention, is an important goal in the strengthening of the
NPT regime, and it needs to receive priority in the
Conference on Disarmament.
the
Very profound changes have been the hallmark of
recent years. The end of the cold war gave rise to the
2
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
the activities aimed at
international peace and
prospect of a new era of
cooperation. My delegation is of the view that the IAEA’s
role in the forthcoming period will be of great importance
in promoting cooperation among nations in the field of
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and providing nuclear
safeguards. This
is an important part of overall
international cooperation. My delegation welcomes in
particular
strengthening the
nuclear-safety standards of nuclear installations. The
international responsibility of the States operating nuclear-
power plants at a critically low level of safety is of
particular importance. It is therefore important that those
States cooperate closely with the IAEA in implementing
nuclear-safety measures and standards. The Convention
on Nuclear Safety, the first legal instrument to address the
safety of nuclear plants, entered into force on 24
October — United Nations Day.
effectiveness
My delegation reaffirms its strong support
for
strengthening the
and improving the
efficiency of the safeguards system, as well as its full
commitment
strict
implementation of Programme 93+2 will increase the
Agency’s
capability to detect undeclared nuclear
activities.
Programme
93+2.
The
to
The Agency’s activities in the area of technical
cooperation are the most directly relevant
to many
members of the IAEA. The Government of the Republic
of Macedonia is aware of the contribution that assistance
in the field of peaceful uses of nuclear energy can make
to the economic and social development of countries. My
country’s cooperation with the Agency is mainly in the
field of improving scientific knowledge and the practical
uses of nuclear energy in medicine, agriculture and
industry. The technical assistance provided by the Agency
has been very important, especially in the field of
training, in accessing new technologies and in generating
our own knowledge for the treatment of animal diseases,
radio-immunological analysis technologies in nuclear
medicine
and personal dosimetry. We note with
satisfaction the successful realization of the Agency’s
Country Programme Framework (CPF) mission in the
first half of this year in order to define the Country
Programme Framework for Cooperation by the year 2000.
In conclusion, I should like to emphasize that my
Government will continue to give its full support to the
work of the IAEA, whose programmes and activities have
proven to be effective in the promotion of international
cooperation. I should like also to underline the importance
of the adoption of the draft resolution before us entitled,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
“Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency”, which
is co-sponsored by my delegation.
Mr. Bohayevsky (Ukraine): Let me begin by
extending our delegation’s appreciation to Mr. Hans Blix
for the comprehensive report he submitted to the General
Assembly. His statement clearly underlined the crucial role
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in
preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and in
promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Both areas of the Agency’s activities are of great
importance to Ukraine. For my country, this year has been
marked by a number of events and dates, two of which are
closely related to the issue we are discussing today. The
first one is 26 April,
the sad occasion of the tenth
anniversary of the Chernobyl catastrophe, which remains an
inconsolable pain in our hearts and an incurable wound for
our nation and the Ukrainian people.
The second important date is 1 June, the day Ukraine
became a nuclear weapon-free State after the withdrawal of
the last strategic nuclear warhead from its territory. That
was a historic event of global importance because of its
practical contribution to the elimination of nuclear weapons
and the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime.
By eliminating the world’s
third-largest nuclear
arsenal, the one we inherited from the former Soviet Union,
Ukraine has also made a very important practical
contribution to diminishing the global nuclear threat.
Notwithstanding the immense difficulties we are
experiencing today, Ukraine has consistently carried out its
obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and has obtained a non-nuclear
status. This fact, along with its ratification of START I, its
accession to the non-proliferation Treaty and support of the
decision on its indefinite extension, and its joining the
States which signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty
of Ukraine’s
determination to strengthen the existing international regime
of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
convincing
example
is
yet
We fully support the activities of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) aimed at accelerating and
enlarging the benefits that atomic energy can bring to
nations, if properly used. That is why we consider the
Agency’s safeguards system as the main element of the
measures undertaken by the international community to
ensure the use of nuclear power exclusively for peaceful
purposes.
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
thus helping to prevent
In view of the tasks facing us today, we consider the
steps undertaken by the IAEA as appropriate to strengthen
and improve the efficiency of the safeguards system. We
continue to support the Agency’s efforts to improve its
capabilities in detecting undeclared nuclear activity where
it exists,
the proliferation of
nuclear weapons. Ukraine also welcomes the progress
reached by the Committee on strengthening the
effectiveness and improving the efficiency of
the
safeguards system, established by the Agency’s Board of
Governors on 14 June 1996. We are confident that, if the
principles of respect of national sovereignty, the equality
of
the
participation of States in this activity are met, success in
developing a strengthened safeguards system based on the
so-called “Programme 93+2” can be reached.
and the universal nature of
requirements
Keeping this in mind, Ukraine supported the relevant
resolution adopted by the fortieth session of the Agency’s
General Conference, as well as
the resolution on
implementation of the agreement between the Agency and
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea for the
application of safeguards in connection with the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Ukraine shares
the concerns over the risk of illicit trafficking of nuclear
materials. We support the programme on preventing and
combating illicit
trafficking of nuclear materials and
expressed our willingness to support the objectives and
actions incorporated in the Declaration adopted at the
eight-nation Moscow Summit on Nuclear Safety and
Security in April this year. Let me also recall that, at the
Agency’s fortieth General Conference, the delegation of
Ukraine co-sponsored the resolution on measures against
illicit trafficking in nuclear materials and other radioactive
sources.
of
the Accident”,
“One Decade After Chernobyl: Summing up the
Radiological Consequences
an
International Conference held also in Vienna this past
April, was an important event in the area of maintaining
the proper safety level of nuclear facilities. The lessons
learned from the Chernobyl catastrophe will continue to
be of acute concern to the public. But
today it has
become obvious that the experience gained from this
tragedy shows that overcoming its heavy consequences
should become a matter of universal concern.
In the above context, we think that the Agency’s role
in providing a regime of safe development of nuclear
energy should be a leading one and ought to continue to
grow in the coming years.
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
We in Ukraine fully understand the concern of many
States over the safety of the Chernobyl nuclear-power plant.
As members know, the decision was made to decommission
this plant by the year 2000. However, this commitment can
be successfully achieved only if our country receives the
necessary financial and technical assistance. In this respect,
we are grateful for the statement made yesterday morning
by the representative of Ireland on behalf of the European
Union that the Union was committed to providing financial
aid to assist Ukraine in improving nuclear safety and
security.
Ukraine supports the Agency’s activities aimed at
establishing a comprehensive regime of civil liability for
nuclear damage and confirmed its adherence to its main
principles by joining the relevant Convention in September
1996. We are satisfied with the expansion of technical
cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency,
which covers, among other things, the principal activities in
the areas of nuclear and radiation safety and in nuclear-
power-plant operational safety. Today, there are nine joint
IAEA/Ukraine projects being implemented in the sphere of
nuclear
practical
significance for my country.
energy, which
important
are
of
the elaboration of
Ukraine also welcomes
the
convention on the safe management of radioactive waste
and expects the practical
results from the group of
international experts engaged in this important work.
Ukraine fully supports
such an
instrument.
the preparation of
In conclusion, I wish to underline that Ukraine highly
respects and supports
the
International Atomic Energy Agency aimed at promoting
global cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy
and upgrading the international non-proliferation regime.
the versatile activities of
Mr. Ali Khan (Pakistan): On behalf of the Pakistan
delegation, I would like to convey special appreciation to
Mr. Hans Blix, Director General of
the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and to his team for
improving the format and content of the report this year. It
will doubtless facilitate better understanding of the work of
the Agency.
The Agency, as we all know, has two major areas of
activity: the prevention of nuclear proliferation and the
promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Any
imbalance in these activities would not serve the objectives
of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The priorities,
4
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
of course, will be determined by the member States
themselves.
The annual report, however, starts with a reference
to the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in May 1995. The
general thrust of the evaluation of this important decision
gives the impression that the Agency will be guided by
the States parties
to the non-proliferation Treaty.
However, the Review and Extension Conference, though
a significant event, was, in our view, extraneous to the
Agency.
The Final Document of the first special session of
the General Assembly devoted to disarmament clearly
states in paragraph 68:
“All States should also have access to and be free to
acquire technology, equipment and materials for
peaceful uses of nuclear energy, taking into account
the particular needs of the developing countries.”
(A/S-10/4, section 3)
We believe that
the Agency should look for
guidance to the Member States as expressed in the policy-
making organs.
energy option for many countries
Despite the negative public perception created in
some countries and the fears aroused about the danger of
nuclear proliferation, nuclear energy remains a viable and
attractive
and
particularly for fossil-fuel-deficient, developing countries.
The conventional means of generating electricity —
whether thermal, oil, gas or coal — not only impose a
heavy financial burden on such countries, but also pose a
serious threat to the environment.
In this context,
it may be recalled that
the
international symposium on electricity, health and the
environment organized by the Agency in October 1995
concluded that nuclear power can play an important role
in reducing carbon dioxide emissions and pollution from
the electricity sector. The effects on human health from
nuclear-power plants were far fewer than those from coal-
fired plants. Despite the crucial role that the relatively
more environment-friendly nuclear power can play in the
economic development of fossil-fuel-deficient countries,
the message has not quite been appreciated by decision
makers and the public.
In order to encourage and promote the peaceful uses
of nuclear power, the basic requirement would be to
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
and
technical
assistance
cooperation. The
provide
performance of the Agency on this account has been
satisfactory. I would like to congratulate the Director
General for achieving a record-high 75.7 per cent rate on
overall implementation and an 85.5 per cent rate for the
implementation of model projects in 1995.
This high rate of
implementation had, however,
considerably decreased the readily usable reserve resources
by the end of 1995. Any further reductions beyond this
level could be detrimental to the efficient implementation
of technical cooperation programmes. In order to ensure the
continued success of the Agency in the area of technical
cooperation,
their
contributions in full and on time.
all member States
should
pay
Another major objective of the Agency is to prevent
nuclear proliferation. For this purpose, the Agency has
safeguards agreements with member States. Pakistan has
consistently adhered to and shall continue to extend its
fullest support
to the Agency’s safeguards. This is in
consonance with our unwavering commitment to nuclear
non-proliferation and our efforts to free our region from the
menace of nuclear weapons.
Because of the existing tensions in our region, the
problem of nuclear proliferation raises serious concerns.
The situation can escalate any time in South Asia. The core
cause of tension in South Asia is the Kashmir dispute and
the brutal denial of the right to self-determination of the
Kashmiri people. The only viable way to reduce this
tension is to resolve the Kashmir dispute in accordance with
the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. The
reduction of tension is likely to eliminate the causes of
nuclear proliferation in that part of the world.
Our Prime Minister, Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, in her
address to this Assembly on 3 October 1996, proposed the
convening of a multilateral conference on peace and
security in South Asia. Such a conference could promote
the resolution of
the Kashmiri dispute as well as
agreements on conventional arms control and measures for
nuclear restraint. We hope that this proposal will evoke a
positive response from the international community and
from our neighbour.
While we fully support that the enhanced effectiveness
and cost-efficiency of IAEA safeguards in order to rule out
the possibility of non-compliance, any changes in the
existing system should, in our view, remain within the
present legal instruments. The suggested steps to strengthen
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
the safeguards should be non-intrusive, technologically
feasible and cost-effective.
Pakistan has actively participated in strengthening
existing mechanisms and in developing the new methods
that are included in “Programme 93+2”. The Programme
is meant for countries that have safeguards agreements
based on document INFCIRC/153 with the Agency.
Suggestions to extend the Programme to non-full-scope
safeguards countries are contrary to the spirit of the
Programme. We feel that the whole Programme should be
extensively discussed to achieve consensus on its legal,
technical and economic aspects.
Nuclear energy carries a twofold burden: the stigma
of Hiroshima and the legacy of Chernobyl. While the first
addressed by safeguards, non-proliferation and
is
disarmament measures,
the second calls for greater
attention to the safety of nuclear installations. Pakistan
accords the highest priority to safety in its nuclear
facilities and has benefited from the nuclear-safety
expertise available through the Agency. The recent entry
into force of the Convention on Nuclear Safety is a
welcome step. We hope that the IAEA will now ensure
the fullest possible exchange of safety-related information
and the sharing of expertise. Pakistan will ratify the
Convention as soon as requisite national legislative and
administrative procedures are completed.
The regulatory responsibility of the Agency should
not lead to the imposition of arbitrary restrictions on the
transfer of nuclear
technology for peaceful means.
Unfortunately, restrictions have been imposed, even when
it is evident that no proliferation dangers are involved. At
times even safety-related information has been refused.
This approach is conducive neither to the evolution of
safer techniques and methods nor to the promotion of
greater openness and transparency in the field of nuclear
technology. Since these are the key objectives of the
Agency, we hope that it will redouble its efforts for their
achievement. The International Atomic Energy Agency
should strive to remove all impediments to the transfer of
nuclear technology for peaceful purposes.
We expect the Agency to adopt non-discriminatory
measures in providing access to nuclear energy for
peaceful purposes.
It should not be linked to non-
proliferation undertakings. The stratification of States in
allowing access to technology for nuclear power, nuclear-
safety related information and know-how for other
peaceful uses would do more harm than good in
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
achieving the overall objective of a safe, clean and secure
world.
Ms. Tolle (Kenya): Let me at the outset express our
appreciation to Mr. Hans Blix, Director General of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
for his
comprehensive overview of the developments achieved by
the Agency in the past year, in addition to the fortieth
report of the IAEA for the calendar year 1995, circulated in
document A/51/307. My delegation wishes to congratulate
the Director General and the entire staff of the IAEA for
their continued commitment and service to the international
community in upholding the mandates entrusted to the
International Atomic Energy Agency.
Over
the years,
the International Atomic Energy
Agency has provided assistance to member States for the
development of peaceful applications of nuclear technology.
With regard to training, the International Atomic Energy
Agency has provided funding for regional courses that have
gone a long way in promoting regional cooperation and
facilitating the exchange of ideas. Through these efforts,
several projects and nuclear technology activities have been
initiated and several others planned.
In this respect,
the African Regional Cooperation
Agreement
for Research, Training and Development
Related to Nuclear Science and Technology (AFRA) has
been implemented. The programme has proved to be very
valuable because of its orientation, focus and relevance to
the needs of
the region, particularly in the areas of
manpower development, exchange of experience and the
sharing of available facilities and expertise. It has played a
vital role in strengthening the principle and concept of
regional cooperation and self-reliance on the African
continent. Kenya is committed to this principle and concept
and would like to express its full association with and
support for the activities of the AFRA programme.
At
level,
for
the bilateral
animal disease diagnosis
the Agency is assisting in
various projects the objectives of which are helping to
improve our agricultural production. These include seven
projects
and control,
improvement of livestock production, evaluation of tsetse
and trypanosomiasis, isotope techniques for the efficient use
of fertilizers, nitrogen fixation by multi-purpose tree species
and the analysis of pesticide residues. All of these projects
are currently in progress.
Similarly,
a draft Kenya Country Programme
Framework document, which will form the core of future
International Atomic Energy Agency technology transfer
6
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
activities in the medium term, has been produced and an
approval process has been instituted by the Government
as a result of the IAEA mission. When endorsed, the
Country Programme Framework will not only constitute
priority activities upon which technical cooperation efforts
and resources will be concentrated, but will also serve as
a frame of reference and a programming tool for future
technical cooperation activities over the next four to six
years and, where appropriate, will provide opportunities
to initiate regional programmes.
infrastructure is a prerequisite for
An effective radiation-safety and nuclear-waste
management
the
efficient management and safe transfer of nuclear
technology, as proposed in the principles of radiation
protection and nuclear safety practices, which form the
basis for the development and use of nuclear technology
in our country.
The Agency has assisted in this area by providing
necessary information and help to Kenyan institutions. We
would like to see more assistance of this kind extended
and urge the Agency to maintain its efforts in devising
local solutions that are capable of significantly improving
the general level of radiation safety and nuclear-waste
management in all regions.
We are happy to note that the next open-ended
group of legal and technical experts, which is helping to
draft
the convention on the safe management of
radioactive waste, will be held in South Africa in
November. We are pleased that the meeting is being held
in Africa and wish to confirm that Kenya will participate
actively in that meeting because of its legal and technical
importance. We urge the Agency to increase the
frequency of such high-powered international meetings in
our region.
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) is an exceptionally important global
mechanism for the resolution of nuclear-proliferation
issues. The signing in Cairo on 11 April 1996 of the
African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, also known
as the Pelindaba Treaty, by 45 African States and four
nuclear States, is an historic event that will contribute to
the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime. The
creation of
the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone
fortifies the measures taken with regard to the non-
proliferation Treaty and confirms the esteem in which it
is held by us in Africa.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
It is Kenya’s belief that such regional agreements are
a useful means of reducing tension, encouraging sustainable
socio-economic development and promoting confidence and
regional security. These agreements have the advantage of
being adaptable to the characteristics and special needs of
the geographical region in which they apply. It is therefore
extremely important to support such regional efforts to curb
nuclear proliferation. To that end, we are encouraged by the
work that is being carried out by the International Atomic
Energy Agency in the promotion of the peaceful uses of
nuclear technology, the enforcement of safeguards and the
minimization of all
risk posed by nuclear
technology.
types of
Enhanced sustainable socio-economic development
requires an adequate and reliable supply of energy. At the
moment,
there is overdependence on hydroelectric and
fossil-fuel sources of energy, particularly in the developing
and least developed countries. In some cases, this is neither
economical nor environmentally friendly. Other sustainable
sources of energy,
including nuclear energy, must be
explored. The Agency therefore has an important role to
play in the development of nuclear-research reactors for
Member States in the developing and least-developed
categories. Such developments would enhance the transfer
of technology for the possible future introduction of nuclear
reactors for the development of an additional source of
energy.
that
institutional
Kenya is confident
the International Atomic
Energy Agency will provide assistance for the development
of
capacity and a nuclear-science-and-
technology development strategy, supported by well-
designed thematic programmes, appropriate logistics and
infrastructure.
In this regard,
“Programme 93+2”
My delegation is concerned about reported clandestine
nuclear programmes and the trafficking of nuclear
materials, which pose a serious threat
to regional and
international peace and security.
the
Government of Kenya welcomes the implementation of
Part 1 of
in strengthening the
effectiveness and improving the efficiency of the safeguards
system. The draft protocol currently under discussion in
Vienna is a good working basis for further negotiation
aimed at achieving a balanced legal
instrument of a
universal and non-discriminatory nature to provide better
assurance against the diversion of nuclear materials from
declared activities.
Finally, my delegation has noted with appreciation the
commendable initiatives taken by the Agency in ensuring
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
increased representation of developing countries on the
professional staff of the secretariat, which now exceeds
the 30 per cent target proposed by member States in
1981. My delegation also appreciates the increase of the
representation of women on the secretariat’s professional
staff, and expresses the hope that equitable geographical
representation will soon become a reality.
I shall conclude by expressing the conviction that
nuclear technology will play an instrumental role for
decades to come. The international community should
therefore continue the exploration of nuclear technology
for peaceful purposes with pragmatism, vision and
imagination as we approach the twenty-first century and
beyond.
Mr. Jose (India): We have listened attentively to the
report of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
presented by the Director General, Mr. Hans Blix, and we
have taken note of the contents.
In this, the fortieth year of its existence, we should
recall once again that this Agency was established with a
view to:
“accelerate and enlarge the contribution of atomic
energy to peace, health and prosperity throughout
the world”. (Statute of the IAEA, article II)
In these four decades, we have seen the Agency
evolve and grow into what is perhaps the most scientific
organization in the United Nations system. We note that
the Agency has been able to cross some important
milestones, including the setting up of model projects,
implementing the Partners in Development concept,
expanding several nuclear applications programmes,
setting up a Standing Advisory Group on Technical
Assistance and Cooperation as well as streamlining and
improving a number of ongoing programmes and
activities. We stress once again the need for countries to
pay their voluntary contributions
to the Technical
Assistance and Cooperation Fund on time and in full.
The Agency, however, has a long way to go if it is
to serve the cause of sustainable development, especially
in developing countries, to an appreciable degree. There
are still many who need to be convinced that nuclear
technology is the inevitable option for satisfying the
it
energy needs of developing countries and that
is
worthwhile
based
programmes and activities also in the fields of fresh
water, food, health and the environment. If we want the
nuclear-technology
supporting
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Agency to contribute to the creation of a better world, it
will need to pay the same importance to its promotional
activities as to its non-promotional activities.
As the Assembly is probably aware, the Regional
Cooperative Agreement for Research, Development and
Training Related to Nuclear Science and Technology (RCA)
arose out of the India-Philippines Agency Project, which
was essentially directed towards the utilization of existing
research reactors in the region. We feel that the time has
come to include the development of nuclear power within
the ambit of the RCA. We have always supported RCA
activities in view of its useful role in promoting regional
cooperation in the application of nuclear techniques in
medicine, agriculture and basic sciences and shall continue
to do so in the future.
spices, pulses, grains,
As one of the largest isotope producers in the world,
India has a deep commitment to the practice of nuclear
medicine. Most of the isotopes produced by India are used
within the country for medical diagnosis and therapy, either
as radiopharmaceutical or radiation sources for a wide
range of medical problems. The irradiation of onions,
potatoes,
seafood and other
foodstuffs, to preserve them and minimize losses due to
sprouting and insect and microbial spoilage, is one of our
national missions. The diversification of research and
into areas related to nuclear science and
development
technology has been one of
the hallmarks of our
programme. An interface with industry enables various
processes and prototypes developed by us to be transferred
to commercial applications.
We have accorded a primary position to safety in all
activities throughout the entire nuclear-fuel cycle, from the
prospecting and mining of ores to the management of
waste. Safety is an important subject for research and
development and dedicated groups of the Department of
Atomic Energy have been involved since the inception of
our programme in the continuous monitoring and upgrading
of systems based on our own experience and experience
gained from elsewhere. The Indian Atomic Energy
Regulatory Board, set up in 1983, meets prevailing
international norms of regulatory practice and has executed
well its function as watchdog over our nuclear programme
and other installations handling radiation. India was one of
the countries which signed the Convention on Nuclear
Safety when it was opened for signature and we are now in
the process of ratifying it. India supports and will continue
to support all IAEA activities to promote safety.
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
India has taken a keen interest in and has been
actively participating in the development and drafting of
the convention on the safety of
radioactive waste
management since mid-1995. Despite a large degree of
convergence on many of the issues that will be addressed
by this convention, we feel constrained to reiterate that,
for countries like India, whose nuclear programme is
based on a closed fuel cycle, it would not be possible to
consider including spent fuel in a convention dealing with
the safety of radioactive waste management. For us, spent
fuel is a resource, and not a waste. Furthermore, since
most of the environmental degradation and other effects
witnessed on a global scale have resulted from radioactive
waste from military activities, a convention on the safety
of radioactive waste management can ill afford to be
silent on such waste.
In recent years, a great amount of the Agency’s time
and energy has been expended on the question of
strengthening safeguards, the famous “Programme 93+2”.
We reiterate our expressed concern that the financial
implications of the Programme may turn out
to be
excessive; that overemphasis on the policing role of the
Agency is creating an imbalance in the attention and
resources devoted by the Agency to its promotional
activities; and that, by rushing headlong into the
Programme, the Agency may end up having bitten off
more than it can chew. We believe that, before the
Agency sets forth new goals, it should consolidate its
current work, implement fully the measures contained in
part I of the proposal, digest the lessons learned and make
a clearer assessment of the likely costs. Nevertheless, we
are ready to go with the consensus on this issue.
The coordinated research programmes,
training
programmes and technical meetings must increasingly
address more advanced areas of nuclear technology to
benefit the increasing number of developing countries that
are enhancing the level of sophistication and capabilities
of their respective national nuclear programmes.
As early as 1954, India was the first country to call
for a convention on a ban on the use of nuclear weapons
and a comprehensive action plan to achieve a world free
of nuclear weapons. Indeed, we have not only joined
every genuine effort
to ban all weapons of mass
destruction, but have also accepted every universally
negotiated and agreed obligation in this regard. India’s
commitment to the goal of the total elimination of nuclear
weapons remains steadfast and undiminished.
8
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Nuclear disarmament, we emphasize, is a global issue.
With 27 other countries members of the Conference on
Disarmament, India has presented a phased, step-by-step
proposal
leading within a specific time-frame to the
elimination of nuclear weapons. We shall continue to strive
with other
like-minded nations to achieve the long-
cherished goal of a world free of nuclear weapons.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm that India will
continue actively to support
the Agency’s efforts in
promoting and expanding the peaceful uses of atomic
energy for the benefit of people all over the globe.
Mr. Park (Republic of Korea): My delegation wishes
to express its deep appreciation to Mr. Hans Blix, Director
General of
the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA), for submitting the annual report of the Agency for
1995 and for the additional information he provided in his
oral report yesterday. We highly commend him and his
staff for their professionalism and outstanding performance
in carrying out their responsibilities.
The IAEA is entrusted with the dual mandate of
promoting the peaceful uses of atomic energy and of
implementing the safeguards provisions of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and other
international agreements. These twin missions of
the
Agency complement each other, as the worldwide nuclear
transparency fostered by the safeguards system is essential
to ensuring the wider peaceful uses of nuclear energy
throughout
the world. The Agency has made vital
contributions to strengthening public confidence on the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. From the perspective of
global security, the Agency’s indispensable role in the non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons cannot be overemphasized.
Let me first touch on the issues associated with the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. As a nation heavily
dependent on nuclear-power generation for its energy
requirements, with 11 power reactors in operation and six
under construction, the Republic of Korea attaches great
importance to the work of the Agency. We believe that
nuclear power will play an increasingly important role in
sustainable development as the most feasible and attractive
alternative to fossil
fuels, which have led to serious
environmental degradation. We also recognize great
potential for non-power applications of nuclear technology,
including in the areas of water resources management,
desalination, health and food production. For these reasons,
my Government has actively supported, and will continue
to support, the IAEA’s activities in these important areas
for the well-being of mankind.
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
We support the IAEA’s central role in the promotion
of
international cooperation in the areas of setting
standards and rules for nuclear safety. Addressing public
concerns regarding the safety of nuclear-power operation
and the environmental hazards of radioactive waste has
been the preoccupation of all Governments interested in
building nuclear-power
In this regard, we
welcome the entry into force of the Convention on
Nuclear Safety last week on 24 October as one of the
Agency’s major achievements, and we look forward to
the widest adherence possible to the Convention. As the
first legal instrument to directly address the safety of
nuclear-power plants worldwide,
the convention will
greatly enhance the international safety culture,
thus
facilitating the development of nuclear-power generation.
reactors.
We also look forward to an early conclusion of the
ongoing negotiations on a convention on the safe
management of
radioactive waste. The substantial
progress reported in efforts to strengthen the existing
regime of liability for nuclear damage should also be
welcome as a positive step towards enhancing worldwide
nuclear safety. We hope that these efforts will soon result
in a revision of the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability
for Nuclear Damage. It must be emphasized,
in this
connection, that international conventions on matters of
nuclear safety cannot replace the ultimate responsibility of
national Governments to ensure the safety of nuclear
activities within their own territory.
My Government attaches great importance to the
Agency’s technical cooperation activities as a means of
assisting sustainable development in developing countries
through the transfer of nuclear technology. While we
welcome new initiatives and approaches taken by the
Agency, such as the establishment of
the Standing
Advisory Group on Technical Assistance and Cooperation
and the introduction of the concept of model projects, we
also underline the importance of adequate funding for the
continued success of technical cooperation projects.
As a country that has greatly benefited from the
Agency’s technical cooperation programme, the Republic
of Korea is endeavouring to make a meaningful
contribution to the advancement of nuclear technology
and to the strengthening of IAEA technical cooperation
activities. We are actively supporting various IAEA
technical cooperation projects and are in the process of
establishing the International Nuclear Training Center in
our country. In hosting various Agency training courses
at the Center, we look forward to sharing with other
Member States our technical know-how accumulated in
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the areas of
maintenance of nuclear-power plants.
the design, construction, operation and
Let me now turn to the Agency’s safeguards activities.
The Republic of Korea has consistently supported the
strengthening of the safeguards system aimed at improving
the Agency’s ability not only to detect diversion of nuclear
material
from declared facilities, but also to provide
credible assurance of the absence of undeclared nuclear
facilities and activities. In this context, Korea is actively
participating in the implementation of Part 1 measures of
Programme 93+2 by making its facilities available for
environmental sampling.
At present, member States
and the Agency’s
secretariat are engaged in an extensive effort to develop
measures for further strengthening the safeguards system
under complementary legal authority. While we look
forward to a satisfactory conclusion of Part 2 measures, we
would like to emphasize that the legitimate concerns of the
States involved should be duly addressed, as long as these
concerns do not affect the main thrust of the strengthened
measures. Since Part 2 measures are aimed at improving
the efficiency of the safeguards system and at strengthening
its effectiveness, there also needs to be a balanced approach
to efficiency and effectiveness.
My Government shares the general concern about
trafficking in nuclear materials, which could
illicit
undermine hard-won achievements
in the Agency’s
safeguards activities. While there is no substitute for
efficient national systems for accounting and control,
especially in those countries possessing sensitive nuclear
material, in preventing illicit trafficking, we recognize the
crucial role the Agency can play in information-sharing and
in identifying the sources of stolen material. We also
welcome the programme for preventing and combating
illicit trafficking in nuclear material agreed upon by the
participants in the Moscow Summit on Nuclear Safety and
Security of April 1996.
North Korea’s long-standing non-compliance with its
safeguards agreement under the NPT remains a matter of
serious concern to the international community. My
delegation commends the IAEA Director General and his
staff for their impartial and faithful efforts to carry out the
Agency’s responsibilities under the safeguards agreement.
The 1995 annual report of the Agency and the Director
General’s oral report yesterday clearly outline the status of
this issue after all
the exhaustive efforts made by the
Agency and the international community to obtain North
Korea’s nuclear transparency. North Korea’s open and
10
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
to comply fully with its safeguards
persistent refusal
obligations poses a serious threat to the integrity and the
credibility of the global non-proliferation regime under
the NPT and the IAEA safeguards system.
the costs involved. However,
On the bilateral track of efforts towards resolving the
North Korean nuclear issue, we note that there has been
some progress in the implementation of the United States-
Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea Agreed
Framework. We share the view that
the Agreed
Framework, if fully implemented, will contribute to North
Korea’s denuclearization. That is why my Government is
playing a central role in the provision of two light-water
reactors to North Korea, with a commitment to share the
bulk of
it must be
emphasized again that the Agreed Framework does not
redeem or exempt North Korea from its multilateral
obligations under the NPT. My delegation therefore urges
North Korea to come promptly into full compliance with
its safeguards agreement with the Agency. Pending its full
compliance, we urge the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea to cooperate faithfully with the Agency in
preserving all
to verifying the
accuracy and completeness of North Korea’s initial report
on the inventory of nuclear facilities and material subject
to safeguards.
information relevant
My Government shares the view that reform of the
Agency’s Board of Governors is long overdue. We
strongly believe that article VI of the Agency’s Statute
should be amended without further delay in such a way
as to reflect,
the
fundamental structural changes which have occurred in
the international nuclear community over the past two
decades.
in the composition of the Board,
My delegation has joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution contained in document A/51/L.9, which was
introduced by the representative of Canada. We sincerely
hope that it will enjoy the overwhelming support of the
General Assembly.
Mr.
(Russian
Berdennikov
Federation)
(interpretation from Russian): The Russian delegation
expresses its gratitude to the Director General of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Mr. Hans
Blix, for his introduction of the Agency’s annual report,
which provides an impressive description of the activities
of the IAEA.
The Russian Federation supports in all possible ways
the priority activities of the Agency. We approve of
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
IAEA efforts under its Programme 93+2 to establish and
introduce an effective system for finding hidden nuclear
activity.
We are aware of the Agency’s great significance for
international cooperation in the use of atomic energy, and
in providing technical assistance to developing countries.
The past year can be described as one of the best in the
history of the IAEA with regard to the implementation of
technical cooperation programmes. Despite the complicated
economic situation, the Russian Government decided to
contribute 7.5 billion rubles in 1996 to the Technical
Cooperation Fund. We
the Russian
technical assistance and
contribution to the Fund for
cooperation will be used effectively.
anticipate
that
We are convinced that
IAEA programmes will
the conclusions of the Moscow Summit on
implement
Nuclear Safety and Security, especially as implementation
of these recommendations implies the widest and most
effective participation by international organizations.
Documents of the Moscow Summit have been issued as an
official United Nations document. The results of
the
Moscow Summit are also described in paragraph 1079 of
the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization as a welcome step in the right direction. They
were also given a positive assessment during the general
debate in plenary meeting and in the First Committee.
Confirming the significance of nuclear energy in
defining development strategy for the twenty-first century
was a starting point in the work of the Moscow Summit. At
the same time, however, the future of nuclear energy is
indissolubly linked to meeting ever-increasing safety
requirements. In this connection, the Moscow Summit made
a significant step forward in advancing specific programmes
for international cooperation to insure the operational safety
of nuclear power complexes.
This first of all involves projects to create safe nuclear
reactors for the twenty-first century. We hope that the
IAEA will promote the development of international efforts
in this area, with due regard to experience gained and to the
work successfully being done in Russia, France, Germany,
Japan, the United States and other countries to create such
reactors. The establishment of the international nuclear
safety centres in Russia and the United States is a major
step forward in fostering international cooperation in the
field of nuclear safety.
Secondly, it also involves solving complex problems
related to the safe and cost-effective utilization and disposal
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
of radioactive waste. In this connection, the IAEA has
already proved to be not only a coordinator, but also a
genuine driving force for the process of international
cooperation.
In our view, a global programme for
adequate radioactive waste management needs to be
developed by all countries that use nuclear energy. The
aim of such a programme could be not to increase the
volume of radioactive isotopes on our planet, together
with the intensive development of nuclear technologies.
The special federal programme of liquid and solid
radioactive waste management adopted in Russia reflects
the importance we attach to such activities. This
programme is now under way in northern and far-eastern
Russia. We hope that
the participation of northern
European countries, the United States and Denmark in
work under this programme will substantively step up its
implementation and will open the way for Russia very
soon to accede officially to the 1993 amendment to the
London Convention banning the dumping of radioactive
waste at sea.
implementation of
Thirdly, ensuring safety involves the development
and improvement of existing international legal regimes
for regulating activities in this domain. The entry into
force of the Convention on Nuclear Safety is an important
stage in this process, and Russia has already started
its provisions. Also of
practical
considerable importance in this connection is
the
elaboration — possibly with the participation of all States
possessing nuclear installations and technologies — of
multilateral facilities to resolve the problems of liability
for nuclear damage. The IAEA is playing an important
role in this area. As is known, Russia has signed the
Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear
Damage; preparations for its ratification are now under
way.
an adequate
The need for
response by the
international community to the persisting world risk of
nuclear-weapons proliferation is a key element in insuring
nuclear security. Russia highly appreciates last year’s
decision of the Review and Extension Conference of the
States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which decided by consensus to
extend the Treaty indefinitely. That decision, together
with the signing of the recent Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty consolidated the basis for international
stability and security and created an additional element to
strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
Of great
importance,
in our view, could be the
beginning of negotiations on a non-discriminatory and
universally applicable multilateral agreement on the
prohibition of the production of fissile materials for nuclear
weapons and other nuclear explosive devices.
The strengthening of the non-proliferation regime and
insuring nuclear security involve a reliable curbing of illicit
trafficking in nuclear materials. It is noteworthy that after
the Moscow Summit, which adopted a programme for
preventing and combatting illicit
trafficking in nuclear
material, such action was given high priority among United
Nations activities related to disarmament, and, in particular,
the portion of the medium-term plan for the period 1998-
2001. This fundamentally important provision is also
adequately reflected in the draft resolution under discussion,
and in the IAEA report. We hope that draft resolution
A/51/L.9/Rev.1 will be adopted.
interest
is of great
Mr. Edwards (Marshall Islands): The topic before us
is one that
to the Republic of the
Marshall Islands and it is for that reason that we have
supported and co-sponsored the draft resolution on this
issue since our first year as a United Nations Member. We
are proud to be able to do so again this year. In this regard,
we wish to see all interested delegations working together
with the sponsors to find an outcome that is true to the
facts and that can accommodate all delegations. We think
that, this year, the sponsors have done an admirable job and
we have no difficulty giving draft resolution A/51/L.9 our
wholehearted support. For the same reasons, we will not be
able to support
the amendments proposed to the draft
resolution.
expedition was
My delegation has noted the many activities of the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), as reflected
in its report. The Agency has now concluded the collection
of samples from the nuclear-weapon test sites in French
Polynesia. The
11
distinguished scientists and we are encouraged by the fact
that they appear to have been given fairly good access to
the test sites. However, as my delegation pointed out in the
First Committee, much work is still required and we feel
that the French authorities could be helpful in allaying our
fears that
lasting damage has been done in French
Polynesia. We call on them to assist in expediting the
dissemination of the report.
conducted
by
The Marshall Islands has reported to the General
Assembly that the South Pacific Forum has once again
reaffirmed the existence of a special responsibility towards
the peoples of the Marshall Islands, a former United
12
during
the Trusteeship
Nations Trust Territory administered by the United States,
who had been adversely affected by nuclear-weapon tests
conducted
period. That
responsibility included the safe resettlement of displaced
human populations and the restoration of affected areas to
economic productivity. Members are aware that this is a
matter of extreme importance to the Marshall Islands and
we are very concerned that urgent progress needs to be
made. The acknowledged role of
the international
community is now being given a presence in the Marshall
Islands through the visiting mission of the IAEA. The
mission met with President Kabua to give him a complete
briefing on the scope and nature of the Agency’s visit to
the Marshall Islands. My Government welcomes the
Agency’s open and transparent manner of conducting its
work, since it ensures that there are no false expectations
on either side.
I am unable to give any report from the Marshall
Islands side on our assessment of that visit by the
Agency. I can assure the General Assembly that we made
sure that the limited facilities we could provide were
extended to the fullest to accommodate the Agency. We
made sure that the Agency had access to all the damaged
nuclear-weapon test sites in the Marshall Islands, as well
as to the current storage site on Runit Island in Eniwetok
Atoll in the Marshall Islands. That is merely a concrete
dome covering a large amount of topsoil that was scraped
off some of the test sites. The dome has not been
monitored for a very long time and we are concerned
about the safety of the site. We feel that the Agency, as
part of its work with the Marshall Islands, will be able to
give us better information upon which to plan our future
responses to that site.
The other task of the visiting mission is to make, in
conjunction with my Government, an overall assessment
of the situation in the Marshall Islands. I can assure the
Assembly that my delegation will tender a full report of
our own to ensure that
transparency and
cooperation remain the main feature of our cooperation
with the IAEA.
the utmost
Mr. Bergh (South Africa): South Africa is pleased
once again to be a sponsor of the draft resolution on the
report of
the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). My delegation would like to thank the Director
General of the IAEA for his statement and to commend
the Agency for its work over the past year. During that
period, we have seen forward movement in global non-
proliferation and disarmament,
significant
adoption by the General
achievements being the
the most
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
and the signing of the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone
Treaty, the Pelindaba Treaty, at Cairo. It is with regard to
the latter that we would like to express our appreciation to
the Director General for his initiative in arranging a special
briefing on the Pelindaba Treaty for African Governments
at Cairo on 12 April 1996, in which he highlighted the
benefits of
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and
technology. The briefing was welcomed and appreciated by
all delegations.
In our view, the Agency is succeeding well in carrying
out its own particular mandate and we feel that the report
for the year 1995, as well as the statement of the Director
General that we heard yesterday, clearly show that all
important facets in the field of nuclear technology are
currently being covered by the Agency. The Agency is fully
engaged in promoting the further application of nuclear
energy for peaceful purposes and we are pleased to have
been able to participate fully in the whole range of
activities organized and administered by the Agency. We
are very conscious of the range of activities that
this
mandate encompasses,
from ensuring that developing
countries are assisted in their efforts to benefit from nuclear
technology and all its applications to providing the whole
range of services in assisting all members to improve their
nuclear related procedures, regulations and research and
through to implementing the safeguards provisions of the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
In the area of developing conventions and maintaining
and improving safety standards, perhaps
the most
significant development was the entry into force last week,
on Friday, 24 October, of the Convention on Nuclear
Safety. I am pleased to be able to say that the South
African Parliament will consider the ratification of the
Convention at
in a
fortnight, South Africa will act as host to the open-ended
group of legal and technical experts on a convention on the
safety of radioactive waste management, another important
convention that should be finalized in the next year.
its current session. Furthermore,
There have been many developments of interest in the
field of nuclear technology and in the activities of the
Agency over the past year, but I would like to focus on two
activities that we consider to be particularly important. In
the first place, in the field of technical assistance, we note
the high degree of success that the Agency has achieved in
implementing technical-assistance projects and we would
like to commend the Secretariat for its efficiency in
administering those projects. South Africa, has for the first
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
time, submitted projects of its own for consideration by
the Department of Technical Cooperation, projects that we
believe will be beneficial not only to South Africa but to
the southern African region as a whole. In the past year,
South Africa has served as the Chairman of the countries
members of the African Regional Cooperation Agreement
for Research, Training and Development Related to
Nuclear Science and Technology (AFRA), which is the
regional organization charged with developing projects of
benefit to the whole region and largely financed from the
Agency’s budget for technical assistance.
We feel that this work is particularly important, and
have in fact devoted additional resources, funding and
expertise to the furtherance of its goals over and above
our contribution to the Technical Cooperation Fund. We
commend AFRA to the consideration of donor countries
and we hope that its important work will continue to
expand.
On the question of resources for technical assistance,
my delegation wishes to state that South Africa will
ensure that its own contribution remains fully in line with
the targets set by the Board of Governors. We are,
however, concerned at the fact that the vast majority of
the funding paid to the Technical Cooperation Fund
comes from a handful of donor countries and that not all
countries that could easily afford to do so in fact
contribute to the Fund. We feel also that a number of
developing countries whose own share of the Fund’s
target is relatively modest but which are often substantial
beneficiaries of
the Agency’s expertise and project
funding could be more supportive. Our Ambassador in
Vienna has accepted the task of chairing the working
group on the funding of technical assistance and will
devote much attention to seeking solutions to this
problem.
I would also like to draw the attention of the
General Assembly to the undertaking by all
those
Members which have signed the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to the issue of
technical assistance and recall the commitment made at
the NPT Review and Extension Conference,
in
paragraph 19 of the Principles and objectives for nuclear
non-proliferation and disarmament that every effort should
be made to ensure that the IAEA has the financial and
human resources necessary in order to meet effectively its
responsibilities in areas such as of technical cooperation.
My delegation expresses
its appreciation to those
the Agency, both donor countries and
members of
that are currently meeting their
developing countries,
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
commitments, and I appeal to those who are able to do
more to rise to the challenges that face the Agency,
especially as it prepares itself for the next millennium.
look
forward
new year; we
Moving on to the subject of safeguards, my delegation
participates in the work of the committee that is currently
examining the draft protocol to strengthen the efficiency
and improve the effectiveness of the safeguards system. The
committee has been making progress, and although this has
not been as fast as we would have wished, we are
nevertheless hopeful that it can conclude its work early in
the
speedy
implementation of
the protocol. We are particularly
attracted by two main features: the first is the improved
ability that the protocol will give to the Agency to detect
activities which pose a proliferation risk. We regard this as
particularly important,
should be
implemented without delay. At the same time we are very
conscious of the need to contain costs, and we are therefore
also attracted by the idea of improving efficiency. We hope
that with the introduction of methods such as environmental
sampling, the need for frequent and expensive safeguards
inspections can be cut down, thus leading to savings.
and feel
that
it
to
the
Finally, my delegation would like to thank the
Director General of the IAEA, Mr. Hans Blix, for his able
leadership, and we express our regret at his decision not to
seek renewal of his contract.
Mr. Campbell (Australia): In lending Australia’s
strong support to the draft resolution before us on the report
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), a text
which we join in sponsoring, I would like first to thank the
Agency’s Director General, Mr. Blix, for his comprehensive
statement, one which underlined the vital role of the IAEA
in preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and in
promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We would
also like to thank Mr. Blix for his excellent stewardship of
the Agency.
Australia strongly supports the International Atomic
Energy Agency. We have traditionally been at the forefront
of supporters of the draft resolution on the IAEA report.
We place great value on the IAEA’s
international
safeguards and technical cooperation activities, activities
which underpin the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The international community
reaffirmed the importance accorded to them by deciding to
extend the NPT indefinitely at the Review and Extension
Conference in 1995.
14
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
Australia is of course delighted at the adoption of
the resolution on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty (CTBT) last month and the opening of the CTBT
to signature. We have at last brought nuclear testing to an
end not only in our region but in all regions. We would
like to take this opportunity to record our appreciation to
the IAEA for the support it provides to the International
Advisory Committee’s study of the radiological situation
at two atolls in the South Pacific — Mururoa and Fanga
Taufa. Australia is represented on the International
Advisory Committee and looks forward to the study
producing some concrete answers about the effects of
nuclear testing in the South Pacific region.
This year’s draft resolution highlights once more the
important work being done by the Agency in a number of
fields: safeguards, technical assistance, nuclear safety,
radiological protection and radioactive waste management,
among others. In all these fields the IAEA makes a vital
contribution to international security and non-proliferation,
and to social and economic development. The Agency’s
activities in these fields deserve our continuing strong
support.
Extension Conference. We welcome
The draft resolution also highlights the important
measures and decisions the IAEA has taken to strengthen
the safeguards system. This was an important element of
the decision on Principles and objectives for nuclear non-
proliferation and disarmament adopted at the NPT Review
and
the
implementation of a series of measures under Programme
93+2 under existing legal authority. We earnestly hope
that the current negotiations in the IAEA to conclude a
model protocol to comprehensive safeguards agreements
for measures requiring additional legal authority can be
finalized as early as possible. States will remember the
commitment made at the NPT Review and Extension
Conference to support decisions adopted by the IAEA’s
Board of Governors to work at further strengthening the
effectiveness of Agency safeguards and to increase the
Agency’s
capability to detect undeclared nuclear
activities.
We would urge States to meet that commitment
through working without delay towards the conclusion of
the negotiations on the 93+2 model protocol
in the
knowledge that this will help ensure that the IAEA’s
safeguards system can serve the fundamental security
interests of States by strengthening its ability to detect
undeclared activities. Further, the conclusion of those
negotiations will be an important contribution to a
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
successful launching next year of preparations for the year-
2000 NPT review and extension conference.
agreement on a text of this resolution. We are grateful for
their support and cooperation in this endeavour.
We very much regret that it has been necessary again
this year for the draft resolution to record the continuing
non-compliance and lack of full cooperation on the part of
two States with their safeguards agreements with the
Agency. We urge those States, Iraq and the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea, to extend their full, unfettered
cooperation to the Agency. These cases of non-compliance
underline once again the importance of strengthening the
safeguards system.
Technical cooperation is a central element of the
Agency’s activities. It
is also an important means of
enabling access by developing countries to the peaceful
uses of nuclear energy under appropriate safeguards. This
is in keeping with article IV of the NPT and with the
Agency’s Statute. This, too, was recognized in the decision
of the NPT Review and Extension Conference on Principles
and
and
disarmament. Australia has long been a supporter of the
IAEA’s technical cooperation activities, and we welcome
the measures being introduced to improve and strengthen
their effectiveness. We also welcome the entry into force on
24 October 1996 of the Convention on Nuclear Safety.
non-proliferation
objectives
nuclear
for
Finally, Australia is pleased to reiterate its support for
the resolution before us, which takes note of and endorses
the activities of an important
the
IAEA. The resolution as a whole gives clear United Nations
General Assembly support for the IAEA and for its central
role in the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
international agency,
The President: I now call on the representative of
Canada to introduce draft resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1.
amendments.
Mr. Snell (Canada): On behalf of the co-sponsors,
Canada is pleased to present a revised draft resolution,
A/51/L.9/Rev.1, on the report of the International Atomic
Energy Agency. This revised draft is the result of extensive
consultations among the co-sponsors and interested parties
to incorporate the concerns of some Member States over
proposed
document
A/51/L.9/Rev.1 incorporates the ideas expressed in two
proposed amendments, contained in documents A/51/L.10
and A/51/L.12. I am pleased to be able to inform you that
as a result of these consultations the delegations of Egypt
and Israel have agreed to withdraw documents A/51/L.10
and A/51/L.12 respectively. On behalf of the co-sponsors,
I would like to express our gratitude to these two
delegations for their efforts in working with us to achieve
particular,
In
Finally, Canada is pleased to put forward this revised
draft on behalf of the co-sponsors. We truly believe that
it
the widest number of
supporters. We hope that this resolution will be adopted
with the broadest possible support.
that can attract
is a text
The President: In the light of the statement made
by the representative of Canada concerning draft
resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1,
the
amendments contained in documents A/51/L.10 and
A/51/L.12 have been withdrawn and therefore should not
be put to the vote.
understand
that
I
I now call on the representative of Iraq to introduce
resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1
to draft
the amendment
contained in document A/51/L.11.
Mr. Hamdoon (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic):
It is my pleasure to introduce the amendment of Iraq,
contained in document A/51/L.11, to the draft resolution
presented by Canada under agenda item 14, entitled
“Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency”,
contained in document A/51/L.9/Rev.1.
Before introducing our amendment, I would like to
reiterate our position once again on the draft resolution
submitted under this item. Such draft resolutions should
focus on the technical aspects of
the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and should
commend its efforts in areas within its competence. Any
attempt to use this item for political aims will not only
harm targeted States but also undermine the neutrality of
the IAEA. This situation becomes more dramatic when
such draft resolutions are used as a pretext for continuing
the starvation of an entire nation.
the work of
The coercive measures imposed on Iraq by the
Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations mandated the IAEA with specific tasks.
The IAEA submits its reports on these tasks to the
Security Council regularly. These attempts to go beyond
the conclusions contained in the IAEA report will
undermine the credibility of the IAEA and should be
halted. Operative paragraph 7 of the draft resolution is a
clear example of attempts to undermine the assessments
of the IAEA contained in its semi-annual report submitted
to the Security Council on 7 October 1996 in document
S/1996/833. Operative paragraph 7 contains an inaccurate
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
and unfair assessment of Iraq’s implementation of its
obligations, and I would like to cite a few examples.
Firstly, this paragraph calls upon Iraq to cooperate
fully with the IAEA, while the IAEA report states the
following:
“The Iraqi counterpart has continued to cooperate with
the IAEA in a productive way.” (S/1996/833, para.
28)
Secondly, operative paragraph 7 expresses concern that
The IAEA report does not refer to the past. The draft
resolution should therefore not seek to justify the
continuation of the blockade by referring to events that
have already been addressed.
Fourthly, operative paragraph 7
“stresses that
continue to exercise its right to investigate”.
the Agency’s Action Team will
This is an incomplete and out-of-context quotation from
paragraph 28 of the IAEA report, which begins by stating
that:
“Iraq failed to provide
7 July 1996 to the Agency’s Action Team”.
immediate
access on
This is not accurate. Paragraph 8 of the report of the IAEA
describes the case as follows:
capable'
“On 7 July 1996, the fifth such multi-disciplinary
inspection of a
site met with some
difficulties in gaining immediate access to the site.
The facility to be inspected was a factory building
located inside an army camp. On arrival at
the
entrance gate, the joint IAEA-UNSCOM team was
advised that the facility was an installation of the
Special Guards and as such was considered to be a
sensitive site. Hence, the UNSCOM modalities for
inspection of sensitive sites' were to be applied. The
team was kept at the gate for approximately two hours
waiting for the arrival from Baghdad of a high-ranking
Iraqi officer, before being granted access and allowed
to proceed with the inspection. No indication of
prohibited equipment, materials, or activities was
detected.” (ibid., para. 8)
It is clear from this paragraph that there was no delay,
but that on the contrary the modalities for the inspection of
sensitive sites agreed upon between the United Nations
Special Commission (UNSCOM) and Iraq on 22 June 1996
were implemented.
This paragraph confirms that the inspection found no
indication of prohibited equipment, material or activities.
Thirdly, operative paragraph 7 states that Iraq
“has previously withheld from the Agency information
about its nuclear weapons programme in violation of
its obligations under
relevant Security Council
resolutions”.
16
IAEA continues with
“The
rigorous
implementation of its plan for the monitoring and
verification of Iraq’s compliance with the relevant
Security Council resolutions”. (S/1996/833, para. 28)
the
Hence, the draft resolution should contain a reference to
the efficient and vigorous implementation of the ongoing
monitoring plan.
Fifthly, operative paragraph 7 omits any reference to
many positive developments contained in the IAEA
report, such as the following, in paragraph 28:
“In the period since the last report to the Council,
the IAEA has not seen instances of activities, or the
presence,
in Iraq, of equipment or materials
proscribed by those resolutions.” (ibid.)
The draft resolution also omits any reference to
paragraph 29 of the IAEA report, which states:
“All quantities of special nuclear material (highly
enriched uranium or plutonium) found in Iraq have
been removed, and the industrial
infrastructure
which Iraq had set up to produce and weaponize
special nuclear material has been destroyed.” (ibid.,
para. 29)
All these references substantiate the huge difference
between operative paragraph 7 of the draft resolution and
the assessment of the IAEA contained in its report. The
political reasons behind that are crystal clear and known
to all.
For
these reasons, my delegation proposes an
amendment to the draft resolution by replacing operative
paragraph 7 with the following:
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
“Also commends the Director General of the
Agency and his staff for their strenuous efforts in the
implementation of Security Council resolutions 687
(1991) of 3 April, 707 (1991) of 15 August and 715
(1991) of 11 October 1991, and supports
the
contained in the
conclusions
consolidated semi-annual
the Director
General of IAEA submitted to the Security Council on
7 October 1996 (document S/1996/833), and calls
upon Iraq to continue its cooperation with IAEA in
achieving the complete implementation of the relevant
Security Council resolutions;”.
and assessments
report of
This new paragraph respects the assessment of the
to
IAEA and adds nothing to it. We therefore appeal
Member States to support it.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in the
debate on this item.
I should like to announce that since the introduction of
the draft resolution, the following countries have become
co-sponsors of draft resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1: El Salvador
and Iceland.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/50/L.9/Rev.1 and the amendment thereto contained in
document A/51/L.11.
Before calling on the first speaker in explanation of
vote before the voting, may I remind delegations that
explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should
be made by delegations from their seats.
I now call on those representatives who wish to make
statements in explanation of vote before the voting.
Mr. Kim Chang Guk (Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea): The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula
originated with the United States, which has deployed
nuclear weapons in South Korea and has created nuclear
suspicion of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Therefore, we hold the consistent position that the
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is not a matter to be
brought to the United Nations. The Agreed Framework
signed in October 1994 by the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea and the United States eloquently
demonstrates that the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula
is a political one to be settled between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States.
the settlement of
The nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula will be
definitively resolved only when the DPRK-United States
Agreed Framework, stipulating ways and means for and
the time of
fully
implemented. The kernel of the Agreed Framework is
confidence-building between the DPRK and the United
States, the provision of light-water reactors by the United
States and the freeze on graphite-moderated reactors. The
principle of
in the
implementation of this Agreed Framework.
action is vital
simultaneous
the issue,
is
Since the first days of the DPRK-United States
Agreed Framework,
the DPRK has been faithfully
fulfilling its obligations to freeze its nuclear facilities.
And the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is
cooperating with the IAEA in routine and ad hoc
inspections of the nuclear facilities that are not subject to
the freeze. However, the officials of the IAEA are making
things complicated by disregarding the DPRK-United
States Agreed Framework and by bringing up subjects
that should be dealt with only when a sizeable portion of
the light-water reactors are provided.
The IAEA officials are putting forward unreasonable
demands. They know very well that the DPRK-United
States Agreed Framework cannot be implemented in one
or two years. We cannot interpret these demands in any
other way than as an indication of their intention to drag
the nuclear issue back to its original starting point by
putting the brake on the implementation of the Agreed
Framework. If the United Nations were to take sides with
the IAEA officials,
that would disregard the Agreed
Framework and force unreasonable demands upon us. It
would only imperil
the DPRK-United States Agreed
Framework.
In order to eradicate the root cause of the nuclear
issue on the Korean peninsula, it is essential to build
confidence between the DPRK and the United States by
fully implementing the Agreed Framework, which
stipulates the replacement of graphite-moderated reactors
with light-water reactors and the normalization of political
and economic relations between the DPRK and the United
States. Both parties have agreed that within three months
of the signing of the Agreed Framework, they will reduce
trade and investment barriers, including lifting restrictions
on communications services and financial transactions. To
build confidence between the DPRK and the United
States, the United States should fulfil the commitments of
the Agreed Framework,
current
confrontational relations into a relationship based on trust.
turning the
thus
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The continued unfriendly policies of certain countries
towards the DPRK does not help the settlement of the
issues on the Korean peninsula. The draft resolution is
intended to put pressure upon us, although it has become
clear to everyone that the implementation of the Agreed
Framework between the DPRK and the United States is
indispensable for the settlement of the nuclear issue on the
Korean peninsula. It will only endanger the implementation
of the Agreed Framework rather than help settle the nuclear
issue. We cannot but interpret it as a reckless attempt on
the part of certain indecent forces that are hell-bent on
putting the brakes on the implementation of the Agreed
Framework. If they are really concerned over the nuclear
issue on the Korean peninsula, they should try to contribute
to creating a favourable environment for the implementation
of the DPRK-United States Agreed Framework. Therefore,
the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea will vote against the draft as a whole.
Mr. Kumar (India): As a member of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) since its inception in 1957,
India has consistently attached the highest importance to the
objectives of the IAEA. We actively participate in the
activities of the Agency. Since this draft resolution pertains
to the activities of the IAEA as a whole, to which we attach
great value, we would go along with it. However, we have
considerable difficulty with preambular paragraph 3. The
language of preambular paragraph 3 in the draft resolution,
contained in document A/51/L.9,
indicates a linkage
between adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the freedom to engage in
research on, produce and use nuclear energy for peaceful
purposes. Article II of the IAEA Statute reads:
”The Agency shall seek to accelerate and enlarge the
contribution of atomic energy to peace, health and
prosperity throughout the world. It shall ensure, so far
as it is able, that assistance provided by it or at its
request or under its supervision or control is not used
in such a way as to further any military purpose.”
(Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency,
article II)
Furthermore, article IV C states:
“The Agency is based on the principle of
the
sovereign equality of all its members”. (ibid., article
IV C)
The purpose of these articles in the IAEA Statute is
obviously to encourage unfettered access of member States
to peaceful
any
discrimination whatsoever.
energy without
of nuclear
uses
18
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
Any perceived discrimination will have an inevitable
consequence on member States’
response to their
obligations to the Agency. The NPT is not a universal
Treaty and cannot be used to create a differential among
members of the Agency. By implying that adherence to
the NPT, on which my Government’s views are well
known, has a bearing on access to peaceful uses of
atomic energy,
the draft resolution deviates from the
objectives enshrined in the Statute. We have therefore
been constrained to call
for a vote on preambular
paragraph 3 and shall vote against it.
appears
to
simplify
by Iraq
Mr. Robinson (United States): The amendment
operative
proposed
paragraph 7 of the draft resolution. But the reality is that
it does so in an inaccurate and unbalanced manner. For
the first time this year, the Agency’s report on Iraq notes
a few positive aspects of
Iraqi behaviour, while
continuing to list a number of areas in which Iraq has
refused to meet its obligation.
The text proposed by the sponsors, while inaccurate
in one respect, as we explained in our statement
reflects a careful and generally accurate
yesterday,
balance of the most
important positive and negative
elements in the report. By contrast, the Iraqi amendment
tries to pretend that there is no negative statement about
Iraq’s behaviour in the Agency’s report, and that Iraq’s
cooperation was complete. Instead of simply endorsing all
of the findings of the report, an approach we could have
agreed to, it takes a single positive finding out of context,
as if that were the only important information in the
report.
This is the third year in a row that
the Iraqi
representative has asked the Assembly to adopt language
referring to Iraq’s continued cooperation. The Iraqi
argument that it was cooperating with the IAEA was false
24 months ago, coming at a time when Iraq was
concealing hundreds of thousands of pages of documents
on its nuclear programme from IAEA inspectors. It was
a false argument 24 months ago, when Iraq was still
providing purposely inaccurate information in its so-called
full, final and complete declarations, and there is nothing
in the Agency’s report to indicate that Iraq has cooperated
fully. In fact, the Agency’s report noted
“the IAEA’s opinion that
complete
record of
(S/1996/833, para. 26)
Iraq still
retained a
the nuclear programme”.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
I urge my colleagues to vote against this inaccurate
the carefully
and one-sided amendment and to support
balanced language proposed by the sponsors.
Mr. Ladsous (France) (interpretation from French):
An amendment has been proposed on operative paragraph 7
of the draft resolution. The terms of this amendment accord
with the report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
and its conclusions. France supports the actions of the
Agency, and wishes to see Iraq continue to cooperate with
that body in order
comprehensive
implementation, without delay, of the relevant resolutions
of the Security Council.
to ensure
the
France, as a co-sponsor of the draft resolution, will
support operative paragraph 7 as it stands. For that reason,
France will abstain in the voting on this amendment.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
explanation of vote before the voting.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1 and on the amendment thereto,
contained in document A/51/L.11.
In accordance with rule 90 of the rules of procedure,
the Assembly will first vote on the amendment circulated
in document A/51/L.11.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic
Indonesia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Nigeria, Sudan, United Republic
of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zimbabwe
of Korea,
Against:
Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Belgium, Bosnia
and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany,
Greece, Grenada, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel,
Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Liberia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives,
Marshall
Islands, Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Papua New
Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic
Saudi Arabia,
of Moldova, Romania,
Samoa,
Italy,
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
South Africa, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern
of America,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Zambia
Ireland, United States
Abstaining:
Albania, Bahrain, Belarus, Belize, Benin, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, France, Ghana,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India, Jamaica, Kazakstan,
Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Madagascar, Mali, Mexico,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Myanmar, Niger,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Russian
Federation, Saint Lucia, San Marino, Sierra Leone,
Sri Lanka,
Thailand,
Venezuela
Tajikistan,
Suriname,
The amendment was rejected by 71 votes to 11, with
41 abstentions.
The President: The General Assembly will now
vote on draft resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1.
A separate, recorded vote has been requested on the
third preambular paragraph.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Egypt,
Cyprus,
Ecuador,
Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belarus,
Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Czech Republic, Denmark,
Croatia,
Djibouti,
El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Myanmar,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic
Federation,
of Moldova, Romania, Russian
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic
of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
India, Indonesia, Israel
Abstaining:
Bahamas, Belize, Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea, Dominican Republic, Micronesia (Federated
States of), Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Sierra Leone,
Sudan, Vanuatu
The third preambular paragraph was retained by 123
votes to 3, with 11 abstentions.
The President: The Assembly will now vote on draft
resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1, as a whole.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Canada, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica,
Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakstan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
20
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova,
Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Samoa,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Lebanon
Abstaining:
China, Cuba, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Micronesia (Federated States of), Sudan, Syrian
Arab Republic, Vanuatu, Viet Nam
The draft resolution, as a whole, was adopted by
141 votes to 2, with 8 abstentions (resolution 51/10).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Sudan advised the
Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour on
the third preambular paragraph; the delegations of
Angola, Bhutan and Vanuatu had intended to vote in
favour of the draft resolution as a whole]
I
statements
The President:
shall now call on those
in
representatives who wish to make
explanation of vote. May I
remind delegations that
explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should
be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Abou-Hadid
(Syrian Arab Republic)
(interpretation from Arabic): My delegation abstained in
the vote on draft resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1. It did so
because Israel did not accede to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). That is why it
was not possible, despite the efforts made by the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and in
particular by its Director General, Mr. Hans Blix, to make
the Middle East a nuclear-weapon-free zone. Israel is the
only country in the region that has not yet acceded to the
Treaty. Furthermore,
it has no
intention of acceding to it or of submitting its installations
to the safeguards regime of the IAEA. This represents a
danger for the region and for the entire world.
it has declared that
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
is
Israel’s obstinate refusal
likely seriously to
jeopardize international peace and security. We hope that
the efforts of the international community will result in a
successful attempt by the IAEA to persuade Israel to accede
to the NPT so that the Middle East region can, like other
regions of the world, become a nuclear-weapon-free zone,
thereby contributing to the maintenance of peace and the
establishment of peace and security in the region and
throughout the world.
regional groups, we support
With regard to the thirteenth preambular paragraph on
the composition of
the
comments of the representative of Egypt on article VI of
the Statute of the Agency. We must take into account the
fact that, in accordance with that paragraph, the accession
of one State to a regional group is subject to the approval
of all the States of that regional group.
Mr. Seydou (Niger), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We should like to add that Israel must first of all
accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT), since this is a sine qua non condition and
a prerequisite for any attempt by Israel to associate itself
with the region. We believe that the region is, in fact,
governed by the NPT. Therefore, Israel must respect the
natural order of things and not put the cart before the horse.
(China)
(interpretation
Mr. Sha Zukang
from
Chinese): The Chinese delegation expresses its appreciation
to the International Atomic Energy Agency for the work it
has done over the past year. On the whole, we are satisfied
with the report of the Agency. In a new international
situation, the Agency has made important contributions to
promoting the peaceful use of nuclear energy and
international cooperation in that
implementing
safeguards supervision and preventing the proliferation of
nuclear weapons. We expect the Agency to continue its
efforts in these areas.
regard,
The Chinese delegation supports most of the content
of the resolution entitled “Report of the International
Atomic Energy Agency”. However, we cannot agree with
certain portions of the resolution, especially the contents of
operative paragraphs 6 and 7. China has always believed in
the
and
consultation on an equal footing. To exert pressure through
such a resolution is not only not conducive to the settlement
of problems, it can only further complicate them. Besides,
the Chinese delegation has reservations with regard to
certain resolutions of the Board of Governors and the
through dialogue
of problems
settlement
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
General Conference of the Agency mentioned in the
resolution.
Based on the above position, my delegation
abstained on draft resolution A/51/L.9/Rev.1.
Mr. Pham Quang Vinh (Viet Nam): The General
Assembly has just taken action on a draft resolution on
the report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA), which covered the work of the Agency in 1995.
My delegation attaches great importance to the work of
the IAEA in promoting the application of nuclear energy,
for peaceful purposes, expanding cooperation, especially
technical assistance relating to the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy, and ensuring that nuclear energy is used
only for peaceful purposes. The IAEA,
through its
activities and programmes for cooperation and the
application of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, has
been contributing greatly to the economic development of
countries and to the well-being of peoples in the world.
In particular, the Agency has rendered valuable assistance,
both technical and material, to developing countries to
meet their special needs in the application of nuclear
energy for peaceful purposes and economic development.
safety,
The IAEA plays an important role in ensuring
effective implementation of the safeguards system. The
IAEA has also made great contributions in its efforts to
ensure nuclear
radiological protection and
radioactive waste management, thus helping to minimize
risks to life, health and the environment. My delegation
supports extending the high appreciation of the General
Assembly to the IAEA for its work. We are in agreement
with the many positive comments expressing appreciation
of the work of the Agency contained in the resolution just
adopted.
Each year the General Assembly considers this item
“Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency”. The
main thrust of this task is and should have been to
express the Assembly’s appreciation of and support for
the overall work of the Agency. As such, due caution
should be shown to issues over which divergent views
still exist in the Agency. However, part of the resolution
contains provisions
implications
regarding the principles of the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of States. This is a fundamental principle derived
from the Charter of the United Nations and international
law which,
in our view, must be upheld in all
circumstances.
that have
serious
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
While we highly appreciate the noble task undertaken
by the IAEA, my delegation, bearing in mind the principles
of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
States, has regrettably therefore been obliged to abstain in
the voting.
equality, regardless of whether or not a member State of
the Agency is a State party to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Therefore, Israel had
to vote against the third preambular paragraph of the
resolution.
Mr. Danesh-Yazdi (Islamic Republic of Iran): I am
taking the floor to explain the position of my delegation on
the draft resolution (A/51/L.9/Rev.1). We voted in favour
of the draft resolution. However, we have reservations
regarding the thirteenth preambular paragraph and operative
paragraph 3.
On the thirteenth preambular paragraph regarding the
classification of member States in regional groups, it is our
firm belief that the grouping of member States should be
consistent with a determination for continued progress in
the work of the Agency and, accordingly, that the member
States of each region should make the final decision on
accepting new members in their groups. On operative
paragraph 3, regarding the strengthening of the safeguards
system, my country fully supports this initiative and
participates actively in the work of the committee entrusted
with drafting the protocol. However, we believe that the
protocol should enhance international cooperation in the
peaceful uses of nuclear technology and that it should not
be limited only to those countries that already have full-
scope safeguards agreements with the Agency. Rather, it
should commit all States parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, without any exception.
Mr. Yativ (Israel): I wish to explain Israel’s vote on
the resolution entitled “Report of the International Atomic
Energy Agency”. First, however,
let me express my
gratitude and that of my delegation to the co-sponsors for
their efforts to accommodate Israel’s contribution to the
preamble of this resolution that has just been adopted. As
far as the Egyptian contribution to the preamble is
concerned,
the
workshop on verification technologies
that will be
sponsored by the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) is not connected in any way to the resolution on the
application of IAEA safeguards in the Middle East that was
adopted at the last IAEA General Conference.
let me reiterate Israel’s position that
Israel’s vote in favour of the resolution as a whole
represents its appreciation of the professional work of the
IAEA on various subjects under its jurisdiction. However,
in reference to the third preambular paragraph of the
resolution, it is our firm position that the application of
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes should be conducted
as described by the Statute of the Agency, on the basis of
22
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): My delegation voted in
favour of this resolution, our position being influenced of
course by the spirit and letter of the Pelindaba Treaty,
which the Kingdom of Swaziland had the honour to
ratify. Accordingly, we would
some
transparency be seen to be prevailing among all the States
that are nuclear producers so that the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) can be seen to
be respected and honoured by all the Member States of
the United Nations.
urge
that
Mr. Hasan (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): Our
delegation did not participate in the voting since our
contribution was not paid in due time as a result of the
full embargo against Iraq under the resolutions of the
and
Security Council
on
Contributions did not
for
deferment of the payment of the contribution until the
embargo is lifted.
the Committee
request
respond to our
since
If we had had the right to vote, we would have
voted against operative paragraph 7 of the draft resolution
because it undermines the credibility of the IAEA. We
would have voted against
the resolution as a whole
because it contains this unbalanced paragraph, operative
paragraph 7, which exploits the draft resolution on the
IAEA for political purposes,
that of
perpetuating comprehensive sanctions against Iraq. This
also applies to the thirteenth preambular paragraph of the
revised draft resolution.
in particular
I should like to thank those countries that voted in
favour of our proposed amendment. I should also like to
thank those countries that abstained. We consider such
abstentions as a rejection of the language and unbalanced
formulations contained in operative paragraph 7.
Mr. Abdel Aziz (Egypt): I would like to begin by
expressing sincere appreciation to the co-sponsors,
particularly to the delegation of Canada, for their efforts
to accommodate our proposal along with the proposals of
Israel contained in the revised version of the draft
resolution.
The delegation of Egypt abstained on the amendment
presented by Iraq in document A/51/L.11 to operative
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
paragraph 7 of the draft resolution for one very essential
reason: the specific paragraph relating to Iraq in the draft
resolution should reflect a balance between the positive and
the negative aspects of the matter, which has been very
accurately reflected in the report of the Director General on
this subject, as well as in the resolution adopted by the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on this matter
at its last General Conference in September 1996.
If the amendment presented by Iraq, as contained in
document A/51/L.11, concentrates only on positive aspects,
we consider that operative paragraph 7 in its current
formulation does not accurately reflect the delicate balance
between positive and negative aspects, particularly as
outlined by the Director General in his report and as stated
in the IAEA resolution on the subject suggesting more
positive than negative aspects. Despite that, we voted in
favour of
the resolution as a whole to confirm our
continued support to all aspects of the IAEA’s activities.
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
While we are committed to the goals of non-
proliferation, we believe that access to nuclear energy for
peaceful purposes is the right of all States. This view was
also endorsed by the international community in the Final
Document of the First Special Session of the General
Assembly Devoted to Disarmament.
Pakistan therefore cannot accept any linkages on this
issue.
Mr. Sriyono (Indonesia): With regard to the
separate vote on the third preambular paragraph of the
draft resolution, my delegation would like to put on
record that
the third
preambular paragraph as it stands.
Indonesia voted in favour of
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The Secretariat will take note of your statements.
the Conference’s
As regards the explanation of vote just made by the
representative of Israel concerning the sixth preambular
paragraph, Egypt would like to stress that the statement
made by the President of the IAEA General Conference at
its fortieth session on the safeguards workshop was adopted
under
entitled
“Application of the Agency’s safeguards in the Middle
East”. This matter can be confirmed if we look to the final
text of this statement, as reflected in one of the Agency’s
official documents, and the representative of Israel can note
that the title of agenda item 23 is indeed “Application of
the Agency’s safeguards in the Middle East”.
item 23,
agenda
Mr. Amer (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): Our delegation voted in favour of the draft
resolution contained in document A/51/L.9/Rev.1 but I
would like to state that
the thirteenth preambular
paragraph had been put to a separate vote, our delegation
would have voted against that paragraph.
if
Mr. Moubarak (Lebanon)
(interpretation from
French): I would simply like to state that my delegation
had intended to abstain and through a technical error the
red button was pressed. I would therefore like to have my
comments included in the records of the meeting. Lebanon
abstains in the voting on this draft resolution.
Mr. Babar (Pakistan): Pakistan abstained on the third
preambular paragraph, which links cooperation for peaceful
uses of nuclear energy with reciprocal commitments to
legally binding agreements on nuclear non-proliferation.
We have therefore heard the last
in
explanation of vote.
shall now call on those
representatives who wish to speak in exercise of the right
of reply.
speaker
I
May I remind members that, in accordance with
in
General Assembly resolution 34/401,
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for
the first intervention and to five minutes for the second
intervention and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
statements
Mr. Kim Chang Guk (Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea): I speak in exercise of the right of
reply to the representatives of Japan, Ireland, the United
States and other countries who referred to our country.
My statement
is to help in the understanding of the
gravity of the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula.
at
every stage of
The Agreed Framework between the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States clearly
stipulates our obligations
the
implementation of the Agreed Framework with regard to
cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). Considering our special status in the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), we are
cooperating with the IAEA far beyond our obligations
stipulated in the Agreed Framework.
As is well known, the nuclear issue on the Korean
Peninsula is a grave political and military issue which
affects the peace and security of the Peninsula as well as
that of the whole world. It cannot be left in the hands of
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
the IAEA, a technical institution. The nuclear issue on the
Korean Peninsula can only be resolved between the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) and the
United States, not by the IAEA.
implemented, these bilateral arrangements constitute a
supplement to the global non-proliferation regime and can
contribute to the ultimate resolution of the North Korean
nuclear issue.
The arguments by certain countries that the DPRK is
not cooperating with the IAEA and is not implementing the
obligations of the IAEA-Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea Safeguards Agreement are all aimed at hindering the
implementation of the Agreed Framework.
They may think it is fashionable to pick on the DPRK
whenever nuclear issues are debated in the international
arena. This, as they must know, is very dangerous for the
implementation of the Agreed Framework.
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea-United
States Agreed Framework is not based on trust and
confidence, but on the principles of simultaneous actions by
both parties. We are not going to accept any of the
prejudiced and one-sided urgings and pressures placed upon
us.
They should also know that we are not going to
shoulder the obligations unilaterally. The attempts of those
countries to create pressure upon the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea will hinder
than help the
settlement of the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula.
rather
As
for
the
statement by the South Korean
representative, I am not going to respond, because the
South Korean authorities are traitors to the nation and the
criminals who brought United States nuclear weapons into
the living grounds of our nation. But, at the same time, they
have no say on the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula.
I will therefore disregard the South Korean representative,
whose words are not worth a dime. Sometimes dogs bark
at the moon.
Mr. Chun (Republic of Korea): North Korea has
again attempted to use the Geneva Agreed Framework with
the United States as an excuse for non-compliance with the
Safeguards Agreement under the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). This excuse does
not make sense.
as
arrangement,
The United States-DPRK Agreed Framework is a
the North-South Joint
bilateral
Declaration on the Denuclearization of
the Korean
Peninsula, entered into by the two Korean sides. North
Korea, of course, has bilateral legal obligations to abide by
fully
both arrangements. We have no doubt
that,
is
if
24
that
statement
is in this context
the Security Council
of
4 November
However, it must be remembered that we are dealing
here with the North Korean nuclear issue in the context
of North Korea’s multilateral obligations under the NPT.
in its
It
presidential
1994
(S/PRST/1994/64) — acting
the Agreed
Framework — underlined that the Safeguards Agreement
remains binding and in force, and declared that it looked
to the DPRK to act upon it. It also noted with satisfaction
that the Agreed Framework is a positive step in the
direction of denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and
maintaining peace and security in the region.
upon
For the sake of the credibility and integrity of the
nuclear non-proliferation regime and the IAEA safeguards
system, it is incumbent upon the United Nations, as a
central organ with global responsibilities and competence,
to draw attention to the only case of continuing, open
non-compliance with the safeguards obligations in the
entire world.
We reiterate our position that bilateral agreements
cannot replace, supersede or detract from North Korea’s
multilateral obligations to all States parties to the NPT.
We once again urge North Korea to come promptly into
full compliance with its safeguards obligations under the
NPT,
in addition to its compliance with the Agreed
Framework and the North-South Joint Declaration on the
Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.
Let me also say a word or two on the form and style
of the North Korean representative’s remarks, especially
in connection with his unfortunate but deliberate choice
of words. We regret the conspicuous lack of restraint and
civility in the language he has chosen to use in this Hall.
The hostility we have all just witnessed is sadly typical of
the way North Korea reacts whenever reference is made
to issues to which it has given rise.
The many delegations like ours that are accustomed
to North Korea’s intemperate rhetoric may regard it as a
free source of entertainment, but other delegations that are
not used to it may feel as if they have just heard the snarl
of a cold-war dinosaur they had thought long extinct or
an outburst of an alien from another planet.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
However, it must be pointed out that North Korea’s
slanders against the Republic of Korea are not only a
demonstration of the credibility the North Korean remarks
deserve. They are also a studied affront to the more than
180 countries that have diplomatic relations with the
Republic of Korea and the Member States that have elected
my country to serve in important United Nations organs.
It is deplorable that North Korea persists in the same
old confrontational behaviour, and it is all the more so in
the light of my Government’s commitment to the provision
of two light-water reactors, costing billions of dollars, to
North Korea and our shipment of 150,000 tons of rice to
feed the starving North Korean people. This is indeed a
case of
feeds them and
demonstrates only how distant and isolated they have
become from the rest of the world.
their biting the hand that
The North Korean delegation’s blatant and persistent
disregard of the accepted norms and minimum standards of
decency expected in this kind of international gathering
only highlights the nature and degree of desperation of the
regime it represents. We wish to remind our North Korean
colleagues that they need no further publicity for what they
represent. It is no secret that the North Korean regime relies
for its survival on a totalitarian system of control and an
anachronistic personality cult, sustained by subjecting its
people to a virtual state of slavery, by denying them the
most fundamental human rights, by supporting international
terrorism and by all the other accompaniments of a failed,
rogue State.
However, if the North Korean leadership’s desperation
and paranoia have become so acute as to drive it to abuse
shamelessly the dignity of the Assembly and to hurl insults
at the Republic of Korea as well as at the good conscience
of the international community, it causes one seriously to
wonder about its regime’s future viability.
Let me conclude with a word of advice to our North
Korean colleagues: If they ever expect to be regarded and
treated as anything other than a pariah in the international
community, they would benefit from a serious effort to
conform their language and behaviour to the generally
accepted norms and minimum standards of decency
expected in a civilized world. They must keep in mind that
North Korea is its own worst enemy, alienating and
repulsing other States with the policies of self-imposed
isolation and ideological dogmatism.
Mr. Kim (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea):
I have once again heard the barking of the dog. South
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
Koreans live in a colony. They have no rights at all in
their own country, because they are occupied by a
suzerain State.
I should like to explain our position once again. The
South Korean representative’s action in this Hall
is
indecent. We are debating a nuclear issue. His statement
is on human rights, and he is even attacking our country’s
socialist system. He is using this meeting to slander our
country. This is the indecent act of South Korean dogs.
They are now trying to put
the brakes on the
implementation of the Agreed Framework between the
United States and our country because they are very much
afraid that we will improve bilateral relations with the
United States over their heads. They are therefore hell-
bent on putting the brakes on the implementation of the
Agreed Framework.
its
The Agreed Framework is welcomed by the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the
Security Council. It stipulates clearly our obligations at
every stage of
implementation with regard to
cooperation with the IAEA. They also well know that the
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula cannot be solved as
long as the Agreed Framework is not
implemented.
Therefore,
the brakes on the
implementation of the Agreed Framework are intended to
halt settlement of
issue on the Korean
peninsula.
their attempts to put
the nuclear
At
the
time,
it
they
talk
same
about
the
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, but they have
no say at all with regard to the nuclear issue on the
Korean peninsula. We have tried to implement
the
Declaration, but since the South Koreans have no say
with regard to United States nuclear weapons,
is
meaningless to have this kind of declaration between
ourselves and South Korea. The first step should be taken
between us and the United States. When the Agreed
Framework
denuclearization
Declaration will be implemented automatically. Therefore,
the South Korean authorities should not try to slander our
country in the Assembly by taking up human rights
issues.
implemented,
the
is
As for human rights, they have a national security
law that prohibits the South Korean people from meeting
anyone from the North. They are arresting any person
who exchanges even one word with us. The South Korean
security law is the only such privative law in the world.
25
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Mr. Chun (Republic of Korea): North Korea has
again resorted to the intemperate remarks typical of their
usual practice. I do not feel a need to point out
the
irrelevance of those remarks here. We will disregard them
and dismiss them as senseless and absurd.
I should merely like to emphasize once again that
slandering the Republic of Korea in the manner in which
43rd plenary meeting
29 October 1996
North Korea does, especially with such words as “colony”
or “dog,” demonstrates not only the absurdity of North
Korea’s allegations but is also, as I said earlier, a studied
affront to all the countries that have diplomatic relations
with the Republic of Korea and the Member States that
have elected my country to important United Nations
organs.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to conclude its
consideration of agenda item 14?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
26
