United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
52nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 5 November 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.52
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 8 (continued) and 17 (continued)
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and other
elections
(a) Election of the members of the International Law
Commission
Documentation for the election of members of the
International Law Commission
The President: This morning the General Assembly
will first turn its attention to the question of documentation
for the election of members of the International Law
Commission.
As announced at our previous meeting, I should like
to consult the Assembly on a matter regarding the election
of members of the International Law Commission to be
held on Monday, 11 November. On that day, the Assembly
will proceed to the election of 34 members of
the
Commission whose term of office is to commence on 1
January 1997. It should be recalled that, in accordance with
the statute of the International Law Commission,
the
Secretary-General communicated to the Governments of
Member States,
the list of
candidates submitted within the required time for the
submission of nominations — that is, by 1 June 1996. The
in document A/51/177,
statements of the qualifications of the candidates are
contained in document A/51/178.
Subsequent
to that date,
the Secretary-General
received additional information concerning candidates as
well as new candidatures. The names of these new
candidates and additional information are to be found in
documents A/51/177/Add.1-6 and A/51/178/Add.1.
Under these circumstances, it is necessary for the
General Assembly to take a decision as to whether these
new candidatures should be accepted in spite of the
submission of their names subsequent to the deadline and
whether they should be incorporated into a consolidated
list of candidates.
the
Assembly to incorporate such late submissions into a
consolidated list.
It has been the practice of
If I hear no objection, I take it that it is the wish of
the General Assembly to request the Secretary-General to
issue such a consolidated list of candidates.
It was so decided.
The President: The consolidated list of candidates
will be issued as document A/51/653.
96-86712 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Agenda item 44 (continued)
Implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s
Report of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole of
the General Assembly for the Mid-term Review of
the Implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
(A/51/48)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/228 and
Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/51/48, sect. IV)
Mr. Kiwanuka (Uganda): Allow me first of all to
Permanent
thank Ambassador Hisashi Owada,
Representative of Japan and Chairman of the Ad Hoc
Committee of the Whole of the General Assembly for the
Mid-term Review of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s, for the successful
conduct of the review of the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF).
We also thank the other members of the Bureau — namely
the representatives of Belgium, the Czech Republic, Gabon
and Guyana — and,
the delegations whose
active participation helped to enliven the debate on African
development and thus made an invaluable contribution to
the review process.
indeed, all
The social, economic and political circumstances and
conditions in which African countries find themselves
today, the loaded agenda for international cooperation for
development, and the ongoing efforts to define a people-
centred and environmentally acceptable road to economic
growth and development, among other factors, lend a high
degree of complexity to a process such as the one that has
just been completed. The outcome of such a process,
therefore, will necessarily be a mixed bag that attempts to
respond to the expectations of all.
is with these
considerations in mind that Uganda welcomes and endorses
the outcome of the mid-term review of UN-NADAF.
It
The conclusion of the mid-term review, in a nutshell,
is that UN-NADAF remains largely unimplemented and that
the socio-economic conditions that prompted the launching
of the United Nations Programme of Action for African
Economic Recovery and Development in 1986 and the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa
in the 1990s have persisted. Nevertheless, there has been
some progress towards economic recovery, gross national
2
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
product growth rates of up to 6 per cent being attained in
a handful of African countries. Overall, poverty and
unemployment will increase substantially while official
development assistance continues to decline in real terms
and the debt burden remains unsustainable. While we
recognize primary responsibility for our development, a
decisive breakthrough, as in the case of most developing
countries, depends on a high degree of external support
and on a favourable external economic environment.
The New Agenda expires in the year 2001. The most
optimistic assessment and projection would have to
conclude that it is not possible to deliver on all the
commitments undertaken by Africa and the international
community in UN-NADAF. The approach of the mid-
term review was to identify the key critical areas and to
make concrete recommendations on what tangible actions
can be undertaken in the five remaining years. We believe
this is a practical approach. However, contingent upon the
final evaluation in the year 2002, we might have to
seriously chart the course beyond this decade.
In doing this, we will have to take due cognizance
of the programmes of action of the major international
conferences and summits held so far. These global
conferences have increased awareness of the fundamental
relationships between peace, development, environmental
sustainability, social equity and justice as well as between
participation, good governance and democracy. Most
African countries have accepted these basic paradigms
that must inform sustainable development. At the global
level,
the international community must match this
renewed awareness with action consistent with the
commitments entered into at the conferences. This is not
only a moral imperative, but good common sense in a
world that
is increasingly without boundaries and in
which our destinies are inextricably interlinked.
it
follow-up
for
arrangements
into programmes,
the
We applaud the commitment undertaken at the mid-
term review to effect urgent measures to accelerate the
implementation of UN-NADAF. In order to translate this
is necessary to
commitment
reinvigorate
the
implementation of the New Agenda. At the national level,
it is necessary that Governments work hand in hand with
the United Nations system and the donor community to
integrate these undertakings into the country cooperation
frameworks. At
the Economic
Commission for Africa must ensure that the undertakings
in the areas of subregional and regional cooperation and
integration are promoted through essential
transport,
communication and trade projects, among others. At the
the regional
level,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
global level, we believe that the enhanced involvement of
the Secretary-General in advocacy for African development
as well as in the sensitization of the key players — African
Governments, the funds, programmes and agencies of the
United Nations system, the Bretton Woods institutions, the
trade institutions and the donor community — would
definitely give added impetus to the implementation of the
contribution of non-
New Agenda. Likewise,
the
governmental actors, an aspect
that received deserved
attention during the mid-term review, is most welcome.
Mr. Minoves-Triquell (Andorra) (interpretation from
French): What is happening in Africa? In 1960 the future
belonged to it. The energy and pride of the new generation
ready to take matters in hand seemed to guarantee an
economic and social development that would be worthy of
its ancient and numerous peoples. In 1990, social upheaval,
AIDS, debt, lack of investment, poverty, unemployment and
the decline of the social fabric and of democracy seemed
too widespread to be mere side-effects of a development
process that was slow to materialize.
The end of apartheid in South Africa seemed to offer
a new impetus, together with other events in Africa. I
remember how moved I was when that great country
resumed its seat in the General Assembly in June 1994 and,
speaking on behalf of the Western European and other
States, I had the great privilege of welcoming it here.
As my colleague from Canada, Mr. Fowler, pointed
out at yesterday afternoon’s meeting, in 1996 the recovery
of Africa is very much on the agenda. African leaders are
increasingly embracing democratic practices; they are aware
of the requirements of economic pragmatism to bring their
countries out of the tunnel. The time for idealistic optimism
is over in Africa; now is the time for optimism driven by
will. The time of major programmes and major financing
has passed. In Africa now, the time has come for targeted
programmes and effective and responsible economic and
fiscal policies.
However, the Principality of Andorra, a small State
with limited resources, has a feeling of solidarity with
Africa. We are very close, just across the Mediterranean.
Above all, we are convinced that the development of the
world depends on the development of Africa. Shame on
humanity if the twenty-first century sees the collapse of
Africa. Andorra contributes what it can to the development
of the continent. Andorran doctors and nurses are working
there in cooperation programmes. Andorran teachers are
training young Africans; for example, our Ambassador in
Paris, Madame Mateu, has often spoken to me of the years
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
teaching in a high school
in Cameroon.
she spent
Moreover, my country has tried every year to increase its
direct assistance for development
through the United
Nations. And I must not forget the contribution of the
Andorran non-governmental organizations dedicated
specifically to this.
The
report of
the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s calls for strengthening education
systems by improving basic skills for further learning and
expanding educational opportunities for all, particularly
girls and women. We might reflect on the fact that in the
developing countries, where 84 per cent of the world’s
population between 15 and 24 years of age lives, more
than 100 million new jobs need to be created in the next
two decades to absorb the growing numbers of active
young people. These young people need to be given the
necessary means to contribute to the development of their
countries. First of all, they need to be trained for the jobs
and professions required to relaunch their countries’
economies, which calls
for a clear analysis and
development strategies at both the State level and also —
very important — the local community level. The schools
and universities must,
teaching,
propagate the primacy of the universal human rights of
men and women, as provided in Article 29 of the
Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the spirit of
democracy.
through their
then,
At
one
advocated
of Andorra
the Social Summit
in Copenhagen,
of
the
the
Principality
commitments, on dialogue between generations.
It
considers that a true partnership must be forged between
the young and older people in order to ensure that the
African heritage is passed on intact and at the same time
to foster the ideas that can guide Africa to success in the
twenty-first century.
Mr. Mwakawago (United Republic of Tanzania): I
welcome the opportunity to address the Assembly on the
important item entitled “Implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in
the 1990s”. The development of Africa has, for the last
decade been a preoccupation in the work of
this
Assembly,
from the special session in 1986 which
adopted the United Nations Programme of Action for
African Economic Recovery and Development
to the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF) today. While such
efforts have been expanded to address Africa’s
development problems, the circumstances that led to the
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
adoption of UN-PAAERD and UN-NADAF are as valid
today as they were in 1986 and 1991. In fact, social and
economic conditions have actually deteriorated over the past
decade.
alleviate the debt problem, further measures are necessary
to address effectively, and in a comprehensive manner,
the problems of heavily indebted low-income developing
countries, particularly those in Africa.
Although Africa faces enormous problems, it has the
potential for growth and development. That is why it has
embarked on an ambitious reform process aimed at
harnessing that potential and in the full recognition that its
development is, in the final analysis, its own responsibility.
In that regard the continent has seized the challenge and
African countries have committed themselves to implement
policies and programmes aimed at creating an environment
conducive to growth and development. This has enabled
Africa to halt the deteriorating trend and in many cases to
register modest growth. This is but the beginning, which
can only be sustained if there is a supportive international
environment in terms of increased financial resources and
other mechanisms.
Increased resources are critical if the process of reform
to be sustained. We need this
and restructuring is
particularly because progress in Africa is beneficial not
only to the African people. Given the interdependence of
the world’s economies, the whole of mankind stands to
benefit from such progress. This has been duly recognized
in the New Agenda. Needless to say, the report of the Ad
Hoc Committee for the mid-term review of UN-NADAF
which is before us also attests to this point.
We believe that for Africa’s development efforts to be
meaningful, there is a need for the international community
to come together in partnership with Africa to address, in
a comprehensive manner, the problems facing the continent
and to find lasting solutions. There is also an urgent need
to review the determination and commitment to implement
UN-NADAF so as to enable Africa to achieve social and
economic development goals. In that regard, we welcome
the United Nations System-wide Special
Initiative on
the Initiative will provide an
Africa. We hope that
additional
of
UN-NADAF.
operationalization
impetus
the
for
One of the steps that can facilitate the realization of
the goals and objectives of UN-NADAF is to address the
debt burden of most African countries. Africa’s external
indebtedness increased from $300 billion in 1991 to $322
billion in 1995, an 8 per cent increase over four years. With
such an unsustainable level of external indebtedness, it is
obvious that any efforts undertaken to generate capital
needed for development will not succeed. Therefore, in
addition to the significant steps taken by the creditors to
4
continues
As we enter
to widen. This
the gap between Africa
the sixth year of UN-NADAF
and the
implementation,
developed countries
is
manifested in increasing levels of poverty, declining terms
of
trade, declining levels of official development
assistance, lack of progress in the transfer of technology,
and, above all,
in the downgrading of the issue of
development from its priority place on the international
agenda. In this context, it is our view that for Africa’s
development efforts to bear fruit, there is an urgent need
that
to create a conducive international environment
would
official
development assistance.
substantial
increase
in
include
a
Commodity trade remains the major source of
earnings in all African countries. In this regard,
the
impact of the implementation of the Uruguay Round —
considered a landmark in world trade — on countries in
Africa is still ambiguous, particularly in the areas of
market access, agriculture and the erosion of preferential
treatment for Africa’s commodity exports. As we move to
implement the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules
relating to commodities, there remains a pressing need, at
least in the transitional stage, to safeguard the preferential
treatment that Africa enjoyed under the Lomé Convention.
This would enable Africa to adjust
to economic
diversification, which it must do if it
is to build its
competitiveness in world markets.
The forthcoming ministerial meeting of the World
Trade Organization, scheduled for December 1996 in
Singapore, will be another opportunity to monitor and
review the Uruguay Round’s impact on countries in
Africa. The Singapore meeting should not, therefore, be
used to address new issues. While some of these issues
may be legitimate, we believe that
there are other
competent bodies within the United Nations system that
can address them more comprehensively than the rule-
setting mechanism of the WTO. We therefore hope that
the Singapore meeting will be allowed to devote full
attention to the review of the implementation process of
the Uruguay Round agreements.
This is all the more necessary when we consider that
Africa’s efforts to restructure and reform governmental
laws and procedures in order to attract more foreign direct
investment have not borne fruit. Indeed, the argument that
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
shortfalls in official development assistance have been
compensated for by increased foreign direct investment
flows to developing countries has not held true in the case
of most African countries.
By and large, Africa lacks the resources needed to
undertake all
the necessary restructuring and build an
infrastructure that can attract and support sustained flows of
foreign direct investment. Even in the rare cases where such
infrastructure has been instituted, foreign direct investment
has not been forthcoming, at least not at a rate and levels
that could have a positive impact and enable Africa to make
an economic turnaround. This is due partly to the hesitancy
of investors to venture into new and untested markets,
notwithstanding the statistical fact that the level of return on
investments in Africa is one of the highest. But
this
hesitancy could be a result of deep-seated prejudices
engendered by the propaganda that Africa is a continent in
which instability and conflict are endemic. In some cases,
conflicts have plagued individual African countries. But
these are very few.
We therefore hope that it will be possible for Africa’s
development partners to assist in supporting UN-NADAF,
both in the mobilization of the resources needed to set up
the
the
sensitization process, and to cast away the negative images
that stand in the way of increased flows of foreign direct
investment.
investment-sustaining
infrastructure
and
in
In conclusion, last September the General Assembly,
through its Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole and under the
able chairmanship of Ambassador Owada, concluded the
mid-term review of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s. The outcome of this
review reveals that many of the critical social and economic
problems that led to the adoption of UN-NADAF in 1991
still exist. In some countries, the problems have worsened.
The estimated resource mobilization levels in UN-NADAF
are still far from being attained, and key development goals
have yet to be met. In this regard, the mid-term review of
the New Agenda reaffirms and underscores the mutuality of
commitments and the need for Africa and the international
community to take urgent and concrete action, as
recommended in the review.
believe
The New Agenda is a framework for global
partnership that needs our collective political will to work.
We
and
determination, the recommendations contained in the report
of
the Whole will be
implemented.
the Ad Hoc Committee of
political will
that with
greater
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
Mrs. Cornette (Guyana): My delegation was pleased
to participate in the work of the Ad Hoc Committee of
the Whole of the General Assembly for the Mid-term
Review of the Implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s,
which met in September this year to examine the progress
made under the Agenda and to determine the actions that
need to be taken for the remainder of the decade. The
Committee was fortunate to have as its Chairman His
Excellency Ambassador Hisashi Owada of Japan, whose
diplomatic experience and skills were in large measure
responsible for the successful completion of a most
engaged exercise.
The report of the Committee that is before us is
testimony to the hard work, dedication and spirit of
compromise of all the parties concerned — the African
countries and the international community. Inevitably, the
outcome in such circumstances is less than all may have
wished. Nonetheless, the review does provide a solid
basis for the accelerated implementation of the New
Agenda and for strengthening the spirit of partnership and
shared responsibility that has imbued it from the start.
The task before us, however, is far from easy. As the
review Committee itself has underlined, many of the
critical social and economic problems that led to the
adoption of the United Nations Programme of Action for
African Economic Recovery and Development in 1986
and of the New Agenda in 1991 still exist and, in some
countries, have even worsened.
To cite but one example of the challenges that lie
ahead, it is reported that unless decisive action is taken to
address the issue of food security, an estimated 700
million to 800 million people worldwide will remain
chronically food-deprived by the year 2010. In sub-
Saharan Africa alone, the number of people so affected is
expected to rise to 300 million, or over half the total
population of that region. The obstacles to food security
are said to include inadequate agricultural production,
high levels of population growth, limited resources and
high rates of poverty and unemployment — all of which
are expected to increase in sub-Saharan Africa — and
budgetary
the
development of physical infrastructure.
constraints
adversely
affect
that
As we have done on previous occasions, my
delegation urges a strong response from the international
community that is commensurate with Africa’s efforts to
secure full food security. The timely opportunity of the
World Food Summit, to be held in Rome later this month,
to pledge full commitment to eliminating hunger from the
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
continent should not be lost. Renewed international support
is also critical
in other areas of the Agenda, such as
resource flows, external debt and trade, in order to achieve
the broad objectives of the Agenda and the integration of
Africa into the world economy.
the belief not only that
My own country, Guyana, has long been pledged to
supporting Africa’s efforts of economic recovery and
development. This solidarity with the African people is
born of
they deserve our
cooperation but also that their circumstances affect all of us
in the developing world. We therefore stand on the side of
African States in their current economic difficulties because
we understand, and to a great extent share, some of the
difficulties they now confront.
in which their
The assessment of UN-NADAF, which was completed
last September, afforded all countries, developed and
developing, the opportunity to look in a balanced manner at
ways
interests can be harmoniously
reconciled for the benefit of both. It enabled us to reflect on
the policies not only of Governments but also of the
international institutions which give them advice. Donors
and recipients
together examined the adequacy and
effectiveness of official development assistance. Equally,
we attempted to measure the contribution that non-
governmental organizations make in the development
process, and sought
to encourage them to take further
initiatives of support.
As we counselled then, we submit once again that it
is advisable that we listen to Africa’s own views on the
implementation of the New Agenda. We believe the African
people are the best judges of the situation and are therefore
most able to say what else needs to be done. On the basis
of this approach and a frank, constructive analysis of the
records, we have striven to recognize the positive
achievements, to demonstrate the courage to admit our
failures and to devise new strategies for accomplishing our
goals. Having identified these obstacles, which continue to
frustrate progress, and wherever possible having made firm
recommendations for overcoming them, we must now
swiftly implement the actions necessary to give effect to
those recommendations.
The deposit of the fiftieth instrument of ratification of
the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification
in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or
Desertification, particularly in Africa, almost immediately
in the wake of the review is a welcome development. Full
support by the international community is essential in order
to operationalize its provisions. I am pleased to announce
6
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
right now my own Government
is positively
that
considering early accession to the Convention. We also
welcome the recent initiative of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) to deal with the
burden of heavily indebted poor countries, and urge its
expeditious and flexible implementation.
May I say in closing that UN-NADAF is linked to
the broader Agenda for Development which we are in the
process of negotiating. The lessons drawn from the
review will benefit not only Africa but
the entire
international community. We must now turn our full
attention to the expeditious implementation of the New
Agenda. With renewed effort, we believe that the African
predicament can be significantly alleviated, if not solved,
by the end of the next decade.
Mr. Diagne (Senegal) (interpretation from French):
We are gathered here once again to discuss the economic
situation in Africa, but one must wonder what there is to
be said or done. This being a debate on the development
of Africa,
the delegation of Senegal considers that
everything, or practically everything, has already been
said. The analysis has been made, the goals have been set
and the means to achieve them have been identified.
More than ever before, the time for professions of faith is
definitely behind us; the time has come for action.
Only a few weeks ago, the mid-term review of the
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF)
allowed us to measure the remarkable progress achieved
by African countries at the political, economic and social
levels to create and strengthen the conditions necessary
for
sustainable
development in the continent. This progress is all the
more significant as it has taken place at an accelerated
pace over a relatively short period of time and despite an
international economic environment that is unfavourable
in many respects.
economic
sustained
growth
and
its
to
of
the
part
responsibilities
While Africa has done everything possible to meet
its commitments since the establishment of UN-NADAF,
the facts show that the international community has yet to
shoulder
under
UN-NADAF. Whereas a minimum of $32 billion was
required
official
development assistance, paradoxically, has fallen to all-
time lows. Despite the policies of liberalization and fiscal
reforms, the flow of private capital towards Africa is still
too weak. In this regard, the report of the United Nations
(UNCTAD)
Conference on Trade and Development
programme,
implement
the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
related to world investments during 1996, stresses that out
of the $315 billion spent globally, only $5 billion was
devoted to Africa.
year
Likewise,
in a document on the United Nations
System-wide Special Initiative on Africa issued in March
this
Secretary-General
emphasized that Africa is the only region in the world
where poverty is expected to increase during this decade —
the very decade dedicated to the elimination of poverty.
(E/ECA/CM.22/5),
the
Now is not the time for promises but for action. The
failure five years ago of the United Nations Programme of
Action for African Economic Recovery and Development
(UNPAAERD) should serve as a lesson and warning. Our
recent past
international
community has shown its will to do something, it has met
the challenges of situations more demanding in terms of
financial resources than UN-NADAF.
that whenever
shows
the
It is the profound conviction of my delegation and, no
doubt, of all other African delegations that our continent
does not want to be enclosed within the vicious circle of
assistance and debt. On the contrary, what Africa expects
from its partners is the opening of real opportunities so that
it can take its place in the world trade and economic
system. The definitive settlement of
the debt crisis,
assistance in the diversification of commodities in Africa
and the lifting of customs barriers and other protectionist
measures which hinder access of our products to external
markets are measures which could help us
in our
development efforts.
Africa is a continent with enormous potential. Its
recovery and economic growth would be a factor in
stimulating the world economy. It is only with a true spirit
of solidarity, complementarity and partnership that the goals
of UN-NADAF can be achieved. This is how my delegation
views and supports the draft resolution before us.
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to congratulate
His Excellency Ambassador Owada of Japan for his
personal efforts and those of his Government and for the
extraordinary work accomplished in the mid-term review
UN-NADAF. We also wish to thank and congratulate the
other leaders of the Ad Hoc Committee.
Mr. Andjaba (Namibia): While the mid-term review
of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF) might have given hope
for an improved socio-economic situation, it has, among
others things, raised concern about Africa’s development
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
prospects. Five years after the international community
entered into a renewed partnership with Africa, the road
remaining to be covered for
the implementation of
UN-NADAF is much longer. On the whole, we in Africa
have democratized, reformed and restructured. Yet, during
the mid-term review, we found that,
than
improving,
has
deteriorated, as the targets set are far from being achieved
and resources are still lacking.
rather
countries
situation
some
the
in
What
therefore,
is needed now,
is not only an
analysis of the well-known socio-economic problems that
confront Africa, but also a process for implementing the
recommendations made during the mid-term review, so as
to complement Africa’s efforts in forging ahead with its
own development.
It is in this context that my delegation welcomes the
outcome of the mid-term review, including the Secretary-
General’s report, contained in document A/51/228/Add.1,
on estimates of projected resource requirements. We also
express our thanks and appreciation to the officers of the
Ad Hoc Committee for their efforts in steering the
deliberations to a fruitful conclusion.
that
On general resource mobilization,
the mid-term
review identified the factors
impede Africa’s
achievement of development objectives. Among other
facts, the Secretary-General’s report reiterates, and rightly
so, that exports from Africa cannot penetrate projected
markets due to the obstacles that have been created.
Furthermore, the agricultural policies of the industrialized
countries tend to depress the world market prices of food
products.
for
the
Indeed,
successful
the need for
implementation
increased mobilization of
resources
of
UN-NADAF cannot be overemphasized. How can Africa
mobilize domestic financial resources when public savings
on the whole have fallen below the 1990 level, when
most of the countries are experiencing a serious decline
in their terms of trade, and when their need to borrow far
outweighs their capacity to pay?
therefore,
inter alia,
These are just a few of the questions we hope the
mid-term review has enabled us to pose. We believe it is
crucial,
to address obstacles to
Africa’s trade performance in a holistic manner, including
ensuring increased preferential access
to developed
country markets for African commodities. Africa’s efforts
in the area of commodity diversification need to be
institutional
supported,
physical
and
the
do
as
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
infrastructure
programmes.
and
human
resource
development
It has been said time and again that political instability
in Africa — which does not include the whole of Africa —
is among the factors that are to blame for Africa’s
underdevelopment. We agree with that premise, for we
fully recognize the link between peace and development.
However, indications are that foreign direct investment has
been selective, concentrating on those industries with the
highest rate of return despite prevailing political instability.
It would be misleading to paint an overall gloomy
picture of the economic situation of Africa. Some countries,
including Namibia, have managed to attract some degree of
foreign direct
investment since 1991. On the whole,
however, the trend has been negative, especially for the
least developed countries. In a word, the few success stories
in Africa have been overshadowed by the overall economic
decline, and if this trend continues the performance of
countries with modest economic growth may even drop
below the current growth rate.
Africa’s debt is said to be lowest in volume of all
developing countries; but on the contrary, our inability to
pay is the greatest. We need therefore to re-examine the
shortcomings of the measures undertaken so far to address
Africa’s debt, for the issue is not how much we owe, but
our ability to pay and what the alternatives are. We need
lasting development-oriented solutions to Africa’s debt
problems.
We urge the international community to implement its
commitment
to allocate 0.7 per cent of gross national
product to official development assistance. Furthermore, we
believe implementation of
first
embraced by Africa during the International Conference on
Assistance for African Children, held in 1992, complements
our partnership in the implementation of UN-NADAF. We
therefore welcome the outcome of the Oslo meeting on
20/20 and call on the donor community to assist countries
implementing the 20/20 initiative.
the 20/20 initiative,
The United Nations is centrally located to give the
outcome of
the mid-term review the widest possible
publicity among the heads of the agencies and institutions
of the United Nations system, including the Bretton Woods
institutions, and among the donor community. This would
contribute, we
resource
mobilization.
to maximizing
believe,
8
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
We need to find new ways to follow up and monitor
the implementation of UN-NADAF at all levels. Relevant
bodies within the United Nations system responsible for
follow-up should be provided with adequate financial
resources. In addition, we need to examine how we can
effectively monitor the implementation of UN-NADAF
during the remaining period. An annual review of the
implementation process would pave the way to an
effective follow-up.
Mr. Martinez Blanco (Honduras), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Let me conclude by reiterating that, while it is now
in the interest of the African people for Africa to develop,
in the long term, the world will be at risk if Africa
continues to be marginalized.
Mr. Barnala (India): I would like to congratulate
Ambassador Owada of Japan and the other officers on
their efforts in completing the work of the Ad Hoc
Committee of the Whole of the General Assembly for the
Mid-term Review of the Implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in
the 1990s.
The outcome of that review is now before us. While
it made a realistic assessment of the current situation, it
was not able to progress as far as we would have liked in
terms of international cooperation to support Africa’s
efforts. Further measures will be required in the areas of
financial flows, trade access and technology transfers if
the national efforts being made in Africa are to achieve
the desired results. The deteriorating economic situation
of the African continent has for a considerable period
engaged the attention of the world. Indeed, it has been
prominent on the agenda of the United Nations since the
early 1990s.
India’s ties with the nations of the African continent
are deep and mutually enriching. For us, this valuable
relationship dates back to the years of our independence
movement. It was on African soil that the father of our
nation, Mahatma Gandhi, started his non-violent, passive
resistance movement against racial discrimination and
exploitation, as a precursor to our national struggle. India
struggled side by side with African nations against
colonialism. At the Asian Relations Conference in New
Delhi in March 1947, even before India had attained
political freedom, our first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal
Nehru, declared that
India’s freedom would remain
incomplete until the whole of Africa was free.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In 1946 India took the initiative of inscribing the issue
of apartheid on the agenda of the United Nations. Our
commitment to the anti-apartheid struggle was absolute and
was accompanied by political, economic and material
support. We did not seek any material benefits by trading
with the apartheid regime in violation of the embargoes.
We rejoiced at the liberation of the African nations from
colonial rule, the liberation of Namibia and the final end of
apartheid in South Africa.
India’s support of subsequent efforts of African
countries to achieve economic development is rooted in our
long-standing friendship with the people of Africa, and in
our commitment to South-South cooperation and to the
cause of the economic and social development of African
countries. This support has manifested itself in tangible
terms. Aside from supporting Africa’s aspirations and
endeavours in multilateral forums, we have shared our
experiences, resources and capabilities through a high-
quality technical and economic cooperation programme.
It was at India’s initiative that the Action for Resisting
Invasion, Colonialism and Apartheid (AFRICA) Fund was
established by the Non-Aligned Movement
to provide
project aid and other technical assistance to the front-line
States in various critical areas. By 1992, the AFRICA Fund
had disbursed up to $500 million in such assistance. Our
active cooperation with the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) is yet another expression of our desire
to be a partner in development efforts in Africa. Beyond
our close bilateral relations with all African countries, we
have maintained close
links with African regional
organizations, including the Organization of African Unity,
the African Development Bank,
the United Nations
Economic Commission for Africa, the Common Market for
Eastern and Southern Africa, the SADC and the Economic
Community of West African States.
In February 1996, the India International Centre in
New Delhi organized a three-day conference entitled
“Understanding Contemporary Africa: India and South-
South Cooperation”, which attracted participation from the
majority of African countries and regional organizations.
India also participated in the partners meeting of the United
Nations Economic Commission for Africa in Addis Ababa,
in April 1996.
India has sought to participate in economic endeavours
in Africa through, inter alia, the Indian Technical and
Economic Cooperation Programme (ITEC). We have
interacted with many countries in Africa through technical
assistance in the form of execution of projects, extension of
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
training facilities, the deputation of experts, conducting
feasibility studies, providing consultants and organizing
study visits. More than 20,000 nominees from foreign
countries, most of them from Africa, have been trained in
India under this programme. Among the projects currently
in hand are the establishment of a remote sensing centre
in Nigeria, a vocational training programme centre in
Senegal and several projects in Mauritius. Study visits to
identify fresh projects in various other countries have also
recently been undertaken. We have offered training
facilities in a wide range of fields, such as banking,
financial management, hydrology and water resource
management, urban development, mass communications,
fisheries,
processing,
small
packaging,
industries, crop
research,
technology, manpower
planning and training. There are further South-South
cooperation programmes in other areas, including new
and renewable energy resources, biotechnology and gene
banks, which India is coordinating on behalf of fellow
developing countries.
electronics,
food processing,
sericulture, biogas
satellite
image
is
Africa
the principal beneficiary of
these
programmes, and in 1995/96 roughly 6 per cent of the
technical assistance rendered by India under the ITEC
programme went to countries of the African continent.
We have cooperated with our brothers and sisters in
Africa for decades, since our own independence. Our
programmes of cooperation with African countries have
a long history, rooted in the anti-colonial struggles of the
African people and their quest for economic growth and
development.
There is
little doubt
that Africa will
require
considerable support from the international community in
order to achieve its basic development goals. Economic
reforms and structural adjustment programmes must be
dovetailed with international support for measures aimed
at encouraging agricultural and rural development, food
security, investment promotion and integrating population
trends with development. African economies will also
need catalytic support from external variables, in terms of
additional
trade for
commodities, diversification of production and trade and
enhanced foreign direct investment. Debt reduction and
rescheduling measures are also an inalienable part of this
strategy. The measures so far agreed to in the mid-term
review will need to be considerably enhanced.
resource flows, better
terms of
In conclusion, I should like to reiterate the fact that
the
consensus on the urgency of programmes for
economic development of Africa already exists. We are
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
in particular,
the
discussing the United Nations New Agenda for
Development of Africa in the 1990s. The Declaration on
International Economic Cooperation,
the
Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the
Developing Countries; and the International Development
Strategy for
the Fourth United Nations Development
Decade also encompass the countries in the African region.
The Declaration adopted at the World Summit for Social
Development
to the
economic, social and human resource development of
Africa. Work is now under way on an Agenda for
Development. What is lacking, therefore, is not a vision or
a set of plans and programmes, but
to
translate these into reality. The focus of our discussions and
attention should therefore be on specific steps towards
fulfilling our commitments and responsibilities to our
partners in Africa, and not merely hammering out new
theologies of development or development cooperation.
included a specific commitment
the ready will
Mr. Rubadiri (Malawi): May I join those who have
spoken before me to congratulate the President once again
on his unanimous election to preside over this year’s
session. Already his diplomatic skills have confirmed our
conviction that he will be able to guide our deliberations to
a successful conclusion. We extend our felicitations to the
other members of the Bureau. We fully associate ourselves
with the statement of the Group of 77 and China made
yesterday by my colleague, the representative of Costa
Rica.
We welcome the reports of the Secretary-General on
the “Implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s” contained in
document A/51/228 and its addendum. We agree that the
economic and social crisis facing the African continent
since the early 1980s has continued unabated up to today.
Despite modest achievements attained in some parts of the
continent, the general trend and overall outlook remain
bleak. Indeed, the structural constraints to growth have
continued, and the social situation, as shown by the
declining trends in all the major social indicators, especially
the increase in poverty, has continued to give rise to
concern.
The
recently
held mid-term review of
the
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF) clearly
revealed that
there is a long way to go towards the
realization of the New Agenda. The report of the Ad Hoc
Committee of the Whole of the General Assembly for the
Mid-term Review gives insights into the areas which both
the African countries and the international community need
10
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
to work on in the spirit of partnership and shared
responsibility.
It is estimated in the New Agenda that a minimum
of $30 billion in official development assistance was
required in 1992 to achieve an average annual growth rate
of real gross national product of at least 6 per cent in
African countries over the course of the 1990s. And after
that year, official development assistance would need to
grow at an average rate of 4 per cent per annum. The
mid-term review has revealed that official development
assistance stood at $26.4 billion in 1995. External
indebtedness rose from $300 billion in 1991 to $322
billion in 1995.
We note with serious concern that the African share
of world trade has declined during the period under
review to 2.2 per cent. This is despite the preferential
access to major world markets which African products
have. In addition, the impact on the African countries of
the Uruguay Round agreement on
the outcome of
multilateral
is recognized,
though, that the least developed countries and the non-
food-importing developing countries — in particular those
in Africa — may experience transitional costs arising
from the loss of preferences in the European Community.
trade is not fully clear. It
The diversification of African economies remains an
important element in the New Agenda. Most African
economies rely on a few primary commodities for much
of their export earnings. These are adversely affected by
fluctuations in the demand and prices of the primary
commodities.
Most African Governments have embraced their
share of responsibility in the New Agenda. It is noted that
in the two major areas of macroeconomic reform and
good governance, considerable progress has been attained
by a number of countries. The liberalization of domestic
prices and external trade, coupled with improvements in
finance management
through improved methods of
accounting have, among other things, resulted in a drop
in the number of countries that experienced negative
growth from 19 in 1992 to four in 1995.
The Secretary-General’s report points out, though,
that human resources in many African countries remain
inadequately developed, as is evident from the limited
access of the population to education at all levels and to
health care and other social services. High levels of
unemployment and underemployment, particularly among
the youth and women, are the other indicators.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
My
delegation
therefore welcomes
the
recommendations for enhancing the implementation of the
New Agenda as outlined by the Secretary-General in his
report as well as those contained in the report of the Ad
Hoc Committee for the Mid-term Review. The mobilization
of substantial new resources from all sources — public and
private, traditional as well as new — is essential. While the
Naples terms adopted by the Paris Club represent an
important step in the evolution of an international debt
strategy, we call upon the donor community to institute far-
reaching measures, which go beyond the 67 per cent debt-
stock reduction, towards a durable solution of the debt
problem. There is a need to increase foreign direct
investment flows to supplement the availability of resources
for economic development
in Africa. The developed
countries should fulfil the agreed level of 0.7 per cent of
gross national product for official development assistance.
In my country, Malawi, a critical range of policy
initiatives have been embarked upon to ensure compliance
with the major pillars of the Agenda. Important among
these are good governance and adherence to structural
reforms as agreed with the Bretton Woods institutions. As
regards good governance, Malawi’s first democratically
elected Government took power in 1994 on the premise of
empowerment of the people, justice for all and respect for
human rights. In the realm of structural reforms to the
economy, which have resulted in some recovery in
economic activity, with real gross domestic product growth
averaging some 10 per cent
the
Government has also been steadfast. The reforms have
crop production and
included the
marketing. Happily,
the major
beneficiaries have been small farmers.
in 1995 and 1996,
liberalization of
extent,
to a
large
Further, inflation has decelerated sharply, from 98 per
cent in 1995 to less than 30 per cent by the end of 1996.
Indeed, cumulative inflation in the first months of 1996
suggests that a further drop is more than likely to be
achieved in 1997. This development
is very important
because inflation affects hardest those with low incomes.
Therefore, the sharp decline in inflation not only helped to
establish a more stable environment for economic activity,
but also contributed to the Government’s efforts to alleviate
poverty.
Malawi has seen significant progress toward improving
the living conditions of the ordinary citizen, as evidenced
by the many policy initiatives adopted in the past two
years, including the reform of the agricultural system which
has improved life in the rural areas. In addition, these
efforts have benefited from assistance from international
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
agencies and donors, including the specialized agencies of
the United Nations.
It is accepted, however, that the economic situation
remains fragile in Malawi. Continued fiscal discipline and
a deepening of structural
reforms are necessary to
consolidate the gains achieved thus far and to make
further progress.
Increased international support will
therefore continue to be needed for us to continue on this
trend. As my Minister of Foreign Affairs informed the
Assembly in his statement of 9 October 1996, in his
remarks on UN-NADAF,
“It is sad to note that the financial resources required
for the programme have not matched the enthusiasm
that revolved around the launching of the New
Agenda. My delegation sincerely hopes that the mid-
term review of
just
concluded, will reignite the enthusiasm of us all and
enhance the political will of all
the cooperating
partners.” (Official Records of the General Assembly,
Fifty-first Session, Plenary Meetings, 28th meeting,
p. 5)
the Agenda, which has
I wish, once again, to underscore this view.
We wish to reiterate the view that for the success of
UN-NADAF, all of us need to rededicate ourselves and
our commitment
to the programme. While African
countries are doing all they can, donor countries too need
to support
those efforts meaningfully with increased
resources.
Finally, we wish to thank the Chairman of the Ad
Hoc Committee, Ambassador Owada of Japan, whose
typically Japanese application to practical
is
beginning to filter through to development projects in
Africa. We consider his work to have been one of the
great contributions made this year to the mid-term review
of the New Agenda.
ideas
Mr. Ayewah (Nigeria): My delegation is pleased to
participate in the general debate on agenda item 44
entitled “Implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s”. We
associate ourselves with the statement made yesterday by
the representative of Cameroon in his capacity as
representative of the current Chairman of the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) on behalf of the African Group.
My delegation also fully supports the statement made on
this agenda item by the representative of Costa Rica on
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In acknowledging the work of the Ad Hoc Committee
of the General Assembly pursuant to resolution 50/160, and
in the context of the conduct of the mid-term review of the
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF), we
want to congratulate and thank Ambassador Hisashi Owada,
Permanent Representative of Japan and Chairman of the Ad
Hoc Committee, for his personal exertions during the
review. We would also like to thank the Vice-Chairmen
who presided over the working groups for their diligence in
guiding us through the mid-term review.
and the
The New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s, which was born out of a desire to assist Africa in
overcoming its difficulties of economic underdevelopment,
is founded on the principle of cooperation and shared
responsibility between Africa
international
community. The Agenda provides for specific goals and
targets to be implemented within the programme period
from 1991 to the year 2001. UN-NADAF should therefore
be seen as a framework of consensus and partnership
between Africa and the international community aimed at
stimulating initiatives towards Africa’s socio-economic
development. Towards this end the New Agenda, which
built on the frustrations of the earlier United Nations
Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development (1986-1990), set out in definitive terms a
global compact of intent between Africa and the United
Nations system on the one hand and between Africa and the
international community on the other.
In particular, the developed countries and the donor
community were to support and assist Africa’s efforts in
implementing the Agenda with a view to accelerating the
economic growth of African countries. In our view, and as
is clearly evident, the envisaged objectives of the Agenda
are yet to be achieved minimally — even five years after
adopting the New Agenda in 1991 — owing to lack of
political will by the international community. I must hasten
to add here that the international community goes beyond
Western Europe and the donor community to include other
regions of the world, the Bretton Woods institutions and
non-governmental organizations. The experience of the mid-
term review was a painful reminder that this fact was not
fully recognized or accepted by all concerned.
in
is,
that Africa’s socio-economic
Mindful of the fact
first
primary
development
the
responsibility of Africans
themselves, many African
countries — including my own country — Nigeria, have
continued since the mid-1980s to pursue and implement
economic reform measures in the context of structural
instance,
a
12
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
economic
adjustment programmes (SAPs) with their implied social
hardships for the citizenry. Despite their commitment to
countries’
sustained
reforms, African
experiences have been far from pleasant
in terms of
economic growth because of the increasing trend towards
globalization of the world economy, the unfavourable
external environment, poor access to the external market,
declining returns on their
and the
unpredictability of the financial system.
commodities,
of
and
validity
continuing
Africa on its own has put a lot of store on the
economic
importance
integration within the
framework of South-South
cooperation. In this context, and as envisioned in the
Abuja Treaty Establishing the African Economic
Community which entered into force in May 1994,
African countries remain committed to the idea of
subregional and regional economic cooperation as the
defining pillars of economic emancipation and growth of
the African continent. Consequently, this has led to the
formation of the Economic Community of Central African
States (ECCAS), the Arab Maghreb Union (AMU), the
for Eastern and Southern Africa
Common Market
(COMESA),
the
Southern Africa Development
Community (SADC), the East African Community (EAC)
and, in my own subregion, the Economic Community of
West African States (ECOWAS). We believe that the
creation of these entities will promote our regional and
subregional integration and lead to the transformation of
the African economies.
to meet
In March 1995,
in a further effort
the
challenges of development in the continent, the African
Ministers of Foreign Affairs adopted the Cairo Agenda
for Action, which recognized the elements of democracy,
good governance, peace and stability, security and social
justice as necessary ingredients
for socio-economic
growth and sustainable development.
It
is true that Africa’s economy is essentially
monocultural and agrarian, and for this reason many
countries depend on primary commodities for their export
earnings and the survival of their teeming populations.
Confronted with the fluctuation of commodity prices in
the world market, and with an external debt burden
currently estimated at well over US $322 billion, the
servicing of which consumes over 30 per cent of the
continent’s export earnings, Africa’s capacity to undertake
meaningful development is seriously undermined. By the
same token,
is confronted with the
challenges of infrastructural and institutional capacity-
building, human resources development and the promotion
the continent
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of science and technology for agricultural and industrial
development.
in particular
there is an urgent need for
These are issues of demand and supply economics that
can only be sustained by an interplay of domestic capacity
and external input. In this connection, and in order to
enable African countries to achieve their development
the international
goals,
community,
to
respond concretely, in the spirit of cooperation and a New
Partnership for Development, to Africa’s mobilization for
development. Our development partners should see their
way clear to support and be seen to be involved in the
quest
through the
establishment of a diversification fund and the mobilization
of new and additional resources to assist in fulfilling the
intent of the New Agenda.
to diversify African economies
the developed countries,
Although African countries in general, in the wake of
the evolving trend towards globalization of the world
economy, have introduced innovative and encouraging
measures in order to promote investment opportunities, we
note with disappointment
the decline in the inflow of
resources to the continent, not only of official development
assistance but also of foreign direct investment.
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
of multilateral
In view of Africa’s marginalization in world trade
and considering its obvious disadvantages, particularly in
the short and medium terms, following the recently
concluded Uruguay Round
trade
negotiations and the Marrakesh agreements, we call on
the international community, and in particular
the
developed countries, to ensure that implementation of the
Final Act of the Uruguay Round provides Africa with
special
treatment with regard to the establishment of
compensatory mechanisms as envisaged therein, as well
as in the arrangements of the World Trade Organization.
African countries recognize the need to promote
economic cooperation with the developing countries in
other regions in the context of South-South cooperation.
We see the initiative of South-South cooperation as
essential in the growing interdependence of economies.
Africa recognizes the tremendous development effort that
has been made by other developing regions, especially in
Asia. We believe that shared experience between Asia and
Africa can also enhance Africa’s endeavour
in the
socio-economic
realization of
development.
the
establishment of the Africa-Asia Forum and urge it to act
as a useful component
in constructive dialogue for
development and in implementation of UN-NADAF.
the perspectives of
In
regard, we welcome
this
of
shared
cooperation,
responsibility
During the mid-term review of the New Agenda, a
significant impression was conveyed and registered, namely
that there was a lack of awareness of the programme.
Besides, a negative attitude on the part of the international
community has continued to persist to the effect that Africa
has an unfavourable economic and investment potential.
The point must be made here that such an attitude is not
only dysfunctional and inaccurate but clearly negates the
principle
and
partnership in development. In this connection, there is a
need for the international community to recognize Africa’s
enormous investment potential and highly profitable and
favourable returns on investments. It is a continent which
is replete with natural and human resources but needs the
assistance and support of the international community in
order to maximize the advantages in its march towards
economic growth and sustained development. We encourage
the international media to be constructive in their reporting
and to move away from subjective and tendentious
reporting, which delights in highlighting only the negative
aspects of Africa’s investment profile and environment
while playing down the positive aspects. Here the
Department of Public Information of the United Nations
Secretariat has a leading role to play and we encourage it
to play that role.
a
living. Primary
The Nigerian delegation participated in the mid-term
review of the implementation of UN-NADAF which took
place here in New York from 16 to 20 September 1996,
and we know that UN-NADAF had a poor record of
implementation. This ought not to be. UN-NADAF was
a voluntary global compact of intent and commitment on
the part of Africa, the United Nations system and the
international community to help Africa to escape from its
socio-economic difficulties. It is only right that we should
all deliver on our various commitments. Africa is by no
means suggesting that the international community owes
it
for Africa’s
development remains African. Africa must, therefore, not
be
that
responsibility in the interest of its people. Africa is of
course grateful to those countries that, in spite of their
domestic difficulties and the need to pander or answer to
the sensitivities of their parliaments or electorates, have
managed
the
implementation of UN-NADAF. But Africa is not a
charity case in which the donor-recipient syndrome can be
allowed to perpetuate itself. UN-NADAF has five years
to go. It is appropriate at this fifty-first session of the
General Assembly, in the wake of the mid-term review of
UN-NADAF, that there is a political message of renewal
from assuming
responsibility
assistance
prevented
provide
nor
disabled
to
some
in
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of momentum and enthusiasm and — more importantly —
of commitment to implement the Agenda, in the interest of
the credibility of our Organization and the common
humanity we all share.
Mr. Hahm (Republic of Korea): In this post-cold-war
era of economic globalization and interdependence, the
issue of development has gained increasing prominence. A
new environment has emerged in which the challenge of
development can best be met by a global partnership
between developed and developing countries. The Korean
delegation therefore believes that
the current mid-term
review of the implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
(UN-NADAF), one of
this new
partnership, is both timely and important.
the cornerstones of
We welcome the report of the Ad Hoc Committee of
the Whole for the mid-term review of the implementation
of UN-NADAF as highly comprehensive and constructive,
and believe that it can serve as an excellent basis for our
deliberations on this issue. In this respect,
the Korean
delegation wishes to commend the work of the Ad Hoc
Committee of
the able
leadership of Ambassador Hisashi Owada of Japan. The
Korean
various
recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee contained in
document A/51/48. We would like to emphasize, however,
certain points to which the Korean Government attaches
special importance.
the Whole, conducted under
delegation
endorses
fully
the
the
and
into
action. Since
First of all, we believe that what is needed now for the
in Africa is the translation of
cause of development
commitments
of
UN-NADAF in 1991, we have witnessed a growing
awareness
particular
development needs, as evidenced by a series of encouraging
recent events. The programmes of action of each of the
major United Nations conferences in the 1990s have given
new priority to the development of the African continent.
of Africa’s
recognition
adoption
The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development-Development Assistance Committee report of
May this year, entitled “Shaping the Twenty-First Century”,
set out quantitative targets within prescribed time-frames,
and the June 1996 economic communiqué of the Lyon
Summit of
industrialized
countries called for a new partnership between developed
and developing countries.
the Group of Seven major
African countries, for their part, have made substantial
improvements in their overall economic performance. The
14
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
number of African countries to achieve the target 6 per
cent annual growth of gross domestic product increased
from three in 1992 to 12 in 1995, while the number of
countries with negative growth rates dropped from 19 in
1992 to three in 1995.
Many African countries have also engaged in
reform aimed at democratization and
institutional
economic liberalization.
the time is ripe for
In the light of these positive developments on the
part of both developed and developing countries, we
believe that
the international
community to do all
it possibly can to promote the
development of the African continent. My delegation
hopes
the Ad Hoc
Committee for the mid-term review of UN-NADAF,
formulated on the basis of the specific needs of African
countries, will be put into action without delay and will
enjoy the full support of the international community.
the recommendations of
that
Secondly, we would like to emphasize that
the
United Nations system should play a greater role in
achieving the goals of the New Agenda. All United
Nations organizations and specialized agencies should
incorporate the goals of UN-NADAF into the formulation
and implementation of their programmes and projects, and
better
that
complement the goals of the New Agenda.
fund and coordinate their programmes
In this respect the Korean delegation welcomes and
fully supports the United Nations System-wide Special
Initiative on Africa,
launched in March 1996, which
should aim to provide practical proposals that reinforce
the New Agenda. The initiative is all the more meaningful
because of the active participation of the Bretton Woods
institutions. We believe that the Special Initiative provides
new momentum towards
achieving the goals of
UN-NADAF and should be an important practical step
towards a more efficient implementation of the various
programmes of action for Africa.
Thirdly, my delegation wishes to underline the
importance of South-South cooperation, which is clearly
indispensable to the successful implementation of the
New Agenda. It is our country’s sincere belief that South-
South cooperation can provide a vital head start and
lasting succour on the road to development. South-South
cooperation, however, must be pursued not only
bilaterally, but also in a multilateral context. The role of
international organizations such as the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development and the United
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Nations Industrial Development Organization should be
strengthened in this regard. Assistance from donor countries
through multilateral organs is also an important part of this
effort.
Fourthly, international cooperation should focus on
priority needs, targeting the most pressing needs of the
that
African people, and taking into account
the fact
development resources are limited. In this regard,
the
Korean delegation believes that several
issues deserve
particular attention, namely public health, ensuring sanitary
drinking water, agricultural development, the expansion of
education for children and job training for city dwellers.
The Republic of Korea has provided and will continue
to provide various forms of assistance to African countries
and to other developing countries. The Korea International
Cooperation Agency (KOICA) has extended technological
assistance and sought to share with developing countries the
experience accumulated in the course of our own economic
development. African countries were recently made the
priority recipients of KOICA’s technological and human
resources assistance programmes.
In addition to that, the Korea-Economic Commission
for Africa Cooperation Fund, established last year, has been
increased by 50 per cent in 1996. We have also decided to
replenish the Korea Consultant Trust Fund in the World
Bank, which also aims at sharing Korea’s experience and
know-how with other developing countries. Korea stands
ready, commensurate with its economic capabilities,
to
make even greater contributions to the development of
African countries.
Finally, the Korean delegation believes that Africa’s
wealth of human and natural resources endow it with
enormous potential, and that it is the urgent duty of the
international community to help the people of Africa
translate that potential into reality as soon as they possibly
can.
We hope that our deliberations under this agenda item
will help to identify the best feasible method and means of
achieving the goals of UN-NADAF and reinforcing the
commitment of the international community to the cause of
African development.
Miss Durrant (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak
on behalf of the delegation of Jamaica on agenda item 44,
entitled “Implementation of
the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.” My
delegation wishes to associate itself with the statement
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
made earlier by the representative of Costa Rica on behalf
of the Group of 77 and China.
We welcome the report of the Ad Hoc Committee of
the Whole of the General Assembly for the Mid-term
Review of the Implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
(UN-NADAF), and wish to thank its Chairman, His
Excellency Hisashi Owada, Permanent Representative of
Japan, and the members of the Bureau for their leadership
roles in guiding the work of the Ad Hoc Committee.
a
The mid-term review allowed for
critical
examination of the progress made in the implementation
of the New Agenda. It also reaffirmed and underscored
the mutuality of commitments and responsibilities and the
need for the countries of Africa and the members of the
international community to take action. The review also
issues affecting the
examined critical development
implementation of
and recommended
measures to accelerate its implementation in order to
foster
sustained
development in Africa.
the Agenda
economic
sustained
growth
and
Africa
and its
resources, notably its human
resources, are of enormous potential; and the mid-term
review afforded the opportunity for renewed commitment
to the social and economic agenda of the continent.
for
actions
Most African countries have,
their part,
consistently taken appropriate
to promote
development, including instituting political and economic
reforms. Actions taken by African countries have been
aimed at achieving real and sustainable economic growth
through, inter alia, the improvement of public finance and
management methods, and the enhancement of efficiency
and transparency in tax systems. We note that in almost
all countries, reform measures have been taken and
continue to be pursued in order to liberalize domestic
prices and external trade. We must recognize the efforts
of some 35 countries to make monetary adjustments and
of some 21 to improve public finance management.
Regional and subregional economic cooperation and
integration are other positive actions, with initiatives
currently under way in northern, eastern and southern
Africa. Other areas of focus include the stepping up of
democratization; investment promotion; population and
development; agriculture and food security, and South-
South cooperation.
As a developing country, Jamaica, like its African
counterparts, recognizes the value of these initiatives and
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the value of South-South cooperation as a vehicle for
advancement in critical areas such as transfer of technology,
training, joint ventures, trade and investment, education and
the eradication of poverty.
Jamaica has over the years expressed its solidarity
with the African people, a solidarity that is born of a
history of cordial and friendly relations with countries on
the African continent. We took a strong stand in the fight
against apartheid and rejoiced with Africa when that system
saw its demise. We recall that in the 1950s, even while still
a colony, Jamaica followed the lead of India and instituted
a trade boycott against South Africa.
As a country that has suffered under the heavy burden
of external debt and the ensuing social and economic
hardships resulting from structural adjustment, Jamaica is
fully aware of the difficulties currently being confronted by
our sister nations on the African continent. Africa’s external
debt is now widely acknowledged to be unsustainable, and
we must support the search for durable solutions. We note,
for example, that African debt has risen from $289 billion
in 1991 to over $314 billion by 1995. It is clear that
something must be done.
In order to achieve the major objectives of the New
the
Agenda and the target growth rate of 6 per cent,
international community must accelerate its support
to
African countries in order to sustain the momentum leading
to recovery and sustainable development in areas such as
the further alleviation of the burden of external debt, the
attraction of foreign private investment, increased official
development assistance, trade facilitation and market access,
and development assistance for capacity-building.
UN-NADAF calls for a full partnership between
Africa and the international community. There is indeed a
strong case for increasing the volume and concessionality
of development assistance to Africa. There is a need to
further enhance and improve the quality of international
support to Africa’s efforts in the 1990s.
Measures
that
should
be
to
include
rechannelling aid to Africa’s key development priorities;
allocating
and
reconstruction in post-conflict countries; and switching to
non-debt-creating assistance.
considered
prevention
resources
conflict
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
the United Nations, bilateral and multilateral donors. We
recognize the need to strengthen the Mechanism for the
Prevention, Management and Resolution of Conflicts and
early warning capacities of the Organization of African
Unity.
The success of the New Agenda lies in effective
follow-up and monitoring at
the global, regional and
national levels. The United Nations system has a critical
role to play in ensuring that this becomes a reality. The
Agenda needs to be continuously promoted by the
relevant United Nations institutions in the context of clear
mandates and policy directions. Concrete ways must be
found to advance the cause of African development and
to ensure that implementation becomes a reality. While
there has been progress in human, institutional and private
sector development, success is contingent upon both the
continued political will of African countries and the
commitment of the international community.
We are aware of the challenges as the African
continent faces another five years of the New Agenda.
One major challenge will be to marshal the massive sums
needed to effectively implement the New Agenda. If
Africa is to regain economic viability in the run-up to the
new millennium, full and tangible support will be needed.
International efforts will have to be channelled to focus
on the well-articulated priorities of the African countries.
Their own efforts at preventing and resolving conflicts
will need to be further supplemented.
The Government of Jamaica remains fully committed
to supporting the efforts being undertaken to implement
the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s in the hope that this will contribute to the long-
term development of our sister countries on the African
continent.
should like
to inform the Assembly that
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I
the
representative of Cuba has requested to participate in the
debate on this item. Bearing in mind that the list of
speakers was closed yesterday at 5 p.m., I should like to
propose, if there is no objection, that this delegation be
included on the list of speakers.
It was so decided.
Africa’s efforts to address conflict prevention and
resolution and post-conflict
reconstruction should be
incorporated into a more comprehensive and coordinated
approach with the support of the relevant actors, including
Mr. Awaad (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
On behalf of the delegation of Egypt, I should like to
thank the Secretary-General for his report on the mid-term
16
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
review of
Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF).
the United Nations New Agenda for
the
Though the report
truly reflects what has been
achieved by the African States and the international
community with regard to the implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s, it does not give a clear picture of the economic and
social realities on the continent.
I should like to thank Ambassador Owada,
the
Permanent Representative of Japan,
for his work as
Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole for the
mid-term review, which met last September.
During the mid-term review of the implementation of
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF), we agreed that the
situation remained critical and we must step up our efforts
for the development of the continent. We must work
together at the national and international levels. We believe
that responsibility for economic and social development lies
primarily with the African States themselves. Africa will
develop thanks to its peoples. Success will depend also on
support for and the sustainability of those efforts.
With a view to supporting the work done by African
Governments in recent years, we draw attention to the
difficult circumstances accompanying the implementation of
UN-NADAF. Over the last few years and, indeed, right up
to today there have been problems of refugees and conflict.
There has also been an unfavourable economic climate in
respect of the terms of trade and the foreign debt burden,
and a drop in official development assistance. Despite that,
African countries have taken major measures at the national
level as a basis for consolidating democracy. They have
also
structural
adjustment programmes.
In the past 10 years, some
encouraging figures have emerged, along with a more
favourable climate for domestic and foreign investment.
Moreover, the Abuja Declaration is now taking effect.
undertaken
and
economic
recovery
In 1995 African Heads of State or Government
adopted the Cairo Agenda for Action on revitalizing
economic and social recovery in Africa. Africa has thus
assumed an enormous responsibility for dealing with
questions of security and stability within the continent,
because those issues are so closely related to development.
They have also established the Organization of African
Unity
(OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention,
Management and Resolution.
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
During the mid-term review we said it was necessary
to increase the volume of assistance given by the
international community to African countries, particularly
the least developed. We also said it was essential to target
that assistance in accordance with national priorities. This
requires a flexible approach, given the nature of existing
problems, and means that the surrounding environment
has to be taken into account.
In estimating the required resources, the Secretary-
General has said that despite the efforts made by African
States to improve their use of official development
assistance, and despite efforts made by developed
countries to help developing countries, since the early
1990s there has been a significant drop in official
development assistance, to $20 billion, rather than the
recommended $30 billion with an increase of 4 per cent
yearly.
Four years after the adoption of the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa,
for mobilizing
resources for development have been only partially met,
despite efforts by the countries themselves to implement
economic and social reform measures.
targets
While some progress has been made in Africa in the
last five years, this was due primarily to efforts made at
the national level in African countries. Assistance by the
international community has been below what is needed
to support development
in Africa, and has not been
consonant with the goals set by the General Assembly, by
consensus. Despite all this, during the mid-term review
the African community took a very
last September
positive approach. They did not attempt
to blame
anybody; rather they tried to look to the future, seeking
ways and means of encouraging cooperation between
Africa and the international community.
We believe that the African countries themselves are
primarily responsible for their own development. They
will have to use their own resources, but the unfavourable
economic environment surrounding Africa, budgetary
constraints and the reluctance of developed countries to
help Africa are all obstacles to the financing and
development of Africa.
Most African States will be unable to implement the
economic reforms which are essential to development
unless more financial resources are made available both
internally and externally. We have to avoid failure like
that encountered earlier in respect of the United Nations
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Programme of Action for African Economic Recovery and
Development 1986-1990.
It is essential that the international community make
a collective endeavour to support the sincere efforts being
made by African States. If we really wish to sustain the
development of Africa we must move from words to action
so that Africa can emerge from the vicious cycle of poverty
and underdevelopment and develop at this most important
crossroads on the path to the new millennium.
Mr. Kasanda (Zambia): The delegation of Zambia
would like to share its perspective on this important agenda
item: the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF). We are grateful to
the Secretariat for the reports of the Secretary-General on
this item. Our appreciation also goes to Ambassador Owada
of Japan, who successfully presided over the mid-term
review of UN-NADAF.
We would like from the outset to reaffirm our support
for the goals and objectives set in UN-NADAF and, indeed,
the outcome of the mid-term review. We should collectively
pursue them with a spirit of partnership, because they
remain valid and vital to the sustainable development of
Africa.
Africa is still the region most in need of development
assistance. This is likely to be the case for many years to
come, given the high incidence of poverty in the region.
In the first five years of UN-NADAF, Africa has
experienced marginalization. Africa’s share of world trade,
for example, has declined steadily, from 5 per cent in 1990
to 2.3 per cent in 1995. The results of the Uruguay Round
are not expected to be positive for our continent, and my
delegation hopes that
terms of compensation will be
specified for net losers in the Uruguay Round, as agreed at
Marrakesh. Also regarding resource flows, net official
development assistance declined from $25 billion in 1992
to $21.5 billion in 1995.
External debt, estimated at $270 billion in 1990,
reached $322 billion in 1995. Unless major debt reductions
are achieved by the close of UN-NADAF, external debt
will continue to undermine Africa’s development.
African countries have accomplished a great deal in
the last five years in terms of economic policy adjustments
in order to realize the goals set in UN-NADAF. Despite the
many efforts that most African countries have been making
to ensure economic recovery and sustained, accelerated
18
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
economic growth, external factors such as the ones I have
just cited have continued to hold back any significant
progress.
The report of the Secretary-General rightly notes the
major steps African countries have taken to promote the
region’s development during the past five years. At the
regional level, the most notable development has been the
signing on 3 June 1991 of the Treaty establishing the
African Economic Community. This development is of
great significance, because, among other things, it will
assist in the harmonization of economic policies within
the region. Continent-wide, this economic cooperation and
integration is expected to lead to expanded trade among
the African countries.
We have hope in the success of
the African
Economic Community, because it is being built on strong
foundations established at subregional levels. In southern
Africa, for example, we transformed our Southern African
Development Coordination Conference (SADCC), into an
organization devoted to promoting deeper economic
integration and renamed it
the Southern African
Development Community (SADC). The harmonization of
economic policies and the greater understanding being
established at the subregional level can only facilitate the
realization of our aspirations for a strong and effective
African Economic Community.
SADC is not the only example. We also created the
Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa
(COMESA), which replaced the Preferential Trade Area
similar
(PTA). Other
arrangements. As we move
the
implementation of UN-NADAF, the challenge of African
policy-making will be to harmonize these arrangements
and pave the way for a consolidated African Economic
Community by the year 2020.
in Africa have
subregions
ahead with
At the national level, Zambia has been pursuing an
active economic recovery programme. The centrepiece of
our policies has been the liberalization of the economy,
shifting it away from a situation in which the State is the
major player and towards one that is driven by the private
sector. In this context, we have put in place monetary and
fiscal policies conducive to both local and foreign
investment. We are also privatizing certain aspects of
public organizations.
In order to improve our revenue collection system,
an autonomous revenue collection body was created and
has been operating efficiently.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Despite these efforts, Zambia will not be able to
realize the goals of UN-NADAF without the continued
assistance of the international community. We still need
official development
and foreign direct
investment in our economy is very much required.
assistance,
I should like to end my statement with a few
comments
specific to implementation. First, we are
concerned that there is a lack of clarity on how the United
Nations
is going to pursue the implementation of
UN-NADAF and the United Nations System-wide Special
Initiative for Africa. We recognize, of course, that the two
are complementary. In our view, however, it is neither
correct nor helpful to consider UN-NADAF as a mere
advocacy statement on the development problems and
challenges our region is facing, and the United Nations
System-wide Special Initiative as an operational and more
active agenda, and hence more deserving of donor support.
In our view, complementarity is needed at both the
advocacy and operational levels, as the two elements are
characteristic of both programmes. The way forward, we
believe, is synchronization.
We would like to encourage the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations
Office of the Special Coordinator for Africa and the Least
Developed Countries (OSCAL) to continue to work in a
coordinated manner, in consultation with all stakeholders,
on determining how to better achieve this,
taking into
consideration in particular the results of the mid-term
review.
Beyond this, we call for a strengthened OSCAL. The
Economic Commission for Africa should not be kept
marginal to such a process. A strong coordination link
within the United Nations system is of vital importance to
the full and effective implementation of UN-NADAF.
Finally, we appeal to the donor community and to the
international financial institutions to continue their support
for UN-NADAF as well as for the United Nations System-
wide Special Initiative for Africa.
Mr. Ngo Quang Xuan (Viet Nam) (interpretation
from French): It is an honour and a pleasure for us to
address the Assembly once again in order to share our
views on a very important subject.
At the outset, the delegation of Viet Nam wishes to
statements made by the
associate
representative of Costa Rica on behalf of the Group of 77
itself with the
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
and China, and by the representatives of other Member
States, on the major challenges and difficulties facing the
African continent and on the efforts made over the past
five years by the African countries and the international
community as a whole, including our Organization and its
agencies, to implement the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
I take this opportunity also to congratulate the
Secretary-General on his detailed report (A/51/228 and
Add.1) containing relevant recommendations. We are
grateful also for the report of the Ad Hoc Committee of
the Whole of the General Assembly for the Mid-term
Review of the Implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
(A/51/48). The in-depth analysis of a number of essential
aspects of development
in Africa relating to the
implementation of the New Agenda, and the suggestions
contained in the reports could provide good matter for
reflection and reference in our discussion here today as
we consider the mid-term review of the implementation
of the Agenda.
By resolution 46/151, the General Assembly adopted
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s, and called on the international
community to make a substantial contribution to the
economic recovery and development of
the African
continent. The Agenda reflects the commitment of
African countries and of the international community to
cooperation towards the promotion of the sustainable
development of the continent. The essential goals of the
New Agenda
integration,
diversification and the growth of the African economies,
with a view to strengthening them as part of the global
economy to make them less vulnerable to external shocks
and more dynamic, with a view to making the
development process more endogenous and to increase the
autonomy of African countries.
accelerated change,
are
the
Likewise,
interdependent global
economy
continues to be dominated by uncertainty, imbalances and
recession. Negative economic growth rates, persistent
imbalances in the fields of trade and finance, an increase
in situational and structural unemployment, and the
absence of coordination in exchange rates and trade
policies are problems related to the system of
the
developed world which have a negative impact on
developing countries, including our brother countries in
Africa.
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Since then, many initiatives and efforts have been
undertaken in the framework of our Organization to ensure
better coordination in the implementation of the New
Agenda. Theme conferences have been organized under
United Nations auspices, and these have made the
international community more aware that
the African
continent is urgently calling for international solidarity.
We must note that the economic and social situation
of Africa today remains critical. The continent runs the risk
of being marginalized in the global economy. Long-
standing difficulties have worsened the situation of
unemployment, poverty and other
social problems,
including rapid population growth, ecological deterioration,
malnutrition and illiteracy; these have become sources of
instability and political conflict
in the continent. No
challenge could be more crucial for the international
community today than the survival and the sustainable
development of Africa.
We share the view expressed by several delegations
that the development of Africa undeniably depends first and
foremost on the efforts and the struggle waged by the
African peoples themselves. Indeed, in these past five years,
many African countries have made enormous efforts and
have had a certain measure of success in the areas of
economic reform, modernization and agricultural and
human resource development. As the Secretary-General’s
report rightly states,
the number of countries showing
negative growth was only 4 in 1995 compared to 19 in
1993. The number of countries reaching the goal of 6 per
cent annual growth in gross domestic product went from 3
in 1992 to 12 in 1995. These first achievements, while
modest, have shown that Africa is finally on the right track.
have
external
imposed by the
It is nevertheless regrettable that historical factors and
the
constraints
economic
environment, including a reduction in official development
assistance, the heavy debt burden, deteriorating terms of
trade, and increased barriers impeding access to developed
country markets
fundamental
improvement in the economic situation. The international
community must therefore adopt concrete measures so that
revitalization. Developed
Africa may work towards
countries
and
foremost
their
commitments under the New Agenda and other relevant
international agreements related to the development of
Africa in order
to reach sustainable solutions to the
challenges faced by the continent.
prevented
honour
any
should
first
As our Minister for Foreign Affairs, His Excellency
Mr. Nguyen Manh Cam, stressed in his address to the
20
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
in
flows
capital
particular
General Assembly in the general debate, international
and
cooperation
and
technological
transfers from developed countries to
underdeveloped countries are indispensable and indeed are
necessary and beneficial for the sustainable development
of underdeveloped countries. Thus,
foreign direct
investment should play a larger role in the economic
development of African countries because it can
contribute to expanding productive capacity and to
promoting the transfer of sophisticated technologies and
managerial skills without an increase in the foreign debt.
Many African countries have adopted policies aimed at
attracting foreign investment, but the response has been
modest.
The question of the foreign debt burden is closely
related to sustainable growth, development and poverty
eradication. Low commodity prices and a crushing
external debt are among the factors which account for the
continent’s mediocre results at the economic level. Any
serious attempt to deal with the question of sustainable
growth and development and with the reduction of
poverty must go hand in hand with measures to resolve
once and for all, and to cancel, the external debt of
African countries. The international community must
formulate new radical bilateral and multilateral initiatives
to resolve the debt problem of African countries.
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to underscore
that as we advance towards the next millennium the
international community must undertake concerted efforts
to assist Africa in taking the necessary giant steps to join
in the development process set forth in United Nations
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
We hope that the mid-term review that we are discussing
today will allow us to fulfil the commitments made by the
international community to meet the development needs
of this large part of humankind. Viet Nam continues to
follow closely the economic and political developments
which have taken place in brother African countries over
the past few years and hopes that, based on their own
efforts and on the support and assistance of
the
international community, Africa will achieve a more
dynamic and sustainable pace of development.
Mr. Türk (Slovenia): My delegation wishes to
commend the Secretary-General for the reports prepared
for consideration by the General Assembly under the
present agenda item, “Implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in
the 1990s”. Together with the report of the Ad Hoc
Committee of the Whole of the General Assembly for the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Mid-term Review of the Implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s, they represent a valuable basis for discussion and
future action.
Slovenia fully endorses the statement made yesterday
by the Permanent Representative of Ireland, on behalf of
the European Union and associated States. Today we wish
to add several points that are, we believe, relevant to the
current discussion.
It is generally agreed today that global development
cannot be complete without an improvement in the situation
in and the development of Africa. The priority character of
efforts towards the development of Africa was recognized
in a variety of ways at
the recent series of global
conferences and is addressed specifically in the documents
related to the implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda. It is generally agreed that, in addition to the efforts
made by the countries in the region, there is a need to
promote full partnership for development. Aid is important,
but for sustainable development trade and investments are
the most important forms of cooperation.
There are some promising signs, and they should not
be overlooked. In the report of the Secretary-General dated
6 August 1996 on the implementation of the United Nations
New Agenda (A/51/228), we read that there has been some
improvement
in the overall economic performance in
Africa. The number of countries recording negative growth
rates has dropped, and the number of countries that
achieved the targeted 6 per cent annual growth rate in their
gross domestic product increased from 3 in 1992 to 12 in
1995. This development must not be overlooked.
Furthermore, as stated in a recent United Nations
study on foreign direct investment and repeated in many
subsequent documents, the return on investment made in
Africa is substantially higher than in other developing
regions, and even in most developed countries. This
indicates the potential for increased investment flows as
economic reforms proceed and the investment climate
improves.
However, the potential that exists requires effective
international cooperation. The principles of full partnership
and shared responsibility call
international
community to provide adequate and assured support for the
implementation of the New Agenda. The level, scope and
modalities of cooperation should be improved. This would
include channelling assistance to Africa’s development
priorities and switching to non-debt-creating assistance.
the
for
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
that action be taken. The agreement
The debt burden is among the main obstacles to the
more rapid development of Africa. The debt burden of
some $350 billion conditions the pace of development and
inevitably affects all
the efforts directed towards the
strengthening of economies in the region. It is therefore
essential
to act
through new initiatives such as the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Debt Initiative is an important step in this
context. Other steps need to follow. Progress in the efforts
for debt
relief should be monitored and supported,
particularly since the experience with previous debt-relief
initiatives have not succeeded in reducing the level of
task also as an
indebtedness in Africa. We see that
opportunity for
the United Nations
to establish a
meaningful
the
implementation of the mid-term review.
system-wide
operation
and
for
and in
In addition to economic,
particular
macroeconomic, measures, it is important to devote the
appropriate attention to social and political issues. The
inherent linkages between economic and social aspects of
development are generally recognized and have been
given special importance in the documents of the World
Summit on Social Development. The commitment
to
work for the eradication of poverty is a clear expression
of this.
However, the implementation of this commitment in
the context of the complex economic and social realities
of African countries is a particularly difficult
task
requiring sustained effort. As shown recently in an
evaluation of the implementation of the World Bank’s
operational directive for the reduction of poverty — press
reports on that evaluation were published less than a week
ago — it appears that the social aspects of adjustment and
poverty reduction are not always adequately represented
in country assistance strategies. This would suggest that
additional efforts will be necessary to develop sufficiently
comprehensive strategies of cooperation for development
in Africa. Such strategies should include as central
elements debt relief and support for direct investments.
However, poverty reduction and the social aspects of
development also will have to be included and should be
given a higher priority than has been the case thus far.
In the case of Africa, additional consideration must
be given to the problem of refugees. Africa has the
largest concentration of refugees. Not only does this
represent a huge burden for an impoverished continent,
but it is also a reminder that political and security issues
have to be included in the development equation for
Africa. The problem should be approached from two
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
directions simultaneously. There is an urgent need for the
United Nations and the Security Council to devote as much
attention as possible to the crisis situations in Africa, in
particular in the Great Lakes region. Long-term solutions
should be devised, and repatriation of refugees should be
made one of the basic priorities.
On the other hand, however, it would be inappropriate
to perceive Africa’s political problems and military
conflicts as unrelated to the underlying problems of
development. The successful implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s would also represent a major contribution to political
stability and to the prevention of conflicts in the region and
is not an
of
exaggeration,
successful
implementation of the Agenda would represent an important
contribution not only to the African region but also to the
redefinition of the United Nations and its transformation
into an effective instrument of social and political change.
the resulting humanitarian problems.
to say that
therefore,
It
the
Mr. Abulhasan (Kuwait) (interpretation from Arabic):
The peoples of the world look to the United Nations to play
a very important role in the area of development throughout
the world. But development objectives have at
times
become dreams — dreams that do not come true. In their
there is death and destruction, caused by man
stead,
himself. War has become
to
development in all sectors. Many now believe that there can
be no development without peace and without joint and
serious efforts to implement development programmes and
plans.
the major obstacle
Kuwait welcomes
the adoption by the General
Assembly in December 1991 of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
(UN-NADAF). This is the title of agenda item 44, which
we are considering today. The New Agenda is a concrete
manifestation of what
is being done to achieve true
development, which the international community hopes will
occur. My delegation wishes
its great
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his outstanding
work for the implementation of UN-NADAF. We should
like also to thank him for his comprehensive report on the
item, which is before us in document A/51/228.
to express
We support the various conclusions of the Secretary-
General’s report, especially the point that we must try to
ensure the success of UN-NADAF by giving proper
attention to investment
from the international
community to support the efforts of the African countries
themselves. These countries will be invited to create all the
flows
22
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
conditions necessary to persuade donor countries and
institutions to help them carry out their plans.
Kuwait would like also to express its appreciation
for the work of the Ad Hoc Committee of the General
Assembly for the Mid-term Review of the Implementation
of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s, and especially for the work of the
Chairman of that body, Ambassador Owada of Japan. In
this context, the African countries must be aware of the
importance of sustainable development in their countries.
They must shake off the horrors of war and military
conflict, with their accompanying devastation of human
and material resources. Such conflict also discourages
potential investors. Human and material support are the
keystone of — indeed,
the key to — sustainable
development throughout in the world.
Kuwait attaches great importance to development
projects and plans in Africa. We are proud that our
interest in development in Africa, and our assistance for
development, did not begin only in the 1990s, but extends
much further back than that. We appreciate the growing
interest of the international community in development in
various parts of the world, including Africa. Kuwait has
provided financial assistance for development plans in
Africa at the official level and at a people-oriented level.
Kuwait firmly believes that it is very important for
Africa to achieve a certain stability and prosperity. I
should like to give details of loans provided by the
Kuwaiti development fund. We have provided 142 low-
interest loans, amounting to about $1.5 billion, to 33
countries in Africa. In addition, we have 42 technical
assistance projects, involving 25 African countries, with
an overall value of approximately $25 million. The
countries that receive such Kuwaiti assistance have also
benefited from the initiative of the Amir of our country to
write off all interest due to Kuwait. His Highness Sheikh
Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah announced the
initiative on 27 September 1990 in the General Assembly.
The reasoning behind the initiative is that we feel a
certain solidarity with some countries, including African
ones, and understand the material difficulties that have
resulted from the accumulation of loans, which impede
their development efforts. On a human level, non-
governmental organizations in Kuwait have played an
important role, which is greatly appreciated by the people
of Africa. I should like to refer to some of these
initiatives. The African Muslim Agency has been
providing grants and assistance to many African countries
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
since 1981. The Agency focuses on training, which we
believe is the key to enabling people to make a better future
for themselves. Some 95,000 African students have been
able to study with grants provided by this non-governmental
organization, and 200 higher education scholarships have
been provided for engineering and technology. We are
involved in 34 rural hospitals and dispensaries, 76 water
supply operations, and various projects for women. Some
$8.5 million have been provided to assist refugee children
in Somalia. Many other programmes have also been carried
out by Kuwaiti organizations.
Today, I should like to emphasize that all of Kuwait’s
development assistance is based on thorough study and
monitoring by the competent bodies in my country, which
are anxious to ensure that such assistance is best used to
respond to the real needs of the citizens of African
countries. We are establishing scientific and teaching funds
and economic projects, all of which will be very productive
and beneficial. Kuwait offers this assistance in a spirit of
friendship and on the basis of our close links with the
countries of Africa.
Regarding cooperation, I might mention that Kuwait
co-chairs the African-Arab group with Burkina Faso. We do
this to ensure that we have dialogue with African countries
on issues of mutual concern and interest — for example,
development in all of its aspects. In addition, Kuwait chairs
the committee of
the Islamic
Conference that is involved in combating desertification in
countries in the Sahel. This committee meets regularly, and
the next meeting will be in Kuwait in a few days. All of
this shows that Kuwait
is anxious to help its brother
African countries overcome the obstacles they face in their
efforts to develop.
the Organization of
In conclusion, I should like to highlight the importance
for African countries of realizing that without peace and
stability there can be no development. Creating and
managing development requires the political will of all the
countries of Africa,
to ensure a certain degree of
integration. There are projects and plans designed to ensure
development in Africa, but they require stability. They can
then lead to the prosperity that we all hope for in the world
of the future.
We thank God, and we request his assistance.
Mr. Mangoaela (Lesotho): Permit me at the outset to
extend our warm appreciation to Ambassador Hisashi
Owada of Japan, as Chairperson of the Ad Hoc Committee
of the Whole of the General Assembly for the Mid-term
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
Review of the Implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, and
to his Bureau for the impressive manner in which they
guided the mid-term review. I should also like to thank,
through Ambassador Owada, the Government of Japan for
the unwavering interest that it continues to manifest in the
fortunes of the people of Africa through the several
meetings and conferences it has organized devoted to
finding solutions to Africa’s problems. Let me further
declare that my delegation completely endorses the views
of the Chairman of the Group of 77 and China, as well as
those
the
Organization of African Unity.
expressed by the Chairman of
to be
Without a vision, any development effort is likely to
fail. Through the mid-term review of the implementation
of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF), Africa and her
development partners have emerged with a refocused
vision and with the resolve to make the second half of the
Agenda the bridge to a successful new millennium.
The Ad Hoc Committee examined whence the
African region came, where its development effort stands,
and what the way forward is. In the process they came to
the conclusion that yes, some progress has been made, but
clearly not enough. Indeed, in some respects it could even
be said that Africa has moved backwards. Let us, in this
regard, consider the following findings of the mid-term
review. First, many of the critical social and economic
problems that led to the adoption of UN-NADAF in 1991
still exist, and in some countries the problems have even
worsened. Secondly, it had been estimated that in order to
achieve a real annual growth rate in gross national
product of at least 6 per cent over the course of the
1990s, African countries needed a minimum of $30
billion in official development assistance in 1992, an
amount which then needed to grow at 4 per cent per
annum. This amount, however, stood at only $26.4 billion
in 1995. Thirdly, Africa’s external debt increased from
$300 billion in 1991 to $322 billion in 1995.
It is against this background that a proper assessment
can be made of the implementation of the Agenda. On
one level the review was a resounding success in that
Africa and her partners reached a consensus, often after
prolonged and intensive debate, on the slow progress that
had been achieved and on the enormous tasks that still lie
ahead. On another
it was clearly
recognized that the implementation had left much to be
desired.
level, however,
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The review comes at a time when a dark cloud hangs
over the future of international economic cooperation, a
situation that has an especially ominous portent for Africa,
the continent with the most pressing economic problems.
Africa is mired in poverty, political instability, a crushing
debt burden, declining living standards and diminishing
hope for meaningful lives for the majority of her people.
When called upon to make sacrifices, the people of Africa,
as the review has demonstrated, have done so with
impressive fortitude, and yet
that such
sacrifices will ensure a better life remains elusive. The
idealism that inspired the creation of the United Nations at
San Francisco 51 years ago seems to be only a chimera
now. The lofty words of the Charter, “to promote social
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”,
ring hollow today as we witness occasional fatigue on the
part of our partners.
the prospect
I say “occasional” because from time to time there
have also been glimmers of hopeful signs of continuing
commitment to assisting Africa. One such glimmer is the
enthusiasm with which the United Nations System-wide
Special Initiative on Africa has been received. While we do
not consider
Initiative a substitute for
UN-NADAF, it should complement it in a very important
way. As is known,
the Special Initiative’s target for
expenditures is $25 billion per annum, while that of
UN-NADAF is $30 billion. It is clear, therefore, that the
shortfall must be met somehow.
the Special
erasure
The problems of Africa present a challenge to the
entire international community to manifest
its abiding
commitment to a collective destiny in which the deprivation
of each and every member of the human race is the concern
of all of us. We live in a world of contradictions. At the
political
level we each insist most strenuously on our
separateness and on the inviolability of our sovereignty. Yet
on the economic plane we are inexorably moving towards
the
are
constructing a single economic space in which goods and
services will move without
let or hindrance. The new
phenomenon of globalization requires that we open our
borders to the goods and services of others and in so doing
give testimony to our oneness. Is it not time that we gave
tangible meaning to the interdependence inherent
in
globalization by reviving the spirit
that animated the
founding fathers (unfortunately mothers were excluded at
that time) of the United Nations?
boundaries; we
distinguishing
of
The outcome of the mid-term review presents a
challenge to the international community to mobilize the
required to bring about Africa’s
financial
resources
24
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
economic transformation. We are sometimes told that
Africa’s recovery cannot be achieved by donor-led
initiatives, but by the greater involvement of the private
sector. We believe that is only part of the story, however.
The full story is that for the majority of African countries
reliance on foreign direct investment is not realistic, as
statistics have repeatedly shown that such investment goes
to only a handful of developing countries — those that
have
economic
development. The basic infrastructure that would attract
private investment
to Africa is lacking in the great
majority of the countries.
a measure
evinced
already
of
it
Hence,
is inevitable that official development
assistance should continue to play a major role in the
recovery process of these countries. Indeed, that was the
unanimous conclusion of
the Tokyo Conference on
Development Strategy that was hosted by the Government
of Japan in March 1995. Furthermore, it is unrealistic to
expect private investment to be made in the social sectors
of health and education. For their part, African people and
their leaders need to continue to apply themselves to the
immense task of bettering their prospects of recovery
through ongoing programmes of political and economic
reform,
releasing the energies — both physical and
intellectual — of the citizenry through the protection and
promotion of civil liberties and fundamental human rights,
and through the empowerment of women and youth, who
are the underutilized agents of economic endeavour.
Africa’s resilience and ability to pick itself up from
the ashes like the proverbial phoenix are a matter of
historical record. I have no doubt that African leaders and
African people will rise to the present challenge and will
take into their own hands their fate in the next century. It
is a positive omen and a source of promise that there is
much confluence of thought and strategy between the
Organization of African Unity’s Cairo declaration on
African development and the outcome of the mid-term
review of UN-NADAF.
On the basis of the wealth of experience available
within the United Nations system and the continuing
commitment of Africa’s development partners to the
region’s socio-economic advancement, coupled with
heartening new evidence of our continent’s increasing
respect for and dedication to the core values of sound
governance, there is yet hope for Africa. As the review
indicates, quite a few countries have achieved the growth
rate of 6 per cent or above which was
set by
UN-NADAF. We look at their achievements with more
hope than envy, and we draw inspiration from their
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
success. We are also convinced that the majority of the
international community still believes in international
cooperation, especially among the countries of the South.
Thus, South-South cooperation holds great promise as a
complement to the traditional cooperation that Africa has
had with its development partners of the North. In this
regard, we have been heartened by the expressions of
solidarity that we have received from the countries of the
South.
came directly to Panama as early as the sixteenth century,
and then in the nineteenth century, and then again at the
beginning of
the twentieth century from Caribbean
islands. These Africans, who arrived in Panama at
different times, blended with our national character and
enriched it, bringing their nuances to our views of music,
poetry and art, and influencing our daily lives in a way
that protected Panamanians from the distorted images
which the West has often had of Africa.
The Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) has
prepared estimates of projected resource requirements, set
out in document A/51/228/Add.1. I consider it appropriate
to conclude with a direct quotation from the ECA’s
addendum to the Secretary-General’s report:
the
rigid
international
“While it
is the primary responsibility of African
States to bear the bulk of their development burden by
tapping as a matter of priority their own financial
resources,
economic
environment, the domestic economic hardship and the
lukewarm disposition of some creditors to adopt
radical measures have constituted obstacles to the
mobilization of
resources and to the
development of Africa. Most African countries will be
unable to implement the economic reforms required
for development without further domestic and foreign
financial
resources. Nor can Africans and the
international community afford to see yet another
international
initiative for Africa’s socio-economic
recovery and development
fail.” (A/51/228/Add.1,
para. 53)
financial
Mr. Illueca (Panama) (interpretation from Spanish):
The Government of Panama has faithfully supported United
Nations actions for the development of Africa. Today’s
discussion of the mid-term review of the implementation of
the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the l990s (UN-NADAF), gives my delegation an
opportunity once again to put on record our voice and our
will, joining with those of others wishing to help channel
international assistance towards actions better directed to
placing Africa on the path to sustainable development and
to the true well-being of the peoples of that continent. With
this in mind, my delegation endorses the statement made on
this question by the delegation of Costa Rica on behalf of
the Group of 77 and China.
In the case of Africa, no Panamanian can fail to have
a vision and an interested opinion. This interest is based on
the extraordinary contribution made to Panamanian culture
by African men and women and their descendants who
For Panamanians,
since the sixteenth century,
Africans from east or west came from a geography which,
although unknown, was never considered far away or
alien, as it was for other peoples in other latitudes and
regions. The African members of the Panamanian people
have overcome the test of integration and for a long time
have been a deep and lasting part of our national reality.
Panamanians do not lose sight of the fact that we are
part of a world in which the unity of the human species
depends on the constant exercise of solidarity. Panama
confirms its solidarity with Africa because we recognize
that Africa is exceptional. It has been acknowledged by
the United Nations, by the specialized agencies and by the
entire international community as a whole as exceptional
in terms of urgencies and opportunities, which calls for an
exceptional mobilization of political will, and of human,
technological and financial resources in order to speed up
implementation of the New Agenda for the remainder of
the decade and beyond, in later years, in line with the
draft resolution recommended in section IV of document
A/51/48. To act towards the development of Africa has
become urgent; this is tantamount to saying that what is
today being programmed and done has been needed since
yesterday.
for
In April of this year, something which happened
here at the United Nations was in tune with the urgent
need to work towards priority objectives
the
development of Africa, and to do so in a more effective,
more rapid and efficient way. I am referring to the
establishment of the United Nations System-wide Special
Initiative on Africa. The Initiative provides a global
approach to Africa’s urgent needs and brings together all
of the agencies and mechanisms of the system, including
the Bretton Woods institutions, in financing the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in
the 1990s.
In August of this year, it was my personal honour to
participate in Tokyo, Japan, at a high-level seminar on the
development of Africa, generously organized by the
25
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Japanese Government. At that seminar, I had the occasion
Initiative on Africa. My
of welcoming the Special
52nd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
delegation wishes to recognize the work done by
Ambassadors Owada of Japan, Insanally of Guyana, Reyn
of Belgium and Dangue Rewaka from Gabon, which has
given us a clearer idea of all aspects of United Nations
consideration of items relating to the development of
Africa.
Now, two months later, today’s debate gives me the
opportunity to reiterate that the delegation of Panama is
among the delegations interested in Africa and its future
for reasons very similar to those contained in the well-
known statement by President Nelson Mandela: because
we
“dare to think that what we are about is people”.
(Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth
Session, Plenary Meetings, 37th meeting, p. 6)
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
26
