United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
53rd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 5 November 1996, 3 p.m.
New York
A/51/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
In the absence of
(Bahamas), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Turnquest
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 44 (continued)
Implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s
Report of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole of
the General Assembly for the Mid-term Review of
the Implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
(A/51/48)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/228 and
Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/51/48, sect. IV)
Mr. Rantao (Botswana): As I am taking the floor for
the first time, allow me to congratulate the President on his
assumption of the presidency of the fifty-first session of the
General Assembly.
I would also like to congratulate Ambassador Hisashi
Owada of Japan, Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee of
the General Assembly for the Mid-term Review of the
Implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s, and his Bureau for the
excellent report before this Assembly.
It must be pointed out from the outset that while the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF) was a laudable
initiative, it lacked a clear operational framework both
within the United Nations system itself and at the country
level. Moreover,
framework for
coordination between the United Nations system and the
its
Bretton Woods
to
implementation. Advocacy for the programme at
the
country level was also very weak.
there was no clear
institutions with
regard
In this regard, we welcome the launching of the
United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on Africa
by the Secretary-General
in March of this year. The
Special Initiative provides an operational framework for
UN-NADAF which has been lacking. The Special
Initiative should, however, not be treated as a replacement
for UN-NADAF but rather as its complementary arm.
All the reports before the General Assembly on this
agenda item clearly indicate that official development
assistance flows to Africa fell well below the $30 billion
that was the minimum annual target figure required for
the implementation of UN-NADAF. Moreover, funding
for United Nations operational activities for development
has declined significantly over the past few years. This is
clearly contrary to the commitments made regarding the
implementation of UN-NADAF.
Coincidentally, we are discussing this agenda item
during the United Nations Pledging Conference for
Development Activities. It is our sincere hope that the
96-86718 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
pledges will be a reflection of the commitment of Member
States to the role of the United Nations in the multilateral
development process,
a United Nations which can
complement national efforts in meeting the objectives that
have been spelled out in past international conferences.
it
is
While
appreciated that not
all official
development assistance flows can be channelled through the
United Nations system, Botswana shares the view that the
United Nations funds, programmes and agencies should be
strengthened and provided with adequate resources to
participate in the development process where they have a
comparative advantage.
While African States have reaffirmed their primary
responsibility for the development of their countries, the
globalization of the world economy makes it imperative that
we seek global solutions to the development problems with
which our countries are grappling. Africa expects the
unswerving support and cooperation of the international
community in this regard.
The growth of the African economies will in the end
not benefit Africa alone, but the developed countries as
well. Growing and vibrant African economies will usher in
prospects for global trade between Africa and the rest of
the world.
In this connection, we welcome the latest initiative by
the World Bank to raise the ceiling for debt relief for the
highly indebted poor countries from 67 per cent to 80 per
cent. Botswana calls for flexibility in the implementation of
the initiative to ensure that all affected countries will
benefit. Experience has illustrated that only a handful of
countries have benefited from past initiatives because of
lack of flexibility.
With regard to trade, Botswana shares the view that
the international community should support the efforts of
African countries in the development and maintenance of
trade infrastructures in order to cope with future challenges
and benefit fully from multilateral
trade arrangements,
especially following the conclusion of the Uruguay Round.
In this connection, we wish to recognize the important work
being undertaken by the International Trade Centre and the
Commonwealth Secretariat to prepare the Governments of
the developing countries fully for the implementation of the
Uruguay Round.
My delegation also calls for the continued support of
the United Nations and the international community to help
2
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) to
implement its regional programme.
the
My
supports
delegation
recommendation
contained in paragraph 92 of the report of the Ad Hoc
Committee
regarding poverty eradication and the
implementation of the 20/20 concept, which was adopted
by the Social Summit. The eradication of poverty remains
one of the central themes of the Botswana Government’s
policy.
The Government of Botswana, in conjunction with
United Nations representatives, is currently preparing a
country strategy note for the period 1997-2003 which
covers some of the priorities identified in UN-NADAF,
including the question of poverty eradication.
It is the hope of my delegation that in the light of
the shortcomings that were identified during the mid-term
review, concerted efforts will be undertaken to implement
UN-NADAF successfully during the last five years of its
life.
Mr. Kamal (Pakistan): We have before us the report
of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole of the General
Assembly for the Mid-term Review of the Implementation
of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s, contained in document A/51/48.
My delegation agrees with the Ad Hoc Committee’s
evaluation of the limited progress achieved so far, as well
as with its recommendations for further measures to attain
the goals of the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF).
their
primary
The agreement on the New Agenda for Africa, five
years ago, represented a bargain. The African States
reaffirmed
the
development of their countries, while the international
community committed itself to supporting their efforts for
the development of Africa. Concrete commitments were
undertaken by all parties for the attainment of well-
defined goals in a given time-frame.
responsibility
for
the goals of UN-NADAF, as set out
The mid-term review of the implementation of the
New Agenda underlines sad realities. Five years after its
adoption,
in
resolution 46/151, remain elusive. Many of the critical
social and economic problems that led to the adoption of
the resolution still exist. Some progress has been
achieved, but in relation to the objectives that were set,
most remains to be done. Some 45 to 50 per cent of the
inhabitants of sub-Saharan Africa today live below the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
poverty line. Unless reduced substantially, the incidence of
poverty and the rate of population growth in the region will
threaten economic stability and growth, and will undermine
social stability in most of Africa.
mechanisms. But these have clearly been insufficient, not
only in relation to what needs to be done, but more
disappointingly, in relation to the commitments that were
solemnly made.
The Secretary-General has reported that there has been
forward movement in Africa in redefining the respective
roles of the State and the private sector. Initiatives have
been taken to promote private entrepreneurship and to
improve the business environment. The majority of African
countries have engaged in constitutional reform. During the
past five years, civic organizations have emerged in nearly
every country. All
resulted in significant
improvement
in the overall economic performance of
Africa, the number of countries recording negative growth
rates dropping from 19 in 1993 to 3 in 1995. The number
of countries that achieved the target of 6 per cent annual
growth in gross domestic product increased from 3 in 1992
to 12 in 1995.
this has
improvement
A report of the African Development Bank released in
in
October 1996 attributes the significant
Africa’s economic performance during 1995 to the fact that
a growing number of countries in the region have been able
to establish conditions necessary for macroeconomic
stability
these
developments, Africa’s outstanding external debt totalled
approximately $306 billion in December 1995. This is an
increase of $14 billion over 1994.
growth. Despite
sustainable
and
While Africa’s medium-term economic outlook is
promising, sustainable development over the long term calls
for strategies and policies well beyond the framework of
adjustment programmes. It is gratifying to see that the
African Governments have made significant progress in
several areas, particularly in the areas of macroeconomic
reforms and governance. In fact, the progress in regard to
Africa’s development
in recent years has been made
possible by the determination of the African States to move
forward on their part of
the bargain enshrined in
UN-NADAF. The African economies need to consolidate
the gains from macroeconomic reforms that are essential for
recovery and growth.
As against the efforts made by the African countries
themselves, it is disheartening to see that the international
community’s contribution is none too inspiring. The
international community has little to show on the promises
it made to Africa, especially in the context of UN-NADAF.
Some palliative measures have been taken in the areas
trade preferences and export compensatory
of debt
A key feature of UN-NADAF was the tangible goal
of providing a minimum of net official development
assistance of $30 billion in 1992, a figure that was to
increase at an average rate of 4 per cent thereafter. This
target remains unfulfilled. In fact, ironically, resource
flows to Africa have declined since UN-NADAF was
agreed upon.
My delegation supports the adoption of the draft
resolution in document A/51/48 recommended by the Ad
Hoc Committee of the Whole of the General Assembly
for the Mid-term Review of the Implementation of the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s.
My delegation is confident that, as in the past, the
African States will continue to make all possible efforts
to accomplish the goals of UN-NADAF. Let us not forget
that the efforts of Africa alone will never be enough. Let
us not succumb to the temptation to sermonize on what
Africa needs to do further to help itself. Africa is fully
aware of the challenges confronting it, and understands
the solution to its problems. What Africa needs is enough
resources to ensure the accomplishment of UN-NADAF’s
goals.
it
that
imperative
Given the magnitude of
is
resources required for
achieving these goals,
the
international community honour its commitment to Africa
through concrete measures. Failure to do so will redound
adversely not only on Africa, but on the international
community as a whole. The international community
should therefore rededicate itself to UN-NADAF, and
respond positively and effectively to the needs of Africa
before it is too late.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (interpretation from
Spanish): The implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
(UN-NADAF), whose mid-term review focused the
attention of the international community just a few weeks
ago, is an issue to which my delegation attaches the
highest importance.
The documents for this agenda item contain valuable
information concerning the measures taken by the
Governments of African countries and by the international
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
community to attain the targets set in the programme. I
wish particularly to refer to document A/51/228/Add.1,
prepared by the Economic Commission for Africa, which
mirrors that region’s problems in their true magnitude and
their daunting nature.
It is essential for this debate and whatever resolution
we may adopt to help to prompt steps that will make it
possible to relaunch the Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the light of the results of the mid-term review.
This will ultimately depend on the political resolve of each
and every country, and particularly the developed countries,
for which assistance to Africa is without question a matter
of elementary historical justice.
Cuba also believes that the wealth extracted from that
continent over centuries should now be returned to Africa
by the affluent and comfortable societies that were in fact
built using Africa’s resources.
However, despite the efforts of African countries to
make better use of official development assistance, the total
volume of official development assistance in Africa has
continued to fall from almost $25 billion in 1990 to less
than $21 billion in 1993, a figure that is well below the
objective of $30 billion set as the target in UN-NADAF and
also far from the subsequent annual 4 per cent increase
envisaged.
While there has been impressive growth in direct
foreign investment in the developing countries overall, since
the beginning of the 1990s less than 2 per cent of these
flows have gone to Africa. The absolute figures are
comparable only with those for 1985, when the economic
crisis on that continent came to a head. Africa’s share in
world trade declined from 5 per cent in 1980 to 2.1 per
cent in 1995. At a time when there is so much talk about
globalization and its benefits and potential for all, there are
many indicators that foreshadow a still marginalized Africa,
where most countries will have been literally excluded from
markets for goods and services, financial markets and
capital and technological flows.
In spite of
the hardships and wrenching efforts
involved in the reform processes under way in some
countries, savings and investment rates continue to be
extremely low, terms of trade have worsened, the region’s
balance-of-payments deficit has increased and levels of
external debt
remain unsustainable. Millions of men,
women and children live in despair and abject poverty. In
sub-Saharan Africa alone, 10 million AIDS sufferers have
been identified, more than half of them women.
4
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
Africa’s problems are of such magnitude that they
demand special and extraordinary efforts. For this reason,
we welcome the launching of the United Nations System-
wide Special Initiative on Africa as a complement to the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s and as a framework for
the
cooperation of the whole of the United Nations system
aiming at a genuine mobilization of the operational
activities of the New Agenda for Africa. Similarly, we
hail the recent initiatives and Conferences on African
Development sponsored by Japan, as well as other steps
taken by certain European countries.
At the same time, however much we may wish to do
so, it would be premature to describe the isolated and not
yet sustained indicators of economic growth in certain
countries of the region as signs of “tangible progress”, as
does the report in document A/51/228. Such euphoria
serves only to blind us to the destitution in which entire
peoples are living.
With its modest economic and financial resources
and in spite of the limitations inherent in its status as a
small developing country, Cuba has provided and
continues to provide significant cooperation and technical
assistance to many African countries. Cuban teachers,
doctors, engineers and technicians continue to make their
contribution to the economic and social development of
that continent without expecting the slightest material
reward for their work. Tens of thousands of African
students have also attended Cuban schools to study a
wide variety of specialized subjects. I mention this in all
humility simply to give a practical and tangible example
to show that such efforts can succeed in the short term if
there is a genuine will to do so.
Cuba is proud of its Afro-Hispanic origins and
culture and wishes today to ratify its historical and
abiding commitment to Africa.
Ms. Valencia (Colombia)
(interpretation from
Spanish): I have the honour to address this plenary
meeting of the General Assembly on behalf of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries on an issue of great
importance to the Movement and developing countries:
the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
The adoption of the New Agenda in December 1991
reflected the United Nations recognition of the pressing
need to make the question of Africa high priority for the
also reflected the General Assembly’s
decade.
It
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
recognition of the profound economic and social crisis
being experienced by the continent. It was considered a
matter of urgency to create new mechanisms and indicate
new directions to secure the required international support
to deal with such a tragic situation.
The overwhelming burden of external debt, excessive
dependence on a few commodities, rapid population growth,
serious deterioration of nutritional indicators, environmental
degradation — with the recurring problems of drought and
desertification — social
tensions and ongoing conflicts
reveal only part of the grave consequences of increasing
marginalization of African countries from the world
economy. In Africa poverty and suffering have reached
levels unknown in any other part of the world.
In the midst of such a complex situation, the African
countries are deploying their own efforts to implement the
New Agenda commitments. Economic reform policies,
cooperation,
promotion of
agricultural
appropriate
environmental and demographic policies and encouragement
of democratic processes are examples of those countries’
efforts to face the challenges before them.
and regional
promotion
of
subregional
development,
In many African countries the overwhelming burden
of the external debt
is such that resources that would
otherwise be earmarked for meeting urgent social needs
must be devoted to debt payments. The Non-Aligned
Movement will therefore continue its actions to convince
the international community,
in particular the creditor
countries and the multilateral financial institutions, to adopt
an effective solution to the external debt problem.
We will also insist that priority should be given to the
diversification of African economies, support
the
regional and subregional integration programmes on the
continent,
the fulfilment of agreed targets for official
development assistance and the effective implementation of
commitments adopted at recent United Nations international
conferences,
in particular those relating to the critical
situation in Africa.
for
Africa is a marvellous continent of enormous potential.
We reaffirm our confidence in its peoples, its diversity, its
wealth and its human resources. Let us support Africa’s
efforts to build its own future. The immense significance of
this enterprise should be expressed through the clear resolve
by the United Nations and the international community to
fully implement the New Agenda. Solidarity is the hope of
the peoples of Africa. Let us work to provide it.
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
Mr. Mabilangan (Philippines): The Philippine
delegation congratulates Ambassador Owada, Chairman
of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole of the General
Assembly for the Mid-term Review of the Implementation
of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development
of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF), and to his country,
Japan, for its concrete and specific contributions to the
development of Africa.
We now have an assessment of the achievements of
the first five years of the UN-NADAF, as well as
concrete and specific recommendations for
its full
implementation.
It is gratifying to note that the African countries
have exerted their best efforts to implement their part of
UN-NADAF. Reform measures have been adopted to
liberalize domestic prices and external
trade. These
countries have made monetary adjustments, and many of
them have taken steps
to improve public finance
management. By and large, the countries of the continent
have made laudable achievements in macroeconomic
reform and governance.
Their efforts, in fact, have already had a positive
impact on their economies, as summarized in the
Secretary-General’s report, submitted at
the mid-term
review. The international community should, however,
temper its expectations because the tentative indications
of growth recently shown by a number of these countries
cannot yet be perceived as a pattern that can be sustained
or
emulated quickly by other African countries,
particularly the least developed among them. The
international community should not forget that Africa is
the only region of the world to have suffered from a
continuous economic decline since 1980.
The continent’s inability to maximize the benefits
from foreign trade and international financial flows cannot
if the international community
be allowed to persist
sincerely expects the continent
to realize sustained
economic growth and sustainable development.
Africa’s share in world exports fell from 2.9 per cent
in 1990 to 2.2 per cent in 1994. Official development
assistance has also fallen in real terms since 1990. The
continent also carries a heavy burden of external
indebtedness, principally official bilateral and multilateral
debts.
It is evident that the international community has yet
to implement fully its part of UN-NADAF. In one key
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
it decreased. My delegation believes that
area, the target of net official development assistance of
$30 billion in 1992, with an increment of an annual average
rate of 4 per cent in the years thereafter, was not met.
Instead,
the
international community has the resources and capabilities
adequately
of
UN-NADAF. More than once in the not-so-distant past, the
international community was able to demonstrate its ability
to muster the required political will and resources that
quickly changed the course of development of some groups
of countries.
implementation
support
to
the
full
African countries have exerted their best efforts and
continue to do so. But there must be an accompanying
favourable external environment to enable their efforts to
produce the required results. The external environment must
be supportive of the identified critical interventions for
African development and recovery in such areas as the
diversification of their export products, intensification of
regional
the
provision of adequate resource flows and durable solutions
to their external debts.
integration, human resource development,
Africa’s continued reliance on a small number of
export products has left it extremely vulnerable to the fast-
changing market conditions of
the world economy.
Economic diversification is a compelling need for Africa.
It has been identified that economic cooperation and
regional integration among these countries could be key to
their development because, as with other successful regional
cooperation, new markets are created. While efforts towards
regional cooperation and integration must continue, we also
believe that appropriate infrastructures must be provided to
interconnect the African countries.
Invariably, without
Human resource development has been shown in the
experience of many countries to be a critical component of
development.
trained, healthy and
productive men and women, economic growth and progress
would be impossible. The continuing development crisis of
Africa has seriously hampered its strides in human
resources development. The
recently issued human
development report has confirmed this finding.
It is also disturbing that resources are flowing out of
Africa when they might have been utilized in the continent.
Africa’s debts are a major obstacle to its ability to recover
and develop. The international community is well aware of
concrete proposals to address the unsustainable debts of
Africa. Concrete action has to go beyond the Naples terms
and any effective solution to multilateral debts must
6
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
encompass a greater number of countries in the continent.
Clearly, it is up to the international community to provide
the appropriate response.
the
situation in Africa,
We in the developing world can easily feel
the
gravity of
the difficult
circumstances in the continent and the urgency for
required action, because we see an Africa in many parts
of our countries. There is much that we ourselves can do
to contribute in a meaningful way to the implementation
of UN-NADAF. Individually or through our collective
efforts, we have implemented programmes and projects to
enhance economic and technical cooperation among
developing
is
becoming an important dimension for greater cooperation
among developing countries and the mid-term review has
recognized such a dimension of development cooperation.
countries. South-South
cooperation
for
My country,
the Philippines,
instance, has
implemented a small programme of economic and
technical cooperation among developing countries funded
by the national budget and a number of African countries
have been beneficiaries of the various projects we have
carried out in this regard. But South-South cooperation
can at best provide a modest complement to the full
efforts of the internationally community in seeing to it
that adequate resources and other forms of support can
flow to the continent and enable the African countries to
participate fully in a globalizing and increasingly
interdependent world.
The Acting President: In accordance with the
decision taken by the General Assembly yesterday at its
fiftieth plenary meeting, I now call on the Permanent
Observer of the Holy See.
Archbishop Martino (Holy See): As it does in
every discussion on development, the Holy See wishes to
underscore the centrality of the human person. This
centrality is enshrined in the first Principle of the Rio
Declaration on Environment and Development:
“Human beings are at the centre of concerns
for sustainable development. They are entitled to a
healthy and productive life in harmony with nature.”
(A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1 (Vol. I), p. 3)
In the discussion of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of African the 1990s, the community of
nations must be willing to make this centrality a reality.
The essential role that the human person plays in the
formulation of a viable plan for action and development
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
must forever go beyond the written page and debate and be
put into practice.
In any consideration of an agenda for development in
Africa,
the outcome of the World Summit for Social
Development merits greater attention. The Summit’s
Programme of Action identifies:
positive
“Enhancing
between
environmental, economic and social policies [as]
essential
term”
the
(A/CONF.166/9, annex II, para. 2)
interaction
longer
for
success
in
and notes that this is to be done
cultural backgrounds
“with full respect for the various religious and ethical
values,
and philosophical
convictions of its people, and in conformity with all
human rights and fundamental
freedoms.” (Ibid.,
annex I, para. 28)
Since independence, African countries have turned to
donor nations, often their former colonial rulers, and to
international financial institutions for guidance and growth.
The guidance seems to have become a kind of economic
receivership. The policies of many African nations are
decided in a cycle of meetings with the International
Monetary Fund, the World Bank, donors and creditors.
Rates of growth in Africa have been questioned
because they are low. These low rates have sometimes
resulted in criticism and decreasing assistance. But the low
rates can be clearly linked to such considerations as the fact
that Africa receives only about 3 per cent of all foreign
direct investment flows. However, Africa is no less capable
of growth if given the levels of foreign direct investment
that are found in countries with economies experiencing
growth. The key to growth is granting producers and
consumers the economic freedom to enjoy and respond to
incentives and providing safety nets in necessary cases.
Foreign assistance for Africa is now being placed in
question by some people. It is said to make little difference
to growth and development in Africa. However, to get the
economies of African countries charted towards more
positive growth rates, aid levels should be made more
generous, not reduced, for a period of time. Following a
pre-announced sliding scale, certain basic areas should
serve as categories for initial high levels of assistance.
These
among others, human
capital — human beings using their skills — equipment and
in his Apostolic Letter
roads. Pope John Paul
areas, would include,
II,
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
summarizing the conclusions of the Special Assembly for
Africa of the Synod of Bishops, outlined further areas for
which such prompt
interventions and assistance are
necessary. These include
“malnutrition, the widespread deterioration in the
standard of living, the insufficiency of means for
educating the young, the lack of elementary health
and social services with the resulting persistence of
endemic diseases, the spread of the terrible scourge
of AIDS, the heavy and often unbearable burden of
international debt, [and] the horror of fratricidal wars
fomented by unscrupulous arms trafficking,
the
shameful and pitiable spectacle of refugees and
displaced persons”. (Ecclesia in Africa, No. 114)
The very general areas of emphasis suggested here
in targeting increased foreign aid should not allow the
overflow of conditionality that is so common today and
should be discontinued. This often reflects more on the
weaknesses or preoccupations of the donors than on the
true needs of the recipient country. It is the African
people themselves who, committing themselves to
“good administration of public affairs in the two
interrelated areas of politics and the economy”
(Ecclesia in Africa, No. 110)
should be allowed to foster development without the
burden of excessive linkages and conditionalities too often
found in aid packages.
the discussion continues as
Particular sensitivities are required when addressing
the population questions of the African continent. As is
well known,
to how
population growth relates
to development and the
eradication of poverty. Specialists have not yet arrived at
a conclusion in this regard, since their beliefs fall on both
sides of the issue. But the documentation prepared on this
item seems clearly to have decided in favour of
population control policies
strategies
advocating development through poverty eradication. The
great number of reservations that have surrounded this
issue, both at
the Conference on Population and
Development and subsequent conferences, demonstrate the
lack of any true consensus in this regard.
and against
In the documentation on this item, the critical issues
section contains a subsection on human development and
capacity-building composed of 12 paragraphs and
subparagraphs. Six of these — one half of the total —
refer to population issues, while only two are dedicated to
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
education, and a single paragraph addresses employment.
The potential of this valuable resource of the continent of
Africa — Africans themselves — deserves more attention.
One is challenged to consider the nature of the real agenda
for this topic.
Lack of peace on the African continent has clearly
diminished development. This is mostly evidenced in its
impact on the African people themselves, particularly
women and children. “An Agenda for Development” states
that
“Development
is a fundamental human right.
Development is the most secure basis for peace.”
(A/48/935, para. 3)
That message is echoed in the report of the Secretary-
General that is being considered today, which states:
“Sustainable development cannot occur without
peace, which requires proactive efforts
towards
conflict prevention, management and resolution.”
(A/51/228, para. 13)
Peace, of course, is not easily guaranteed, especially
since so many in Africa today suffer from ethnic and
political strife. Once again, we turn to “An Agenda for
Development”, which states
“While there is war, no State is securely at
peace. While there is want, no people can achieve
lasting development.” (A/48/935, para. 15).
Only through the promotion of peace through social justice,
respect for human rights, the building up of a State based
on law and the fostering of authentic democracy will
economic and social development occur in Africa.
I wish to conclude with the words of His Holiness
Pope John Paul II upon his return from his eleventh
pastoral visit to Africa:
“How can one not be touched by the Africans’ human
warmth? How can one forget the colours, sounds and
rhythms of that land? They are the dance of life, the
triumph of life! Unfortunately, once again I have seen
with my own eyes this continent’s problems. Africa
bears the scars of its long history of humiliations. This
continent has too frequently been considered only for
selfish interests. Today, Africa is asking to be loved
and respected for what
is. It does not ask for
compassion, it asks for solidarity.”
it
8
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
There is hope for the people of Africa. May this
discussion help to fuel that hope.
The Acting President: In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 2011 (XX) of 11 October 1965, I
now call on the Permanent Observer for the Organization
of African Unity.
Mr. Sy (Organization of African Unity): I should
like, at the beginning of this statement, to express on
behalf of
the Organization of African Unity warm
congratulations to all members of the Ad Hoc Committee
of the Whole of the General Assembly for the effective
and timely completion of the mid-term review of the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF). At the same time, I
excellent
would personally like
under
coordination
the
Chairmanship of Ambassador Hisashi Owada,
the
Permanent Representative of Japan.
to commend the
review exercise
the
of
The review exercise has once again demonstrated the
spirit of partnership for development which has evolved
in the United Nations over the years. The review was for
the most part much more concerned with what has to be
done in order to achieve the objectives established by
UN-NADAF in 1991. There was a clear understanding of
what African countries themselves have done since the
adoption of the programme. The various political and
economic reforms adopted by many African countries
have started to produce positive results on economic
growth and development in some countries and have laid
the
and
development in others. For some others in the continent,
however, the problems of economic development remain
very acute.
sustainable
economic
growth
basis
for
At
time,
the same
the review exercise has
the international
acknowledged the commitment of
community and the ongoing transformation of
the
international economy. The international community
continues to show concern for Africa in all the major
global programmes on the promotion of international
development, while the globalization and liberalization of
the world economy tend to marginalize the economically
weak countries.
As we approach the beginning of the next century,
African countries, I must emphasize, continue to lay great
store in the international community and in the relief
which UN-NADAF could bring to their ailing economies.
The consolidation of the gains made so far by many
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
African countries will be difficult without greater
commitment and support from the international community.
All
these points have been well articulated in the
recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee. However,
while not attempting to restate these measures, permit me
to underscore that the way forward in the implementation
of the objectives of UN-NADAF and in the promotion of
authentic development in Africa should include prioritizing
development strategies.
One cardinal issue requiring urgent attention in the last
phase of UN-NADAF is external trade. The international
community should effectively support African efforts at
trade facilitation and market access. The trading partners of
African countries should consider further reduction in tariffs
and the removal of non-tariff barriers on African products.
This process should be complemented by adequate support
for the diversification of African economies. In this regard,
States participating in the African Development Fund of the
African Development Bank would go a long way towards
assisting trade expansion by making an initial, adequate
special contribution to finance the preparatory phase of
commodity diversification projects and programmes.
The promotion of sustainable economic growth and
in African countries during the
sustained development
remaining lifespan of UN-NADAF may well hinge on the
extent to which the question of resource flows is adequately
addressed by the international community. The impact of
the reforms and the present economic conditions of many
African countries suggest that additional new resources are
urgently needed. Attempts should be made by those
countries which have not done so to reach the target of 0.7
per cent of gross national product in official development
53rd plenary meeting
5 November 1996
international
assistance
community should facilitate the flow of foreign direct
the
investment
countries have made major
in the
environment for investment.
to African countries, since most of
to African countries. The
improvements
At the same time, greater efforts should be made to
relieve the debt burden of the indebted countries. While
the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative is a
step in the right direction, we would welcome substantial
contributions to its fund by the creditor countries and
international financial institutions. Also, the conditions
governing whether countries can benefit
from the
initiative should not be too stringent so that the more
indebted African countries can benefit from it.
In addition to this, I wish to underscore that regional
economic integration remains, in the long run, a crucial
strategy for promoting enduring development
in the
continent and a complement to national economic policies
on economic growth and development. The African
Economic Community is the foremost force for economic
integration in the continent. The process of development
in African countries would be further accelerated if the
international community supported the work of
the
Community.
Allow me to say in conclusion that international
development is a question of self-enlightenment. Poverty
knows no boundaries. It generates immigration problems,
provokes conflicts and has linkages with international
terrorism. Africa has a potential market of more than 600
million people. The development of the continent would
be to everyone’s advantage.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate for this item.
At the request of several delegations, action on the
draft resolution contained in section IV of document
A/51/48 will be taken at a later date to be announced.
The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.
9
