United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
29th plenary meeting
Thursday, 10 October 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President:
Mr. Evariste Marson, Minister
Madagascar.
I now call on His Excellency
for Foreign Affairs of
session of
the fifty-first
Mr. Marson (Madagascar)
(interpretation from
French): In common with the speakers preceding me, I
should like to congratulate you upon your election to the
presidency of
the General
Assembly. We see it not only as a recognition of your
personal qualities, but also, and above all, the consecration
of the distinguished part played by your country in the
international arena. Through your person, the honour that
derives from your election is shared with the member
countries of the Non-Aligned Movement, which gives us
particular pride. I would like to assure you of the complete
cooperation and full
the delegation of
Madagascar, which it is my privilege to lead.
support of
My congratulations also go to the other members of
the General Committee, to whom we wish every success in
their work.
Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity to express
to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do
Amaral, our warm gratitude for all the efforts that he made
during his term as President of the Assembly at its fiftieth
session. I would like to assure him that we followed
closely and with interest the activities and contacts which
he undertook on behalf of our Organization and in order
to further its objectives.
and on the
The disappearance of the political and ideological
divisions arising from the cold war gave birth to hopes
for greater international security, stability, peace and
prosperity, so that
the international community could
henceforth focus its efforts on the establishment of a just,
equitable and truly multilateral and non-discriminatory
international order,
strengthening of
cooperation for international development. These hopes,
however, not been fulfilled. A feeling of anxiety prevails
in the face of the imbalances, insecurity, tensions and
contradictions clouding the prospects for peace and
economic development. The forces of conflict have grown
to dangerous proportions as they have spilled over
frontiers, and have assumed various forms such as
terrorism, separatism, fundamentalism, intolerance and
xenophobia.
the
Similarly,
interdependent world economy
continues to be dominated by uncertainty, imbalances and
recession. Negative economic growth rates, persistent
imbalances in the commercial and financial
fields,
increased transitional or structural unemployment, and an
absence of coordination in exchange rates and trade
policies — these are some of the problems connected
with the system of the developed world which have an
adverse impact on the developing countries. For in fact
the resources allocated to cooperation for development
96-86443 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the beneficiary countries,
have fallen, on the pretext that up to now this has achieved
nothing for
including our
countries in Africa, whose priorities, at both national and
continental level, have been to relieve absolute, endemic
poverty, to eradicate hunger and malnutrition, to overcome
disease and illiteracy, and to meet the needs for housing
and sanitation.
In this connection, just as we welcomed Habitat II last
June in Istanbul, we commend the initiative of the Director-
General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations (FAO) to convene the World Food Summit
next November in Rome, to sensitize international opinion
to the problem of hunger in the world, thereby reviving
interest in the subject that has apparently waned.
Thus it is clear that the world today is confronted with
urgent social and economic problems which, at the national,
regional and international levels, require efforts and the
implementation of policies and measures that can provide
urgent solutions. The future of world trade, financial and
monetary
social
development, as well as human rights, the environment and
population in relation to development, are vital issues that
inextricably link the fate and destiny of all countries.
economic
regimes,
growth
and
It
is therefore comforting to recall
the solemn
commitment made by the international community on the
occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations,
on the night of 24 October 1995, to mobilize in the quest
for peace, security, development and stability. In order to
attain these objectives and successfully discharge the
functions assigned to it in the Charter, the United Nations
needs to be reformed in order to adjust to a world in
constant change.
With respect to the increase in the membership of the
Security Council, the principle is accepted in general, if for
no other reason than to respond to the increase in the
number of United Nations Member States. The proposals
put forward in this context are as interesting as they are
varied, each invoking praiseworthy objectives, depending on
one’s viewpoint. Thus the Italian proposal, drawing on the
principle established in Article 23 of the Charter, highlights
the need to favour the geographical regions that are
currently under-represented. This comes close to the
concern of countries such as Madagascar, which wholly
subscribes to the decision taken by the African summit in
July 1996, namely that the Security Council must become
more representative in nature and reflect the composition of
the Organization in a new international system, so as to
correct the geographical imbalance that now characterizes
2
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
it and make it a genuine organ for the execution of the
General Assembly’s resolutions.
The African position gives priority for the time
being to an increase in the number of members. both
permanent and non-permanent. This restructuring of the
Security Council should allocate two new permanent seats
to Africa, three to Asia, two to Latin America and the
Caribbean, and one to the European and other States.
since
With respect to the post of Secretary-General of the
United Nations, Madagascar associates itself with the
chorus of all African countries, through the Declaration of
Yaoundé, which reaffirmed Africa’s right to a second
term in the Secretary-General’s post, as has been the
practice
the Organization.
Accordingly, Madagascar supports the re-election of
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, one of whose main objectives
has been to identify and elaborate concrete proposals for
the recovery and development of Africa so as to make the
United Nations system’s support
to the continent as
effective as possible. In that context, the support of the
international community as a whole is a must.
creation of
the
We take note of the progress achieved in resolving
the debt problem and in the implementation of the Naples
terms, as well as the recommendations made by the
Group of Seven summit convened in Lyon in June 1996.
The developing countries, particularly in Africa, certainly
need substantial international support, but it is above all
the responsibility of our leaders and peoples to make the
necessary changes to create a suitable sociopolitical
climate for development on a large scale. Thus we have
no choice but to continue to work, by ourselves to begin
with, to achieve collective self-reliance at the national,
regional and continental levels. For its part, Madagascar,
which has just completed its economic policy framework
document, hopes in the near future to benefit from
additional measures from its creditors going beyond the
Naples terms to give a fresh impetus to its development.
Indeed,
in today’s world of multidimensional
interdependence, any failure in development can only
harm us all, rich and poor alike, since poverty is defined
in terms of collective responsibility and the rights of
every individual.
In the field of human rights, efforts must be stepped
up to translate into real action the 1992 Declaration on
the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic,
Religious and Linguistic Minorities, adopted by the
General Assembly.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
With respect to the challenges arising in the Middle
East, Bosnia and Northern Ireland, we note that we are
advancing in the right direction. Madagascar is attentively
following the recent phases, particularly as regards the
peace process between Israel
and the Palestinians.
Moreover, like all peoples of the world, we reaffirm our
wish to see the peaceful reunification of Korea.
this Treaty. It is in this connection that Madagascar has
just signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
Similarly, my country also considers that the extension of
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT) is an initial response to the major challenges of our
time in the area of nuclear proliferation and arms
limitation.
In the face of the situation obtaining in the Western
Sahara after the Security Council’s decision of May 1996,
Madagascar remains concerned.
The frequent setbacks experienced by the conventional
approach to peacekeeping should persuade us to persevere
in our efforts to prevent conflict and give subregional
structures responsibility for the maintenance of peace, as
advocated in the United Nations Secretary-General’s
Agenda for Peace, and as applied by the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention,
Management and Resolution.
Against this background, the General Assembly should
be given appropriate powers to have access to mechanisms
for the peaceful settlement of conflicts. The mechanisms for
the peaceful settlement of conflicts should be strengthened
in the light of the provisions advocated in the Agenda for
Peace. When peace is restored, the role of United Nations
forces as a buffer in international, civil or ethnic conflicts
should also be strengthened. Madagascar
to
participate concretely in peacekeeping operations. Regional
structures for conflict resolution, such as those that exist
within the United Nations, the Organization of African
Unity and the Non-Aligned Movement, should again be
strengthened.
intends
For us,
inter alia,
the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention,
Management and Resolution has proved its usefulness in
Africa in a number of cases,
through the
intervention of regional units of the Economic Community
of West African States
(ECOWAS) and the Inter-
Governmental Authority on Drought and Development
(IGADD), which have operated respectively in sub-Saharan
Africa and in the Sahel. Madagascar fully subscribes to this
approach, as is borne out by its direct involvement in the
mediation process for the settlement of the Comorian
conflict in 1995.
The signing of the Pelindaba Text of the African
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty this year attests to the
willingness of the African countries to banish all nuclear
weapons from their soil. Madagascar,
to its
principles, is now initiating the procedure for accession to
faithful
In the environmental sphere, after the legitimate
concerns expressed by Heads of State and Government at
the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development (UNCED) in Rio de Janeiro, energetic
measures must be taken through a common commitment
by all countries. There is no need to demonstrate that
environmental problems know neither political nor natural
boundaries. Nevertheless, at the domestic level, it must be
emphasized that people are not always sensitive to the
almost
irreconcilable concepts of conservation and
protection and meeting basic needs
fuel,
fisheries resources, etc.).
(heating,
It
is in the light of
these considerations that
Madagascar has opted for a gradual approach regarding
its accession to international environmental conventions.
Thus the country has set up a basic framework for
environmental policy, termed the Environmental Charter.
It has drawn up an environmental programme in three
stages phased over a 15-year period; negotiations for
multi-donor financing of this programme have just been
completed in September in Paris.
to
Convention
to
With
respect
international
International
conventions,
Madagascar has ratified the main Conventions, including
the Convention on Biological Diversity,
the United
Nations
Combat
Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious
Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, the
Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer,
and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the
various
Ozone Layer. As
Conventions, Madagascar wishes
the
participatory involvement of its people, and thus apply the
principle of “Think globally — act locally”.
these
to
it
implements
enlist
Lastly, one year after the Beijing Conference and
one year after the Copenhagen summit, I would not wish
to conclude without recalling Madagascar’s efforts in the
social
as demonstrated by the permanent
structures within successive Governments for the benefit
of women, children and social problems in general.
sphere,
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
At the dawn of the twenty-first century, Madagascar,
like all nations on earth, aspires to a world of peace and
progress in which the scourges of war, poverty and
destruction will be banished forever. The United Nations is
the ideal place to build such a world, provided that all
peoples and all leaders have the necessary political will and
transform into reality all the promises made. That is the
Malagasy delegation’s ardent hope.
Address by Mr. Alhaji Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, President
of the Republic of Sierra Leone
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Mr. Alhaji Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, President of the
Republic of Sierra Leone, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations the
President of the Republic of Sierra Leone, His Excellency
Mr. Alhaji Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, and to invite him to
address the Assembly.
President Kabbah: On behalf of my country and on
my own behalf,
I extend to you, Sir, our warmest
congratulations on your unanimous election as President of
the fifty-first session of the Assembly. Your election is
indeed a deserving tribute to you personally and to your
great country, Malaysia, which, over the years, has been
unflagging in its commitment to the principles and ideals of
this Organization — the attainment of international peace
and justice. I am confident
that your rich diplomatic
experience, coupled with your fine human qualities, will
enable you to guide the deliberations of this session of the
Assembly to a successful conclusion. Permit me, Sir, to
also take this opportunity to extend my delegation’s
gratitude to your predecessor for having so ably steered the
Assembly’s fiftieth session up to this momentous occasion.
I should like at this point to convey our appreciation
and gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, for the dedicated and able manner in which
he has guided the work of the Organization. In this regard,
we reaffirm our support for the Organization of African
Unity’s (OAU) declaration on the Secretary-General’s re-
election. Permit me, Mr. Secretary-General,
to convey,
through you, to the entire staff of the United Nations our
admiration for
to the
Organization.
loyalty and commitment
their
4
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
to the
sincere gratitude
I bring also the greetings and good will of the
people of Sierra Leone. They have requested me to
convey our
international
community for its support in restoring democracy to our
country in March this year. I stand here today as a
testimony to the right of that people, who in March of
this year elected their Government and chose their
destiny. As their leader, I am determined to live up to
their high aspirations and expectations. Allow me on this
occasion also to pay tribute to our gallant citizens, many
of whom lost
their lives in the process of restoring
democracy and constitutional rule to our country.
Despite this great achievement, my country is still
haunted and tormented by the spectre of ongoing civil
conflict in our country. The rebel war inflicted severe
pain and suffering on my people, who had never before
imagined that such a terrible thing could happen to us.
Thousands of innocent civilians — men, women and
children — lost their lives; others were traumatized, as
well as physically or psychologically crippled for life; still
others continue to languish as refugees or displaced
persons in inhospitable camps.
for
The Revolutionary United Front (RUF) has no
the democratic
political agenda and no respect
process. It consistently ignored an invitation to participate
in the recent internationally supervised elections in spite
of numerous appeals and offers of assistance by the
United Nations and other intergovernmental organizations.
Instead, it set out to disrupt those elections by unleashing
violence against
the electorates, killing many and
maiming many more. Thanks to our determination to
restore democracy in our country,
this RUF attempt
failed, as did its effort to collude with the military junta
and share power in defiance of the democratic process.
The RUF draws its support from abducted villagers
and rural schoolchildren, including girls aged seven and
older, and maintains their “loyalty” with the use of drugs
and terror.
This notwithstanding, my Government entered into
peace negotiations in the spirit of reconciliation, and I am
pleased to report
advanced
considerably. In March 1996, just after my assumption of
office, a ceasefire was agreed upon. In spite of some
incidents, it is still generally holding.
talks have
that
the
On behalf of the people and Government of the
Republic of Sierra Leone, I should like to take this
opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the Secretary-
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for the continuing
support he has afforded us to in promoting the cause of
democratization and the restoration of peace in my country
and, in particular, for his assignment of a Special Envoy,
whose constructive and enduring role has helped to advance
the peace process. I should also like to express gratitude to
President Henri Konan-Bédié and the Government and
people of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire for the selfless and
painstaking efforts they have deployed in hosting and
mediating the talks between the Government of Sierra
Leone and the RUF.
After protracted and painstaking negotiations that
involved extensive Government concessions, including a
general amnesty for all RUF members; an undertaking to
help set up a trust fund for the RUF to assist
in
transforming itself into a political party; the offer of jobs to
the RUF leader and his followers, including their absorption
into the army, the police and other government institutions,
the RUF leader finally indicated his readiness to sign a
peace agreement drafted by the host Government, Côte
d’Ivoire.
it
However, the RUF leader now seems to be unwilling
to honour his commitment
to sign the agreement,
manufacturing various excuses to justify his prevarication.
We are concerned that continued intransigence and
prevarication by the RUF could precipitate a full-scale
resumption of hostilities, given the increasing level of
distrust between the two sides. It is therefore time for the
international community to act to forestall this potential
catastrophe by demanding that the RUF sign the peace
agreement without further delay. Failing this, the imposition
of sanctions against it should be considered, including the
denial of access to the facilities and territories of third
countries, and the prospect of its arraignment before a war
crimes tribunal for the serious crimes being perpetrated
against innocent civilians.
the continued support of
While we persevere in our efforts to bring this conflict
to a peaceful end, I owe it to our people to emphasize the
need for
the international
community to help us in the task of rehabilitation and
reconstruction. We are encouraged by the outcome of the
recent round-table conference on Sierra Leone held in
Geneva under
the United Nations
Development
this
opportunity to express our sincere thanks to those countries
that have pledged generously to assist in our post-conflict
rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts. We, for our part,
are determined to rebuild our country with all the energy
the auspices of
Programme
(UNDP). We
take
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
and resources we can muster from within our borders. We
have already embarked on this process, and we are
determined to see it through, no matter what sacrifice is
necessary.
Two decades ago, the prevailing perception in this
body was that the end of the cold war would dramatically
reduce the incidence of
regional conflicts and thus
enhance international peace and security. Today, however,
those conflicts appear to have been replaced by civil wars
and ethnic strife, which now pose the greatest challenge
to the peacekeeping and peacemaking capacities of the
United Nations.
We have witnessed mass horrors in Rwanda and
Burundi, and intense internal strife in Somalia, Liberia
and, to a lesser extent, in my own country. Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Chechnya and the occupied Palestinian
territories all have continued to engage the attention of
the international community. We call upon the leaders and
actors in those conflicts to renounce violence and to
embark on sincere and serious negotiations with a view to
finding peaceful solutions. Agreements reached should be
honoured and respected. The innocent, who are all too
often the victims of such conflicts, cry out for peaceful
resolution.
the Abuja Agreement, concluded at
As regards the question of the peaceful resolution of
conflicts, of particular concern to my country is the
situation in Liberia. Consensus has once again emerged
from the political dialogue between the various factions,
giving rise to renewed hopes of a durable peace for that
devastated country and its people. Full implementation of
the conditions embodied in the new implementation plan
of
the recent
Economic Community of West African States Committee
of Nine summit held in Abuja, Federal Republic of
Nigeria, would provide real hope for Liberia. We remain
confident that this time around, those responsible for the
Liberians’ pain and suffering will find the courage and
patriotism to spare their fellow citizens further violence
and bloodshed. Enough is enough. The defenceless people
of Liberia, especially innocent children, men and women,
have a right to freedom from violence; they have a right
to life.
The situation in the Great Lakes region of Africa is
also cause for serious concern. As we watch the cautious
return of Rwandan refugees, we hope and pray that the
wounds inflicted by ethnic strife will heal on the platform
of national reconciliation. The ongoing crisis in Burundi
also poses a challenge to the international community. In
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the light of my own country’s recent history, we cannot
condone the seizure of power by the military from a
constitutionally elected Government. We call on all
concerned not to relent in their search for a long-term
solution to the horrendous crisis. Looking at the broader
picture of tackling such difficulties, we hope that others
will support the efforts of the Organization of African
Unity to strengthen its Mechanism for the prevention and
resolution of conflicts.
Closely linked to the issue of peace is that of the
protection of human rights. We reaffirm our faith in justice
and in the dignity and worth of the human person. That is
why Sierra Leone fully supports
the
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
We commend the work of the Preparatory Committee for
its current efforts aimed at preparing the text of a statute
for an international criminal court, which will have an
important
role in the area of massive human rights
violations, which, notwithstanding the sad lessons of
history, continue today in several parts of the world.
the work of
While political, regional and ethnic conflicts, civil
wars and the menace of armaments — both nuclear and
conventional — are a major concern, Sierra Leone believes
that the greatest threat to international peace and security
today lies
in poverty and in economic and social
deprivation. The nature and complexity of the economic
and social problems that beset Africa are all too familiar to
us. The majority of African countries, including Sierra
Leone, continue to face a myriad of economic and
structural challenges. Africa has the largest number of least
developed countries and the lowest average per capita
income in the developing world. In fact, Africa’s overall
living standards and socio-economic conditions have
deteriorated considerably since the beginning of this decade.
Most African countries have encountered numerous
difficulties over the years in their effort to mobilize and
deploy financial and human resources
for economic
development. The levels of investment have not been
encouraging; nor have the levels of agricultural and mineral
outputs, due
economic
disincentives, political manipulation and an unfavourable
international environment. In many cases, aided and abetted
by ruthless arms merchants, many of us continue to engage
in senseless fratricidal conflicts and the wanton destruction
of the development infrastructure.
in large part
to drought,
We are also obliged to note that budgetary constraints
faced by various developed countries, clarification of
foreign aid objectives, revised conditions governing the
granting of assistance, and the heightened competition
6
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
among various regions for aid packages constitute a
serious challenge for developing countries such as mine.
The ubiquitous debt burden and the debt- servicing levels
in no way help the situation, as they continue to be a
major stumbling block on the path of African economic
recovery and sustainable growth. Overseas development
assistance and resource flows have dwindled to a level
that gives us cause for concern. The downward trend in
export commodity prices and the agricultural policies of
some of the industrialized nations have had a negative
impact on Africa’s trade in these commodities, the main
source of income for socio-economic development. In this
connection, the debt burden that continues to hang over us
has conspired to frustrate our efforts at economic recovery
and development.
Sierra Leone strongly believes that
the urgent
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for
the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the
Assembly on 18 December 1991, is the best hope yet for
setting Africa on the road to positive sustainable
economic development. We appreciate the fact that the
basic tenets of the New Agenda are grounded on the
principles of shared responsibility and global partnership
between Africa and the rest of
the international
community.
Virtually all Member States of the first and second
worlds represented in the Assembly have experienced, at
one time or another, the same or similar problems in their
struggle for national unity and economic prosperity; we
read about
cold pages of history.
Unfortunately for us Africans, our economic and other
problems — teething problems, if I may say so — are
transmitted live, instantly, by satellite to television sets
across the globe.
them in the
Looking at current economic, social and political
conditions on our continent, including the atrocities meted
out to our own kith and kin, one is inclined to lose hope
in the
sustainable
development.
ability of Africa
to achieve
But the thrust of my message today is simple: I
appeal to the international community not to abandon
Africa. Even though we may be on our knees in anguish,
I firmly believe that there is hope for Africa, that Africa
and its people have the ability and capacity to overcome
natural and self-inflicted constraints and to achieve
political
reasonable economic
prosperity. We have recently witnessed many changes on
lend credence to Africa’s genuine
the continent
stability as well as
that
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
commitment to the New Agenda for Africa and to other
plans for economic and political stability. Hence, there is
still hope for Africa. My presence here is symbolic of that
hope. In spite of a rebel war that still hangs over my
country, and in spite of attempts to frustrate the will of the
people to choose their destiny freely and in a democratic
manner, Sierra Leoneans opted for democracy. We are
determined to achieve genuine peace as well as the
objectives we have
for ourselves, which are
commensurate with the enormous sacrifices our people have
made.
set
I am confident, therefore, that the political dialogue to
ensure the advent of good governance, which has begun in
earnest in most countries throughout the continent, will
continue. Given the proper chance to grow, our new and
emerging democracies will gradually bear fruit, and our
distressed nations will once again be guided by lofty
democratic ideals in an environment of peace, security and
stability. African democracy will eventually be the order of
the day. For these gains to be fully realized, it is therefore
imperative that the international community continue to
play a catalytic role in Africa’s development.
In virtually every policy statement, every address and
every current discussion about the United Nations there is
some reference to reform in our Organization. We are
encouraged by the work of various intergovernmental
bodies to develop constructive ideas for reform. However,
reform should not be seen only in terms of the so-called
bloated bureaucracy of the Secretariat, to be used as a
scapegoat for not meeting our obligations towards the
Organization.
indeed transferring,
In the view of the Government of Sierra Leone, we
need a systemic reform; a reform of the political decision-
making process in the Organization; a reform of some of
the archaic methods and practices in the institutions that
compose the United Nations system. Let us begin by
transforming,
the principles and
concepts of democratic governance, empowerment, power-
sharing, decentralization and pluralism that we espouse for
nation States to the international community at large. In this
regard, Africa should be entitled to play its role in the
Security Council, the primary decision-making organ of this
Organization, particularly in relation to international peace
and stability.
In pursuit of this objective, we would like to recall
and support the position expressed by the Non-Aligned
Movement,
if there is no agreement on other
categories of membership, expansion should take place, for
that
is,
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
the time being, only in the non-permanent category. I
should like to note in this regard that the proposal of
Italy, among others, deserves careful consideration, as it
aims at increasing the participation of all Member States
in the Council, in particular medium-sized and small
countries, and it would improve its representative and
democratic character.
For our part, we affirm our faith in the United
Nations, which,
in spite of its defects, remains the
greatest hope for the maintenance of international peace
and security, and for the promotion of the economic and
social advancement of all peoples in our interdependent
world.
institution. Furthermore,
Who needs the United Nations? First,
is an
important
is an effective
international mechanism when used properly. Some of us
represented in the Assembly may need it more than
others, but we all do, in one way or another.
it
it
Let us therefore rededicate ourselves to its principles
and objectives, and, in the words of the Charter, make it
at least
“a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in
the attainment of these common ends”.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Sierra
Leone for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Alhaji Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, President of the
Republic of Sierra Leone, was escorted from the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by The Right Honourable Sibusiso Barnabas
Dlamini, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland
The President: The Assembly will now hear a
statement by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of
Swaziland.
The Right Honourable Sibusiso Barnabas Dlamini,
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland, was
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland, The
Right Honourable Sibusiso Barnabas Dlamini, and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): I bring with me from the
Kingdom of Swaziland the greetings and good wishes of
His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi
and Queen Mother, the Government and the whole Swazi
nation to our friends and fellow Members here at
the
United Nations.
On behalf of the Kingdom of Swaziland, may I
congratulate you most sincerely, Sir, on your election to the
presidency of
the General
Assembly. We are confident that the wisdom, experience
and diplomatic skills you bring to this office will ensure
success in the important business before us.
session of
fifty-first
this
Swaziland would also like to congratulate your
predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, who presided
with such skill over the historic fiftieth session.
I should also like to record the deep gratitude of the
Swazi nation to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, and to the staff of the Secretariat for their
untiring efforts in meeting the many challenges that face
our Organization as we prepare to enter a new millennium.
One year ago, His Majesty King Mswati III joined
other leaders from around the world to celebrate the first 50
years of achievement of the United Nations, to set out a
vision for the future and to reaffirm the commitment of the
Kingdom of Swaziland to the principles set out in our
Organization’s founding Charter.
Swaziland recognizes the vital role the Organization
has played throughout its history, and we remain convinced
that the United Nations represents humankind’s best hope
of providing global
leadership and guidance towards
achieving the conditions of universal peace and security that
will allow equitable and sustainable development for all our
peoples.
Last year’s occasion was seen by many as an
opportunity to review the internal mechanisms of our
Organization
efficiency,
accountability and representation in all areas of its work.
greater
and
for
to
call
Swaziland is therefore encouraged by the progress
being made by the various working groups established by
the General Assembly, in particular progress towards the
reform of the Secretariat and Security Council. We will
continue to support all initiatives that bring about a more
efficient and cost-effective Organization.
8
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
As the Organization’s membership has increased
over the years, so has the scope of its operations and
responsibilities. It is an unfortunate fact that our will to
face these new challenges has not been met by a
corresponding desire to pay for the means to overcome
them. We are faced with a stark choice between whether
to accept new responsibilities and the bill they attract, or
admit that we lack the financial commitment to meet
them.
The Kingdom of Swaziland has always believed in
the principle of meeting our financial responsibilities in
full and on time. We fully endorse the Secretary-
General’s call to our fellow Members to do likewise, so
that the United Nations can have the resources at its
disposal to perform the tasks that we expect of it.
The Kingdom of Swaziland has been most
encouraged by recent developments towards the eventual
elimination of weapons of mass destruction. The
the
negotiations leading up to and the signing of
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
by
an
overwhelming majority brings great credit
to our
Organization and to those whose hard work made it
possible.
Treaty
While we recognize and are deeply grateful for the
humanitarian assistance provided to Africa by the United
Nations, we believe that the Organization needs to do
more to strike at the causes of the hardship suffered by so
many Africans who find themselves caught up in the
horror of war.
One important issue concerns the flow of weapons
into Africa from many other parts of the world. It is a
simple fact in today’s world that arms, ammunition and
armaments are too easily accessible to those with the
means to procure them. The duration of conflict situations
can be limited by the non-availability of the weapons of
war.
It has been suggested that the first action of a truly
caring world in response to a conflict situation should be
to cut off the supply of arms to all involved, and that the
final responsibility of a caring world towards a country
that has endured conflict is the clearance of the last
landmine.
This is a lesson we learned very late in recent
disasters such as the Bosnian crisis and in Rwanda. We
have clearly not learned from it in other situations around
the global community
the world. Let us hope that
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
represented here can move faster in future to impose
limitations on man’s ability to harm his fellow man.
We in Africa recognize the need to be prepared for
immediate reaction to our continent’s problems and are
taking the necessary steps to abide by the principle of
“African solutions to Africa’s problems”.
The example of Burundi shows our continent’s desire
to heed the warning signs and to ward off potential
disasters before they happen.
Swaziland
commends
The Kingdom of
the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and those individual
countries whose diplomacy and actions have prevented the
situation from spiralling out of control. The Organization of
African Unity has also been at the forefront in attempting
to resolve crisis situations in Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan and
Liberia.
We join the rest of the world in applauding these
efforts, and we continue to offer our encouragement and
support in bringing about an end to the suffering of those
involved. The OAU represents the hope of all Africans for
unity, peace and development, and deserves to be supported
strongly by the rest of the world.
On a subregional basis, and in the field of economic
and trade cooperation, the Kingdom of Swaziland is a
member of the Southern African Development Community
(SADC) and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern
Africa.
SADC has recently expanded its mandate to include a
new Organ on Politics, Defence and Security. This is an
attempt to provide a mechanism by which member States
can call for advice and support from other members in the
event of national and international issues that might threaten
the stability of the whole subregion.
The new organ is founded on the principle of the
recognition of the sovereignty of independent States and is
intended precisely to identify potential problems,
in
whatever context, and to look for solutions to persistent
concerns in our area. The organ provides an example of our
subregion’s commitment to peace and stability within and
among our member States as essential conditions for the
development of our separate nations. It deserves the support
and encouragement of the rest of the world.
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
The Kingdom of Swaziland has been heartened by
the various initiatives of the United Nations towards an
improvement in global socio-economic conditions.
The establishment of an international criminal court
is welcomed by Swaziland as a necessary extension of
justice in cases where national jurisdiction does not apply.
This step relies for its success on the political will of all
States and requires the widest possible representation of
Members in its operation. Similarly, the Kingdom of
Swaziland welcomes the move by the United Nations to
address the increasing threat posed to civil society by
organized crime and money-laundering.
Of particular danger to Swaziland in this regard is
the increase in traffic across our borders and abuse among
our people of illegal drugs and related substances. This is
a relatively new and alarming phenomenon for our
Kingdom and undermines our efforts to promote national
development. We therefore welcome the report of the
Secretary-General on promoting international cooperation
in the fight against the illegal drug trade, and we are
appreciative of the high priority this subject attracts in the
relevant agencies of the Organization.
This effort has been matched by a similar initiative
within our own SADC organization to encourage cross-
border cooperation among our security personnel and to
agree on measures among the Member States to contain
this potentially devastating problem.
It has been acknowledged that
the continent of
Africa presents particular challenges in the quest for
sustainable development and a decent standard of living
for all its peoples.
With this in mind, the Kingdom of Swaziland gave
an enthusiastic welcome to the Secretary-General’s
initiative on the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s. It was hoped that
the Agenda would provide fresh impetus for change and
for the good of the people of Africa, but for many
reasons this remains an elusive dream. While social and
economic conditions in many areas of the continent
continue to decline, we are comforted by the fact that
efforts are being made to identify the reasons why so
many commitments continue to remain on paper and why
some are implemented, but slowly.
Swaziland echoes the call from all African brothers
and sisters for real commitment to the New Agenda for
the Development of Africa so that future generations of
9
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
private
enterprise
effort and have already shown that they are willing to do
including poverty
so in many areas of expertise,
and
development
alleviation,
humanitarian
countries
have
acknowledged this will on the part of the Government and
the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan, and the
recent political developments in Taiwan have encouraged
many others to support our call.
assistance. Many
We are positive that a lasting solution can be found
to resolve this question. Hence, we support the idea of the
General Assembly establishing an ad hoc committee to
address the question of the readmittance of the Republic
of China on Taiwan into the United Nations.
The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to place its
confidence in the United Nations and in the principles on
which it was founded. We remain deeply grateful for the
assistance we have received over the years from its
agencies, and we look forward to many more years of
cooperation and support.
For 51 years, and despite the many obstacles in its
path,
the United Nations has presented to successive
generations the only chance for a united, global approach
to the world’s problems. We are reassured by the
initiatives for
reform in the Organization and look
forward to a new dynamism and efficiency in its
operations.
I am charged by His Majesty King Mswati III, by
Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Queen Mother, and by
the Government and the people of the Kingdom of
Swaziland, with proclaiming the
renewal of our
commitment to the founding Charter of the Organization.
We ask for Almighty God’s blessing on its leaders and
those who work here, to give them the wisdom and
direction they need to carry out their vital tasks on behalf
of all humankind.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of
Swaziland for his statement.
The Right Honourable Sibusiso Barnabas Dlamini,
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland, was
escorted from the rostrum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Africans will not be locked into the same spiral of despair
that many people on our continent find themselves in.
It is to avoid being caught in this very situation that
the Kingdom of Swaziland has always worked hard to
ensure that our people are at the centre of all our national
development efforts. To this end the Kingdom frequently
consults with all
important
development issues. Each and every Swazi has a voice and
is given the opportunity to express his or her views on the
matters that affect them.
its people on all
the most
In recent times we have consulted in this way with the
nation on our political direction and our economic
priorities. Currently we are addressing ourselves to a review
of our Constitution.
has
A constitutional
review committee
been
established, representing the widest range of views, which
will now consult with the nation and gather the people’s
wishes on the way they would like to see their country
managed. All will be free to contribute, and we will abide
by the views of the majority. The end result will be the
Kingdom’s defining document, and it will, in a very real
sense,
current
consultation exercise is the latest example of our nation’s
adherence to the principle of rule through consensus, and it
is one that has served us well throughout our history.
people’s Constitution. This
be
the
In a world where the definition of such concepts as
human rights and democracy can vary so greatly and is so
dependent on timing and circumstances, the Kingdom of
Swaziland has had a consistent vision of what is really
required of its rulers by its people: to provide the freedom
and opportunity for all Swazis to offer an opinion on the
great matters of the day and for our leaders to be bound by
the wishes of the majority. We owe our survival as a nation
to this principle, and we will continue to abide by it for as
long as it suits us.
For the past three years the Kingdom of Swaziland has
given its support to efforts by the Republic of China on
Taiwan to have its case presented to the General Assembly.
As the world concentrates its attention on the great social
challenges facing us all today, we must surely acknowledge
the need to engage all peoples of the world in a truly global
effort to overcome them. Indeed, the Charter speaks of the
requirement for universality in our Organization so that all
may feel represented here.
The 23 million people of the Republic of China on
Taiwan believe they can contribute significantly to this
10
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Address by The Honourable Navinchandra Ramgoolam,
Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius
The President: The Assembly will now hear a
the Republic of
statement by the Prime Minister of
Mauritius.
The Honourable Navinchandra Ramgoolam, Prime
Minister of the Republic of Mauritius, was escorted to
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Ramgoolam (Mauritius): I join all those who
have gone before me in congratulating you, Sir, on behalf
of Mauritius, on your accession to the office of President of
the General Assembly at its fifty-first session. I also thank
Mr. Freitas do Amaral of Portugal
skilful
stewardship of the fiftieth session.
for his
Hearing and reading the speeches of world leaders to
this Assembly, I am struck by the extraordinary degree of
unanimity between them — how much we seem to agree in
principle but how little on the right course of action; on the
necessity of diplomacy and discussion as the primary path
to peace; on the necessity of according to every man,
woman and child the fundamental rights and freedoms
which this Organization has, over the years, done so much
to establish; on the necessity of providing equal
opportunities for men, women and children in all our
societies; on the necessity of protecting the environment;
and on the need to ensure that mankind moves forward
together on the path of development.
Mr. Wilmot (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
In all these noble and commendable aims we are
united. However, we often seem to suffer from a paralysis
when it comes to actual implementation of these good
intentions.
This Organization was the response of the human race
to the catastrophic experiences of two world wars and to
scientific discoveries and inventions which confronted us
with unprecedented choices. It was an expression of faith
in the power of human beings to be rational in the face of
these choices and to choose the paths of peace and progress
instead of war and destruction.
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
But sometimes its voice has seemed very faint and
far off in the midst of the terrible troubles that have
afflicted us since then. Some have begun to mutter of the
ineffectiveness of the institution and to complain of the
cost. I am convinced that those criticisms do not begin to
express the whole truth about the work that is done by
this Organization. We are embarked upon a great and
necessary experiment, and that is why the work of the
Secretary-General is so important. Here I should like to
pay tribute
to Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose
contribution has been so valuable in recent years. It is
particularly appropriate that this great office should be
filled, as we move into the next millennium, by a
representative of Africa, for Africa remains the great
intransigent challenge which the world has scarcely yet
begun to face. Only through the renewed and concerted
determination of this Organization and the vision of
cooperation and mutual responsibility which it represents
is
successfully meeting the
extraordinary difficulties which the next century will
bring.
any hope of
there
Decade after decade, many of the nations of Africa
have seen their efforts at development frustrated by
natural and man-made disasters, poor governance and a
hostile international environment. Foreign aid has not had
the desired impact on the progress of these countries, and
the
and
unmanageable debt which they labour, with inadequate
tools, to support.
accumulated
huge
poorer
nations
have
As the Assembly knows, of the 36 poorest countries
in the world, as classified by the United Nations
Development Programme in the human development
index, 29 are in Africa. The majority of them have per
capita incomes lower than they were 20 years ago. The
countries of sub-Saharan Africa last year attracted only 3
per cent of
into the
developing world, compared to 20 per cent for Latin
America and the Caribbean and 59 per cent for East Asia
and the Pacific region. Life expectancy is placed at 50.9
years, the lowest among developing countries.
the foreign direct
investment
At
the same time, a new and more demanding
international economic order is emerging, one in which
Africa is beginning to feel overwhelmed and isolated
from the mainstream of world economic development. If
some of its nations have not yet caught up with the
industrial revolution, what hope have they, unaided, of
reaching the heights of the technological and information
revolutions which are sweeping the developed countries
of the world towards new horizons.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
If we are to bring Africa into the general march of the
economies of the world towards progress and prosperity, we
must begin, at the highest level, to coordinate and to chart
a course for Africa to join in. Piecemeal aid and occasional
intervention on the occasion of awesome disasters will not
be enough.
Therefore, we welcome the Group of Seven’s
commitment in Lyon to a partnership for development and
to the elimination of
trade barriers to exports from
developing countries. These barriers must come down. But
we question whether this and private investment alone will
be sufficient. Swift and dramatic debt relief for countries in
need of it is essential. We welcome the lead provided by
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
in this regard, but it must be followed by decisive and
urgent action. Measures should also be designed to promote
the growth of real democracy and good governance, for
economic prosperity must go hand in hand with democracy
and the rule of law. It may seem temporarily otherwise. It
may seem that the creation of wealth can, for a while, be
separated from the yearning of
the people and of
individuals to be free, but sooner or later the force of the
aspirations which prosperity brings will burst forth, as the
waters burst from the dam.
Surely we must look with dismay at many areas of our
world in which human rights are discounted or denied. A
case in point is Myanmar, where a democratic vote, held in
1990, has been defeated and denied by force, and where the
house of the elected leader of the people is kept under
constant surveillance and surrounded by soldiers.
the
twentieth session of
My Government will continue to support the cause of
democracy and human rights in Africa and wherever in the
world such support is required. Mauritius will later this
month host
the African
Commission of Human and People’s Rights, which
commemorates the tenth anniversary of its African Charter.
This session of the Commission will undertake, with the
participation of non-governmental organizations and other
interested elements of civil society, an assessment and
reevaluation of the implementation of the Charter and
prepare a five-year plan of action which we are confident
will greatly help strengthen and improve the situation of
human rights in our continent.
My country, whose only resources are the stability of
its democracy and the enterprising spirit of its people,
comprises many races, cultures and religions. We look to
Europe, Africa, the Far East and the Indian subcontinent for
our cultural inheritance. Our people cross many divides.
12
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
Therefore, we are able to witness and sense the impact of
the rapid development of the modern world upon these
different cultures and peoples more quickly, because we
are a part of them. And I can tell the Assembly that what
we see gives us cause for concern.
As the old world order passes and a new one
replaces it, we are going through a period of transition
fraught with pitfalls and dangers. We cannot but be
dismayed at the number of countries that are falling prey
to the ancient and deadly sirens of ethnicity and narrow
nationalism that appeal
instincts of
intolerance and xenophobic fear. Our continent of Africa
seems particularly affected. Somalia and Liberia seem to
descend endlessly into chaos, while Burundi threatens to
blow up again.
to man’s baser
We are concerned by recent indications that parties
to the Middle East peace process may be giving in to the
temptation of pandering to extremist fringes. We owe
peace to this Holy Land and to the generations to come.
We owe it to the memory of two statesmen who laid
down their lives to this cause. The resolute pursuit of
peace is the only way to defeat the assassins, those who
felled President Sadat and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin.
In the Commonwealth family of nations to which we
belong, the uniqueness of which is its very diversity, a
number of Member States are blighted by this affliction.
Mauritius fervently hopes that the sister island of Fiji
will soon be able to resume its rightful place in the
comity of nations by correcting the inequities written into
that nation’s constitution in a moment of tension, when
racist passions were unbridled. We would be pleased to
share with the people of Fiji our own constitutional
experience of a pluricultural society.
process
even more
In my own country, only 10 months ago in a free
and democratic election, the people voted overwhelmingly
for change. The Government has pledged to render our
and
democratic
unequivocal. The numerous
and policy
objectives enunciated by the new Government at
the
beginning of the current legislature, earlier this year, aim
precisely at confronting squarely the problems that we
face on all the issues that I have broached. Our overriding
objective will be to ultimately make the economy work
for the people and not the people work for the economy.
transparent
strategies
While a Government’s overall objective is to
improve the well-being of the people, sound economic
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
policies alone will not make our countries prosper. In order
to create the right environment for the economy to flourish
there must be good governance. This is also a moral
imperative. The history of mankind inevitably moves in the
direction of greater freedom, more transparency, wider
accountability in all sectors of public life and greater access
to information held by public agencies relating to citizens.
My Government is committed to a continuing process
of democratization which will reinforce our institutions by
creating wider confidence in them. We are convinced that
this will create a climate more conducive to investment and
will enhance the creative and entrepreneurial spirit of our
people.
While the pursuit of happiness has perforce to be
individual and private, it cannot be to the detriment of the
collective good. The protection of the environment is one
endeavour that has to be undertaken collectively at the
national as well as the global level. Only if mankind as a
whole takes care to ensure the integrity of our planet can
we envisage a future for generations yet to be born. It is up
to us to ensure the viability and ecological health of the
planet we shall bequeath to those who come after us. My
Government will pursue on its own national territory a
vigorous policy of conservation and rehabilitation of natural
resources. Our actions at the national level will be matched
by our contributions at the international and regional levels,
in concert with all our partners, to advance on these same
issues.
Through our membership in regional and subregional
organizations, we are undertaking, in close partnership with
neighbouring countries, to advance and promote the same
objectives that I have defined. Only one year after joining
the Southern African Development Community (SADC),
Mauritius has become an active member, putting its skills
and knowledge in sectors where it has acquired valuable
experience at the service of fellow members.
Mauritius informed this Assembly last year that it had
initiated a process for the creation of a regional cooperation
platform in the Indian Ocean region. Indeed, the Indian
Ocean region was the only one in the world which did not
have such a platform to discuss the economic and social
development policies of its countries in a coordinated
manner. I am pleased to inform the Assembly this year that
the Mauritius Indian Ocean Rim Initiative has gathered
considerable momentum. The Initiative, which started with
only seven countries, has doubled its membership to 14
countries. A charter has been drawn up to provide the
relevant framework within which to develop and implement
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
regional cooperation programmes. In addition, in contrast
with some existing regional blocs,
it has adopted an
outward-looking approach, so as to be compatible with
the multilateral
the
distinguishing feature of having adopted a tripartite
approach comprising government, the private sector and
the academic community, to ensure as wide a consensus
as possible.
association has
system. The
Mauritius is convening a ministerial meeting in the
first week of March 1997 to give political blessing to the
Indian Ocean rim association for regional cooperation.
The Indian Ocean region can now serenely look forward
to playing its role, as a serious regional partner in the
international arena, in the effort to uplift the standard of
living of the peoples of the region. I am sure that the
international community will lend its full support to this
nascent regional grouping, in line with the often repeated
appeal for South-South cooperation.
We have witnessed in recent years the growing
significance of regional accords and blocs in determining
and fashioning the orientation of multilateral financial and
trading systems and institutions. We believe that
regionalization is a necessary step towards a more liberal
global environment
inasmuch as it allows the less
endowed countries and regions with specificities of their
own to experiment and to test the political, economic and
social reforms of their programmes. A similar approach
has been adopted by the more advanced countries and
regions, as evidenced by the emergence of the North
American Free Trade Agreement and the consolidation of
existing groupings, such as the European Union and the
Association of South-East Asian Nations, to mention just
a couple of them.
In addition, we have witnessed a new interpretation
of the concept of regional blocs as purely geographical
units that make use of their own individual characteristics
to experiment, and to test political, economic and social
reforms programmes within a smaller geographical entity
before challenges are confronted on a worldwide scale.
Regionalization is increasingly being viewed by aid
donors and international financial institutions as a means
to promote overall economic development and to create
an enabling environment that will attract foreign direct
investment
in specific regions. This process has also
changed the way in which international businesses and
multinational corporations are restructuring their activities.
Improvements
the
adoption of advanced technology for the transmission of
in telecommunications
facilities,
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
information in real time and the use of more rapid and
reliable modes of transportation have all contributed to
giving regionalization a new dimension in political and
economic issues. Hence, the prospects for ensuring a more
balanced global development process are more real and
attainable.
The
partnership
decades-old
between African,
Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and the European
Union through the Lomé Conventions, the fourth of which
will come to an end in the year 2000, has served as an
excellent instrument for trading agreements between the
African, Asian, Pacific and Caribbean countries and the
European Union. This instrument has to a very large extent
helped in consolidating the links between the ACP States
and the European Union. It has permitted the growth of
trade, economic, political, social and cultural development,
for both developed and underdeveloped countries. However,
the successor agreement to Lomé IV will have to take into
account
the changing pattern in world trade and the
acquired benefits under the Lomé Conventions, and in this
context we shall wait for the publication of the green book
on the subject commissioned by the European Union.
The Sugar Protocol, which provides for guaranteed
prices and quotas for the ACP sugar-producing countries,
has been instrumental
in the socio-
economic development of Mauritius.
to a large extent
While I have addressed development issues mainly, we
should not overlook the crucial question of disarmament.
The principled stand of Mauritius
in the field of
disarmament has always been to advocate a world free of
nuclear weapons as well as chemical and other weapons of
mass destruction. On the question of nuclear weapons, we
once again reaffirm our total commitment
to nuclear
disarmament, and hope that the world community will make
all efforts to secure unanimity around the views expressed
in this Assembly by Member States that have some
difficulties with some treaty provisions. Furthermore, with
regard particularly to the position of Mauritius on the recent
decision on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
we stood by the principle that we have always applied to
other issues in the past, namely that of fairness and non-
discrimination against any party. It is therefore imperative
that we give renewed momentum to the disarmament
process
the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty urgently.
in general, and address
the flaws of
In order to meet the challenges of the next century, we
believe that it is urgently necessary to pursue the reform of
the United Nations. It is vital that the Security Council
14
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
should be enlarged and made more representative and
balanced among its permanent members, and should
include developing countries such as India. And it is
the Working Groups of the
equally imperative that
General Assembly should complete
task of
producing an effective and credible programme for
reform. It seems to us self-evident that, after 50 years,
some revision and redesign is necessary. We think, with
Shakespeare,
their
“When we mean to build,
We first survey the plot, then draw the model;
And when we see the figure of the house,
Then we must rate the cost of the erection;
Which if we find outweighs ability,
What do we then but draw anew the model
In fewer offices...?” (King Henry IV, Part 2, Act I,
Scene 3)
Some have come to this Assembly in order to
complain that the world and the United Nations are not
doing enough. But we should inquire of ourselves first:
What are we doing to advance or to hinder these causes
upon which,
there is such remarkable
agreement?
in principle,
respect
for
After this overview of the world situation, allow me
to speak of a matter of national interest to us. One of the
fundamental principles to which we all subscribe is that
of
the sovereignty of Member States.
Interference in the internal affairs of States and disregard
for their national sovereignty has often been a source of
tension and conflict. Now that the cold war is behind us
and we move towards ever greater economic, commercial
and cultural
integration, we should be able to find
amicable answers to questions of sovereignty. Mauritius
has
the Chagos
Archipelago and Tromelin Island with two countries with
which we have historically close and friendly ties. These
differences were referred to as friendly disputes by
Sir Seewoosagar
our
independence and father our nation. We hope to resolve
these differences through quiet diplomacy and dialogue.
Ramgoolam,
sovereignty
regarding
architect
disputes
of
The cold war has died, but the need for peace and
security lives on. The state of affairs in the world today
challenges us but must not daunt us. Against
this
background, the principle of meliorism — that the world
may be made better by human effort — should prevail in
our actions. Those who have the means and capabilities
to help should not waver or shy away at the call of the
United Nations.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
These are some of the ideas that I wanted to share
today. It is my hope that we will all join in a global
partnership for the achievement of a better and stronger
United Nations at the service of the peoples in whose name
we stand here.
The Acting President: On behalf of the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Mauritius for the statement he has just made.
The Honourable Navinchandra Ramgoolam, Prime
Minister of the Republic of Mauritius, was escorted
from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I call next on His Excellency
the Delegation of
Mr. Ugyen Tshering, Chairman of
Bhutan.
Mr. Tshering (Bhutan): I have the honour to convey
to the President and all the members the warm greetings
and good wishes of His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck,
King of Bhutan, for the success of the fifty-first session of
the United Nations General Assembly.
We congratulate Ambassador Razali on his unanimous
election as President of the fifty-first session of the General
Assembly. We are happy that a close friend of Bhutan is
presiding over our deliberations. We are fully aware of his
wide experience and deep interest in the United Nations. He
is not only an outspoken critic of the shortcomings of the
United Nations but is also one of its greatest supporters,
and we look to this session with high expectations.
I would like to express our deepest appreciation to His
Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral for the exemplary
manner in which he conducted the Special Commemorative
Meeting of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations
and the fiftieth session of the General Assembly. I am also
grateful for the privilege of having had the opportunity to
serve in his Bureau.
We would also like to take this opportunity to pay a
tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
special
Boutros-Ghali, for his leadership in steering the United
Nations through a period of many challenges and changes.
Twenty-five years ago, on 21 September 1971, Bhutan
became a Member of the United Nations. That day saw the
fulfilment of a long-cherished dream and was a historic
occasion on which the people of Bhutan joined hands with
the international community. We have since taken great
pride in our membership of the world body and have made
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
great strides. Bhutan has stepped forward to take an
active role by seeking membership in all major United
Nations and other international bodies including the
Bretton Woods institutions. Our membership of
the
United Nations has provided us with the opportunity to
participate in all international discussions of importance.
Our participation, which we consider both a privilege and
an obligation, has always been guided by a positive
attitude, seeking to contribute constructively and fairly.
On the part of the international community, Bhutan
has received an outpouring of goodwill and friendship.
The United Nations and its agencies have come to our
assistance with enthusiasm and dedication. Every sector
in Bhutan has received the benefit of United Nations
assistance, and the lives of the people of Bhutan have
greatly improved. Today, the development of Bhutan rests
in the hands of young Bhutanese, many of whom were
trained through United Nations assistance. I take this
opportunity to put on record the heartfelt gratitude of the
people of Bhutan to the United Nations and international
institutions, in particular the United Nations Development
Programme,
the
United Nations Population Fund,
the United Nations
Capital Development Fund, the International Fund for
Agricultural Development, the World Food Programme,
the United Nations Volunteers programme, the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World
Health Organization,
the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, the World Bank and
the African Development Bank, many of which have been
working constructively in Bhutan for the last 25 years.
the United Nations Children’s Fund,
Bhutan takes the opportunity of the twenty-fifth
anniversary of our membership to rededicate ourselves to
the principles of the United Nations and its Charter. As
we rededicate ourselves to the United Nations and express
our support and gratitude, we are conscious of the fact
that the United Nations is at a crossroads, and that there
is a struggle for the heart and soul of the Organization.
The world has changed, and the United Nations too must
change to meet the new realities.
Today we would like to confine our remarks to a
few areas which we feel need to be addressed in the
process of reform and in preparing the United Nations for
the next century.
The increase in membership from the original 51
Members to the current 185 is the clearest indication that
the United Nations
truly a global body. The
representation and participation of all United Nations
is
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Members in the General Assembly give true meaning and
legitimacy to the United Nations, yet
increasingly the
General Assembly has little influence in the work of the
United Nations. The role of
the Assembly must be
enhanced. It must become the centre of the United Nations
and the source of both its moral and real authority. In order
to do this, the General Assembly must change its own
working methods, and its debates and agenda must be made
more meaningful. It must become the point from which all
United Nations policies emanate. The General Assembly’s
relations with other principal organs and bodies of the
United Nations must be streamlined and strengthened.
The structure of other principal organs such as the
Economic and Social Council must also be reviewed. In
many of
the principal organs, subsidiary bodies and
commissions have taken a more prominent role than the
organs themselves. While we agree that the more detailed
work of
implementing the technical aspects must be
devolved to commissions and subsidiary bodies, policies
must be made by the principal organs themselves. Many
here will agree that
the subsidiary bodies, committees,
groups, and so forth, are too numerous to keep track of, let
alone participate in. All United Nations bodies must finally
be made accountable to the General Assembly. Unless this
linkage is strengthened, many Members will be excluded
from the activities of the United Nations. For many smaller
Members,
the possibility of being elected to and
participating in many United Nations bodies is limited.
Therefore,
the General Assembly is of paramount
importance for enhancing the participation and role of
Member countries.
In the area of peace and security, there is increasing
concern that the United Nations is unable to maintain peace
and provide security, particularly for its smaller and more
vulnerable Members. This view seems to persist despite a
number of successful interventions by the United Nations.
There is growing frustration that the Security Council, the
only body of the United Nations with any real authority, is
unable to respond to the challenges posed by the present
conflicts, and that the Security Council is primarily driven
by the views of its major members. The need for reform
and expansion is more and more keenly felt. In our view,
there must be an increase in the number of both permanent
and non-permanent members. Developing countries and
deserving countries from all regions must be included in the
ranks of permanent members. Using the objective criteria
of equitable distribution, the ability to contribute to the
work of
the United Nations and the maintenance of
international peace and security, Bhutan believes that India
16
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
and Japan qualify for permanent membership of the
Security Council.
Expansion alone is not sufficient. The decision-
making process of the Security Council, its relations with
the General Assembly, and other powers such as the veto
and the Council’s virtual hold over the appointment of
judges of the International Court of Justice and other
important positions in the United Nations, must be
reviewed.
that
includes all
Progress towards a world free of tension can only be
made with disarmament
types of
weapons. While various steps have been taken towards
easing the nuclear threat, no significant progress towards
the goal of the complete elimination of all nuclear
weapons has been made. We must not lose sight of the
primary objective of the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons. The disarmament dialogue must
include all
parties and address the genuine concerns of every
Member State.
A brisk international business in conventional arms
continues to pose a threat to peace and security. As long
as there is an unlimited supply of arms, their use in the
settlement of disputes will continue. We must expand our
initiatives at the United Nations to control the global arms
trade. Bhutan supports the steps taken towards the
elimination of chemical and biological weapons. The
United Nations Register of Conventional Arms is a useful
step. Efforts must also be redoubled to bring about a
moratorium on the manufacture, sale and deployment of
anti-personnel
objective
of
eliminating this weapon which kills indiscriminately.
landmines, with
the
With the major agreements and common ground
arrived at during the United Nations global conferences of
the 1990s, it was hoped that the stage had been set for
fresh impetus and a new direction in international
development. In reality the new era of development has
continued to elude us.
There is an emerging consensus that
the new
approach to development must be to concentrate on the
well-being of the individual person and to release the
productive capacity of the human spirit and of nations
through social development, free markets, international
trade and investment. While this strategy has brought
progress to many countries, many poorer developing
countries have not been able to compete and benefit, due
to structural inadequacies in their economies or because
of the small size of their markets.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
To adapt to the new approaches to development, all
United Nations agencies have to undergo major changes in
their organization and operations. However, the resources
available to United Nations agencies have declined both in
actual and real terms. Many of them are unable to carry out
programmes at
the level of previous cycles. In these
circumstances, many of the targets set in the major global
conferences, whether in health, environment, population,
education, or other social fields, may not be met.
It is often said that the overall contribution of United
Nations agencies to a country’s development
is small.
While this may be the case in larger countries, it should be
pointed out that in many smaller countries the input of
United Nations agencies plays a substantial role. It
is
unfortunate that the most far-reaching responsibility of the
in
United Nations, which can make a lasting impact
improving the lives of millions of people,
is being
constrained and reduced at a time when more efforts are
necessary.
The efforts of the United Nations development bodies
are of particular importance to the 48 least developed
countries. It has become increasingly difficult for the
concerns and needs of these countries to find a place in the
international development dialogue. The United Nations,
through the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development and all other agencies, must ensure that the
situation and the needs of the least developed countries are
kept in focus and as part of any agenda for development.
Otherwise we risk the further marginalization of a
significant number of countries.
The United Nations development agencies must ensure
that the resources they spend in finding and developing new
ideas and approaches are balanced and matched by
programmes and resources in the field. The agencies and
developing countries must work closely together in order to
regain the confidence of the donor community. Bhutan
strongly believes
that many
development agencies fulfil must not be allowed to
diminish due to a lack of funds.
special
role
that
the
effort,
development
Bhutan recognizes that developing countries must
in the
work closely with other major participants
international
financial
institutions, bilateral donors and the world business
community. Bhutan has greatly benefitted from the
contributions and efforts of our bilateral donors. Their
assistance has been utilized effectively and has contributed
meaningfully to our development. We take this opportunity
to express our gratitude to our bilateral donors, in particular
such
as
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
the Netherlands,
India, Switzerland, Japan, Denmark,
Austria, Norway, Kuwait, Germany, Australia and
Thailand, for their cooperation and generous assistance.
the
issue
itself. However,
Allow me to express a few thoughts concerning the
impact of reform on the United Nations. We are aware
that the issue of reforming the United Nations system and
its organizational structure is not new, and that it was
raised just a few years after the establishment of the
United Nations
of
organizational reform has taken on special significance in
the last few years, given the financial situation of the
United Nations and some of its major agencies. While the
dialogue on reform of the United Nations continues, the
Organization has had to implement major cuts in staff and
activities. The morale of the international civil servants
has been greatly affected. This situation should not be
allowed to continue for long. All Member countries must
take cognizance of these facts, work towards completing
the reform process, and place the Organization on a firm
financial footing at an early date.
We must not be afraid of reform and change. Major
changes have already been carried out, and there are still
many areas which need to be addressed. However, it is
our view that the process of reform of the Organization
should be time-bound. A long, drawn out process with no
end in sight will hinder the Organization in effectively
carrying out the vast responsibilities we have assigned to
it.
The calls for change and reform of the United
Nations, in their own way, are the best indicator of the
strong support of its Members. The United Nations today
has become an indispensable institution in international
relations and development. It is up to us, the Member
States,
the
aspirations and expectations of all its Members, large and
small. It must become the source of inspiration for all and
a guiding beacon that will take the world to the next
millennium of peace and prosperity for all the peoples
and nations of the world.
it will be able to meet
to ensure that
The Acting President: I call next on the Chairman
of the delegation of Dominica, His Excellency Mr. Simon
Paul Richards.
Mr. Richards (Dominica): It is indeed a pleasure
for me to extend my delegation’s congratulations to
Ambassador Razali and his country, Malaysia, on his
election to the high office of President of the fifty-first
session of the General Assembly. I entertain no doubt that
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
he will be able to draw upon his proven diplomatic skills
and considerable experience to guide the affairs of the
General Assembly in a creditable and exemplary manner.
Permit me also to express my appreciation and thanks to
his immediate predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of
Portugal, for the competence which he demonstrated in
presiding over the historic fiftieth session of the General
Assembly.
to establish democratic institutions and
the effort
representative governments in certain parts of the world
are also engaged in an enterprise which, if successful, is
calculated to destroy the free and democratic way of life
in the eastern Caribbean. The international community has
an interest in seeing that these small societies remain free
and stable, and it has an obligation to ensure that that
freedom and stability subsist.
the
inexorable
to escape
consequences of
The United Nations was established 51 years ago with
a focus on the maintenance of peace and security, and
while that remains the objective, the linkage between peace
and economic and social development, enshrined in the
Charter, must be recognized and strengthened if the world
is
the
continuously widening gap between rich and poor nations.
We were led to believe that the peace dividend resulting
from the end of the cold war would provide the engine for
greater economic development. Obviously, that has not
the opposite has occurred. The
materialized.
developing world continues
to experience a steady
shrinkage of development assistance. And at this critical
juncture, small island States, already hampered by size,
geographic location, topography and climatic conditions, are
having their very existence threatened by the policies and
practices of multinationals, made all the more formidable
by overwhelming support from their Governments.
Indeed,
The production and export of bananas are vital to the
economic viability of the Commonwealth of Dominica, as
they are to all the islands of the Windward group. The
banana industry in the Windward Islands accounts for less
than 5 per cent of world production. The producers are
small landowners; the production costs are relatively high;
and any attempt by the Windward Islands producers to sell
their products on the open market would be suicidal.
Recognizing the peculiar difficulties of Windward Islands
producers and their traditional access to the European
market,
the European Union has established a regime
reserving less than 10 per cent of its market for bananas
from the Caribbean. That regime is now under attack from
multinationals in Latin America and elsewhere, with huge
resources augmented by the power, prestige and political
might of their national Governments.
In the struggle to save an industry critical to our
economic survival, our political stability and our democratic
traditions and institutions, we call upon the international
community to take note of the very real possibility of social
upheaval and political disaster in the region if this challenge
to the European Union regime were to succeed. It is rather
incongruous that the same forces that are at the forefront of
18
The scourge of illicit drug traffic and drug abuse
must continue to be of great concern to the international
community. The problem knows no boundary, it respects
no ideology or power, it makes no distinction between
rich and poor, North and South, East and West. Its engine
is driven by the prospect of huge fortunes amassed
clandestinely and quickly. Universal in its destructive
force, the illicit drug problem presents a unique challenge
to the world. The Commonwealth of Dominica has taken
steps, commensurate with its limited resources, to deal
with the problem at the national level, and it is a party to
cooperative regional arrangements aimed at impeding the
trans-shipment of illicit drugs through the Caribbean
region. Recognizing, however,
the problem is
demand-driven, we must make it clear that the prospects
for success in this effort will remain dim unless there is
a greater undertaking by the major consumer centres to
reduce the demand for the product.
that
tangentially,
trade in arms and,
the violation of the fundamental
Connected with international drug trafficking is the
illegal
international
terrorism. The twin evils of illicit arms and international
terrorism have as their purpose the destruction of innocent
lives,
tenets of the
civilized world and the subversion of the democratic
freedoms of all mankind. An unprecedented effort by
Members of the United Nations will be required if we are
to control the illicit trade in arms and extinguish the
threat of terrorism. Compounding the problem is the legal
trade in conventional weapons of increasing sophistication
and destructiveness. With regard to nuclear weapons, the
Commonwealth of Dominica believes that
the Non-
Proliferation Treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty are merely way-stations on the road to the
desirable end of a world free of all such arsenals.
We are extremely concerned and aggrieved by the
continuing practice of trans-shipping nuclear waste and
other hazardous substances through the Caribbean Sea.
Assurances of safe procedures and infinitesimal risks are
unconvincing, particularly when such trans-shipments are
made through the Caribbean Sea during the hurricane
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
season and at a period of heightened seismic activity in the
Caribbean region.
The Commonwealth of Dominica, together with other
members of
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
continues to view this dangerous practice as a potentially
serious threat to the fragile ecosystem and to the livelihood
and well-being of the people of the region, and we call
upon the States engaging in the practice to demonstrate
some regard for our justifiable concerns. We earnestly seek
the support of the international community in our ongoing
effort to halt the shipment of these dangerous materials
through the Caribbean Sea.
For several decades, the Republic of China on Taiwan
has exercised and continues to exercise sovereign authority
over a defined geographical area inhabited today by 21
million souls. This year, the process of political reform
achieved its ultimate goal when, for the first
time in
history, the President of the Republic of China on Taiwan
was democratically elected in free and fair elections.
Democracy is alive and well in the Republic of China on
Taiwan. The peace and security of the region are not
threatened today, nor have they ever been threatened, by the
Republic of China on Taiwan. Indeed, the Republic of
China’s human rights record, its commitment to market
economy and multilateralism and its economic assistance
programmes have served to enhance the prospects for
peace, security and stability in the area and beyond.
As the members of the European Parliament stated in
their resolution of 17 July 1996, the Republic of China on
Taiwan can play an important beneficial
role in the
international community, and it is clear that the exclusion
of the Republic of China on Taiwan from the world’s
councils, from the United Nations and its specialized
agencies, and from the major
financial
institutions concerned with development and the eradication
of poverty is a detriment to us all. The Commonwealth of
Dominica believes that on the principle of universality, the
Republic of China on Taiwan should be admitted as a
Member of the United Nations.
international
Just over two years ago the world applauded the
progress that had been made in the bilateral negotiations
between Israel and its Arab neighbours in the Middle East,
and we expressed cautious optimism with respect to the
eventual resolution of the conflict and the progress towards
a full and just peace in the region. Recent events have
given reason for pause, however. We recognize that a
solution to the problem in the Middle East can only be
achieved through the energies of the States in the region
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
to peace. But
the
and their genuine commitment
international community and the United Nations in
particular have an interest — indeed, a duty — to
facilitate and assist the process towards the realization of
the legitimate hopes, aspirations and security needs of the
peoples in the area.
The Commonwealth of Dominica abhors the concept
of national laws having extraterritorial jurisdiction and
serving as underpinnings for illegal secondary boycotts.
We are particularly troubled by the potential use of these
instruments by large and powerful States to compromise
the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of small
States like ours.
The restructuring and reform of the United Nations
system continues in the face of a forced financial crisis
that undermines the very result intended by the reform
programme, namely, an Organization with the capacity to
discharge its worldwide obligations effectively and
efficiently. We continue to be supportive of the efforts to
exercise budgetary restraints,
to reduce waste and to
eliminate unnecessary duplication, but we caution against
a programme of retrenchment detrimental to the existence
of programmes designed to assist small developing
nations. Indeed, we believe that the end-product of the
reform of the United Nations should be an Organization
better equipped to be an effective force for development
and economic growth.
In this age of globalization,
the United Nations
continues to be an important agent for economic growth
and development and a vital instrument in maintaining
world peace. The Commonwealth of Dominica recognizes
and applauds the achievements of the United Nations in
those areas. The capacity of the Organization to meet the
challenges of
the years ahead will depend on our
collective will and commitment to effecting measurable
improvement in the human condition.
The Acting President: The next speaker is the
the Central African
the delegation of
Chairman of
Republic, Mr. Henry Koba.
Mr. Koba (Central African Republic) (interpretation
from French): On behalf of the delegation of the Central
African Republic, I should like to express our warmest
and most heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Razali Ismail on
his election to the presidency of this session. His proven
skill in international affairs assures us that our work will
be crowned with success. I would assure him of my
delegation’s cooperation.
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
We also wish to extend to the outgoing President,
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, the deepest appreciation of
the delegation of the Central African Republic for the
competence with which he served the Organization
throughout his mandate.
Lastly, I should like to pay a heartfelt tribute to the
Secretary-General of
the United Nations, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, for his courageous and tireless work, work
which does honour to Africa and which is often performed
in a hostile context, to have the principles of the United
Nations Charter prevail in all circumstances. The work of
our Secretary-General deserves to be encouraged and must
continue.
revealed
the Organization’s
in the accomplishment of
The evaluation of the United Nations 50 years of
continuing
existence
its mission.
shortcomings
However, the end of the cold war, which allowed us to
glimpse a new era in international
relations, opened
prospects for renewed cooperation commensurate with the
hopes that emerged at the end of the world’s division into
blocs. In that connection, the United Nations was at last to
rediscover its capacity to handle relations among States on
the sole basis of the application of the principles that have
brought us together here in this Hall.
Opposing tendencies continue to vie for attention at a
time when we must, with shared resolution, ensure respect
for an international rule of law. The world today has
changed. The aspiration to wider freedom and greater
recognition of equality is stronger than ever before.
Thus, the delegation of the Central African Republic
believes that
the shortcomings and limitations of our
Organization, like those inherent in any human endeavour,
must be rectified, and they can be, if States give priority to
concerted action,
to dialogue and a shared search for
solutions to the world’s problems. Together, we will be
better able to establish the universal values of the United
Nations. Indeed, that is our principal task.
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
This is an appropriate time for me to dwell for a
moment on the case of my own country, the Central
African Republic.
In the space of one month, a country that was
already very far advanced in negotiations to conclude an
agreement with the Bretton Woods institutions was to
undergo two mutinies that proved to be attempts at coups
d’états. The world was presented with a shocking and
unfamiliar picture of my country, erasing the efforts of
the national community to turn its back on its past and
wiping out
the efforts of Central Africans to devote
themselves, within the framework of their sovereign
choice, to the search for the means of developing the
Central African Republic, with its vast potential
in
mining, agriculture and livestock and with its abundant
rainfall.
There were deaths, there was destruction, but above
all there was an attempt, by force of arms, to impose the
will of a tiny fraction of the nation on the majority. The
long struggle of the Central African nation freely to
choose its leaders at the ballot box was about to be
obliterated without any legitimacy or legality whatsoever.
find within itself
Central African democracy is three years old. It is
developing in very difficult economic circumstances, and
it must
the necessary spirit of
confidence, solidarity, hard work and organization. The
affairs of state of this young democracy must be given the
transparency needed for good governance and the
confidence to build at last a country whose potential will
enable it to provide its children with a healthy future.
That is the constant message that President Ange-
Félix Patassé, our Head of State, has expressed to his
compatriots ever since assuming office in the Central
African Republic. But there is still a long road to follow,
and one strewn with pitfalls, before we can arrive at the
tranquillity of older democracies that makes military
adventurism inadmissible.
The wider advent of democracy, its affirmation and its
implantation are of course primarily the choice of a people.
However, democracy, which is a universal value, is also the
struggle of all democratically minded people who share its
ideals, and the struggle of the United Nations, whose very
establishment was a response to an international order of
dictatorship and terror with the tragic consequences we all
known. We are therefore in duty bound to create true
solidarity so as to ensure the defence and spread of
democracy.
While this destiny is mainly the responsibility of
each country, the Central African Republic believes that
defence of the universal values of freedom and equality
is also the responsibility of all democrats, whether or not
they are States. That is why I would like to take this
opportunity to express the gratitude of the Government of
the Central African Republic to those friendly countries,
especially France,
the United States of America,
Germany, Gabon, Chad, Zaire, Congo, Senegal, Togo,
Benin, Mali, Côte d’Ivoire and Sudan, which gave their
20
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
support, in the name of the principles of democracy, to the
choices of the Central African Republic and its institutions
during this difficult period. That same appreciation is
extended to the Secretary-General of the OAU, and above
all to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his
unambiguous and courageous position in defence of
democracy.
Collectively,
the Central Africans overcame this
difficult stage in the history of their country because in
dark moments they always had the spirit to find a solution
to preserve the essential,
the unity of
the country,
reinforced by a common language, Sango.
Since then, the Central African Republic has been
working to find ways and means to strengthen the peace
and security it has restored. Hence, with the participation of
friendly countries such as France, Gabon, Senegal, and Mali
(with the contribution of its former President Amadou
Toumani Toure), the Government has organized national
structures for defence. It recently convened an important
seminar, with the support of the United States of America
on the role of the military in a democracy. This meeting
served to draw attention to the place of the army within the
nation; in other words, in a republic the armed forces must
be under civil authority.
(UNDP)
Another dimension of restoring peace and security is
the relaunching of the economy. My country wishes to pay
tribute to the promptness with which countries such as
France, the Republic of China and Germany and bodies
such as the United Nations, through the United Nations
Development Programme
either
providing direct support for the re launch or helping to
develop an emergency programme leading to a joint
meeting of donors in Bangui. The pledges made during that
meeting were encouraging and we hope for further such
offers of support during the round table planned for 1997.
But it is the intention of the President of the Republic,
Ange-Félix Patassé,
to reach an agreement with the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. This
intention has been repeated and will be pursued.
intervened,
The course taken in international relations since the
end of the cold war should prompt States to turn to
multilateral cooperation and United Nations principles
should come fully into play in crisis settlement. This should
apply to the question of the Middle East, where the current
peace process must be pursued and concluded without
delay. It should also apply to the situation in Rwanda and
Burundi, where regional
initiatives must also back up
international efforts, in the Western Sahara, in Angola and
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
in Liberia, where it should be possible to implement the
United Nations plan of action.
The firm political will of all continues to be
necessary to achieve this, with a constant search for
mechanisms that build and strengthen confidence among
States. In this respect, the signing of the non-aggression
pact among States members of
the United Nations
Standing Advisory Committee on Questions of Security
in Central Africa will certainly contribute, if observed, to
preserving
the
signatories and will free the dynamic elements in one of
the
integrated
development efforts.
good-neighbourly
the world for
relations
richest
regions of
among
In that same spirit, during this session the Central
African Republic intends to sign the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which it fully supported at the
draft stage.
Political will presupposes the strengthening of the
United Nations authority and its universal nature. That
authority flows from its rightful place in the world, a
world that has changed to such an extent since the
establishment of the United Nations that the working
methods of its organs need to be adapted. The United
Nations is no longer accorded the status it had during the
decolonization movement. There has been a loss of regard
for the United Nations, especially since the division of the
world into hostile blocs came to an end. States,
particularly the powerful ones, prefer to resolve problems
outside the United Nations, or consider
the
Organization should merely endorse their decisions. The
United Nations should not be used as a tool in this way;
therein lies the root cause of the powerlessness of which
it stands accused.
that
The restructuring efforts begun two years ago must
be pursued and stressed in order to achieve rational and
real structural
reforms allowing the Organization to
operate more efficiently in various areas, beginning with
the Security Council. The Security Council should include
countries from both the North and South that can provide
the financial and political
resources needed by the
Organization to defend peace. From this standpoint, the
Central African Republic delegation supports
the
initiatives taken by Germany and Japan. The economic
weight of these countries and their activities to promote
development and peace give them an outstanding place in
international cooperation today.
21
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
international relations that does not require a collective
effort on the part of States if it is to be mastered.
The Central African Republic would like to
emphasize the issue of the AIDS pandemic. This problem
requires the keen attention of the entire international
community, because no solution is near. The small size
and youthfulness of the country’s population explain why
the Government
is paying special attention to this
pandemic, and to the question of health in general. That
is why we believe that agencies such as the World Health
Organization, the United Nations Children’s Fund and the
United Nations Population Fund must be encouraged.
For the delegation of the Central African Republic
the hope that has been placed in the will of States to
mobilize for this vast international cooperative action will
truly make it possible to embark on the second 50 years
of the United Nations in a way that will avoid the pitfalls
experienced during the first 50 years of its existence.
In our lives as human beings there are always times
when we need to look within ourselves, and at our
existence, to see exactly what must be done and in what
direction to go. It is the responsibility of States to make
of the United Nations what they want it to be, taking
account
and
shortcomings.
failings, weaknesses,
limits
of
its
States today must do all they can, with a constant
effort of political will, to support our Organization so that
multilateral cooperation has full scope. The defence of
peace and the promotion of sustainable development
during this
succeed
otherwise.
time of globalization cannot
The delegation of the Central African Republic
would like to share with the other members of the
international community the hope that, during the next 50
years, the world will embark resolutely on the path laid
down by the founding fathers of the Organization. An
important part of the attainment of the principles and
values of the Charter will be the implementation of the
proposals made by our
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
What is more, the democratization of international
relations also involves a strengthening of the universalist
nature of our Organization, because the United Nations,
with its mission to bring together all States and civilizations
of
refuse to admit States,
especially if those States are able to meet the obligations
inherent in the status of Member.
the world, can no longer
I should like to raise here the question of the Republic
of China in Taiwan. My delegation regrets that
this
question is once again not on our agenda this year. Yet the
first consequence of the end of the cold war was the
reassessment of questions associated with this period, for
example the issues related to General Assembly resolution
2758 (XXVI), which artificially deprives the Republic of
China of its place in the United Nations. This is a flagrant
injustice that should be redressed by the international
community, which can surely not allow a sovereign and
independent State, in which free and democratic elections
have recently been held, to be indefinitely excluded, with
its 21 million inhabitants, from United Nations activities.
The European Parliament has recognized this. Last July it
adopted a proposed joint resolution requesting the United
Nations to study the possibility of participation by the
Republic of China in the activities of bodies that report to
the General Assembly.
Furthermore, there are many challenges facing the
world today requiring the general mobilization of all States,
including the Republic of China, whose participation in
efforts for peace and development throughout the world is
already highly appreciated. The delegation of the Central
African Republic
to the General
Assembly’s wisdom and realism and invites it to examine
the question during its next session so that the Republic of
China in Taiwan can resume its seat in the United Nations.
therefore
appeals
It has been said time and again that the world has
become a global village, characterized by an intermingling
of cultures, ideas, economies, markets, norms of behaviour
and the ever more rapid coming together of peoples, despite
the barriers imposed by frontiers. My delegation believes
that the acceleration of the process of globalization will
lead to an increasingly integrated approach to development
management so as to find a global solution.
Given the proliferation of
internal conflicts and
regional tensions, the harmful effects of economic disorder,
the spread of the AIDS pandemic, the rise of crime and
terrorism, violations of human rights, the ever-widening
international character of drug-trafficking networks and the
deterioration of the environment, there is no single area of
22
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
dynamic Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros-Ghali, through the
Agenda for Peace, the Agenda for Development and, above
all, the United Nations System-wide Special Initiative on
Africa.
The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.
29th plenary meeting
10 October 1996
23
