United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
38th plenary meeting
Thursday, 17 October 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 98 (continued)
Operational activities for development
Report of the Secretary-General on the progress at
mid-decade on the implementation of General
Assembly resolution 45/217 on the World Summit
for Children (A/51/256)
The President: I should like to inform the Assembly
the representative of Uganda has
requested to
that
participate in the debate on this item.
Inasmuch as the list of speakers was closed on
Tuesday, 15 October, at 4 p.m., may I ask the Assembly
whether there is any objection to the inclusion of this
delegation in the list of speakers?
There being no objection, Uganda is included in the
list.
Mr. Ruiz Pérez (Colombia): I wish to begin by
expressing, on behalf of the Government and the delegation
of Colombia, solidarity and deepest sympathy to the
beloved fraternal Republic of Guatemala at this time of
sorrow.
I have the honour of speaking at this session of the
General Assembly on an issue of great importance to my
country: the progress made in the implementation of the
General Assembly resolution on the World Summit for
Children.
Allow me to thank the Secretariat for the preparation
of the report that is the basis for our deliberations. The
report is particularly informative and useful for evaluating
the achievements reached at mid-term and the difficulties
faced in fulfilling the commitments.
The World Summit for Children was a historic
milestone for the protection and defence of children.
Moreover, it was the first of the United Nations world
conferences of the 1990s. It initiated a new cycle which
continued up to the most recent conference, the United
Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II).
It was therefore a starting point for renewed efforts by the
international community for social development and the
fight against poverty.
The agreed objectives opened up new hopes, not
only for the definition of specific goals — for example,
in terms of child mortality — but for the provision of
international assistance required to achieve them. These
promises have been translated into national action plans,
an innovative way of preventing the objectives and
commitments from remaining merely on paper. At the
mid-point of the decade, information on progress achieved
has proved difficult to interpret. In some areas, as in the
case of the fight against preventable diseases and the
ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child,
advances have certainly been significant. In areas such as
education and the reduction of malnutrition and mortality,
however, the results still leave much to be desired.
96-86545 (E)
*9686545*
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
We hope that the ratification of the Convention on the
Rights of the Child will lead to its prompt incorporation
into domestic legislation. This is indispensable for the
support of measures pertaining to health, nutrition and
education, as well as of other actions for the protection of
children. It also constitutes an important base for the
implementation of national plans of action.
The effectiveness of these plans depends on the
capacity of the international community — and particularly
the United Nations system — to provide the assistance
required by the developing countries. We concur that
responsibility should not fall solely to the United Nations
Children’s Fund (UNICEF). That would be to deny the
increasing generalized character of problems concerning
children in the context of the fight to eradicate poverty and
to improve levels of social development.
Institutions such as the World Health Organization, the
United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO), the United Nations Population
Fund, the World Food Programme and the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) have equally important
roles to play. Only through them can we ensure that our
objectives where children are concerned will become an
effective part of the comprehensive strategies for human
development.
Mobilization of necessary resources to attain the
objectives of the Summit
is one of the most serious
problems we face. The capacity of developing countries to
generate their own resources and earmark the necessary
funds for the social sectors has been seriously eroded by
fiscal constraints deriving from economic structural reform
programmes and, in many cases, from the heavy burden of
debt. There are no indicators suggesting a satisfactory
improvement in budgetary appropriations earmarked for
basic social services.
The efforts of developing countries to mobilize
resources at the State, private-sector and civil-society level,
cannot alone guarantee the volume of resources needed to
finance programmes for children. International cooperation
needs to be substantially increased, both in the form of new
and additional financial resources and through broader
programmes of technical assistance and other forms of
international cooperation.
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
ago. It is now time to renew that commitment and to
adopt the measures necessary to ensure compliance with
the responsibilities upon which we have agreed by the
year 2000.
For all of these reasons, my delegation supports the
idea that
in the year 2001, a special session of the
General Assembly should be held to review the extent to
which we have succeeded in fulfilling our promises to
children and how well we have implemented the
Declaration and Plan of Action of the World Summit for
Children.
On that occasion, those sitting in supreme judgement
over us will be the new generation of youths and children.
At that historic moment the international community will
have an opportunity to design new strategies so that our
commitments to children will extend beyond the year
2000.
Mr. Wehbe (Syrian Arab Republic) (interpretation
from Arabic): The World Summit for Children, held at
United Nations Headquarters in New York in 1990, was
a turning point in international cooperation to promote the
survival of children, their health, nutrition, education,
protection and development — in general, to look out for
their future. The participation of the Syrian Arab Republic
in the World Summit for Children was based on its desire
to participate in the actions undertaken to enhance efforts
to achieve these supreme objectives.
Before mentioning the achievements of the Syrian
Arab Republic since the World Summit for Children, I
would first like to express our satisfaction with the report
of the Secretary-General on the progress at mid-decade on
the implementation of General Assembly resolution
45/217 on the World Summit for Children.
While expressing our satisfaction with what has been
done to implement and carry out the resolutions of the
Summit for Children, we should also like to confirm the
need to promote concerted action to ensure that the cause
of children continues to be the focus of our concerns.
According to one particular social theory, the future of
the State depends on progress achieved in fostering the
well-being and prosperity of children. In the other words,
children are, as it were, the very kernel of the State.
Only if the international community lives up to its
commitments to finance social development and transfers
increased resources to the developing countries will we be
able to fulfil the promises made to our children seven years
Since the Summit Declaration the Syrian Arab
Republic has been making considerable efforts to provide
protection and development for children and the family.
National action has taken place on a large scale.
2
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the most
Symposia and conferences have been held,
important being the first national conference on child
survival, held under the auspices of the President of the
Syrian Arab Republic, Hafez Al-Assad, on 28-29 January
1991. That conference followed preparatory activities by
committees of experts in the social, economic, health,
cultural and environmental fields.
The economic sector, various professional and social
organizations and religious institutions participated in this
conference, as did ministers and heads of people’s
organizations. An overall national plan of action was
adopted at that conference, which reflected the status of
Syrian children and what had been achieved to promote
their interests in various areas. This programme of action,
which defined the 1995 mid-decade goals, the strategic
objectives up to the year 2002 and the ways and means for
implementing these targets in all areas, was approved by
the Syrian Government for inclusion in the country’s basic
economic and social plans. The programme was then
submitted
non-
governmental sectors in our country for implementation. To
that end, a follow-up committee was also established under
the direction of the Minister of Health.
governmental
various
to
the
and
At the beginning of this year, we drew up a national
report indicating what had been accomplished in relation to
the mid-decade goals, as a result of the periodic review
carried out by experts. I would like to refer to some of the
salient points of the review. First, in the health field, action
is under way to reach the
eliminating
poliomyelitis; salt iodization is being implemented; the rate
of maternal mortality has decreased from 143 in 1989 to
107 in 1995 for every 100,000 live births; 93 per cent of all
children have been vaccinated and immunized against
hepatitis; studies and evaluations have been made to
supplement current child nutrition information; and health
plans have been drawn up to promote future health care.
target of
Secondly, in the field of education, the Syrian Arab
Republic is in the vanguard of countries of the region with
regard to applying a system of free and compulsory
education at the primary, secondary and university levels.
School attendance at the primary level for 1994-1995 was
98.8 per cent, including 99.2 per cent in the case of boys
and 98.6 per cent in the case of girls.
Thirdly, the State has developed activities to assist
children with disabilities through a national plan containing
various programmes providing many benefits to children in
the areas of training, employment and social integration.
The State protects children in the aftermath of war and
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
armed conflict, which has led to a massive and forced
exodus from neighbouring areas. The State is striving for
a just and comprehensive peace to put an end to the
suffering of children in the aftermath of war. Similarly,
the State protects children and low-income families
through the provision of grants and low-cost loans.
Mr. Muntasser (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Vice-
President, took the Chair.
Fourthly,
the Syrian Arab Republic ratified the
Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1992 and a
ministerial committee was established to disseminate
public information on the principles of the Convention
within Syria and the Government, with the cooperation of
official and people’s organizations. The State is doing
what it can to ensure that laws on children are fully
observed in the social and cultural areas. These
constitutional provisions are in full accordance with the
spirit and letter of the international Convention on the
Rights of the Child. This has been achieved by applying
its provisions in our national legislation. Matters relating
to children are the focus of the Syrian Government, which
provides many social grants for pregnant women and
mothers. It is also developing child benefits since 48 per
cent of the country’s population are children under the
age of 18.
Thus, we are following the fundamental principles
and the directives laid down by President Hafez Al-
Assad. Despite our economic needs and the cost of
defending our territorial integrity, we are very proud of
the accomplishments of our country. Furthermore, our
country will continue its efforts to ensure and promote the
health, education and protection of children, as well as
focus on population matters and the environment,
to
ensure that Syrian children have the requisite level of
education to enjoy a bright future.
the children in the Golan,
Now that we are discussing the sacred mission of
caring for children, I would like to refer to another
humanitarian question, and that is: can any child in the
world develop in the context of occupation and massacre?
All
the occupied Arab
territories or in southern Lebanon are suffering as a result
of the occupation. The reply to the question is found in
United Nations resolutions. In this regard, I would like to
reiterate that the costs of war are far greater than the cost
of peace and must affect the needs of children.
Mr. Meniang (Sudan) (interpretation from Arabic):
It gives me great pleasure to inform you of the measures
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
taken in my country in the context of the implementation of
the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child
and of the cooperation between the Ministry for Foreign
Affairs of the Sudan, the National Council on Children’s
Welfare
and the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF). On 23 June 1996, a symposium was held in our
capital, Khartoum,
the national
Parliament abreast of ways they can contribute through
legislation to the implementation and furtherance of the
provisions of
the Convention. The symposium was
inaugurated by the First Vice-President, Mr. Al-Zubayr
Muhammad Salih, who stressed the following positions of
principle in his inaugural statement.
to keep members of
First, the Government of Sudan takes a special interest
in the implementation of the international Convention,
particularly as the Sudan was among its first signatories.
The President himself participated in the signing. Secondly,
the interest of Sudan in the rights of children arises from
the faith of Islam, which cherishes man and safeguards the
rights of children. Thirdly, to translate this interest into
reality, the Government of Sudan established the National
Council on Children’s Welfare and takes special interest in
the education of children. It has made elementary education
compulsory and takes special
in the health of
children, including our interest in establishing children’s
hospitals. Fourthly, the efforts of the Sudanese Government
for peace and stability will continue until it has put an end
to the causes of displacement, so that children can lead a
happy life with their families and parents. The State
attaches special
to the programme of peace,
development and stability, of which children will be the
main beneficiary. Fifthly, the First Vice-President stressed
Sudan’s full commitment to the Convention on the Rights
of the Child.
interest
interest
Many documents were discussed at the symposium,
which together highlight various aspects of the welfare of
children. As expected, the members of the National Council
who took part were familiar with the issues, demonstrated
their enthusiasm and pledged to promote the well-being of
children in their provinces. A final document was adopted
at the symposium which is aimed at ensuring healthy living
standards for the children of Sudan. The document also
provides for priority to be given to children’s welfare in
national development programmes. Cognizant of the need
to enhance governmental and voluntary institutions, the
members of
to
implement the Convention’s provisions and enhance efforts
to safeguard children’s health and eradicate poverty, famine
and malnutrition. Furthermore,
it will seek to promote
peace and the culture of peace and to enhance international
the National Council will endeavour
4
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
rights.
cooperation designed to safeguard the needs of children
and their
In conclusion, we emphasize our
readiness to apply the Convention on the Rights of the
Child. In this connection, our Parliament ratified this
instrument at a special session, thus making it a legally
binding State document.
Paragraph 161 of the Secretary-General’s report
states that conflict and insecurity in the southern part of
the country are a barrier to the eradication of guinea-
worm disease and that almost half of
the world’s
remaining cases are in the Sudan. I would like to inform
you of some of the efforts being made by the Sudan to
eliminate the disease. Despite the insecurity caused by the
rebel movement, the Sudanese Government is cooperating
with the Carter Center to eradicate this disease by the
year 2000. Former President Carter has visited the Sudan
more than once and a Carter Center office has been
opened in the Sudan to cooperate with appropriate
international
government organs.
community,
to provide
material and technical assistance to help eliminate this
disease. We also wish to emphasize that
the rebel
movement stands in the way of
implementing the
programme to control guinea-worm disease. It also uses
children in armed conflict,
thereby endangering their
lives.
through the United Nations,
call upon the
I
Mr. Chowdhury (Bangladesh): As one enters the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) headquarters
in New York, one sees an inscription on the wall near the
receptionist’s desk which says that the earth has not been
given to us by our parents but has been lent to us by our
children. I think that inscription summarizes the essence
of our debate here today.
Our deep appreciation goes to the Secretary-General
for introducing the report on the progress at mid-decade
on the implementation of General Assembly resolution
45/217 on the World Summit for Children. This report
has certainly provided the Member States with a unique
opportunity to have a comprehensive assessment of the
progress that has been made so far towards “keeping the
promise” made during the World Summit for Children in
1990. It also permits us to share our experience with a
view to finding more effective means to address the
challenges that lie ahead of us.
We are happy to note that the report indicates that
significant progress has been made in improving the
conditions of children in most parts of the world during
the last five years. Yet we agree fully with the Secretary-
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
General that a great deal remains to be done. Nonetheless,
one fact deserves our attention and appreciation, and it is
that
the coordinated efforts undertaken by the United
Nations agencies, in particular UNICEF, the global agency
for children, and Governments of Member States, and the
initiatives by the members of civil society, particularly the
non-governmental organizations, have set an example of
how the international community can be mobilized for the
welfare and well-being of children. That is what we call the
grand alliance for children. This testifies to the fact that
given political will and appropriate mobilization we can
have an impact on the future of this world.
Improving the conditions of children is closely linked
with overall societal progress. It is said that poverty has a
feminine face. We say it has the face of children as well.
When the mother is struggling with poverty, children are
definitely the victims. In addition, children, as the most
vulnerable section of the society, remain at the receiving
end of every onslaught of poverty. Therefore, any efforts
directed at
improving the condition of children has a
societal dimension, and this needs to be appreciated
properly. We are happy that the report of the Secretary-
General has made some significant references to this
compulsion.
Conscious of this imperative, successive governments
in Bangladesh, in particular the present Government, have
pursued rather aggressive strategies to address the problems
confronted by children. Bangladesh has become a signatory
to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the
Child, which forms the basis of our national activities in
this important area. In fact, this element constitutes one of
the major components of our struggle to eradicate poverty
as well. We fully agree with the Secretary-General when he
said during the introduction of his
this
Convention is a social tool to reach the unreached and that
investing in children and women is the path to sustainable
development.
report
that
Our efforts have already started to produce tangible
results. In Bangladesh, we have been able to immunize 91
per cent of the children through the extensive network of
the Extended Programme of Immunization. The child
mortality rate has declined significantly. We are hopeful
that we will be able to meet our target in this sector by the
end of the decade. As the home of oral rehydration therapy
(ORT), Bangladesh has made a notable contribution
towards the reduction of death from diarrhoea. We are
proud to say that
the mortality rate from this tropical
disease has dropped significantly in recent years.
Nonetheless, our struggle to eliminate this threat completely
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
continues. We have mounted an 18-month communication
campaign to boost the level of ORT use from 45 per cent
to 80 per cent once and for all at the earliest possible
date. More than 55,000 primary school teachers have been
engaged in this campaign since 1993.
Primary education is considered to be an essential
element in improving the conditions of children. Pursuant
to its objective, the Bangladesh Government has made
primary and secondary education free for girls in rural
areas. Special
incentives in the form of “food for
education” have been introduced to encourage students,
particularly the girl students, to go to school. We are
hopeful that through these policies we will be able to
empower the girls, which may in the long term help to
improve the condition of the poorest section of the
population in Bangladesh.
My country has also initiated some imaginative steps
to address a child-related issue, which I would like to
share with the Assembly. Involvement of children in the
work force is a concomitant problem of poverty in many
developing countries. We are not immune to this problem
either. In order to address the problem in a humane and
constructive way, the Bangladesh Government signed a
memorandum of understanding with the International
Labour Organization and UNICEF last year with a view
to
garment
manufacturing sector. These retrenched child workers will
be sent to school and training centres to develop their
educational and work skills. This arrangement will be
financed jointly by UNICEF and the private garment
sector. We hope that this can serve as a model for others
facing similar problems in their countries.
eradicating
from the
child
labour
We are conscious of our limitations and resource
capabilities. Despite the fact that we are devoting more
than 40 per cent of our annual budget to the social sector,
the magnitude of the problem constantly defies our
efforts. We therefore think that the national efforts should
be supplemented by regional and global efforts. In order
to muster the desired level of resources, efforts must be
made to reverse the present downward trend of official
development assistance. At the regional level, we have
already adopted a regional plan for South Asia under the
Colombo Resolution on Children, which was endorsed by
the Seventh Summit of the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
in 1993. We are
committed to fulfilling our obligations under this plan and
hope that cooperation at the regional level will have more
impact on our common efforts to tackle this issue. In
particular, we believe that regional cooperation is essential
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
to stop transborder trafficking in children and utilizing them
as bonded labour and prostitutes.
I would like to take this opportunity to record the
appreciation of the Government of Bangladesh for the
constructive engagement of the various United Nations
agencies in the socio-economic development of Bangladesh,
including efforts to raise the well-being of children. In
particular, I would like to commend the support extended
to us by UNICEF to improve the conditions of children in
Bangladesh.
the United Nations
development agencies will remain actively engaged with us
in our relentless efforts for the eradication of poverty, in
which an essential focus remains on the children.
is our hope that
It
In conclusion, we join with other delegations in fully
endorsing the Secretary-General’s recommendations for
holding a special session of the General Assembly in five
years’ time to examine the progress made in fulfilling the
promises for children. Following the World Summit in
1990, we in Bangladesh strongly hope that the year 2000
will see the second summit level gathering on children in
this body.
Mrs. Castro de Barish (Costa Rica) (interpretation
from Spanish): The protection and support of children has
always been part of Costa Rica’s social policy. That goal
was established in the 1920s with the creation as a
government agency of the National Board for Children,
which is still very active today.
Like all the delegations that have participated in the
debate on agenda item 100, we also wish to express our
appreciation to the Secretary-General for the report he has
presented to us (A/51/256) with regard to progress at mid-
decade on implementation of General Assembly resolution
45/217 on the World Summit for Children, which my
delegation had the honour to co-sponsor.
as
Costa
Rica
supports
the
assessments
and fundamental
information as well
and
comprehensive
the realistic
conclusions of the report. We welcome its account of the
response of the United Nations system, in particular, on the
important
role played by various
components of the United Nations system such as the
World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations
Educational,
and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO)
the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP). WHO developed health-related goals
in collaboration with the UNICEF/WHO Joint Committee
on Health Policy, while UNESCO and UNICEF
collaborated on complementary activities in the educational
Scientific
and
6
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
sector through the Joint Committee on Education and the
Conference on Education for All held in 1990 in Jomtien,
Thailand. We wish also to stress the importance of the
Education Summit held in New Delhi with the support of
UNESCO, UNICEF and UNDP in the joint project on
“Education for All: Making it Work”. Undoubtedly, this
is an example of joint action that can serve as a model
and yield very valuable and positive results. We support
the statement that any substantial plan to reduce illiteracy
among adults must begin by effectively improving
primary education for the benefit of children who will,
otherwise, be the adult illiterates of tomorrow.
Costa Rica endorses the observation of Nicaragua
concerning mobilization of resources since, indeed, until
greater efforts are made to achieve mobilization of
additional resources, it will not be possible for developing
countries to promote the proposed goals. The report
recognizes that only an average of 12 per cent of national
budgets is earmarked for basic social services. Clearly, in
many developing countries, structural adjustments have
not always had a human face.
My delegation wishes to stress the conclusion in
paragraph 285 of the report that:
“The goals established at the 1990 World Summit
for Children have had an extraordinary mobilizing
power, generating a renewed level of activity on
behalf of children around the world and creating
new partnerships between Governments, non-
governmental organizations, donors, the media, civil
society and international organizations in pursuit of
a common purpose. There is a wealth of evidence to
show that the World Summit Declaration and Plan
of Action, together with the almost simultaneous
passage into international law of the Convention on
the Rights of the Child, provided the impetus and
the legal framework for galvanizing global action
behind the cause of children.” (A/51/256, para. 285)
My delegation wishes to stress here the well-being of
girls, since it has been demonstrated that the situation of
girls is even more precarious than that of boys in all
circumstances of life.
With regard to progress made in reaching the goals
in the Latin American and Caribbean region, we note with
great interest the information provided in the regional
overview, notably on achieving universal ratification of
the Convention on the Rights of the Child at mid-decade.
legislation on
My country has adapted its national
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
protection and promotion of the rights of children in order
to fulfil the commitments assumed as a State party to the
Convention. Costa Rica some years ago established the
office of ombudsman, whose role is to defend the rights of
all people whether they are citizens of the country or
residents of any nationality or origin.
the decade have been less
Returning to the report, we note that efforts at the
international level to achieve universal ratification by the
end of
successful but,
nevertheless, considerable. My delegation respectfully urges
Governments that have not yet signed and/or acceded to the
Convention to consider doing so in order to make universal
ratification a splendid reality as we approach the year 2000.
In annex II of the report, which indicates the status of
signature of the World Summit Declaration, preparation of
national programmes of action and ratification of the
Convention on the Rights of the Child as of 31 May 1996,
we are pleased to note that Latin America and the
Caribbean have fully ratified the Convention and signed the
Summit Declaration, and virtually all the States parties have
completed their national plans of action.
My delegation wishes to take this opportunity cordially
and respectfully to urge States parties to the Convention
that have not yet done so to respond favourably to the
request addressed to them by the Secretary-General under
article 50 of the Convention, which provides that an
amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of that
article shall enter into force when it has been approved by
the General Assembly and accepted by a two-thirds
majority of the States parties to the Convention. The States
parties have already adopted the amendment during
consideration of the recommendation at the Conference of
States parties to the Convention on 12 December 1995. The
Assembly later gave its approval on 21 December 1995.
Costa Rica’s amendment consists of replacing the word
“ten” by the word “eighteen” in article 43, paragraph 2, of
the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and it was
approved without a vote. The Secretary-General’s letter
containing his request to States parties to the Convention
was sent on 29 March 1996. Accordingly, my Government
would be most grateful to the Governments of States parties
to the Convention for their valuable support for this
amendment, whose purpose is to endow the Committee on
the Rights of the Child with eight experts in addition to
those it now has in order to carry out the multiple aspects
of its mandate. Let us not forget what James Grant, the late
Executive Director of UNICEF always used to say:
“Children first”.
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
Mr. Kiwanuka (Uganda): I should like to start by
thanking the Secretary-General for the report on progress
at mid-decade on implementation of General Assembly
resolution 45/217 on the World Summit for Children. Six
years ago, Heads of State and Government assembled in
this Hall adopted a World Declaration on the Survival,
Protection and Development of Children and a Plan of
Action for
implementation. This was only the
beginning of a series of global United Nations summits
and conferences which will culminate with the World
Food Summit in Rome next month. The deliberations of
all these meetings have helped to redefine thinking on
human development, to further attempts at achieving a
qualitative difference to the lives of people and, not least,
to reaffirm the commitment to the needs of children.
its
for
Although progress towards achievement of the goals
the survival, protection and
we set ourselves
development of all children has been uneven throughout
the world, it is gratifying to note that programmes of
action for children are being implemented in 155
countries. What is equally significant is that 187 States,
including Uganda, have now ratified the Convention on
the Rights of the Child. The challenge now is for
Governments to ensure implementation of the obligations
undertaken under the Convention.
My delegation appreciates
the positive trends
reported by the Secretary-General
to improve the
prospects of survival and the lives of children worldwide.
Encouraging progress has been made in immunization and
the eradication of guinea-worm disease. We commend
also the great efforts made to address iodine deficiency,
promote oral rehydration programmes and improve access
to safe water.
Unfortunately, as the report indicates, there appears
to be slower progress in reaching the goals in sub-Saharan
Africa, where there are still difficulties in achieving
optimum improvements in the quality of nutrition,
reducing maternal mortality and providing access to basic
education, particularly for girls. Sub-Saharan Africa is
still too vulnerable to drought, environmental degradation
and the HIV/AIDS pandemic, together with disruptions
caused by armed conflict.
the Summit
It is not possible to discuss the implementation of
the decisions of
for Children without
acknowledging the important role that UNICEF has
played and continues to play. Indeed, we note with
satisfaction that Ms. Bellamy, its Executive Director, has
made the implementation of the Summit for Children one
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of its main activities. The Fund has done important work in
providing assistance to countries, including Uganda, in the
preparation of national programmes of action for children
and their subsequent implementation, particularly in the
area of coordination and monitoring and the development
of inter-agency cooperation in the field to improve girls’
education and mitigate the consequences of female illiteracy
in our region.
In the opinion of the Ugandan delegation, the results
of the mid-decade review and the national reports prepared
by many countries should be used widely by UNICEF in
accentuating its targets for the period up to the year 2000
and thus
influence the operationalization of country
activities.
reference for
The Government of Uganda, for its part, is about to
embark on the implementation of its pledge to provide free
primary education for four children per family. Uganda
commends the measures adopted at the Consensus of Dakar
(June 1993), which were the outcome of
the 1992
International Conference for Assistance to the African
Child, and reaffirms that it still remains the principal point
of
for
Children in sub-Saharan Africa. The participating countries,
including Uganda, committed themselves to translate the
goals of the Summit into concrete national programmes of
action. Nevertheless, we are aware that there have been
shortfalls
that are concealed by misleading national
averages, as a result of the difficulties and contrasts of
major social disparities and the children who are victims of
exploitation, of physical and emotional violence, and of
abandonment and injustice.
follow-up to the World Summit
Uganda therefore reaffirms its commitment to share
the responsibility for ensuring the survival, protection and
development of all children and taking note of
the
Secretary-General’s proposal
to hold an end-of-decade
review meeting to examine the fulfilment of the "promises
to children". It is in that spirit that we anticipate more
progress on child survival and great improvement in their
quality of life.
Agenda item 45 (continued)
Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit
for Social Development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/348)
Mr. Wilmot (Ghana): At the World Summit for Social
Development held in Copenhagen in March 1995, world
8
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
leaders took tough political decisions and committed
themselves to create an economic, political, social,
cultural and legal environment that would enable people
to achieve social development and social justice. They
recognized the significance of human well-being for all
and agreed to give the highest priority to the achievement
of these goals now and into the twenty-first century.
In December 1995,
this Assembly initiated the
debate on the implementation of the outcome of the
Summit. For the second year running, this item has been
inscribed on our agenda, underlining the importance that
we all attach to the implementation of the outcome of the
Conference.
In this connection, my delegation fully
associates itself with the statement made by Costa Rica
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
The World Summit for Social Development is one
of a number of world conferences which began in 1990
with the World Summit for Children and ended recently
in June 1996 with the Istanbul Conference on Human
Settlements. Organized under the auspices of the United
Nations, these global conferences have focused attention
on the complex phenomenon of development
in the
political, economic, social, cultural, environmental, legal
and related fields in a holistic manner. With the
disappearance of East-West ideologies and North-South
confrontations,
the potential for cooperation and the
forging of a sense of partnership to seek global solutions
to world problems have gained heightened awareness and
have made all this achievement possible.
Benefiting from this new sense of responsibility and
solidarity within and between nations, the World Summit
for Social Development agreed on 10 major commitments
theme of poverty eradication, full
around the overall
employment and social
the
Summit came up with a Programme of Action that
outlined the policies and actions required to implement
the principles and fulfil the commitments agreed to in
Copenhagen.
In addition,
integration.
the Summit
We are also mindful of
the ground-breaking
strategies
adopted to assign specific
responsibilities for actions to fully implement all of its
commitments and objectives. Thus while it acknowledged
that individual countries bear the primary responsibility
for the attainment of the goals of the conference, it also
recognized that
international
community as a whole — including of the United Nations
system,
institutions, bilateral
donors, non-governmental organizations and all actors of
the multilateral financial
the
support of
the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
civil society — will be crucial if we are to realize all the
objectives of the conference.
It is too early at this stage to attempt to take stock of
what has been achieved so far in terms of implementing the
outcome of the Summit. Suffice it to say that my delegation
is satisfied to see and learn about the various initiatives and
engagements of all countries, large and small, rich and
poor, as well as those of the United Nations system, the
Bretton Woods institutions and actors of civil society in
general, to implement the commitments.
development
society. A comprehensive
My own country, for instance, has established a
National Development Planning Commission that is charged
with implementing and monitoring the Government’s
macroeconomic and sectoral policies to ensure broad-based
sustained economic growth and equitable and sustainable
development that meets the aspirations of all members of
our
policy
document, “Ghana Vision 20-20: The First Step”, placed
before Parliament recently, has been fully debated;
its
provisions are being translated into a national programme
of action or reference document that will inform the entire
governmental structure, non-governmental organizations and
the international community of the enabling environment
established for the country’s priority social and economic
activities. Our programme of action places a great deal of
emphasis on national coordination mechanisms, capacity-
building and the mobilization of internal and external
resources to ensure its effective implementation.
At
the international
level, even though official
development assistance continues to decline in real terms,
certain countries have raised their level of assistance in
support of social development. In this connection, it is
pertinent to mention the recent meeting held in Oslo in
April 1996 on the implementation of the 20/20 initiative,
according to which interested developed- and developing-
country partners will allocate 20 per cent of official
development assistance and 20 per cent of the national
budget, respectively, to basic social programmes. It is also
the annual meeting of the
encouraging to note that at
Bretton Woods
some
encouraging decisions were taken to address not only the
issues of debt, but also the overall financial and resource
problems of developing countries, and to ensure that
structural adjustment programmes will be carried out in a
human-centred manner.
institutions a few days ago,
By far the greatest impetus and momentum given to
the implementation of the outcome of the world social
Summit has come from the United Nations itself. Since
1995, our Organization has assumed a true leadership role
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
in the follow-up to the Summit — and, indeed, in the
follow-up to all the other reinforcing global conferences
it organized — by assigning responsibilities to what has
come to be called lead United Nations agencies, which
monitor specific task forces that have been set up to
implement the outcome of the various conferences.
Having declared 1996 the International Year for the
Eradication of Poverty, the General Assembly has taken
measures to review progress towards poverty eradication
and to provide policy guidelines to encourage further
actions in this regard. The recent mid-term review of the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s and the launching in March 1996 of
the Secretary-General’s Special Initiative on Africa must
be seen in this light. The Economic and Social Council
has, since its 1995 substantive session, and in particular
its 1996 substantive session, intensified its dialogue with
the Bretton Woods institutions and other specialized
agencies of
in support of a
coordinated implementation of economic and social
development programmes. Furthermore, the Economic and
Social Council has gone beyond this to involve all its
functional and subsidiary bodies — and in particular the
Commission for Social Development — in the Conference
follow-up.
the United Nations
All these actions and measures assure us that we are
on the right path, even if there is still a long way to go to
achieve the goals and objective agreed upon by our
leaders in Copenhagen. We need to continue to invest in
the implementation process the same political will that
characterized the agreements reached at the Summit. The
reforms in the United Nations system as a whole should
be seen as part of this overarching desire to equip our
Organization so that it will be better able to discharge its
obligations under the Charter, not only to maintain world
peace and security but also to promote social progress and
greater freedom for all in such a manner that the human
person becomes the central object of our collective
endeavours and attention.
Ms. Gordon (Jamaica):
I wish to express my
Government’s support for the statement made yesterday
by Costa Rica on behalf of the Group of 77 and China,
and to join previous speakers in thanking the Secretary-
General for the report contained in document A/51/348.
The report is very thorough in its description of
follow-up activities undertaken by Governments and by
the entire United Nations system since the General
Assembly’s adoption last year of a resolution on the
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Social Development. As described by the Secretary-
General, there has been a great effort to implement the
provisions of
the resolution and to consolidate joint
activities on the part of the United Nations bodies engaged
in the follow-up process. My delegation wishes to highlight
specifically the recent decisions taken by the Commission
for Social Development and the Economic and Social
Council concerning the future organization of their work in
connection with their respective roles in the implementation
process.
In this respect, the elaboration by the Commission of
its agenda and multi-year work programme for 1997 to
2000 demonstrates a keen commitment and willingness to
begin to fulfil its expanded mandate. Likewise, Jamaica
wishes to endorse the resolutions adopted by the Economic
and Social Council during its recent substantive session,
particularly on the follow-up to the World Summit and on
the future role of the Commission for Social Development.
We could not agree more with the concern expressed
by the Economic and Social Council for mainstreaming the
gender perspective in United Nations activities for poverty
eradication, and for taking a harmonized and integrated
approach to intergovernmental consideration of poverty
eradication.
Jamaica,
like other Member States, participated
actively in the World Summit for Social Development and
fully endorsed the fundamental principles embodied in the
Copenhagen Declaration. We are fully conscious, however,
that
the true measure of our commitment must be
demonstrated in concrete actions.
In this connection, some 60 programmes contributing
towards poverty reduction are currently being spearheaded
by Jamaican Government ministries. In addition, several
non-governmental organizations, as well as multilateral and
bilateral donors, have been contributing to the poverty-
reduction process by initiating or sponsoring a range of
projects in Jamaica.
It should be emphasized that
the cornerstone of
Jamaica’s poverty-reduction efforts is human-resource
development. The human-resource development programme,
which consists mainly of investment and policy reforms in
education and health, represents the strongest expression of
the Jamaican Government’s intention to alleviate poverty
through investment in human capital.
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
international cooperation for social development, Jamaica
implementation and
has instituted definite planning,
its follow-up to the
monitoring systems as part of
Summit. These include: first,
the establishment of a
national committee, headed by the Minister responsible
for social development, to monitor implementation of a
national plan of action; secondly, the launching of the
national poverty-alleviation programme;
the
involvement of civil society through a social-partnership
approach; fourthly, fostering social integration through the
recognition of the role of the family in social stability;
and, lastly, employment generation through labour-market
reform.
thirdly,
The response of the Jamaican people,
including
elements of the private sector, to these initiatives has been
very positive. There appears to be a collective recognition
of the urgency with which the issues of poverty and
social development need to be addressed in my country.
terms of
We cannot overemphasize the vulnerability of the
economies of small States such as those in our subregion.
Caribbean economies remain severely hampered by the
external-debt burden, unfair
trade, wide
disparities in income distribution and threats posed by
international drug trafficking, among other
factors.
Structural-adjustment policies adopted since the 1980s
have eroded many of the earlier gains made in the social
sector, and it is partly these deficiencies that Caribbean
Governments, including my own, hope to address by the
adoption
social-development
programmes. It is recognized, however, that these very
programmes are often quite ambitious in their scope and
in what
they seek to achieve. Their implementation,
therefore, presents a further strain in the short term on the
already burdened State machineries of Caribbean
Governments.
respective
our
of
a
is
correspondingly urgent need for
In this connection, it has long been recognized that
there
the
mobilization of resources to assist national poverty-
eradication/social-development programmes. We therefore
look forward to the presentation at next year’s substantive
session of the Economic and Social Council of the
Secretary-General’s report on all aspects of new and
innovative ideas for generating funds for globally agreed
commitments and priorities, particularly those established
at
recent United Nations conferences and summit
meetings.
In keeping with its commitment
national,
framework
for
strengthened
to ensuring a
and
regional
On a similar point, my Government wishes to restate
its concern that there is need for the scientific community
10
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
to be further sensitized to the crucial importance of science
and technology in contributing to poverty eradication and
social development.
of financial resources and the participation by civil
society and other elements.
to reiterate
In conclusion,
Jamaica wishes
its
appreciation to the relevant agencies of the United Nations
system for their responsiveness to the various Government
initiatives in the area of social development. The United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
the United
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations
Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the International Labour
Organization (ILO),
to name but a few, have all
participated strategically in national consultations and have
made both financial and human resources available to the
Government of Jamaica. They have played a key role in
facilitating
financial
institutions in mobilizing support for poverty-alleviation
initiatives.
collaboration with multilateral
Despite some persistent problems, my Government
remains firmly committed to the implementation of the
Summit commitments. We have no choice. We look
forward to continued dialogue with our partners in the
international arena on ways and means of achieving global
solutions to the myriad problems that we face in the area of
social development, including poverty eradication.
(Argentina)
Ms. Ramírez
from
Spanish): My delegation takes special interest in speaking
in the debate on agenda item 45, “Implementation of the
outcome of the World Summit for Social Development”.
(interpretation
United Nations concern for social development
is
nothing new. Suffice it to recall the Declaration on Social
Progress and Development, the International Development
Strategy and the Declaration on International Economic
Cooperation, which was adopted at the eighteenth special
session of the General Assembly.
These earlier steps led to the Copenhagen World
Summit for Social Development, demonstrating once again
that the international community is truly attempting to deal
with the most serious social problems by proposing
innovative methods and approaches.
We are especially grateful for the report of the
a
Secretary-General
compendium of
national
Governments, the measures adopted by the United Nations,
the activities of
funds and
programmes of the United Nations system, the mobilization
(A/51/348), which
the
the specialized agencies,
gives
by
initiatives
us
taken
At
the meeting of
the Commission for Social
Development held last May, my country spoke about a
topic that deserves
the
eradication of poverty. On that occasion, we noted that
the subject
is one of extraordinary magnitude and
implications, that it is growing worldwide and that it is
one of the more complicated items in the social agenda.
special attention, namely,
In Argentina, favourable economic trends led to a
significant increase in gross domestic product in the early
months of this year. There are also concrete economic
factors and developments that can be viewed as positive
gains in the struggle against poverty. Minimal inflation,
made and planned investments, increases in exports that
will further promote productivity and employment — all
these tend to confirm this trend.
We are aware that much remains to be done, and
therefore my Government’s activities, principally through
the Secretariat of State for Social Development and with
the cooperation of provincial and local authorities, have
been stepped up and expanded in recent years.
Thus, we have implemented a broad-based social
policy that includes support for housing construction, the
provision of emergency food assistance to the needy and
meals for children, and the promotion of community
activities, along with various types of family assistance,
and productive activities for workers in specific areas.
We have set up a social-information base in order
better to monitor and systematically analyse the status of
poverty in Argentina. This has served as a means of
focusing social programmes and has helped in evaluating
the before-and-after performance of
those directed
especially to the poor.
Through the participatory fund for social investment,
we have established machinery for financing community
initiatives in the poorest parts of the country. We have
created social-development programmes along border
areas, thereby improving their inhabitants’ quality of life.
Likewise, we
for
neighbourhood improvement and for assistance to
especially vulnerable children.
programmes
developed
have
These actions are being taken in keeping with two
essential elements: first, greater emphasis on education,
truly be
since,
in the final analysis, poverty cannot
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
eliminated without effective education; and secondly, a
reform of the State that promotes investment so that
economic growth can lower the unemployment rate. These
two elements are truly the only substantive approaches to
eradicating poverty. All these actions are being pursued in
a framework of good governance and austerity.
on
declaration
the Buenos Aires
On a regional level, our firm commitment to fulfil the
agreements of the World Summit
led to the Summit
Meeting of the Rio Group in Buenos Aires, from which
emerged
the
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development. We also proposed a temporary
secretariat for the convening of a technical meeting to
develop an operational plan. The goal of that meeting, held
in Quito, Ecuador, was to establish machinery among the
Rio Group member countries for following up on the
decisions reached at Buenos Aires. Jointly with the
Department of Economic and Social Affairs of
the
Organization of American States, we also held in Buenos
Aires an American technical seminar on programmes to
overcome poverty. That meeting took place within the
framework of the proposed work plan. Finally, I should like
to highlight
the initiative to send a group of “White
Helmets” to work jointly with the countries requiring them
for the production of food, food aid and assistance in
general.
All
these
activities,
together with Argentina’s
contributions to the various funds that, directly or indirectly,
have an impact on the eradication of poverty, and with the
work of many non-governmental organizations and private
entities, are testimony to our intense and sustained national
commitment. According to the United Nations Development
Programme’s
(UNDP) Human Development Report,
Argentina ranks sixth among developing countries and
thirtieth among United Nations Members. This provides an
even stronger impetus for persevering and forging ahead.
The eradication of poverty occupies a central place on
Argentina’s agenda. We have taken effective action for its
eradication on various levels, because we know that poverty
human
degrades
our
commitment is to the human being.
diminishes
beings,
and
and
Mr. Meléndez-Barahona (El Salvador) (interpretation
from Spanish): I have the honour to make the following
statement on agenda item 45, entitled “Implementation of
the
for Social
Development”, on behalf of the Central American countries:
Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and
El Salvador. Central America shares and supports the
the World Summit
outcome
of
12
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
criteria set forth in the statement made yesterday by Costa
Rica on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
At
the outset, we wish to express our deepest
sympathy at the disaster that occurred yesterday in the
sisterly Republic of Guatemala, in which some 79 people
died and many others were wounded when a sporting
event turned tragic. This sad event has touched both
Central America and the world of sports.
In the context of the other world conferences the
United Nations has held in recent years, the convening of
the world social Summit in Copenhagen, Denmark, in
March 1995, was a historic political achievement. At that
event Heads of State or Government acknowledged the
importance of social development and human well-being.
They reviewed the various
the
achievement of social-development goals as well as the
pressing need to achieve consensus on national, regional
and international measures and machinery to resolve the
urgent social problems that seriously challenge the
international community.
that affect
factors
that
important Summit
The convening of
the past and present
is
testimony to the globalization that has occurred, a process
that has given rise to universal understanding and
awareness, as well as the commitment and political will
to redefine the paradigms of development. This process
takes account of
realities that
characterize the prevailing international system, a system
that places the human being at the centre of development
and that recognizes that our economies must be more
effectively reoriented to respond to the needs of peoples.
We must emphasize that this needs to take place in a
context
in which social and economic development,
environmental protection, and peace and democracy are
interdependent, mutually reinforcing components of
sustainable development.
Central America accepted the changes in the global
situation with optimism, especially with respect to the
expectations that have arisen for the creation of a new
international system characterized by solidarity and
cooperation among States. In that context, we supported
the holding of the World Social Summit and of other
world conferences, because we believe that the problems
of development, viewed comprehensively and from the
perspective of sustainability, present the greatest challenge
to our societies. This is due to their close interrelationship
with peace, stability, democracy and human well-being.
Despite this positive outlook, however, we recognize that
the less developed nations throughout the world must still
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
overcome considerable and serious obstacles in order to
the structural causes of backwardness and
surmount
promote sustainable development, and that
they are
negatively affected by changes in the international order.
These changes have increased vulnerability, insecurity and
uncertainty in many of our countries, especially because our
domestic conditions are not adapted to the requirements of
changing technology and competition that must be met in
order for us to become part of the global economy. The less
developed nations must face this challenge with resolve.
unemployment,
We cannot ignore the fact that the gap between the
developed and the developing countries has been widening,
not narrowing. Most developing countries still can only
aspire to make progress in such campaigns as those against
poverty,
disease,
environmental risks, arms and drug trafficking, money
laundering and terrorism, as well as campaigns to empower
women and consolidate democracy and sustainable
development. This is due not only to the scarce and limited
resources
exhaustion of
development cooperation funds.
available, but
also to the
spread
the
of
The international community has,
in recent years,
witnessed changes and advances in the political, economic
and social spheres of Central America. With the help of
international cooperation, we have overcome severe crises.
These joint efforts have shifted from the political-economic
sphere to the socio-economic sphere, giving greater impetus
to the establishment of a region of peace,
freedom,
democracy and development. Making progress in these
areas and consolidating that already made is closely linked
to the implementation of the commitments set forth in our
regional development strategy. This strategy, devised by the
Central American presidents in the Alliance for Sustainable
Development, encompasses human development, economic
growth and environmental sustainability. It is an initiative
aimed at redefining the Central American development
model
the
international community and renewing our involvement in
a
economy. The
implementation of this strategy is based not only on the
signatory States’ taking greater responsibility, but also on
the assistance of extra-regional partners that are concerned
about the development of the subregion and wish to provide
financial
to the initiative and share some
responsibility for its implementation. In 1994 the United
States of America became the first such partner when it
signed the joint United States-Central America declaration.
interdependent world
relationships with
revitalizing
globalized,
support
our
by
We also believe it is important to point out that for the
Sustainable
the Alliance
the
for
foundations
of
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
Development of Central America to become a reality we
must make the greatest efforts in the region to overcome
the major obstacles of extreme poverty and poverty in
general. We must have human resources that are well
trained at all
the
population — especially the most vulnerable sectors —
will have access to health and sanitation services.
the majority of
so that
levels
and
foster
strengthen
We must
democratic
participation in the political sphere to develop, through a
sharing of
local
government and civil society, a model of unified efforts
for social development.
responsibility between the State,
is
and
evaluating
Central America is currently promoting policies that
stress social development, particularly to reduce poverty,
create jobs and promote productive employment. At the
time,
same
reformulating
it
commitments
in keeping with the realities of our
countries, in order to develop strategic plans in priority
areas, seek sources of financing for their implementation
and allocate responsibility to the governmental bodies
entrusted with their implementation. This includes efforts
to achieve real coordination between the agencies of the
United Nations system that cooperate in the formulation
and the implementation of development plans at
the
national level.
We are grateful for the Secretary-General’s report
(A/51/348) on the agenda item under consideration. It
presents an encouraging view of
the feasibility of
applying the results of the World Summit for Social
Development. This can be inferred from the positive
responses of Governments and international institutions
with regard to the importance of the Summit and its
follow-up.
It is important to maintain the momentum that began
at Copenhagen in order to proceed progressively towards
the goals of eradicating absolute poverty, reducing general
poverty and increasing employment and social integration
in each national context.
In reviewing the report of the Secretary-General, we
wish to emphasize some of its aspects.
The initiatives of Austria and Denmark deserve our
better
support. Their
understanding of the problems of social development.
results make
possible
a
We welcome with interest the Declaration of the
Group of Seven industrialized Powers, which was adopted
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
at their meeting in France this year, in which we should
highlight the offers to create a new global partnership for
development,
to cooperate towards achieving greater
effectiveness in multilateral institutions and to provide the
necessary support for development.
Special attention is warranted by the proposals of the
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
on a global partnership for development to achieve specific
goals in the social sphere, and by the 20/20 initiative, which
gives priority to basic social services for the vulnerable
sectors of
the population, a matter on which the
Ambassador of Norway spoke more fully yesterday. Both
of these proposals are consistent with the basic goals of the
World Summit
for Social Development. We believe,
however, that they should be examined in depth so that we
can have a more detailed understanding of them and
determine how viable they are as part of national
programmes for social development. This should be done
in
individual
Governments — especially in developing countries — so
that there will be coordination and consistency between
international efforts and those of
the Governments
concerned.
keeping with
priorities
the
set
by
We are optimistic that the globalization process and
interdependence will lead to a better understanding and to
international solidarity that will
improve the trends in
official development assistance and gradually achieve the
donor community’s agreed goal of providing 0.7 per cent
of gross national product for that purpose, in fulfilment of
the promises made at Copenhagen. We also hope to see an
increase in the financing of development programmes,
which are necessary to achieve the goals of the World
Summit for Social Development.
With regard to the operation and cooperation of the
funds, programmes and specialized agencies of the United
Nations, which play a fundamental role in following up
fulfilment of the goals of the Summit, we believe that
coordination and consistency in their activities must be
enhanced. We should establish a direct and dynamic link
with national agencies and the work they do in each
country, in order to evaluate progress in the implementation
of the commitments.
One of the immediate goals of the World Summit for
Social Development is the eradication of extreme poverty
and poverty in general. Poverty affects broad sectors of the
world’s population and generates despair and social
conflict. We believe that
the
development of policies to combat poverty must take a
in seeking solutions
14
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
number of aspects into account. Among those aspects are
the following.
Broad agreements should be reached at national,
regional and international levels to put in place a long-
term anti-poverty strategy based on a determination of the
basic facts and features characterizing poverty.
Poverty has structural roots. Accordingly, we must
approach its causes, not simply its effects.
There should be greater understanding of
the
problem’s scope and dimensions, and an open and
flexible attitude should be adopted.
Poverty is a massive and chronic phenomenon,
especially in developing nations. It calls for greater
productivity and the creation of employment.
Economic policy instruments should not exacerbate
social conflict, adversely affect the distribution of income
or contribute to the spread of poverty among the most
vulnerable groups.
Economic strategies aimed at guaranteeing individual
liberties, private property and free competition should also
have the goals of eradicating poverty and promoting a
greater degree of economic democratization.
Priorities should not be exclusively focused on
macroeconomic factors or global balance;
instead,
economic policies should include measures to improve
living conditions and economic and social opportunities
for the most vulnerable groups.
National redistribution policies should gradually be
established. These are necessary in order to break the
vicious
include
improvements
food
programmes and policies for investing in human capital.
nutrition,
training,
poverty
health,
circle
and
should
of
in
The dynamic redistribution of wealth should improve
credit for the production sector, public investment in the
productive infrastructure and public social expenditure. It
should make possible the development of a policy of
rising productivity and economic opportunities for the
poor.
There should be greater access to credit for small
producers, especially those in the agricultural sector,
whose modernization cannot come about through the free
working of market mechanisms.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
activities
There should be greater technical and financial support
for
institutional
informal
environment and stimulate and increase its productive
abilities, thus fostering a more integrated economy and
social progress.
to improve
the
be
a
There
should
realistic
of
employment and salaries that takes into account the social
costs of adjustment problems and their impact on living
standards of
societies, particularly among the most
vulnerable sectors.
re-evaluation
Central America is pursuing efforts to promote social
the
development with equity. While recognizing that
primary responsibility to achieve the goals of
the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action falls to
our Governments, we believe that
the importance of
cooperation and international assistance to achieve full
implementation is beyond question.
The spirit of solidarity, dialogue and cooperation
displayed at the World Summit for Social Development
should be put
into practice in order to create a more
favourable international economic environment and promote
more effective cooperation. We believe it is indispensable
to establish an international strategy based on a new
partnership that will make
fulfilment of our
commitments viable. That strategy should bear in mind the
interests and priorities of developing countries for the
solution of their serious problems. This would result in an
improvement in social conditions and the elimination of the
roots of social tensions and conflicts.
the
Finally, within the framework of this new partnership
it is important that we pursue the process of revitalizing
and restructuring the United Nations. We believe that the
capacity and efficiency of the Organization need to be
enhanced. The Organization needs to be given sufficient
financial resources to fulfil its mandate for development
and social progress.
We must also stress, however,
that by no means
should programmes in the economic and social sphere
undergo budgetary cuts. International financial institutions
should re-evaluate the effects of structural-adjustment
policies and the negative consequences of debt servicing in
relation to the promotion of sustainable social development
on a global scale.
Mr. Insanally (Guyana):
the
outcome of the World Summit for Social Development is
a matter of great interest to the Government and people of
Implementation of
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
Guyana. As the Chairman of the Group of 77 stated
yesterday, developing countries everywhere have an
interest
is
created both nationally and internationally for social
development.
in ensuring that an enabling environment
Our own commitment to social development has
been clearly demonstrated, not least by our decision,
despite limited resources, consistently to increase — both
in absolute and percentage terms — that portion of the
national budget destined to the social sector, and more
particularly to health and education services. The current
allocation accounts for some 16 per cent of the 1996
budget and will be increased to 20 per cent in 1997. In so
doing, we will have fulfilled our obligations under the
20/20 initiative, to which we fully subscribe.
Our full acceptance of this initiative is less the result
of any belief in a magic formula than of our persuasion
of the value of people-centred development and of the
“Oslo Consensus on 20/20” as a means of achieving that
goal. We are convinced that, within the framework of a
global partnership for development, most basic social
services can be made available to all peoples and the
scourge of poverty can be removed from the world.
that,
We are pleased to note that steps have been taken at
the intergovernmental level over the past year to follow
up the World Social Summit
in our view, are
evidence of the resolve of the international community to
honour the Summit commitments. Resolution 50/161, for
example, which was adopted by the General Assembly
last year, provides a firm basis for further action by
Governments and the United Nations system. It also
underscored the critical importance of national action and
international cooperation for social development. At the
same time, it called for a suitably expanded Commission
for Social Development, which, with a membership of 46
States meeting annually instead of biennially, will allow
for greater participation in the monitoring of
the
implementation process. The Commission’s role will also
be further dynamized through the active involvement of
civil society and relevant expert personnel.
The Commission’s multi-year programme of work
covering the period 1997-2000 will address the themes of
productive employment and sustainable livelihoods;
promoting the social integration and participation of all
people, vulnerable groups and persons; and social services
for all. We trust that the deliberations will be directed
towards the eradication of poverty, which we consider a
matter of urgency. As acknowledged at Copenhagen and
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
oft repeated since, over one billion people in the world
today live in unacceptable conditions of poverty, mostly in
developing countries, with women and indigenous peoples
especially disadvantaged. In Africa, the situation of people
living in poverty is expected to worsen in the coming years
with the concomitant threat of further instability on that
continent. As was decided at the recent substantive session
of the Economic and Social Council, there needs to be great
coordination of United Nations system activities for poverty
eradication, both at the national level and at headquarters.
In this regard, the agreed conclusions of the Council on this
issue should be fully implemented.
As part of our observance of the International Year
and first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of
Poverty, we must actively pursue resolution S-1996/1 on
strategies and actions for the eradication of poverty, which
was adopted by the Commission for Social Development at
its special session in May 1996. In this regard, we believe
that
the Caribbean Community Ministerial Meeting on
Poverty Eradication, which is to be held around 28 October
to 1 November in Trinidad and Tobago, will make an
important contribution to the follow-up and implementation
of this and other resolutions. Under the theme “Taking
action on poverty eradication”, the Ministers will identify
priority action to be taken at the national and regional
levels relating to poverty eradication as well as ways and
means of enhancing inter-organizational cooperation within
the region.
clear objectives
and provide means
In my own country, the Government has mounted a
relentless campaign against poverty. We have attempted to
set
their
achievement. In this context, we are currently working to
establish realistic and measurable targets and to design
concrete plans and programmes of action. A national
development strategy will soon be finalized to provide the
framework for an action plan for poverty alleviation.
for
Regrettably, however, like so many other developing
countries, we find our efforts severely constrained by an
onerous debt burden, the servicing of which consumes a
good part of national revenue, and by the negative effects
of structural adjustment, particularly its impact on social
infrastructure,
including health, education and welfare
provisions. We are therefore understandably anxious for the
United Nations system as a whole to have a common
understanding of our problems and in particular of the
relationship between debt and poverty, between structural
adjustment and poverty, and between drugs and poverty.
16
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
Against the background of limited resources at the
domestic level, particular attention needs urgently to be
paid by the United Nations to the mobilization of the
substantial new and additional resources required for the
full implementation of the commitments issuing from the
Summit. We welcome in this regard, the United Nations
Development Programme’s Poverty Strategies Initiative
and the United Nations Trust Fund for the Follow-up to
the World Summit for Social Development as concrete
examples of commitment to supporting the efforts of
developing countries. We need, however, to go further
and expedite the implementation of existing debt-relief
agreements
further
arrangements called for by our Heads of State and
Government.
negotiation
and
the
of
the
the recent
the International Monetary Fund,
In this context we wish to acknowledge, with
initiatives announced by the
appreciation,
World Bank,
the
International Development Association and the Paris Club
to help the highly indebted and poorest countries. Still,
we must continue to build on the mandate of Economic
and Social Council resolution 1996/48, regarding new and
innovative ways to generate funds.
The search for new and innovative ideas must in no
way, however, supplant already existing commitments to
the financing of development. Official development
assistance remains pivotal to the development of most
developing countries, particularly the least developed,
which, despite their best efforts, remain economically
stagnant.
In conclusion, we believe that our attention must
now be focused on operationalizing assistance for efforts
at the country level within the framework of national
priorities and programmes through the active support of
the United Nations system and the wider international
community. For our part, we will continue to do all we
can to promote social development, both nationally and
internationally, so that when we come to the year 2000
and review the Copenhagen Programme of Action, we
will be proud of the progress made.
Mr. Mekdad (Syrian Arab Republic) (interpretation
from Arabic): The World Summit for Social Development
held in Copenhagen in March 1995 was an important
milestone in the joint international effort to establish a
new international order and initiate a new phase in human
history.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The lofty ideals of the Summit — the elimination of
poverty, full employment and social integration — provided
a framework to enable the international community to
create a more just, secure and progressive world. My
delegation would like to associate itself with the statement
made by the representative of Costa Rica on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China, which reflected the position of
developing countries on matters relating to the follow-up to
the international Summit.
in addition to the ambitious targets that
Each one of us will have to make efforts to implement
the decisions and guidelines laid down at the Copenhagen
Summit,
it
identified. My country believes that
there can be no
substitute for North-South and South-South cooperation in
stemming the deterioration of
social and economic
conditions and in making the necessary adjustments in the
international arena to promote the prosperity and stability
of peoples.
We believe that the international community must be
thorough and specific in expressing its solidarity with the
developing countries in resolving their basic problems. We
also believe that assistance given by developed countries to
developing countries also benefits the donors and their
future generations. For their part, developing countries
should not rely solely on aid provided by developed
countries; on the contrary, all the actions of the developing
countries should reflect the principle of self-sufficiency.
Those are the views of my country with regard to
international cooperation and the achievement of social
development at the international and local levels. Such
cooperation should be based on the principles of mutual
respect and mutual benefit.
session of
Syria was an effective participant in the debate held at
the
recent
the Commission for Social
Development. We believe that it is important that every
possible effort be made to consolidate and strengthen the
Commission so that it can follow up on the results of the
World Summit on Social Development at the appropriate
level. We believe that
the steps taken to expand the
Commission and to convene its meetings on an annual basis
are in keeping with the ambitions of the international
community for the future role and mission of that body.
We would like to confirm the importance of the role
of the Bretton Woods institutions in implementing the
results of the Social Summit, especially in strengthening
programmes for developing countries so that, no longer
constrained by unsustainable conditions, they can make
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
to promote social development and
further efforts
alleviate the debt burden under which many of them
suffer.
Given Israel’s policies of occupation, my country is
obliged to invest greatly in its military technical and
human strength. Modern Syria has carried out a very
successful social development plan covering all sectors of
society, to the extent allowed by our wealth, potential
and, in particular, human factors.
of President Hafez Al-Assad,
I should like to refer to the fact that Syria is one of
the 10 leading States in the developing world in the field
of economic development, as the 1992 United Nations
Development Programme Human Development Report
makes clear. Over the past two decades Syria, through the
efforts
been
approaching the problem of development essentially by
concentrating on the basic target — the individual, the
sole object of our efforts. We have therefore ensured that
education at all levels and health services are provided
free of charge. We have focused especially on the
marginalized sectors of
the population living under
difficult circumstances. In this context, we are particularly
concerned about children, the disabled, displaced persons,
refugees, orphans, the elderly and others.
has
Throughout our territory,
there are considerable
networks of national organizations and associations of
benevolent and civil institutions that play a distinctive role
in society and freely and effectively participate in social
activities for development. Furthermore, the Government
of Syria has agreed to implement the Standard Rules on
the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with
Disabilities, pursuant to resolution 48/96. All the policies
that my country is pursuing in this respect have yielded
major
social accomplishments, and this has been
specifically reflected in the standard of living of the
majority of our citizens throughout our national territory.
It has also resulted in an increase in education and health
benefits for people in towns and villages. The level of
health care and education has been enhanced and infant
and maternal mortality has been reduced. This is part of
a plan to foster national
integration and to ensure
opportunities for productive employment, with the aim of
eliminating unemployment.
In the Syrian Golan, however, where many Syrians
have had to leave their villages, work places and schools,
the Israeli occupation has for more than a quarter of a
century imposed a heavy burden on Syrian efforts to
in the
bring about social and economic development
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
country. This occupation has increased the obstacles to our
efforts to produce a higher standard of living.
Foreign occupation is a tremendous hindrance to our
efforts for social development. Israel
is occupying our
territory and flagrantly violating the human rights of Arabs
living under the yoke of its occupation. Israel is pursuing
systematic policies aimed at distorting our national identity
and pillaging our
resources by destroying houses,
confiscating lands and acting against our citizens.
The time that has elapsed since the World Summit for
Social Development may seem brief, but my country has
been working on genuine social development for over two
decades. My country has attached particular importance to
the World Summit. A world free of
the results of
colonialism,
foreign occupation and aggression, and
protected from the threat of racial hegemony, expansionism
or colonization is the necessary precursor of a world free of
poverty, injustice and oppression, in which relations are
more democratic, humane, secure and stable for the well-
being of one and all.
Mr. Abulhasan (Kuwait) (interpretation from Arabic):
Kuwait has always attached particular importance to the
World Summit for Social Development held in Copenhagen
in 1995, where Kuwait was represented at the Summit by
His Highness the Emir. The Summit led to the revitalization
of the Commission for Social Development to follow up on
the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action.
in the areas of
Permanence is the characteristic feature of Kuwait’s
efforts
social development, human
settlements and administrative policies, as well as in
measures to encourage the private sector, within the
framework of the economic and social development process
for the years 1995-1996 and up to the year 2000. The basic
aim of these planning and development efforts is to make
the citizens of Kuwait productive and to improve the human
and cultural dimensions of society.
cultural,
Social development in Kuwait is covered by several
information and social welfare
education,
programmes that enhance the participation of citizens in
various areas of social activity. These programmes also
promote the role of women as the mothers of future
generations, without reducing their role in the workforce,
while strengthening programmes of social welfare with a
special emphasis on children, adolescents and marginalized
groups. Of particular importance are measures to manage
and coordinate volunteer activities between the Government
institutions, as well as those that foster
and national
18
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
cooperation and rationalization. People can thereby
participate in the social sector to improve health services,
focus on problems of consumption and production and
help to offset unfortunate trends in those particular areas.
To that end, Kuwait has created machinery that has
had an important impact on achieving the goals of social
development. Government annual expenditure in that
sector reached 53.5 per cent of gross national product in
the 1980s, 108 per cent in the period 1990-1993, and
nearly 82 per cent in 1993. This was due to the financial
and economic costs of reconstruction after the liberation
of Kuwait in February 1991, as well as to the efforts of
the State to continue to finance social services.
Before the discovery of oil on its territory, Kuwait
met
the challenges of life under extremely difficult
economic conditions, which is why we are very aware of
the problems being faced by developing countries. Since
Kuwait has achieved a surplus from its oil earnings, it can
now participate in social and economic development
activities. Part of our assistance to developing countries
is in the form of loans and grants made through the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, which
was
created in 1961 to implement development
programmes and economic and social programmes in
Arab and Muslim countries, as well as other fraternal and
friendly countries. As of 1994, that Fund had granted 445
individual loans to the amount of 2.22 billion dinars.
Through non-governmental organizations in Kuwait and
through projects drawn up by those organizations, Kuwait
has been able to demonstrate the human dimension of its
assistance. The rate of assistance provided by Kuwait was
4.4 per cent of the gross national product in the 1980s.
Although Kuwait is a donor and creditor country, we
are aware of the problems faced by developing countries
in the area of social development, and in particular from
the debt burden. That is why Kuwait has made an appeal
to all donors to forgive part of their debts and to write off
some of their interest
to the benefit of the poorest
countries. This was clearly reflected in the statement of
Mr. Al-Sabah to the General Assembly on 28 September
1988, when he said that Kuwait was ready to cancel the
debts of those countries. This is testimony to Kuwait’s
pioneering efforts on behalf of international development.
We welcome the role being played by the
Commission for Social Development in the Copenhagen
Programme of Action, the main elements of which are to
be implemented in coming years. We wish to reaffirm our
sincere commitment to cooperating with the Commission
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
in order to achieve the targets set in Copenhagen, as well
as implementing the Programme of Action.
My delegation would also like to emphasize the
importance of the efforts being made by the regional
economic commissions in following up on the results of the
Social Summit. In particular, we point to the efforts of the
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia. Efforts
are being made,
in cooperation with the International
Labour Organization,
to design profiles for poverty-
alleviation policies in four sectors: health, education,
employment and fiscal policy. As regards social integration
in Lebanon, we must define precise measures for achieving
the social development objectives specified for that country.
My delegation would like to commend the efforts of
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to
support national activities to promote follow-up to the
Copenhagen Programme of Action and its assistance to
national programmes in creating favourable conditions for
the implementation of national poverty-eradication plans
and strategies. It is our hope that UNDP will be able to
implement the 42 proposals that have been approved for
funding under the Poverty Strategies Initiative.
My delegation would like to reiterate its intention fully
to cooperate, through the Kuwaiti National Committee, in
the follow-up to the Copenhagen Programme of Action and
the decisions taken at that Summit.
Mr. Kharrazi (Islamic Republic of Iran): At
the
outset, I would like to extend our gratitude to the Secretary-
General for his informative report, contained in document
A/51/348 and entitled “Implementation of the outcome of
the World Summit for Social Development”. My delegation
would also like to associate itself with the statement made
by the representative of Costa Rica on behalf of the Group
of 77 and China.
Nineteen months have elapsed since the successful
convening of the World Summit at Copenhagen, where the
Heads of State and Government carefully examined the
grave social problems facing humanity at large. Amongst
other ills, poverty, unemployment and deteriorating social
integration — which had already been identified as the
most acute problems threatening the well-being and
prosperity of the world community — were at the top of
the Summit’s agenda. They were duly and comprehensively
addressed by the participants who, at the conclusion of the
Summit, committed themselves to according the highest
priority to national, regional and international policies and
actions for the promotion of social progress worldwide.
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
This commitment entailed, inter alia, the realization of
justice for all and the betterment of the human condition
in an environment conducive to participation by all.
Now, at this follow-up phase, we need to utilize the
opportunity provided to take
stock of both the
achievements and progress made and of the shortcomings
and failures encountered. Thus, a thorough evaluation and
an objective assessment of international endeavours and
national initiatives is in order if we are determined to
ensure an effective and coordinated follow-up to the
commitments undertaken at the Summit.
Let us begin by reviewing the concrete measures
taken at the international level to achieve the main goals
of the Summit: the eradication of poverty, the expansion
of productive employment and the enhancement of social
integration.
It goes without saying that unrelenting poverty is the
most serious problem facing humankind today. For
developing countries, it is aggravated by debt burdens,
widespread unemployment, deepening environmental
crises, lack of adequate international aid and deterioration
in the trade environment due to the protectionist policies
of certain States. We strongly believe that a renewed and
focused commitment to international cooperation is an
imperative if we are to ease poverty globally. We may
recall that, although the Social Summit acknowledged that
the primary responsibility to attain the goals set out in the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action rests
it also emphasized the
with national Governments,
from the
importance of
international
and
multilateral financial institutions.
support and contributions
the United Nations
community,
One of the commitments made at the Summit was to
mobilize new and additional financial resources that are
adequate, predictable and mobilized to maximize the
availability
the
Commission for Social Development, at its special session
in 1996, reiterated that commitment by calling for the
implementation of agreed measures to eradicate poverty
and for strengthened international cooperation.
resources. Subsequently
such
of
Nevertheless, we have noted with concern certain
indicators that point to a contrary trend. Apart from some
actions taken by relevant bodies of the United Nations,
there is little substantive international cooperation in this
respect. In paragraph 34 of the Secretary-General’s report,
we read that
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the decline in
“the Council expressed concern at
concessional resources for multilateral development
institutions, which makes it more difficult for them to
respond to the massive challenge of assisting countries
in poverty eradication.” (A/51/348, para. 34)
In light of the preceding observations — all of which
tend to point
to the responsibility of the international
community to generate a substantial increase in the flow of
external resources for poverty eradication — we now need
to raise the question as to whether
the international
community, particularly multilateral financial institutions,
are willing to play their role and to take action in this
regard.
Addressing the question of debt
reduction or
cancellation, identified in the Secretary-General’s report in
paragraph 19, has been stressed as one of the main
prerequisites for the implementation of the goals of the
Summit. It goes without saying that the main responsibility
here rests first with the developed countries. It should be
emphasized, however, that the developing countries are not
looking for hand-outs; rather they are calling for fair play
in the world economy and honest observance of the rules of
the game. Genuine competition and laying the foundations
for a market economy are effectively hampered by the ever-
growing burdens of protectionism. A reversal of protective
trade policies as well as the removal of obstacles for the
smooth and unhindered transfer of technology are among
the priority areas requiring action.
the global
two levels. At
The problems of unemployment and underemployment
must be tackled at
level,
dismantling of trade barriers by developed countries, flow
of financial resources and investment to developing nations,
transfer of technology, alleviation of the debt burden and
sharing experiences can play an important role. Although
most countries follow economic policies based on market
forces, the attainment of reasonable development seems to
be out of reach,
impossible. Many developing
adopted and implemented structural
countries have
adjustment policies,
level of
management and committed themselves to combat internal
corruption; despite all
is still
arrested. Many of these countries have opted for the free-
market-economy solution only to be disillusioned by the
obliterating impact of an unfavourable
international
environment.
improved the overall
their development
if not
that,
On the home front, supporting the private and informal
sectors, promotion of self-employment, provision of credit
facilities to the unemployed, encouraging the creation of
20
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
investment
volunteer organizations including grass-roots financial
organizations,
in training and education
programmes, optimal use of resources such as land and
water, expansion of labour-intensive economic activities
and a focus on the service sector are among the necessary
first steps.
It has been strongly suggested that prescriptions
designed to realize national social integration should also
be applied at the international level. To this end, each
State should have an equitable and fair share in shaping
the international economic, social and political order. We
need to forge a rule-based system of
international
relations in which might and wealth do not generate rights
and in which principles of international law are fully
observed. The coercive economic measures and unilateral
actions used by certain States against developing countries
are inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the
Charter and also contradict the Declaration of the World
Summit
inter alia,
requires States to refrain from any unilateral measure not
in accordance with international law and the Charter or
that creates obstacles to trade relations among States.
Such measures are aimed at imposing the will of one
State on others, and consequently impede the natural
process of social development in developing countries. I
would like to emphasize that promotion of respect for the
rule of law by all States, big and small, and for the
priority of multilateralism and not unilateral actions, are
the hallmarks of our shrinking world. This is an approach
that serves the interests of the international community as
a whole.
for Social Development which,
leaders of
communiqué,
among other
We also learn, from paragraph 22 of the report, of
some views of
the Group of Seven
industrialized countries, reflected in the final communiqué
from their most recent meeting at Lyon, France. While
that
for
strengthening economic and monetary cooperation and for
the provision of necessary multilateral
for
development, it is astonishing to witness how one of the
members of that group, in total disregard of those stated
purposes, which are relevant issues to the follow-up of
the Copenhagen Summit, and in pursuance of its own
short-sighted
interests,
vehemently imposes unilateral coercive measures through
the adoption of legislation with extraterritorial effects
against other countries. The world community can no
longer tolerate this arrogant behaviour and irresponsible
attitude, and should react appropriately and swiftly to stop
trend
this
facto
recognition.
politically motivated
lawlessness
receives
before
and
things,
calls
support
de
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The Islamic Republic of Iran’s development strategies,
policy plans and programmes are being reoriented to a
people-centred human development approach.
In that
process, the quality of life of the people has emerged as a
new focus of concern. Despite unfavourable external
factors, economic hardship and the long-term financial and
social
implications of hosting 2 million to 4 million
refugees for over 17 years, a large portion of total public
expenditure has been allocated to social development and
poverty alleviation, which has had an effect on social
indicators.
Having incorporated these elements into its second
five-year national development plan, the Islamic Republic
of Iran, in line with its commitments undertaken at the
Summit, has embarked upon a wide range of initiatives,
some of which can be summarized as follows: a national
project
for poverty eradication was adopted by our
President last month. Identifying economic hardship of the
people, creating the appropriate bases and opportunities for
full employment of both men and women and addressing
the causes of vulnerable social groups, particularly the
disabled and elderly, are among its major goals.
To ensure youth the development and welfare, we
have established the High Council for Youth. This Council
coordinates the activities of other organizations and bodies
working for youth, with the aim of identifying priority areas
of concern, such as employment, education and leisure time
activities.
To further promote the dignity and worthiness of the
disabled, a specific department has been set up in the
Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to coordinate and
supervise the development of medical and social protective
services and to ensure the availability of jobs for the
disabled. Furthermore, 10 per cent of overall employment
opportunities have been allocated to war veterans and the
disabled.
The share of
the development budget,
in total,
increased from 19.4 per cent in 1988-1989 to 38 per cent
in 1994-1995, and it is foreseen that the ambitious goal of
48 per cent will be reached in 1996-1997, a step
unprecedented throughout the history of Iran’s economy.
so that potable water,
Major headway has been made in infrastructural
development,
schools,
telephone services, clinics, and other basic services have
been brought to thousands of cities, towns and villages,
including the remotest areas of the country. At this time, 76
per cent of the population in rural areas have access to
roads,
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
proper roads, 74 per cent benefit from electricity, and 86
per cent have access to safe drinking-water. By the end of
the second development plan, running from 1995 to 1999,
some 98.9 per cent of the urban population will be
supplied with sanitary piped water.
Nearly 80 per cent of the rural population and all
people in the urban areas have easy and free access to
basic health care. The United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) report entitled “Summary of mid-term reviews
of country programmes” stated that the multiple indicator
cluster survey conducted in September 1995 in the
Islamic Republic of Iran
“confirmed that most of the mid-decade goals have
been achieved. Therefore, the focus has now shifted
to
decade.”
(E/ICEF/1996/P/L.42, para. 30)
goals
end
the
the
for
of
Meanwhile,
the Government has taken steps to
improve the economic conditions of people in lower
income brackets by adopting and implementing different
measures such as enforcement of agricultural support
programmes through subsidized input and guaranteed
price floors for the output, an inflation-adjusted minimum
wage for workers in manufacturing, low-priced public
utilities for the lower consumption levels, and subsidized
housing.
and
bodies,
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that
the
common responsibilities of all of us — Governments,
United Nations
non-governmental
organizations — in ensuring the implementation of the
commitments undertaken at the World Summit for Social
Development require joint efforts at all levels. In this
regard,
the Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to
continue its active participation in collective endeavours
in order to achieve the goals of the Social Summit.
and
national
international
Ms. Thahim (Pakistan): Last year, here at
the
General Assembly, we proclaimed the critical importance
of
social
development. We stressed that for an effective follow-up
to the World Summit
for Social Development, we
required renewed political will and the definition of time-
bound targets for the eradication of poverty, generation of
productive
social
integration.
employment
promotion
action
and
for
of
To achieve these objectives, a multi-pronged strategy
was adopted. First, Governments were to initiate their
the
efforts with the support of the United Nations,
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
multilateral financial institutions, regional organizations and
all actors of civil society. Second, the United Nations had
to launch a three-tiered intergovernmental process. Third,
the Commission for Social Development was to be
revitalized. Fourth, the Economic and Social Council was
to provide overall guidance and to oversee system-wide
coordination in the implementation of the outcome of the
Summit.
We must express satisfaction over the impressive
progress made towards the achievement of these goals. In
this context, we would like to compliment the Secretary-
General for presenting a comprehensive report on the
implementation of
the Summit. The
exhaustive overview in the Secretary-General’s report
clearly indicates that we have laid down the foundations for
concerted and coordinated action.
the outcome of
The goals of the eradication of poverty, reduction of
unemployment and expansion of productive employment
remain areas of top priority. The policy deliberations in the
Commission for Social Development and the Economic and
Social Council in this regard are very important. Ultimate
success will, however, depend on operational programmes
being implemented in the countries with the help of United
Nations agencies, regional commissions and multilateral
financial
functional
commissions, particularly the Commission on Sustainable
Development, the Commission on the Status of Women, the
Commission on Population Development, the Statistical
Commission and the Commission on Human Rights, are
highly valuable. The activities of the regional commissions,
however, need to be upgraded.
institutions. The inputs of other
The follow-up to the Social Summit should not merely
lead to a boom in expert meetings. The real objective,
namely the alleviation of the suffering of hundreds of
millions of people, should not be blurred in a plethora of
activities. All initiatives have to remain cost-efficient and
should not be bogged down in minutiae. Above all, the
goals and targets have to be very realistic. Otherwise, at the
end of the first five years, we shall be forced to report a
failure.
The United Nations Secretariat has made valuable
contributions to the follow-up process. As the Secretary-
General’s report
indicates, during last year the United
Nations Secretariat brought out excellent publications on
social development. These publications, which provide
useful guidelines to decision makers, could be disseminated
in a more focused manner. Due regard should be given to
22
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
their timely transmission to the focal points in missions
and capitals.
The United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) Administrator’s Poverty Strategies Initiative
launched early this year has enormous potential. We must
fully support this initiative as it holds tremendous promise
for the implementation of poverty eradication plans and
programmes. The funds allocated to various programmes
in different regions are very paltry. At present, they are
merely notional and represent just a beginning. In this
regard,
system’s
collaborative follow-up should be further strengthened.
Within the existing inter-agency framework, UNDP, the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA),
the International
Labour Organization (ILO) and the Bretton Woods
institutions can steer the follow-up process from analysis
to implementation to monitoring to periodic review.
the UNDP Resident Coordinator
investment
We welcome the World Bank’s decision to expand
its work in the areas of social development. The new
external financing provided for education, health and
nutrition will indirectly contribute towards the eradication
of poverty. Direct
in projects aimed at
eliminating poverty will produce quick and tangible
results. The
increasing attention devoted by the
International Monetary Fund to devising measures to
protect the most vulnerable segments of society is a step
in the right direction. The focus of the World Bank and
IMF on the efficiency of public expenditure is a worthy
goal, but one that requires public debate and closer
scrutiny.
The time-bound targets in the areas of poverty,
primary education, gender equity, health care and
sustainable development adopted by the Organisation for
Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD)
countries might be unrealistic because they are not
matched by any commitment for resources.
The decrease in official development assistance
following the Social Summit is disturbing. In his annual
report on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-
General has noted that in the last year such assistance
declined to 0.27 per cent of gross national product,
against the agreed United Nations target of 0.7 per cent.
We, however,
the reorientation of official
development assistance to development support.
support
The
the
implementation of the social Summit cites the overall new
Secretary-General’s
report
on
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
income of UNDP. We would have appreciated a clearer
correlation of UNDP’s new income with the Summit goals,
although we do realize that such a breakdown would have
been a difficult exercise. We hope that the new funding of
$22 billion announced for the International Development
Association (IDA) in March of this year will be oriented
towards the outcome of the goals of the Social Summit,
with particular emphasis on poverty eradication. No
meaningful progress has yet been made in the field of new
and innovative resources that could ultimately bail
the
United Nations out of its financial crisis. For independent
decision-making,
financial
autonomy. We must
therefore redouble our efforts to
identify new and innovative resources. The problem of the
alleviation of the debt-servicing burden is being addressed
at a very slow pace.
the United Nations needs
We must express our satisfaction at the consistent
efforts made to establish an effective partnership between
Governments and the actors of civil society on the one hand
and non-governmental organizations and the United Nations
on the other. The 28-year-old Economic and Social Council
resolution 1296 (XLIV) was updated this year to ensure,
inter alia, an enhanced and more meaningful involvement
of non-governmental organizations in the implementation of
social policies at the national and international levels and in
the follow-up to the social Summit. The active participation
of non-governmental organizations in the follow-up would
go a long way towards guaranteeing the success of our efforts.
The Government of Pakistan actively participated in
the preparatory process to the World Summit for Social
Development. We are pursuing the goals of the Summit in
close cooperation with the United Nations, the Economic
and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP)
and multilateral financial institutions. Pakistan has launched
an $8 billion social action programme, which focuses on
poverty eradication, basic education, primary health care,
nutrition, water
supply and sanitation. Within this
framework,
poverty
eradication, the empowerment of women, the generation of
employment and environmental protection have been
included. Our programmes are being supported by United
Nations agencies based in Pakistan, donor countries and the
World Bank. The Government of Pakistan is determined to
achieve the goals of the Summit by utilizing its own
resources. However, such a Herculean task cannot he
accomplished without massive investment
in human-
resource development.
additional
elements
related
to
The central plank of our social action programme is
the massive spread of primary education, with an
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
acceleration of the enrolment of girls. In one year alone,
10,800 new primary schools have been established;
34,000 new schools are being opened. To achieve our
objective of the universalization of primary education by
the year 2000, we have increased the allocation of
expenditure on education.
special
emphasis is being given to female education and health.
Some 60 per cent of the funds have been allocated to
female literacy, and 70 per cent of the new schools
planned over the next three years will be for girls. In
addition, under the Prime Minister’s national health-
workers scheme, 100,000 girls are being trained to
provide multiple services encompassing health, education
and population welfare.
In this context,
the
of
and
support
enhanced
All of these measures undertaken by the Government
of Pakistan require consistent and determined efforts, the
participation of the private sector and non-governmental
organizations
the
international community. The international efforts should
not be limited solely to policy debates, research and data
collection. The answer lies in technical cooperation and
training programmes at the operational level. Enhanced
international technical assistance and advisory services
can decisively strengthen national capacities and the
institutional bases for supporting national plans and
strategies that are designed to bring about sustained and
sustainable social development.
In conclusion, I would express the hope that all
necessary steps will be taken to build on the elaborate
framework put in place by the United Nations, United
and multilateral
Nations
agencies, Governments
institutions. Our deep political
clear
implementation of the Summit
direction and faithful
decisions can sustain our efforts.
commitment,
Ms. Wronecka (Poland): I would like to associate
myself with the statement made by the representative of
Ireland on behalf of the members of the European Union.
However, I should like to add some comments. At the
World Summit
the
participants acknowledged that the primary responsibility
for attaining the goals set forth in the Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action rested with national
Governments, with the support and contribution of the
international community.
for Social Development,
all
Poland welcomes the new framework created by the
General Assembly for the activities of the Commission
for Social Development as the functional commission
with the main responsibility for the follow-up and review
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of the implementation of the World Summit for Social
Development. We are pleased that in the draft resolution it
submitted to the Economic and Social Council
the
Commission recommended a multi-year programme of
work to the year 2000. That programme of work covers
themes
to social
that,
development.
in our opinion, are central
from the globalization of
In a world that is changing at extraordinary speed, the
central phenomenon of our age seems to be rapidly growing
interdependence,
the world
economy to the information revolution. That being so, does
not our
future depend on equitable and sustainable
development in all parts of the world? In our view, such
development depends, in turn, on flows of development
assistance from the better-off
to the less developed
countries and on opening up the world’s markets to trade
and investment, but mainly on the efforts of each individual
country to support
and economic
development and to adapt
to the fluctuating external
environment.
its own social
We believe that the starting point is economic growth.
Economic growth creates employment, which is by far the
most effective mechanism for distributing wealth and
opportunity so that both developed and developing countries
can alleviate poverty. Governments are wont to assume that
economic growth alone will eventually sort out their social
problems. However, economic growth alone will not ensure
jobs for the long-term unemployed.
Structural changes taking place in the Polish economy,
accompanied by changes in ownership, have already
resulted in significant shifts in the social distribution of
income. Creation of an economic new deal, however, is not
possible without social approval. Acquiring such approval
for a structural process is connected, inter alia, with the
need to initiate activities to prevent the extension of the
sphere of poverty. Upon analysing the sources of poverty
and its extent, it was assumed that support for economic
growth, which reduces unemployment by raising labour
demand, was a method of overcoming poverty as it existed
in Poland. The assumptions with regard to the socio-
economic development of the country, as formulated in the
long-term document entitled “Strategy for Poland” and in
a supplementary “Programme of socio-economic policy for
the years 1994-1997,” are in conformity with the
recommendations that emerged from the World Summit for
Social Development. The multidimensional approach to
developmental problems presented in the “Strategy for
Poland,”
issues,
including the
treatment of
social
24
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
corresponds to the commitments entered into during the
Summit.
With regard to income security, the protection of a
guaranteed minimum wage level within the national
economy has been established by law. As another element
of the social network aimed at ensuring social safety, we
should mention activities aimed at halting and then
restraining
the
unemployed, during a period delimited by the law, with
the minimum means of subsistence.
unemployment
providing
and
at
income in respect
Several social guarantees which have been designed
to limit poverty are contained in our universal social
insurance scheme. In the framework of this scheme, the
State guarantees a source of
to
specified risks through programmes to promote productive
employment and decrease unemployment, and to promote
youth vocational activities. These programmes assume
that special training and retraining strategies, particularly
for youth and the long-term unemployed, should be
widened and made more diverse. They also provide, as a
target, the integration of the education system with youth
and adult training, so as to better adjust the manpower
resources structure to the needs of the labour market.
Taking into account the particularly strong influence
of unfavourable economic and social trends upon the
disabled, since 1994 the Government has implemented a
programme to help the disabled and help integrate them
into the society. Particular support has been given to
vocational rehabilitation and the employment of the
disabled.
The Polish social-security system is going through
complex reform. The reform is aimed at restructuring the
whole social-welfare system to ensure that
incomes
received from work and from social benefits guarantee an
adequate standard of living, and that social assistance is
used only to intervene in special
situations. An
unemployment insurance system and a programme to
actively counteract unemployment are being developed,
with a particular emphasis on the promotion of the
economic activity of the unemployed in small towns and
in rural areas and of the disabled.
We believe that
the role of civil society in the
follow-up and implementation process of the World
Summit is highly important. Poland supports the efforts
made by the Economic and Social Council to stimulate an
informal dialogue within the Commission for Social
Development, inter alia through the use of panels of
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
experts to discuss with non-governmental organizations the
priority subjects identified at
the World Summit. We
support the proposal that non-governmental organizations
should be encouraged to participate in the work of the
Commission.
It is necessary to increase public awareness of the
outcome of the World Summit and of the results achieved
to date. Nothing can take the place of the United Nations
efforts, not only to emphasize the importance of the
problems before us but above all to implement what the
Summit recommended in the field of socially oriented
development. Entering the
century, our
Organization — we ourselves — should be able to meet the
challenge of adding a human dimension to development.
Human beings are, after all, our primary objective. This
basic assumption of the Summit should guide us in our
deliberations on the follow-up of what was decided at
Copenhagen.
twenty-first
Mr. Teagarajan
(Malaysia): The Malaysian
delegation wishes to thank the Secretary-General for his
report, entitled “Implementation of the Outcome of the
World Summit for Social Development” (A/51/348). The
report provides an important and useful framework for our
deliberations in this Assembly. My delegation also wishes
to associate itself with the statement made yesterday by the
representative of Costa Rica on behalf of the Group of 77
and China.
values
and
ethical
religious
Nineteen months have passed since our leaders met at
Copenhagen and pledged their commitment to a global
political, economic, ethical and spiritual vision for social
development. Their commitment took into consideration the
and
various
cultural
backgrounds of all
the peoples around the globe. The
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action
symbolize this basic compact. If we recall, the following
were the core issues discussed at the Summit: first, the
reduction of overall poverty and the eradication of absolute
poverty; secondly, the expansion of productive employment
and the reduction of unemployment; and thirdly,
the
enhancement of social integration, particularly of the more
disadvantaged and marginalized groups.
In following up on the decisions made at Copenhagen
we must be guided by the principle of the centrality of
people in the development process. In the pursuit of social
justice, solidarity, harmony and equality among peoples, the
international community must continue to promote the
cause of pluralism and just
and social
development. Even as we witness the economic and social
economic
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
the global
prosperity enjoyed by certain parts of
community, we cannot be oblivious to the increasing
numbers of people in both the North and the South who
are living in abject poverty. It is utterly untenable, indeed
deplorable, that about 1.3 billion people, a fifth of the
human race, still lack access to the most basic necessities
of life such as food and clean drinking water. Therefore,
we should collectively strive towards an action-oriented
programme that seeks to ensure that poverty eradication
is achieved.
In
additional
resources.
While the Declaration and Programme of Action of
the Copenhagen Summit clearly defined the issues
relating to poverty, employment and social integration, the
commitments made in respect of international assistance,
official development assistance and new additional
resources have regrettably not been fulfilled. At the same
time, major donor countries have been reluctant
to
provide
the Copenhagen
Declaration, donor Governments pledged to strive to
achieve the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of gross national
product for overall official development assistance as
soon as possible, and to increase the share of funding for
social-development programmes to achieve the objectives
and goals of the Declaration and the Programme of
Action. Unfortunately, the achievement of this target has
been far from satisfactory. This is very disheartening. The
major donors must live up to the pledges made if they are
to contribute in any meaningful way to alleviating the
plight of the world’s poor and underprivileged.
My delegation notes the positive involvement of and
the serious initiatives taken by various actors in the field
of social development — national Governments,
the
various United Nations organs and bodies, the Bretton
Woods institutions, regional organizations and the non-
governmental actors — in trying to achieve what was
agreed to at the Copenhagen Summit. Clearly all these
initiatives require adequate resources to make them a
reality. Indeed, unless concrete actions are taken and
financial
the
observance of 1996 as the International Year for the
Eradication of Poverty will have been rather meaningless.
I am afraid the same fate will befall the proclamation of
the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of
Poverty unless these commitments and pledges are
fulfilled.
their execution,
found for
resources
My delegation has noted that the Secretary-General’s
report refers to the initiatives undertaken by the Bretton
Woods institutions — namely the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund — in pursuance of the
25
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
Summit recommendations, especially in the areas of social
development and human resource development.
We welcome the World Bank’s new external finance
for the social sector, which amounts to $3.33 billion for
education, health, population programmes and nutrition. We
also welcome the initiatives by the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund to provide special assistance
to heavily indebted countries. In welcoming these initiatives
we hope that they are carried out in a fair and just manner.
These institutions should act neither as the debt collectors
for the rich North nor as the enforcers of the lenders.
the
broadly supported by the people.
administrative machinery and processes for implementing,
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of those
policies are also very much in place and are generally
functioning in an effective fashion.
In addition,
Through its socio-economic policies and programme
for development Malaysia has been able to reduce
drastically the incidence of poverty, to achieve virtually
full employment, and to strengthen social integration and
unity. This will continue to be one of the thrusts of the
seventh Malaysia Plan for 1996 to 2000.
My delegation wishes to underline the importance of
social integration in the context of social development. The
security of the human person demands a comprehensive and
integrated approach which takes into account all other
factors, including cultural and religious values and norms.
Mr. de Rojas (Venezuela)
(interpretation from
Spanish): Venezuela endorses the statements made on this
agenda item by the delegation of Bolivia, on behalf of the
Rio Group, and by the delegation of Costa Rica, on
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
are
and
economies
those which
Given the vast differences in the level of development
between the poorest and least developed countries, those in
transition
highly
to be given to
industrialized, due consideration ought
identifying and agreeing on the priorities
the
implementation of the Programme of Action at the global
level. We should be mindful that the priorities and the
measures proposed to implement the Programme may not
be appropriate to all Member States. We should also never
forget that, at the end of the day, the primary responsibility
for implementing the Summit’s agreed objectives will fall
on the individual Member States.
for
As for the institutional follow-up, the United Nations
system undeniably has a role as a catalyst
in the
implementation of the Programme of Action. On the one
hand, the General Assembly should continue formulating
the overall policies vis-à-vis implementation. The Economic
and Social Council, on the other hand, would provide the
overall guidance and oversee system-wide coordination in
the implementation of the outcome of the Summit and
make recommendations in that regard within the United
Nations system. The coordinating role played by the
Economic and Social Council
in bringing the agencies
involved in the implementation of the Programme of Action
into a closer working relationship would ensure the
avoidance of duplication of responsibilities.
to
My
delegation wishes
reiterate Malaysia’s
commitment to the pledge made by the world’s leaders at
the World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen
in 1995. This is reflected in the various Government
policies and programmes which are well established and
26
The delegation of Venezuela also wishes to thank
the Secretary-General for his report on the implementation
of the outcome of the Copenhagen World Summit for
Social Development (A/51/348), and to express its support
for its contents.
My country is aware of the dramatic growth of
poverty and the spread of new forms of exclusion which
threaten human dignity of most of the citizens of the
world. We consider
social development a crucial
challenge of our time. The Venezuelan Government
therefore maintains that future generations’ judgment of
our
time will depend on our ability to address
successfully the challenges of poverty and social
exclusion.
The convening of the World Summit for Social
Development renewed the hope of the Government and
the people of Venezuela. Following the Summit we
immediately decided to take action to follow up the
agreements reached at that landmark social forum. This
the
was in accordance with what was laid down at
Summit, whereby
national
Governments are the actors responsible for bringing about
the goals of the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme
of Action.
stressed
it was
that
My country’s new strategy in the social area has
been designed not only in terms of our own activities in
that area;
the State’s new
economic policy: “Agenda Venezuela”. In this agenda the
operation of the productive apparatus itself is expected to
generate greater equity.
forms part of
rather,
it
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the
to generate
One of the important components of this commitment
to social solidarity is raising the capacity for organization
in order
ability among the most
disadvantaged part of the population to obtain its fair share
of
the social product. The promotion of community
organizations is in keeping with this line of action. We
should also stress that this social commitment involves
continuation of family supplementary income systems. As
social programmes require time to be established and to
mature, they should not be dismantled or replaced until
better and more efficient alternatives are found.
My country has assumed the responsibility to diminish
poverty in the short term through social and economic
strategies geared not only towards meeting basic physical
needs such as health, nutrition, education and work, but
which are also aimed at defending human rights and
promoting the equitable distribution of income and wealth.
This commitment implies activities in three specific areas.
The first involves promoting the development of a system
of social and household services for low-income families
through programmes of family and student subsidies and
care for the elderly. The second involves reviewing the
legal framework and administrative procedures to ensure
access by the most disadvantaged to economic, financial
and technological resources, in order to join fully the labour
market. The third involves promoting programmes for
qualification and training to orient the labour force towards
non-traditional activities.
Regionally, Venezuela has supported all of
the
initiatives of the Rio Group aimed at ensuring the full
follow-up of the commitments of the World Summit for
Social Development. Accordingly, we have been working
closely with the countries of that Group to implement the
provisions of the Buenos Aires declaration on fulfilment of
the commitments of the Summit, and of its annex, which
sets out the regional follow-up programme. Both documents
reflect the imperative need to eradicate poverty as a key
element of our region’s social agenda.
In
this
context, Venezuela welcomed
the
recommendation of the Rio Group on the lead body for
coordination of the follow-up of activities in the social
sphere. In so doing it designated as national coordinator the
Ministry of Family Affairs, as the governmental agency
entrusted with the design and execution of social policies.
At the same time, it invited civil society to take part in this
endeavour.
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
attaches to the social sphere and gave its support to the
convening of
the Hemispheric Conference on the
Eradication of Poverty and Discrimination held in January
1996 at Santiago, Chile.
Accordingly, the Government of Venezuela worked
with countries of the hemisphere to identify innovative
and creative measures to attack poverty through focused
national programmes,
the formulation of goals, and
the social sectors within the process of
reform of
modernization of the State.
My Government believes it is imperative to support
the idea of international social justice. To this end, each
and every member of the international community must
do its part towards what we refer to as the universal
common good. With this idea in mind, it becomes ever
more imperative to review the terms of the external debt
that weighs heavily upon the developing countries and
makes it difficult to meet the demands of development.
it
Venezuela believes
is encouraging for
the
international community that
the United Nations is
responsibly addressing the subject of social development
today, more earnestly than ever, as we come to the end of
the twentieth century. This has been further buttressed by
the Organization’s recent world conferences geared to the
social sphere, which also demonstrates that
this is a
complex task requiring a multidisciplinary, coordinated
approach with an important ethical component. We hope
that implementation of the outcome of the Summit will
give renewed impetus to cooperation between countries
and international organizations in order comprehensively
to achieve development, justice and peace.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
There are no further speakers on this item. The draft
resolution to be submitted under agenda item 45 will be
considered at a later date to be announced.
Reports of the Fifth Committee
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The General Assembly will now consider the reports of
the Fifth Committee on agenda items 126, 133 and 135.
If there is no proposal under rule 66 of the rules of
procedure, I shall
the General Assembly
decides not to discuss the reports of the Fifth Committee
which are before the Assembly today.
take it
that
At the hemispheric level, during the Summit of the
Americas Venezuela reiterated the priority importance it
It was so decided.
27
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of vote.
The positions of delegations regarding the recommendations
of the Fifth Committee have been made clear in the
Committee and are reflected in the relevant official records.
May I remind members that under paragraph 7 of
decision 34/401 the Assembly agreed that
“When the same draft resolution is considered in a
Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a delegation
should, as far as possible, explain its vote only once,
i.e., either in the Committee or in plenary meeting
unless that delegation’s vote in plenary meeting is
different from its vote in the Committee”.
Financing of the United Nations Observer Mission in
Georgia
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/51/503)
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft
decision recommended by the Fifth Committee in
paragraph 6 of its report (A/51/503).
The Fifth Committee adopted the draft decision
without a vote. May I consider that the Assembly wishes
to do likewise?
The draft decision was adopted.
May I also remind delegations that, also in accordance
with General Assembly decision 34/401, explanations of
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
We have thus concluded this stage of our consideration of
agenda item 133.
to
take
begin
Before we
the
recommendations contained in the reports of the Fifth
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that we
are going to proceed to take decisions in the same manner
as was done in the Committee.
action
on
Agenda item 126
Financing of
Referendum in Western Sahara
the United Nations Mission for the
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/51/502)
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft
resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in
paragraph 6 of its report (A/51/502).
The draft
resolution was adopted by the Fifth
the
Committee without a vote. May I consider
Assembly too wishes to adopt the draft resolution?
that
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 51/2).
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
We have thus concluded this stage of our consideration of
agenda item 126.
Agenda item 133
28
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Agenda item 135
Financing of the United Nations Observer Mission in
Liberia
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/51/504)
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft
resolution recommended by the Fifth Committee in
paragraph 6 of its report (A/51/504).
38th plenary meeting
17 October 1996
The draft
resolution was adopted in the Fifth
the
Committee without a vote. May I consider that
Assembly too wishes to adopt it?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 51/3).
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
We have thus concluded this stage of our consideration of
agenda item 135.
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
29
