United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
33rd plenary meeting
Monday, 14 October 1996, 10 a.m. (closed)
New York
A/51/PV.33
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 17
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and other
elections
I should like to remind members that, after 1
January 1997, the following States will still be members
of the Committee: the Bahamas, Benin, China, Egypt,
France, Ghana, Japan, Mexico, the Republic of Korea, the
Russian Federation, Togo, the United States of America,
Uruguay and Zaire.
(b) Election of twenty members of the Committee for
Therefore, those 14 States are not eligible in this
Programme and Coordination
election.
Note by the Secretary-General (A/51/269)
The President: In accordance with General Assembly
decision 42/450 of 17 December 1987, the Assembly elects
the members of
the Committee for Programme and
Coordination upon their nomination by the Economic and
Social Council.
The Assembly has before it document A/51/269,
which contains the nominations by the Economic and Social
Council to fill the vacancies in the Committee that will
occur as a result of the expiration on 31 December 1996 of
the terms of office of Argentina, Belarus, Brazil, Cameroon,
Canada, Comoros,
the Congo, Cuba, Germany, India,
Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Netherlands,
Norway, Pakistan, Romania, Senegal, Trinidad and Tobago,
Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.
Those States are eligible for immediate re-election.
Iran, Pakistan, Thailand;
The following States have been nominated by the
Economic and Social Council: four African States for four
vacancies — Cameroon, Congo, Nigeria, Zimbabwe; four
Asian States for four vacancies — Indonesia, Islamic
Republic of
four Eastern
European States for three vacancies — Bulgaria, Poland,
Romania, Ukraine; four Latin American and Caribbean
States for four vacancies — Argentina, Brazil, Nicaragua,
Trinidad and Tobago; four Western European and other
States
vacancies — Austria, Germany,
Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.
for
five
Mr. Verweij (Netherlands): I have to inform the
Assembly formally that my Government has decided to
withdraw the Netherlands candidature for the Committee
for Programme and Coordination.
The President: The number of States nominated
from among the African States, the Asian States, the
Latin American and Caribbean States and the Western
European and other States is equal to or does not exceed
the number of seats to be filled in each of those regions.
96-86482 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure,
all elections shall be held by secret ballot. However, in
accordance with paragraph 16 of decision 34/401,
the
Assembly may, in elections to subsidiary organs, dispense
with secret balloting when the number of candidates
corresponds to the number of seats to be filled.
Taking into account the statement just made by the
representative of the Netherlands, may I take it that the
Assembly wishes to declare those States nominated by the
Economic and Social Council from among the African
States, the Asian States, the Latin American and Caribbean
States and the Western European and other States —
Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Cameroon, the Congo, Germany,
Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago,
the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and
Zimbabwe — elected members of
the Committee for
Programme and Coordination for a three-year
term
beginning on 1 January 1997?
It was so decided.
The President: I congratulate the States that have
been elected members of the Committee for Programme
and Coordination.
With regard to the three seats to be filled from among
the Eastern European States, the number of candidates
nominated exceeds the number of vacancies allocated to
this region. Therefore, the Assembly will now proceed to a
vote by secret ballot
three members from the
Eastern European States.
to elect
In accordance with the rules of procedure, the required
number of candidates that receives the largest number of
votes and not
less than the majority will be declared
elected.
In case of a tie vote for the last seat, there will be a
limited to those candidates that have
restricted ballot
obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to that
procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: Ballot papers for the Eastern European
States will now be distributed.
The voting process has begun.
2
33rd plenary meeting
14 October 1996
Only the following four States nominated by the
Economic and Social Council are eligible: Bulgaria,
Poland, Romania and Ukraine. I should like to stress that
only the names of three of those States should be written
on the ballot paper.
I request representatives to use only the ballot papers
that are being distributed and to write the names of the
three States for which they wish to vote. Ballot papers
containing more than three names will be declared
invalid. Names of ineligible States appearing on a ballot
paper shall not be counted at all.
At the invitation of the President, Miss Montaño-
Duran (Bolivia), Miss Miller (Malta) and Mr. Seaton
(South Africa) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 10.30 a.m. and
resumed at 11.05 a.m.
The President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Poland
Romania
Ukraine
Bulgaria
160
0
160
0
160
81
131
127
125
89
The following States, having obtained the required
majority and the largest number of votes, were
elected members of the Committee for Programme
and Coordination for a three-year term beginning on
1 January 1997: Poland, Romania and Ukraine.
The President: I congratulate the States that have
just been elected members of
the Committee for
Programme and Coordination, and I thank the tellers for
their assistance in the election.
The following 18 States have thus been elected
members of
and
Coordination for a three-year term beginning on l January
1997: Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Cameroon, Congo,
for Programme
the Committee
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Indonesia,
the Islamic Republic of
Iran,
Germany,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Zimbabwe.
Regarding the two remaining vacancies from among
the Western European and other States,
the General
Assembly will be in a position to act on them upon the
nomination by the Economic and Social Council of two
Member States from that region.
I therefore propose that
the Assembly keep this
sub-item on the agenda of the fifty-first session. May I take
it that the Assembly agrees to that proposal?
It was so decided.
The President: We have thus concluded this stage of
our consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 17.
Agenda item 98
Operational activities for development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/256)
The President: The General Assembly will now
consider the report of the Secretary-General on the progress
at mid-decade on the implementation of General Assembly
resolution 45/217 on the World Summit for Children, which
has been issued as document A/51/256.
I call on the Secretary-General.
The Secretary-General: The World Summit
for
Children was held six years ago in this building. Six
member States — Canada, Egypt, Mali, Mexico, Pakistan
and Sweden — convened that important meeting, with the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) serving as
secretariat. Seventy-one Heads of State or Government and
88 ministerial representatives participated, making it the
largest gathering of world leaders held up until then. It was
the first
summit conference in history,
inaugurating the series of major international development
conferences of the 1990s and our collective assault on
poverty.
truly global
At
for Children,
the World Summit
the high
expectations of the international community immediately
following the end of the cold war were translated into
commitments to children. The participants pledged to
achieve seven major goals and 20 supporting goals relating
33rd plenary meeting
14 October 1996
to the survival, health, nutrition, education and protection
of children by the year 2000. The General Assembly, in
its resolution 45/217 of 21 December 1990, urged the
international community to work together to achieve
them.
What can we say six years later? Are the promises
made to children in 1990 being kept? How have the
world’s children fared?
The findings in the report, contained in document
A/51/256, on the progress that has been made since the
World Summit for Children are on the whole a cause for
celebration — and we did just that two weeks ago in the
Trusteeship Council Chamber on the sixth anniversary of
the Summit, with the participation of children,
the
President of the General Assembly, representatives of the
initiating countries, the Executive Director of UNICEF
and others. It is not often that we are able to report global
breakthroughs in the field of development, so we are
particularly encouraged that we now can point
to
considerable and widespread progress for children, who
are our collective future.
Although there is considerable variation across
information we have from 90
countries and regions,
countries suggests an encouraging trend towards the
achievement of the majority of the goals for children in
most countries. The greatest progress has been in the
control of preventable diseases. Immunization continues
to reach approximately 80 per cent of all children before
their first birthday, now saving 3 million young children
every year. Polio has been eradicated from large parts of
the world and, with continued effort, this scourge should
go the way of smallpox by the year 2000. Major progress
has been made towards the elimination of neonatal
tetanus. Guinea worm disease, which sapped the energies
of millions of people only five years ago, is now on the
verge of elimination, having declined by 97 per cent.
There has been dramatic
in home
management of diarrhoea, the second leading cause of
child deaths. The use of oral rehydration therapy has
doubled over the past five years and is now saving the
lives of some 1 million children every year. Some
1.5 billion more people are consuming iodized salt today
than in 1990, preventing the largest single cause of
preventable mental retardation in children. Vitamin A
supplementation and fortification to prevent blindness and
immune-system damage to young children is up in many
countries. Access
improved
considerably. Some 82 per cent of all primary-school-age
children are now enrolled.
improvement
safe water
to
has
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
These would be formidable achievements in any
circumstances, but the fact that so much progress has been
made in a period of unprecedented population growth,
proliferating conflicts, widening gaps between rich and poor
and cutbacks in government budgets and development
assistance attests to the increased importance of children on
the international agenda. It demonstrates the effectiveness
of the strategies and low-cost interventions being used to
improve children’s lives.
Member States
should feel encouraged by this
performance. I am proud that the United Nations — whose
work in development often goes underreported and
unrecognized — has been able to make such an important
contribution. And I want
to take this opportunity to
recognize and commend the leadership role that UNICEF
has played in this United Nations success story. UNICEF
will continue to play an indispensable role in the future.
at
the
The
spoke
children who
Summit
commemoration two weeks ago warned us, however,
against self-satisfaction. They spoke with deep emotion on
behalf of their sisters and brothers throughout the world,
who are still being bypassed by progress. And the
Executive Director of UNICEF, Ms. Bellamy, reminded us
that progress made to date must be sustained and that
special efforts will be needed to accelerate progress in areas
where results have been disappointing to date.
Child mortality, while declining, is still being reduced
too slowly to reach the year 2000 goal. New estimates
show that maternal mortality is a bigger problem than was
previously thought. There has been little or no improvement
in child malnutrition. The quality of basic education leaves
much to be desired, resulting in high drop-out rates,
particularly for girls. Safe drinking-water supply has not
kept pace with population growth, especially in cities, and
progress in providing adequate sanitation has lagged even
more. Millions of children continue to lose their childhoods
on battlefields and streets, in prostitution and sweatshops.
33rd plenary meeting
14 October 1996
the poor
societies will have to play a greater role, along with
Governments at all levels, if the goals are to be met.
Economic and social empowerment of
is
critically important. Increased investment in basic social
services for all, while necessary, will not be sufficient to
sustain reductions in poverty. Economic policies aimed at
more equal distribution of land, credit and income are
also essential. We must increasingly use the Convention
on the Rights of the Child — now nearly universal — as
a social tool to reach the unreached and to meet the needs
and respect the rights of the most disadvantaged, the most
vulnerable and the children of minorities suffering under
discrimination.
Improving the status, well-being and
opportunities of girls and women is particularly important.
Follow-up to the World Summit for Children and the
other global conferences of this decade needs to be
pursued in an integrated fashion, with full United Nations
system coordination on the ground. A troubling trend has
brought development assistance to its lowest level in a
quarter century must be reversed.
It
tells us that
The report before the Assembly today tells us what
works in development.
international
cooperation is getting measurable results. It tells us that
summits and global conferences can make a real
difference. It tells us that the twenty-first century can be
brighter if we have the political will to put children first.
It tells us that investing in children and women is the path
to sustainable development.
the General Assembly.
Children are a prominent feature of the fifty-first
session of
In addition to
addressing this report in plenary and in the Second and
Third Committees of the General Assembly, members
will be discussing the full range of children’s rights in the
Third Committee and will soon have before them the
important report on the impact of armed conflict on
children, prepared under the leadership of Mrs. Machel.
I want
In presenting this report to the General Assembly,
to stress the need to reaffirm the
therefore,
commitments made to children in 1990. The progress I
have outlined today must generate greater momentum. We
must redouble our efforts to achieve the year 2000 goals,
adjusting them where necessary and tailoring the strategies
used to achieve them to the realities of each country. Civil
Our deliberations here over the coming months can
help maintain and accelerate the pace of progress for the
world’s children. It is my hope that an end-of-decade
review will be held in the year 2000 and its results
presented to the General Assembly to advance global
cooperation on behalf of the world’s children into the
next century.
4
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Programme of work
The President: I should like to draw the attention of
members to document A/INF/51/3/Rev.1, which contains
the revised programme of work of the General Assembly
33rd plenary meeting
14 October 1996
covering the remainder of October and the beginning of
November, and which is now available to delegations.
The meeting rose at 11.25 a.m.
5
