United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
15th plenary meeting
Monday, 30 September 1996, 3 p.m.
New York
A/51/PV.15
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Nsanze (Burundi),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: The first speaker is the Deputy
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Albania,
His Excellency Mr. Tritan Shehu, on whom I now call.
Mr. Shehu (Albania) (interpretation from French):
Let me begin by expressing my warmest congratulations to
Mr. Razali Ismail on his election to the presidency of the
General Assembly as well as my best wishes for his
success. I am pleased also to take this occasion to convey
my sincere appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Diogo
Freitas do Amaral for the excellent manner in which he
guided the proceedings of the Assembly during the previous
session. We wish also to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his
invaluable contribution and his tireless efforts in effectively
steering the Organization.
Despite many difficulties and financial problems, the
United Nations is striving to play its irreplaceable role in
the service of peace and security through peacekeeping
operations and the promotion of international cooperation.
The United Nations Blue Helmets have already become
symbols of hope in the major areas of conflict throughout
the world. The Albanian Government sincerely hopes that
a lasting peace will be established in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Burundi, Liberia,
and everywhere else.
The United Nations is undergoing the most severe
financial crisis in its history. This year alone,
the
Organization ran out of money in its regular budget three
times and was therefore forced to borrow funds from its
peacekeeping operations budget. The tasks of today and
the challenges of tomorrow require a general reform of
the entire United Nations system. Albania has actively
participated in the debate on the preparatory process to
reform the Security Council within the framework of the
Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the
Security Council. Albania is in favour of increasing the
size of the Council by two permanent seats: Germany and
Japan. We also believe that options should be considered
that relate to a broader representation of Member States,
in order to make the Council more efficient and better
able to fulfil its mandate.
Revitalization of the Economic and Social Council
must be part of the reform process. We all firmly believe
that as long as wide economic gaps exist between North
and South, and East and West, several peoples and
countries will face key problems related to their survival,
and risks of tension, conflicts and regional hostility will
prevail. For this reason, reform of the Security Council
will not aid the cause of global peace and stability if it is
not accompanied by an equally effective reform of the
Economic and Social Council.
96-86333 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
After a long 50 years of communist rule, Albania has
now been a democracy for five years. During this period of
democratic reform, it has had to face innumerable major
problems,
including its communist heritage, with its
associated spirit of class struggle; and its extreme poverty
and strict isolation. The country’s transition was rendered
yet more difficult by the situation in the region, which was
weighted down by the crisis in the former Yugoslavia and
the related application of the sanctions regime for several
years. Nonetheless, Albania has been able to evolve from
a one-party to a multiple-party system; from repression to
the establishment of a State based on the rule of law and on
respect for human rights and minorities; from a highly
centralized and depressed economy to a growing, free-
market economy; and from isolationism to openness to
Euro-Atlantic integration.
Albania’s gross domestic product has
increased
annually, from 11 per cent in 1992 to 15 per cent in 1996.
Inflation fell 400 per cent in 1992 and now stands at 7.5
per cent in 1996. Our national currency’s exchange rate has
gained some stability, and our foreign debt has been paid.
Although five years ago the economy was
totally
centralized, privatization is now proceeding rapidly in all
the major economic sectors; at present 75 per cent of
overall production comes from the private sector. The
unemployment rate has dropped from 39 per cent in 1992
to 12 per cent in 1996. Within four years, Albania was able
to completely liberalize prices.
Clearly, transforming a centralized economy into a
market economy is difficult and sometimes painful,
especially for certain economic sectors and for certain
segments of the population. I should like to take this
opportunity to again sincerely thank the European Union,
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the
World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development,
the International Monetary Fund and a
number of United Nations specialized agencies for the
valuable assistance they have provided to my country
during this period of transition. We are confident that these
institutions will continue to help Albania.
Over the past four years, Albania’s prestige in the
international arena has increased considerably, giving proof
of its priority Euro-Atlantic orientation. Albania is already
a member of
the Council of Europe and an active
participant in the Partnership for Peace, and is working for
its
integration into the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and the European Union. In this regard
Albania highly appreciates the support of the member
States of the European Union and is convinced that the time
full
2
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
has come to accelerate the process of Albania’s
integration. We also welcome the current progress being
made in solidifying our relations with the United States,
which the Albanians consider to be the champion of
democracy and freedom. We are confident that these
relations, which are of great importance to Albania, will
continue to develop.
the Albanian Government’s
Albania’s regional policy is based on a desire to
promote peace and stability in the Balkans. Given the
geo-strategic position of Albania,
the deteriorating
situation of those Albanians living in exile in other
Balkan countries, and the prolonged crisis in the former
Yugoslavia,
significant
contribution to regional peace and stability demonstrates
its willingness to establish regional cooperation in line
with Euro-Atlantic trends. Determined to continue this
policy and to increase its contribution, Albania hosted the
first Conference of South-Balkans Defence Ministers,
which served as a first step leading to the Conference of
the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, held in Sofia some
months later. As part of this contribution, my country has
just established a peacekeeping unit, now serving in
Zadar, Croatia within
the
the
Implementation Force (IFOR).
framework
of
The Albanian Government continues to believe that
the question of the Balkans requires greater attention by
the international community and by the United Nations in
particular. The bitter history of
the region and the
prolonged conflict of recent years have proved clearly that
the threat of war always looms large in countries where
ultra-nationalism and chauvinism hold sway. We all are
aware of the importance of the Dayton Agreement in
resolving the conflict in the Balkans. We have always
stressed the importance of identifying the major cause of
that conflict: Serb ultra-nationalism.
of
to assist
the Dayton Agreement,
While making a serious effort
in the
implementation
the
Government of the Republic of Albania wishes once
again to draw the attention of the United Nations to the
serious problem of Kosovo. In the 1980s, Kosovo —
more than 90 per cent of whose population consists of
Albanians who have lived on their own territory for
thousands of years — was the first to speak of the danger
that Serb ultra-nationalism posed to the territories of the
former Yugoslavia. National
ethnic
intolerance; racial, economic and religious discrimination;
“ethnic cleansing”; and acts of violence and repression
against an entire population — characteristic features of
Serb policy — were demonstrated for the first time in
chauvinism;
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Kosovo. In fact, the crisis in the former Yugoslavia began
in Kosovo, though at that time the international community
paid scant attention to what the Albanians were saying. It
was not until the crisis became a bloody conflict in Bosnia
and Herzegovina that proper attention was paid.
The Kosovo issue must be duly examined and treated
in the spirit of the Dayton Agreement. It is now considered
one of the serious international issues that must be resolved,
and it has been the subject of several documents and
decisions of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe and of the United Nations. However, the situation
in Kosovo is still tense and volatile. The fact that up to
now an armed conflict between the Albanians living in
Kosovo and the Serbs has been avoided — or rather,
resisted — is primarily the result of the peaceful policy
pursued by the legitimate political representatives of the
people of Kosovo, and of the foreign policy of the Albanian
Government.
We believe that Kosovo deserves a status that reflects
the political will of its people as well as the international
instruments relating to the right of peoples to self-
determination. The agreement on education in Kosovo,
recently reached by representatives of Kosovo and
Belgrade, is a promising step towards further efforts fully
to guarantee the Kosovo Albanians basic freedoms and
human and national rights. The Government of the Republic
of Albania believes that through constructive dialogue, in
the presence of a credible international
third party, a
solution to this acute problem can be found.
We thank the General Assembly for its consideration
of
the situation in Kosovo, particularly through its
resolutions 49/204 of 23 December 1994 and 50/190 of 22
December 1995. We would like to take this opportunity to
appeal once again to the international community to
continue its efforts until this issue is definitively resolved.
Albania’s foreign policy is characterized by efforts to
establish good relations with its neighbours. Albania has
always been in favour of peace, stability, and economic and
cultural cooperation with its neighbouring countries.
Albania and Greece have been able to establish good
relations, which are expanding and strengthening. The
Government of the Republic of Albania and the Albanian
people are grateful to the Government and the people of
Greece for having supported us during our difficult period
of
in
Albanian-Greek relations show, to our great pleasure, that
in bilateral
solved
satisfactorily and within a reasonable time-frame if there is
transition. The current positive developments
can be
relations
all problems
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
political good will and a serious commitment by both
sides. The friendly relations between our two countries
are concrete testimony of the achievements of both the
Greek and the Albanian Governments. Good relations
between two neighbouring countries such as Albania and
Greece show that the existence of national minorities in
neighbouring countries can serve as a bridge of friendship
and become a connective link between countries. The
recognition and equal treatment of national minorities,
coupled with respect for the independence, sovereignty
and territorial
integrity of each State, are essential
elements in such relations.
readiness to work with it
The Albanian Government has taken steps to show
its interest in establishing mutually beneficial relations
with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Albania was among the first countries to officially
recognize that State, while at the same time assuring it of
our
to establish stronger
independently of the problems
relations in all fields,
relating to the situation and the position of
those
Albanians living in that State. My country believes that
the normalization and improvement of relations with
Serbia and Montenegro depends on Belgrade taking
certain steps, such as respecting the Dayton Agreement,
taking concrete measures to put an end to the violence
against and the suppression of the rights of the Albanians
in Kosovo, and making a serious commitment
to a
peaceful solution to the Kosovo question.
Albania attaches particular importance to its relations
with its western neighbour, Italy. This ancient relationship
has lasted as long as our peoples have lived in the
Mediterranean. In the framework of the European Union,
Italy has been one of the main donors to Albania. We are
very grateful to the Italian Government and people for the
tremendous assistance they have given our country during
this difficult period of transition, and for the spirit of
good will that has always prevailed in our relations. We
believe these things provide a solid basis for further
positive developments in the future.
Before concluding my address before the Assembly,
allow me to assure members, on behalf of the Albanian
Government, of our continued support for the activities of
the United Nations. We will continue to contribute to the
strengthening of the Organization and of its irreplaceable
role in the service of peace, security, progress and
democracy throughout
the world. My small country,
Albania, will always be committed to contribute actively
to all the work of the Organization.
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The Acting President: I now call on the Deputy
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Turkey,
Her Excellency Ms. Tansu Çiller.
Ms. Çiller (Turkey): I should like to congratulate
warmly Mr. Razali on his election to the high office of
President of the General Assembly. I am confident that
under his wise and able guidance our deliberations will be
most successful. I should also like to thank His Excellency
Mr. Do Amaral for his most valuable contribution to the
work of the previous session of the General Assembly.
We have just left behind 50 years in the life of this
universal Organization, which was founded with the ideal
of serving and guiding humankind in its common quest to
make the world a better place to live. The commemoration
last year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations
marked an important milestone in our journey. Yet we find
that our common pursuit of a new and more promising
order of international relations is far from its goal. The new
expectations and hopes that the end of the cold-war era
instilled in us all have, unfortunately, been short-lived.
Indeed, such dark forces as extreme ethnic nationalism,
aggression, hegemonistic tendencies, intolerance, racism,
xenophobia and terrorism have been unleashed to wreak
havoc on a global scale. At the same time, economic, social
and environmental problems, as well as risks in the military
security realm, have assumed global proportions.
No country can claim to be immune from any of the
problems we are facing today, which need common
solutions. In fact, there is an emerging consensus that more
than ever, our common problems require global solutions,
which must be formulated in a spirit of solidarity and
cooperation. This spirit can find concrete expression only
within this Organization, which continues to be the only
global
forum for collective cooperation and effective
international action. Therefore, it is our duty to generations
to come to refashion this institution so as to further
strengthen it and equip it with the means to meet the
challenge of the new era that begins with the twenty-first
century.
it
As we embark on the second half-century of our
Organization,
the international
community reassess the ways and means by which it can
give a new impetus to the efforts aimed at building a better
and more secure future for all humankind. Substantial work
is high time that
4
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
In particular,
future action. The chain of
to this end has already been carried out within the United
Nations system.
the series of major
conferences on basic issues of common concern laid the
groundwork for
these
conferences, which began with the 1990 World Summit
for Children and ended with the Conference on Human
Settlements in Istanbul
this past June, has covered
virtually every aspect of human interest. The declarations
and programmes of action they adopted will serve as our
road map in our efforts to achieve their final objectives.
It was a distinct privilege for Turkey to host, in
Istanbul this year, the last major international conference
of the century, Habitat II. That conference played an
instrumental role in creating a greater awareness that
adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements
in a rapidly urbanizing and globalizing world are the
common challenges before us. The Istanbul Declaration
and the Habitat Agenda will be our guiding instruments
to meet these challenges. We attach great importance to
the follow-up of that successful conference.
solutions
search for global
Although criticized at times for its limitations, the
United Nations has nevertheless played a crucial role in
the
to the problems
encountered in every field of human endeavour. Yet the
challenges that it will face in the twenty-first century will
probably be far greater and more formidable than ever
before, and the United Nations, therefore, has to promptly
adapt to changing times. For this reason, we support the
ongoing reform process within the United Nations. In this
respect,
revitalizing and
restructuring the United Nations system and its work are
the widely accepted components needed to bring about a
more effective, responsive, representative, democratic and
accountable world Organization. These modifications,
which are currently under intense consideration at various
levels, will, to a large extent, determine the effectiveness
of the United Nations in the years to come.
streamlining,
rationalizing,
Since January 1994, the Open-ended Working Group
on the Question of Equitable Representation on and
Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and
other matters has been formulating a set of guidelines for
the ongoing reform process. The general issue before us
here is the enhancement of the representative character of
the Security Council and the democratization of its
method of work. Strongly in favour of a comprehensive
reform, Turkey last year formally introduced a proposal
for the enlargement of the Security Council. As the
representative character of the Council has, despite minor
adjustments, eroded steadily, we believe that a Council
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
with at least 25 members would be more representative and
thus more effective. We hold the view that the Council
should be enlarged by 10 additional non-permanent
members and that the proposed new additional seats should
rotate among a predetermined list of about 30 to 40
countries. These countries should be selected within the
geographical groups according to a set of objective criteria
that can be modified, of course, in time. The list would
consequently be flexible and updated after a certain period
of time to conform to arising new conditions.
As regards to its working methods and procedures, the
Council has already taken some important steps. There is,
however, a widespread belief that these steps fall short of
the legitimate expectations of the great majority of the
Member States. Hence, more work needs to be done in this
sphere, especially on questions on which important
differences still exist.
On the other hand,
the Open-ended High-level
Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations
System is in the process of formulating recommendations
for reform, with the General Assembly and the Secretariat
as
the
continuation of the mandate of the Working Group to
enable it to complete its work.
interest. Turkey favours
its main areas of
The challenges and risks we face in the military
security field call for measures that are broad in scope and
application. This feature alone underscores the unique
mandate and authority of the United Nations to address
these challenges in their global dimensions. Arms control
and disarmament — focusing distinctly and with a sense of
urgency on measures and regimes destined to curb the
alarming trends in the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction and in the technologies for their means of
delivery — must remain high on our agenda.
Turkey, as a Member State of the Conference on
Disarmament, is pleased to have joined the overwhelming
majority of nations in the efforts to conclude and adopt the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The Treaty,
which I
an
indispensable step towards the eventual goal of a world free
of nuclear weapons.
signed on 24 September,
constitutes
Accumulation of
conventional weapons beyond
legitimate defense needs
inherently destabilizing.
Devising responsible policies to be globally adhered to in
arms transfers, with due regard to the impact of such
transfers on regional and international stability, is not a
lesser priority. We must ensure that the United Nations
is
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
track,
Register of Conventional Arms becomes a more effective
tool for monitoring and for transparency in transfers. On
a parallel
the international community must
vigorously pursue a more concerted effort to eradicate
illicit arms trafficking, not solely as an arms and export-
control measure, but more importantly as a key
component in the international fight against terrorism.
One of the most daunting tasks before the United
Nations is to foster greater international solidarity and
concerted action against terrorism. We should not shy
away from the responsibility to meet this challenge head-
on, because terrorism not only poses a threat
to
international peace and stability, but also violates the most
fundamental human right of all: the very right to live.
International cooperation is imperative if we choose to
live free of fear. The United Nations has to play a central
role in this respect. General Assembly resolutions on
human rights and terrorism and a Declaration on
Measures
to Eliminate International Terrorism are
significant milestones, paving the way for effective
international cooperation to eradicate this common enemy.
In combating terrorism, we should not lose sight of the
fact that what is equally important is to fight against, and
not
that are behind it.
Transnational organized crime, with its connections to
drug trafficking and terrorist organizations, also poses a
serious threat to the stability of our societies. We will
continue to vigorously support international cooperation
to combat this evil.
the countries
to condone,
In 1995, we also celebrated the United Nations Year
for Tolerance. A culture of tolerance — which is vital for
consolidating democracy and preventing ethnic conflicts,
racist tendencies and xenophobia — has been promoted
through various international and regional activities under
the umbrella of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO). Current
developments unmistakably demonstrate how crucial it is
to keep this precious concept alive within society and in
bilateral, regional and international relations. We attach
great importance to the follow-up of the Year and will
present a draft resolution under the relevant agenda item
of the General Assembly.
Located on the fault line of several regions fraught
with conflicts and instability, Turkey naturally is seriously
concerned by developments on its periphery that threaten
regional and international peace and security. We have
been playing a crucial role in the efforts to find lasting
and just solutions to the current problems. We are also
actively taking part in various United Nations initiatives,
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
including
diplomacy activities.
peacekeeping
operations
and
preventive
Turning to one of the questions that is high on our
agenda, our fundamental policy towards Iraq continues to
be our commitment to the territorial integrity, sovereignty
and independence of that country. The full compliance by
Iraq with all of its obligations under international law and
relevant Security Council resolutions remains vital for the
return to normalcy in the region. Our main objective here
is the restoration of peace, stability and security on our
borders, as well as in the region as a whole. We are closely
following the recent developments in northern Iraq, which
may further aggravate the already delicate situation in the
region. To bring durable calm to the area, all segments of
the local population — Kurds, Turkomans in particular,
since they have not been mentioned up to this point to the
extent that they deserve; Arabs; Assyrians; and others —
should fully participate in any local administrative
arrangement, and their
should be guaranteed.
Northern Iraq should not be permitted to serve as an area
that poses a threat to the security of the neighbouring
countries. Turkey will not tolerate terrorist elements using
northern Iraq to stage terrorist acts against its territory. We
are determined to take all necessary measures to protect our
legitimate security interests and to deny terrorist elements
the possibility of launching terrorist operations against our
population from northern Iraq.
rights
We have fulfilled our responsibilities emanating from
the sanctions regime against Iraq, despite the extreme
economic burden this has entailed for our country. More
than six years after the sanctions’ inception, Turkey is now
at the forefront of the countries that have been directly and
most adversely affected by the sanctions regime. In fact, the
heavy toll we have been required to pay has long exceeded
our ability to sustain the financial strain on our economy,
nor can we pay it any longer. Security Council resolution
986 (1995), when implemented, will alleviate the suffering
of the Iraqi people while also bringing limited relief for
Turkey. However,
can in no way be
commensurate with our losses. Consequently, we have
applied to the United Nations Sanctions Committee with a
view to obtaining further appropriate compensation within
the framework of the sanctions regime. In this context, I
wish to reiterate that we attach great importance to the
implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995)
as soon as possible.
relief
this
In the wider context of the Middle East, we are
concerned about what we hope will be only a temporary
impasse in the Middle East peace process. As a devoted
6
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
supporter of the peace process, which we regard as the
only viable alternative for the region, we desire to see it
pick up its momentum. This indisputably requires the
parties to live up to their commitments.
As we underlined in our statement before the
Security Council on 27 September, any action that may
adversely affect the peace process should be avoided. The
Israeli decision to open an entrance to a tunnel in the
vicinity of the Mosque and the chain of reactions it
provoked are of that nature. We are deeply saddened by
the high number of casualties. We call on both sides to
exercise utmost restraint and to prevent further violence.
We urge the Israeli Government to review its decision
and to refrain from any action that can be construed as
provocation and from resorting to the use of force. We
welcome Security Council resolution 1073 (1996). We
expect President Arafat and Prime Minister Netanyahu to
meet immediately to find a way out of this crisis.
One of the main obstacles blocking the path to a
comprehensive peace in the Middle East continues to be
terrorism. It must be eliminated if the quest for a lasting
peace and stability is to prevail. We advocate and stand
ready to take part
in enhanced cooperation on the
bilateral, regional and international levels. Similarly, we
expect all countries to do their share to this very end. It
is with this understanding that we participated in the
summit of Sharm el-Sheikh, convened to demonstrate the
resolve of the international community to fight against
terrorism on a united front. The eventual success of the
peace process will also hinge on our collective ability to
promote mutually beneficial economic cooperation and
interdependence among the countries of the Middle East.
As a Balkan country, we firmly believe that peace,
justice and legitimacy in the Balkans remain vital for
international peace and stability. We hold the view that
any cooperative scheme in the Balkans should include all
and exclude none. We were profoundly distressed for a
long time that, during the disintegration of the former
Yugoslavia, lack of resolute international intervention at
the very outset of
led to
bloodshed and atrocities unparalleled in recent history.
The developments that took place prior to the Dayton
peace Agreement proved once again that turning a blind
eye to aggression only further aggravates crisis situations,
causing untold human suffering and making it all the
more difficult to find solutions.
the aggression and war
We are actively participating in the implementation
of both the military and civilian aspects of the Dayton
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
peace Agreement, and in the international efforts to
reconstruct and rehabilitate Bosnia and Herzegovina. We
are also conducting, together with the United States, a joint
programme to train and equip the army of the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to provide the Federation
with the means to preserve its territorial integrity and to
ensure military parity.
We welcome the recently held elections in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. We consider the realization of these elections,
despite existing hardships, an important development for
Bosnia and Herzegovina’s future. We hope that
this
development will lead to the creation of a positive political
climate conducive to the attainment of lasting peace and
stability and to the establishment of the constitutional,
legislative, administrative and security structures of Bosnia
and Herzegovina. We urge the international community to
remain committed to the cause of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
to remain vigilant as regards any ill intention against the
independence and territorial integrity of that country; to
ensure the return of refugees and displaced persons to their
homes; to seek the arrest and extradition to The Hague of
indicted war criminals; to prevent any negative outside
interference that could potentially impede the process of
peaceful and democratic reintegration; and to make
available the assistance pledged for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of Bosnia.
Turkey enjoys good-neighbourly relations with the
Balkan countries. However, a number of issues between
Turkey and Greece, mostly related to the Aegean, remain
unresolved. We have always advocated that disputes should
be settled by peaceful means and through dialogue and
constructive negotiations. Consequently, we have made
several appeals to Greece to seek an overall solution to all
the existing issues that stand between us. However, this
does not mean that we would accept any fait accompli. We
still expect Greece to give these appeals
the full
consideration and positive response they deserve. We would
like to hope that the new Greek Government, emerging
from the recent elections, will adopt a more forthcoming
stance in this regard. Unfortunately, the recent statement of
the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs, from this very
rostrum on 27 September, does not bode well. Distortion
and misrepresentation of the established facts, as well as
unfounded and unjustified allegations, will not serve the
creation of the climate of confidence and friendship we
wish to see in our bilateral relations.
In Cyprus, in the period that has elapsed since the last
session of the General Assembly, regrettably no noticeable
developments have taken place towards a comprehensive
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
settlement. It has not been possible to resume the direct
talks between the two sides under the mission of good
offices of the United Nations Secretary-General, due to
the negative stance of the Greek Cypriots. The Greek
Cypriot side continues not to acknowledge that, in the
past, the United Nations negotiating process and direct
dialogue between the Turkish Cypriot and Greek Cypriot
leaders not only served to establish the key parameters of
a final settlement — which are already on the table —
but also played an important role in defusing tensions
between the two communities. It is all too evident that
attempts to derail the United Nations negotiating process
can only further complicate the already difficult road to
a just solution.
The recent regrettable events in and around the
buffer zone and, especially the slaying of a Turkish
Cypriot soldier, have proven once again what the lack of
dialogue as well as inflammatory rhetoric and provocation
can lead to. I hope that the Greek Cypriot side will not
fail this time to draw the necessary conclusions. It is
evident that the need to reduce tensions and build up
confidence on the island makes the resumption of the
direct talks, without any precondition, all the more urgent.
The Turkish Cypriot side has already made public its
readiness to this end. Turkey is committed to supporting
the renewed efforts of the United Nations and expects the
same constructive approach from Greece and the Greek
Cypriot side.
Peace and legitimacy are yet
to be restored in
another area of conflagration: the Caucasus. Indeed, this
region continues to be wracked by various conflicts, that
cause immense human anguish and threaten peace,
security and stability. Turkey has close bonds with the
countries of the region and attaches utmost importance to
the preservation of regional peace and stability. The
ongoing occupation of more than one fifth of the territory
of Azerbaijan by Armenian forces continues to be a
source of grave concern for Turkey. More than one
million Azeris are still displaced in their own country and
living in unacceptable conditions.
They should not be permitted to endure another
bitter winter in such conditions. Turkey has been striving
to help bring about a peaceful and just settlement of the
dispute between Azerbaijan and Armenia. We will
continue to contribute to the efforts of the Minsk Group
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe with a view to establishing peace, security and
stability in the region. We earnestly believe that all
countries in the region have much to gain from the
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
restoration of peace and legitimacy in the Caucasus. The
attainment of a just peace will pave the way for a climate
of cooperation to serve the common prosperity of all the
countries of the region.
The conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, also continues to
be a source of distress. We attach the utmost importance to
the preservation of the territorial integrity, sovereignty and
unity of Georgia and firmly believe that the international
community should deploy all efforts to bring about a just
solution to the conflict on that basis. To this end, we fully
support the United Nations-sponsored peace talks between
the parties and stand ready to contribute to those efforts.
One of
the important aspects of
the economic
development of the Caucasus and Central Asia is the
exportation of their natural resources, for which Turkey is
in a position to provide easy access to world markets. I can
mention here Turkey’s proposed Baku-Ceyhan oil-pipeline
project and natural-gas pipeline projects, which will serve
the common interests and welfare of the entire region.
Afghanistan is yet another conflict area where the
international community has been unable to help bring
about a just and lasting solution. Our close ties with that
country are deeply rooted in history and we are troubled by
the tragic consequences of the ongoing conflict. We are all
too aware of the possibility of a spillover effect of the
conflict in the region. We believe that this terrible conflict
may be brought to an end and peace restored through direct
negotiations between the fighting groups and the formation
of a broad-based Government with the participation of all
parties. Turkey is anxious to see, as soon as possible, the
signing of a ceasefire agreement and the beginning of peace
negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations. We
will be pleased to host a meeting for such negotiations and
will continue to support fully the efforts of the United
Nations Special Mission to mediate a settlement respecting
the
of
Afghanistan.
sovereignty
territorial
integrity,
and
unity
itself at
its history, Turkey finds
As an extension of its geography and against the
the
backdrop of
multidirectional crossroads of
several continents and
different cultures. It acts as an important bridge between
East and West, combining the values of the East with the
ideals and institutions of the West in a unique synthesis.
Strong historical, cultural and fraternal ties exist between
Turkey and the countries of the Balkans, the Caucasus,
Central Asia and the Middle East. We spare no effort in
contributing to the resolution of conflicts and preventing
strengthening regional and
new ones
from erupting,
8
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
international cooperation and promoting tolerance and
dialogue. This is the very core and essence of the basic
principles that define our
foreign policy. We shall
continue to place our assets at the disposal and service of
regional and global peace, stability and prosperity.
In this context, I wish to underline the eminent role
played by Turkey in such regional cooperation schemes
as
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and the
Economic Cooperation Organization, as well as its active
participation in cooperation in the Mediterranean basin.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate our sincere desire
to see the fifty-first session of the General Assembly
become an important milestone on the road to the third
millennium. We have to gather our strength, pool our
resources and ignite our imagination to build, collectively,
a better world. National
interests and objectives will
surely remain at the core of our policies. However, on the
eve of a new millennium, the time has certainly come to
take a broader view and to replace rivalry with
cooperation, intolerance with tolerance and confrontation
with dialogue and conciliation. We should at all costs
avoid
in
international relations. A revitalized and reinvigorated
United Nations entering its second half-century can make
a significant contribution to assisting us all to attain our
highest goals and aspirations. Let us not forget, however,
that the task of shaping a better future is entirely in our
hands, for we are the United Nations.
faits accomplis
standards
double
and
The Acting President: The next speaker is the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Australia, the Honourable
Alexander Downer.
Mr. Downer (Australia): I should like to extend
warm congratulations to Mr. Razali on his election as
President of the General Assembly. As a close neighbour
of Malaysia, Australia will confidently rely on his
experience and sound judgement as he presides over this
important session of the Assembly.
I feel greatly honoured to be leading for the first
time the Australian delegation to a session of the General
Assembly.
A year ago, when the Assembly adopted the
Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary
of the United Nations, it made an important promise: to
give to the twenty-first century a United Nations that
would serve effectively the peoples in whose name it was
established. We must keep that promise, but to do so we
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
will need a clear view of contemporary circumstances and
of those which we can see unfolding into the twenty-first
century.
goals to which they are pledged through the United
Nations Charter: international peace and security and the
economic and social advancement of all peoples.
The landscape that was revealed at the end of the cold
war,
just a little over five years ago, has many new
features, some of which are still not clear. What is clear,
however, is that we face new challenges and that we have
new opportunities that few of us would have imagined five
years ago.
The most compelling of these opportunities is to take
future steps in nuclear-arms control and disarmament. The
possibility of
taking such steps is surely a principal
outcome of the end of the cold war. This was firmly
underlined last Tuesday when, in a single day, 67 countries
signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. That
number, only a week later, is now nearly 100. But beyond
this achievement lies another major opportunity, which is
to turn our national and international attention to enhancing
human security in all its aspects.
Our dynamic times have presented us with new
problems. Such problems include the major non-military
threats to security: the clandestine arms trade, the narcotics
trade, HIV/AIDS, the need to stabilize the rate of growth of
the world’s population and major
to the
environment.
threats
The elemental characteristics of such non-military
threats to security are that they cannot be defeated by
weapons. They cross state boundaries and they can affect
whole populations. These characteristics lead to one central
conclusion, that is, action on these problems must be the
subject of international cooperation.
Multilateral cooperation can, does and must take many
forms. But the role of the United Nations is unique because
of its universality and because of the rules we find in the
Charter of the United Nations.
It
is
for
these
reasons — the nature of
the
opportunities we have before us, the problems we face and
the unique role and capability of the United Nations — that
we must keep last year’s promise of a United Nations fit
for the challenges of the twenty-first century.
Australia’s particular commitment
to the United
Nations is founded on the belief, articulated as far back as
the 1950s by the then Foreign Minister, Richard Casey, that
the United Nations represents the practical effort of the
Governments and peoples of the world to attain the high
Australia has contributed readily to achieving those
goals. Whether by paying its financial contributions in full
and on time, by providing personnel to peacekeeping
operations or through its contributions to development
programmes, Australia has been determined to see the
United Nations succeed. I commit Australia today to
continuing such involvement in the work of the United
Nations.
At present, a window of opportunity in arms control
and disarmament is open to us. If we do not take it soon,
it will close. Large and sophisticated nuclear and
conventional arsenals continue to exist. In a number of
regions, suspicions remain close to the surface. The risks
of the spread of weapons of mass destruction have, in
certain respects, increased.
In Australia’s view, two tasks are fundamental: first,
building and strengthening international institutions and
instruments; and secondly, developing new thinking in
arms control and disarmament so as to push the
international agenda forward in constructive and realistic
ways.
To
achieve
institutions
progress with
and
instruments, Members of the United Nations need to work
together on at least six priorities. These priorities for
international cooperation are to make the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its enhanced
review process operate more effectively; to strengthen the
International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards;
to
achieve an early start
the
the Organization for
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons;
to reach early
agreement on effective verification machinery for the
Biological Weapons Convention; to pursue the goal of a
global ban on anti-personnel landmines in conjunction
with a global approach to the problem of demining; and
to achieve a ban on the production of fissile materials for
nuclear weapons.
for
As we pursue these priorities in the multilateral
system, we should keep firmly in mind that progress in
regional security, particularly in regions of weapons-
proliferation concern, will make a crucial contribution.
The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is of
course the immediate priority. Its adoption by the General
Assembly and its opening for signature on 24 September
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
were major milestones for the international community. The
Treaty is a product of our times. It flows from a long and
commonly held global concern. Its death was something the
international community simply could not allow.
Australia was therefore prepared to take the lead in
bringing the Treaty to the General Assembly. The
overwhelming support for the resolution demonstrated the
strength of international feeling against nuclear testing. This
Treaty was wanted and needed, but it has also helped
change the international climate. We can now reasonably
hope and expect that nuclear testing will not be part of the
future to be faced by succeeding generations. In a world
with a mixed history on controlling the development and
spread of destructive weaponry, that is something of which
we can all be proud.
The Treaty must become universal. We urge all those
countries that have not yet done so to sign and ratify the
Treaty as soon as possible so that
it can be fully
implemented as quickly as possible. There is no merit in
the argument that says that, because there is more to be
done in nuclear-arms control and disarmament, we should
in some way scorn or reject a Treaty that bans all nuclear
explosions forever. This ban has intrinsic value. We must
now keep up the positive momentum generated by the
adoption of the Treaty.
This brings me to the second task: developing new
ideas. Because building institutions and strengthening
international
the
international community must also develop imaginative new
ways of guiding the world into the next century.
instruments will not be
enough,
The Australian Government established the Canberra
Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons to
address the questions of whether a nuclear-weapon-free
world is feasible and, if so, the measures which could be
taken to attain that objective. I am delighted to confirm that
the Commission
than met Australia’s
expectations. Its report will make a major contribution to
nuclear
international
disarmament. The Australian Government will
take it
forward by circulating it today in this Hall, will present it
to the Secretary-General tomorrow and introduce it to the
Conference on Disarmament in January.
has more
thinking
and
discussion
on
The Canberra Commission report
recommends a
political commitment by the nuclear-weapon States to the
elimination of nuclear weapons. That is the first and central
requirement. The report then sets out six immediate steps:
taking nuclear forces off alert; removal of warheads from
10
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
delivery vehicles; ending the deployment of non-strategic
nuclear weapons; ending nuclear
initiating
negotiations further to reduce United States and Russian
nuclear arsenals; and an agreement among the nuclear-
weapon States on reciprocal no-first-use undertakings and
of a non-use undertaking by them in relation to the
non-nuclear-weapon States.
testing;
The Commission also recommends three reinforcing
steps: action to prevent further horizontal proliferation;
developing verification arrangements for a nuclear-
weapon-free world; and the cessation of the production of
fissile material
for nuclear-explosive purposes. The
Commission placed particular emphasis on the importance
of
and
maintenance of a nuclear-weapons-free world.
effective verification in the
achievement
Having at last, after 33 years, met the challenge of
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
the
international community must now push on with further
practical and realistic measures on nuclear-arms control
and disarmament.
As already indicated, one such measure is the
negotiation of a convention under which it would be
agreed that there will be no further manufacturing of
weapons-grade fissile material. This convention should be
sought now.
Any discussion of arms control and disarmament in
today’s world that failed to address the question of
landmines would be sadly incomplete. These hideous and
diabolically inexpensive weapons must be banned.
Australia will support efforts that will be made at this
session of the Assembly to take the next step towards the
negotiation of an international convention to that effect.
But in the meantime, there are in excess of 100
million of these maiming weapons distributed in the soil
of too many countries. Demining must proceed at a far
faster rate than has been the case in the past. There have
been technological barriers to increasing that rate and
Australia has therefore proposed that a technology
working group be established among interested and
capable countries with the purpose of designing the
equipment required for demining on a far larger and
quicker scale.
If there is any doubt about the need for this action,
I would place on record here that, if the current rate of
demining in Cambodia were to be maintained,
that
country, which has struggled so hard to repair itself,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
would not be free of these mines for a further 130 years.
This must be unacceptable to all. That
is why the
Australian Government recently committed $12 million to
practical demining initiatives in the war-ravaged fields
within our own region.
Security Council reform is another vitally important
item on the peace-and-security agenda. The three key issues
to be tackled are expansion,
transparency and the
effectiveness of sanctions regimes.
There is now a general acceptance that the Security
Council must be expanded and modernized if it
is to
manage international peace and security more effectively.
Although Australia wants to avoid making the Council too
unwieldy, there can be little doubt that its membership
needs to reflect better current geopolitical and economic
circumstances. Expanding the membership is an important
element in achieving this and Australia believes that an
expansion up to a total Council membership of 25 States
would be reasonable.
This brings me to the more contentious point of
permanent as against non-permanent membership. Australia
has made clear that it supports the claims of Japan and
Germany to permanent membership. This is the very least
the United Nations can do to acknowledge their major-
Power status and the financial contribution they are making
to the Organization.
Australia also advocates permanent seats on the
Council for underrepresented regions. As to how that is to
be achieved, we remain flexible. Whether those seats are
filled by a single member or rotate among leading Member
States agreed on by regional groupings needs to be
discussed further, primarily by those regions concerned. We
also see scope for an increase in the number of
non-permanent members of the Council, again in the
interests of ensuring greater balance in representation.
I turn now to the need for greater transparency in
Security Council processes. Consultative mechanisms have
improved in recent times, notably between the Secretariat
and troop-contributing countries, but more needs to be
done. Australia is committed to trying to improve the way
in which the Security Council interacts with non-members
so that the Council’s activities become more responsive to
the United Nations as a whole.
More needs to be done, too, to build the Council’s
relationship with regional organizations. Good progress has
been recorded to date, but United Nations and regional
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
organizations should meet regularly in order to develop
further the appropriate division of responsibilities.
The Council also has an important role to play in
preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction and enhancing the effectiveness of
the
non-proliferation regime.
Australia wants
to see improvements
in the
effectiveness of United Nations sanctions because we
recognize that the Security Council’s use of collective
sanctions continues to be an important and, at times,
contentious enforcement measure. The effectiveness of
sanctions regimes could be improved in three ways:
clearer drafting of Security Council resolutions; providing
specific objectives and realistic time-frames; and through
relevant
clear
interpretative guidance on implementation. These are
changes that are essential for the Security Council’s
dynamism. We need to press ahead with them to ensure
that the Council reflects modern-day circumstances and
realities.
committees
providing
sanctions
Initial post-cold-war hopes
Our contemporary circumstances have opened up
new needs and prospects for peacekeeping and preventive
diplomacy.
the
capabilities of the Security Council have been tempered.
It has become clear that many conflicts are intractable.
Experience has taught us that
to reach
agreement on suitable approaches and to find enough
resources, particularly in the area of peacekeeping.
is difficult
about
it
The Security Council must be realistic in the
implementation of its Charter responsibilities. It must
resist pressure to embark on missions before it has
completed adequate preparations, developed a focused
sense of the mission’s goals and agreed on a clearly
articulated mandate.
At
this very moment,
the United Nations
is
confronted with major challenges
in such diverse
situations as those in Cyprus, Burundi and Liberia.
Australia has been contributing personnel to the United
Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus, for example, for
over 20 years and has been saddened by the recent
incidents of violence there. The time has come to resolve
that situation, which requires the assistance of all parties.
One very important area of reform for United
Nations peacekeeping is to establish an enhanced rapid-
reaction capability. There have been many proposals on
this issue, but the Australian Government believes that the
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Canadian study, Towards a Rapid Reaction Capability for
commendable
the United Nations,
recommendations,
a
deployable, operational-level headquarters to strengthen
planning for operations.
some
development
contains
the
including
of
Australia welcomes recent moves by the Department
of Peacekeeping Operations
to begin implementing
measures aimed at improving United Nations rapid-reaction
capability, but in taking these measures forward, the United
Nations should consult adequately with all Member States.
Australia is also keen to see the United Nations
develop the preventive-diplomacy agenda and it welcomes
the greater resources the Secretariat now devotes to such
activity. The Security Council, the General Assembly and
the good offices of the Secretary-General, as well as
regional arrangements and agencies, have important roles to
play in preventive diplomacy. Australia supports greater use
of Chapter VI of the Charter on the pacific settlement of
disputes. Article 33 is particularly important. The Security
Council can use it to undertake a leadership role by calling
on disputing parties to seek a solution using negotiation,
mediation and other peaceful means.
As I indicated at the beginning of this statement, one
of the chief results of the end of the cold war must surely
be an increase in our ability to turn away from military
concerns and to give a greater degree of attention to threats
to the security of individuals, as distinct from those threats
to the security of States that have dominated our thinking
in the past, important and basic though they have been and
remain.
In today’s world and in the world we see unfolding
into the twenty-first century, the security of far too many
people is threatened in ways no less immediate than the
threat of the gun. I have in mind narcotics, HIV/AIDS and
major threats to the environment. These threats cannot be
dealt with effectively by States acting alone. Sometimes
they require new international law, but more specifically
they require political will to defeat them and to foster
cooperation
ensure maximum
effectiveness of action.
nations
among
to
The United Nations is the ideal environment in which
to develop such cooperation. It is here that the world is
represented. We have here a tradition of debate, of
discussion, of identification of problems and of consensus.
We have the ability to make law when it is necessary.
Above all, we have pledged ourselves to defending and
12
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
providing a decent standard of living to the peoples we
represent.
There is also a regional role and, in that context,
Australia was pleased to have promoted the concept of a
regional HIV/AIDS ministers’ meeting at
the Post-
Ministerial Conference of this year’s session of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations.
As we move towards the twenty-first century, it will
be crucial to the execution of that responsibility to ensure
that we have a healthy United Nations that is devoted to
international cooperation aimed at defeating the major
non-military threats to the security of the human family.
These threats are tragically evident to us today. They will
only become larger if we do not agree, now, to begin
cooperative action to defeat them. History will surely
judge our generation harshly if, having identified the
problems of human security, we fail for lack of will to
address their solutions.
Another great
requirement of our
times is the
economic needs of people and the promotion of
development. Much has been done through the United
Nations and its agencies to advance the development
cause. They have been pivotal to the emergence of a
multilateral approach in which institutions with special
competencies such as the specialized agencies,
the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank,
together with policy deliberative bodies such as the
General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council,
have complementary roles to play.
Development
is about more than just economic
growth, however. There is also the need for internal
stability, sound environmental management, a vigorous
civil society and a lively democracy. The United Nations
is uniquely placed to build consensus on how to advance
these various elements of the development agenda.
In this context, Australia welcomes the constructive
outcomes achieved at the ninth session of the United
Nations Conference
and Development
(UNCTAD) held in Midrand, South Africa, earlier this
year. The decisions taken there should help developing
countries benefit from the opportunities of economic
globalization.
on Trade
We also underline the importance of encouraging
investment and technology transfers and providing trade
opportunities to stimulate economic development. Such
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
development
independence and economic and social well-being.
enduring foundation
the only
is
for
It is in Africa that these development challenges are
most stark. Rich in promise yet wearied by emergencies,
Africa stands today at a decisive juncture in its history.
African leaders
seized the moment with the
Organization of African Unity’s 1995 Cairo Agenda for
Action,
in which they called for immediate action to
implement
for which an
international consensus now exists. The United Nations
responded this year with the launch of a 10-year,
$25 billion United Nations System-wide Special Initiative
for Africa.
the development
strategies
The Australian Government welcomes the Special
Initiative as a concrete demonstration of the international
community’s concern with Africa. The international
community cannot allow disease, poverty, war and
underdevelopment
to become entrenched in the 53
nations — almost one-third of United Nations Member
States — that make up the African continent.
The world must continue to seek ways to break the
poverty cycle in Africa so that its potential for economic
development is realized. Sustainable economic development
is essential to overcome poverty, disease and conflict.
The United Nations system needs to give greater focus
and impetus to the development effort in Africa.
in international
I now turn to the issue of human rights. Human rights
are important
two main
reasons: first, political instability and major conflict can
result where human rights are breached or are under threat;
and secondly, the freedom and dignity of individuals is, in
itself, of fundamental value to the world community.
relations for
aims
The Australian Government
for practical
outcomes that will improve the lives of individual men,
women and children. We recognize the importance of
dialogue and cooperation, based on mutual respect. In
addition to public and private diplomacy, Australia’s
approach to the improvement of human rights also
encompasses development cooperation.
Australia strongly supports the development of strong
and independent national human rights institutions. For
example, Australia provided financial
for a
workshop of Asia-Pacific national human rights institutions,
which agreed to establish an informal forum to work for the
support
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
strengthening and further development of such institutions
in the region. Australia has also provided financial
support
to the United Nations for the creation of a
position of special adviser to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights on national human
rights institutions.
Finally, it is important to address the issue of reform
of the United Nations. Much work still needs to be done
to bring about greater efficiency and effectiveness in the
United Nations and its specialized agencies.
While Australia applauds the dedication and hard
work of the General Assembly Working Groups that were
set up in 1995, Member States must not lose sight of the
fact that to achieve real change, the Groups have to come
up with realistic and achievable recommendations. Those
recommendations must
in turn lead to practical and
measurable outcomes.
It
that
is important
the work of the groups be
focused and that their momentum be restored so that early
and positive outcomes can be achieved. We must all
commit ourselves to this end and to bringing about
structured change within the United Nations.
It is also crucial that the financial situation of the
United Nations be repaired. Australia believes that all
Members should pay their contributions in full and on
time. We therefore welcome recent moves by some
countries to pay their arrears.
It is time to establish a revised scale of assessed
contributions that more fairly reflects what Governments
can pay. The current minimum payment is too high for
many small-economy countries, and Australia would like
to see it reduced or even removed.
These are the reforms that Australia believes are
necessary to equip the United Nations for its role in the
twenty-first century.
It is in this overall context that Australia is deeply
committed to contributing to the United Nations goal of
maintaining international peace and security in an active
way. Serving a term as a non-permanent member of the
Security Council during 1997-1998 would enable
Australia to make a substantive contribution to that goal
and to work for a more effective, modernized and
transparent Council. That is why we have asked for the
support of Member States at the elections to be held a
few weeks from now.
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Let me conclude by summing up what I have said
today. The United Nations is unique and needed, but it
must pursue, and work on the basis of, a relevant Agenda.
This is the central point. The United Nations must be put
to work on the agenda of the twenty-first century.
Much work needs to be done to tackle the key
challenges that face the United Nations. Only a sustained,
cooperative effort among all Member States will bring
success. Australia will make that effort.
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Tunisia, His Excellency Mr. Habib Ben Yahia.
Mr. Ben Yahia (Tunisia) (interpretation from Arabic):
Allow me first of all to convey to Mr. Razali Ismail my
sincere and heartfelt congratulations on the occasion of his
election to the presidency of the fifty-first session of the
General Assembly. I am convinced that thanks to his wise
and able leadership and his extensive experience in the field
of international relations, the proceedings of our session
will be successful.
the
international
the regional and international
Malaysia’s presidency of the General Assembly is
clear testimony to the respect that Mr. Razali’s country
enjoys within
community, which
appreciates the great and efficient role played by Malaysia
at
to
strengthen and consolidate relations among nations on the
basis of peace,
take this
opportunity to pay tribute to the excellent relations of
friendship and fruitful cooperation that exist between our
two countries.
justice and cooperation.
levels in order
I
I should like also to convey my sincere thanks to
Mr. Razali’s predecessor, Mr. Freitas do Amaral, for his
valuable efforts during his presidency of the fiftieth session
of the General Assembly. I wish to mention in particular
his contribution to helping advance the process of reform of
the United Nations, in order to make it more efficient in the
light of the changes the world is witnessing.
I should like also to pay tribute to Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali and to convey to him our appreciation and
support for his continued selfless dedication as head of the
Secretariat of the United Nations. My delegation also
appreciates his courageous initiatives, especially his Special
Initiative for Africa, as well as his constructive proposals
within the Agenda for Peace and the Agenda for
Development. Tunisia, which supports the renewal of
14
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
Mr. Boutros-Ghali’s mandate, stresses the importance of
continuing the reform process undertaken in recent years.
With the end of the cold war,
the international
community has entered a new era of
international
relations that aims to reject the use of force and violence
as a means of settling conflicts, and to put an end to the
arms race. This trend favours the logic of wisdom and
moderation by resorting to peaceful means and preventive
diplomacy, which offer possibilities
for dialogue,
concertation and negotiation to resolve conflicts, disputes
and crises, however complex they may be.
We welcome this emerging trend in international
relations, which is a consecration of the principles and
purposes of the United Nations as enunciated in its
Charter. This trend must be strengthened and consolidated
in order to eliminate sources of tension and defuse
conflicts before they break out.
The
international
just and honourable peace,
community welcomed with
enthusiasm the start of the peace process in the Middle
East. This raised hopes of seeing the parties arrive at a
true, comprehensive,
thus
putting an end to a cruel conflict that has lasted for
almost half a century, during which time the peoples of
the region have experienced the horrors of war,
destruction, exodus and occupation. This peace settlement
should be based on international law and United Nations
resolutions, in particular Security Council resolutions 242
(1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978), and on the principle
of the exchange of land for peace.
track. However,
The Madrid Conference and the ensuing intensive
negotiations, which resulted in the Oslo, Washington and
Cairo agreements, led us to believe that the new peace
process was finally on the right
the
agenda of the new Israeli Government has dashed the
hopes of the peoples of the region. This agenda has
indeed blocked the peace process on all
tracks. An
increase in Israeli pressures and provocations, which aim
ultimately at imposing the policy of the fait accompli, has
hindered the Palestinian people’s progress
towards
achieving their legitimate right to self-determination and
to create their own independent State.
The bloody events triggered by the opening of a
tunnel under the Holy Mosque of Al-Aqsa emphasize the
need for decisive international action to bring the Israeli
Government to abide by the agreements concluded with
the Palestinian Authority and to comply with international
law regarding the settlement of the question of Palestine.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Tunisia is concerned by the stagnation of the peace
process and its negative effects on building the future of the
region on the basis of peace, security, stability and
cooperation among its peoples. Tunisia considers that Israel
must re-evaluate its present policy and commit itself to
respecting the principles of the peace process and to
implementing the agreements already signed.
resumption of
in facilitating the
We also call upon the international community,
particularly the sponsors of the peace process, to spare no
effort
the peace
negotiations as soon as possible in order to avoid any risk
of failure, which could affect the credibility of this process
and lead to the return of confrontation and the escalation of
violence, extremism and terrorism. We believe that
confidence-building, good faith and a sincere commitment
to a peaceful solution are necessary to advance this process.
The commitment of all parties to achieving a just,
comprehensive and lasting peace is essential to ensuring the
security and stability of the States of the region as well as
the coexistence of their peoples.
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
Devoted to peace and a staunch supporter of just
causes, Tunisia reiterates its solidarity with the United
Arab Emirates and its full support for that country’s
endeavour to recover through peaceful means, which
include appealing to the International Court of Justice, the
islands of Great Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa.
Turning to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Tunisia expresses its satisfaction at the return of peace to
this country, and hopes that the recent elections will mark
a new era in which concord,
the beginning of
understanding and common action will prevail,
thus
allowing the establishment of the foundations of the
Bosnian State.
and
international
consolidating
We note that today the international community is
giving priority to disarmament as the best means of
ensuring
security.
Considerable progress has been made in this regard,
especially in the area of controlling the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction, in particular chemical and
nuclear weapons.
As stated by President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on
many occasions, Tunisia is committed to following the
same approach it has taken since the beginning of the peace
process, by establishing a close link between each step
towards normalization and the progress achieved by the
negotiations on all tracks.
The establishment of peace in the Middle East depends
on the maintenance of security and stability in the Gulf
region. Tunisia, which is deeply concerned by recent
developments in that region, calls upon all parties to show
restraint, avoid any escalation and remain committed to
international
legality and to the implementation of all
United Nations resolutions. Tunisia also reiterates its
commitment to respect the sovereignty of all States in the
region as well as their territorial integrity and inviolability.
We also call for an end to the suffering that the Iraqi
people have been experiencing for several years, and we
hope that recent developments in the region will not
aggravate this situation.
Tunisia believes that the time has come to lift the
embargo imposed on the Libyan people in view of the
numerous positive initiatives taken by Libya, the League of
Arab States and the Organization of African Unity, all of
which aim at reaching a peaceful and just solution and at
putting an end to the suffering of the brotherly Libyan
people within the framework of international legality.
Tunisia welcomes the adoption by the General
Assembly of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
and its opening for signature. We hope that all Member
States will adhere to this Treaty, in order to ensure its
universal application. The Treaty’s conclusion, as well as
the anticipated strengthening of the Biological Weapons
Convention, due to be reviewed soon in order to provide
it with a verification mechanism, will no doubt
consolidate the progress made thus far in the field of
disarmament.
While expressing our appreciation for the declaration
of Africa as a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone, we hope that
our continent will be relieved of all weapons of mass
destruction. We also reiterate our call to free the Middle
East from all nuclear weapons and weapons of mass
destruction.
While emphasizing the necessity of introducing
efficient measures for ensuring a total ban of weapons of
mass destruction, we believe that it is also essential to
tackle the issue of conventional weapons, particularly the
question of the accumulation and illegal trade in light
weapons. This problem is not only serious but is growing
more so every day, since these are the most commonly
used weapons in current conflicts and recent terrorist
operations.
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In addition to its contribution to disarmament efforts,
Tunisia has always supported United Nations peacekeeping
efforts around the world. From the early 1960s on, it has
taken part in United Nations operations in many African
countries, Cambodia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and
elsewhere.
Convinced of the importance of these operations in
maintaining international peace and security, Tunisia called
on member States of the Organization of African Unity
(OAU) to create special units within their armed forces for
participation when necessary in peacekeeping operations on
the African continent.
While welcoming the decision of the United Nations
on establishing a system of standby forces to act
to
intervene rapidly and efficiently in peacekeeping operations,
Tunisia solemnly declares its readiness today to participate
in that system, thus confirming our commitment to the
Organization and to its role in the maintenance of world
peace and security.
the illegal
Intolerance, racism, organized crime, the illegal arms
and drug trades,
traffic in human beings,
terrorism and extremism in all its forms are all phenomena
that have taken on a transnational dimension. The
international community should ensure that appropriate
solutions are found by means of a global approach based on
the
international
cooperation strategies in order to contain and eradicate
these scourges.
implementation
definition
and
of
On many occasions and before various international
and regional forums, my country has called the international
community’s attention to the dangers of
re-emergent
terrorism and extremism, which threaten the stability and
security of States as well as the safety of individuals. In
this vein, Tunisia called for the conduct of a comprehensive
and thorough re-evaluation of the attitudes of all parties to
these scourges through the establishment of international
rules of conduct with the aim of fighting all
illegal
activities, particularly those related to terrorism, in order to
find efficient and lasting remedies to these problems and to
eliminate their deep-rooted causes.
the
satisfaction
Tunisia notes with
increasing
awareness of the need for the international community to
join efforts in order to fight terrorism. We hope that the
United Nations will adopt mandatory measures that would
address this phenomenon by criminalizing all terrorist acts.
We also hope that all member States will revise and adapt
their relevant legislation to these measures.
16
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
efforts
steadfast
Tunisia’s
the
foundations of the country’s political institutions and the
rule of law and to promote and protect human rights in
their global dimension flow from a civilized, irreversible
choice made in accordance with universal values.
to consolidate
Eager to ensure respect for human dignity and to
encourage ongoing development efforts to secure the
well-being of all citizens, Tunisia has been able to
reconcile, in a balanced manner, economic growth with
the preservation of political, economic and social rights,
the requisite foundations of democracy.
Tunisia will continue to advance the causes of
human rights in the world and to support the United
Nations Voluntary Fund for technical assistance in the
field of human rights, as well as the Programme of
Action for the United Nations Decade for Human Rights
Education.
We are persuaded that
the dissemination of the
culture of human rights will come to fruition only with
the promotion of tolerance, which is an essential civilized
value upon which are based all religions and human-rights
ideals.
Tunisia placed particular emphasis on tolerance in
the reform of its education system, since it is convinced
that global change,
the progress of civilization and
culture, as well as economic and social growth, will be
firmly established only when coming generations are
well-prepared and when the values of peace, democracy
and goodness are complemented by a culture of tolerance.
Economic globalization has opened new perspectives
for international cooperation for development. But it has
also had a negative impact on the economies of numerous
developing countries that have been swept up in it
without adequately preparing their economic and social
structures.
and multidimensional
In the new era, Tunisia has focused on setting up a
development
comprehensive
strategy designed to assist the disadvantaged in society
and based on a broadened concept of human rights.
regard was based on a
Tunisia’s policy in this
development
equal
opportunities to all levels of society and ensuring the
well-being of all its citizens.
providing
approach
aimed
at
The human dimension for which Tunisia has opted
in defining its development policies has led to a deeper
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
spirit of solidarity within the population towards the
underprivileged and vulnerable sectors and to granting them
the highest priority. In order to achieve these objectives,
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali took the initiative of
establishing an anti-poverty programme — the National
Solidarity Fund — aimed at eradicating pockets of poverty
and ensuring harmonious development for all social sectors.
The debt burden in the third world is a very serious
problem that cannot be overlooked, since it constitutes the
main obstacle to their efforts
to achieve a regular
development pattern, free from any shortcomings or failure.
While we welcome the Group of Seven’s economic
communiqué on the issue of debt, we also stress the need
to take appropriate measures to alleviate the debt burden of
middle-income countries.
The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund
and the World Trade Organization should implement the
commitments undertaken by the international community in
the framework of the major conferences held during the
past five years. To this end, they need to mobilize the
resources required to fund the programmes adopted by
these conferences in the quest for sustainable development.
We welcome the process of reform initiated by the
United Nations with the aim of adjusting to the emerging
international environment,
improving its functions and
assuming its responsibilities as the institution best able to
maintain peace and security, on the one hand, and to pursue
and support efforts on behalf of the economic and social
development of the developing countries, on the other.
To this end, it is equally important to continue the
process of reform of the Organization with the aim of
rationalizing and strengthening its role as the central pillar
of international cooperation for achieving objectives and
implementing programmes agreed upon by the international
community, on the basis of priorities set by Governments
seeking to eradicate poverty and to support employment and
housing programmes, as well as those that provide basic
services in the education and health sectors and offer
protection
socially
underprivileged.
to women,
children
and
the
These objectives can be attained only through the use
jointly agreed criteria based on transparency and
of
democracy in international relations, and by rejecting any
policy that involves a double standard.
In order to preserve the prestige and credibility of the
United Nations, it is necessary to implement the resolutions
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
the Organization adopts and to follow up on the
commitments entered into by States.
We would also like to underline the extreme
importance we attach to the restructuring of the Security
Council, so as to enable this eminent body to play its key
role in the maintenance of
international peace and
security, while taking into consideration the need for an
equitable geographical representation based on new geo-
political realities. I should like to recall in this respect that
Tunisia supports granting Japan and Germany the status
of permanent members of the Security Council, owing to
the political and economic standing of both countries.
In accordance with the consensus reached at the
thirtieth Organization of African Unity summit meeting,
held in Tunis, we reaffirm Africa’s right to at least two
permanent seats on the Security Council that would rotate
among all African States.
Tunisia supports any initiative that takes into account
these principles, and it expresses its appreciation for the
initiatives and ideas presented by some States,
in
particular friendly neighbouring Italy, in order to achieve
a comprehensive vision regarding reform of the Security
Council.
Finally, we believe that
the success of our
Organization depends on the determination of all Member
States to act
in conformity with the purposes and
principles set out in the Charter, as well as on sincere
political will, in order to allow our Organization to fulfil
the aspirations and hopes of our peoples, who provide it
the indispensable support
it needs to guarantee its
continued vitality, its renewed capacity and its durability.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
for Foreign Affairs of
I now call on the Minister
Honduras, His Excellency Mr. Delmer Urbizo Panting.
Mr. Urbizo
(Honduras)
(interpretation
from
Spanish): Once again the United Nations General
Assembly is meeting to take stock of the global situation
and of the role that the Organization plays in that context.
I am confident that the experience, talent and diplomatic
skills of our President, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail,
will play a decisive role in this complex undertaking. I
wish him every success in his sensitive work.
I wish also to express my delegation’s gratitude for
the excellent job done by Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal, in the course of
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
the last General Assembly session, which commemorated
the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of this Organization.
with the foreign policy pursued by the President of the
Republic, Mr. Carlos Roberto Reina.
My country has been observing very closely the
administrative activities of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali in his
capacity as Secretary-General, and we feel bound to express
our recognition of the poise with which he has guided the
United Nations during these difficult
the
Organization and for the whole world. His undeniable
qualities of statesmanship have averted crises, and his
strength of character has succeeded in upholding the ideals
on which this Organization is founded. I wish to convey to
him, on my own behalf and on behalf of my Government,
my sincere respect and admiration.
times
for
Honduras reiterates its conviction that international
conflicts must be settled by peaceful and diplomatic means.
For this reason, we recognize the importance and value of
the 1995 Dayton peace agreement,
the 1996 Paris
agreements and the subsequent international agreements and
commitments
for which the international community
prepared the way. These have led to a cessation of
hostilities, the resumption of political talks, international
recognition between Belgrade and Zagreb, and the
establishment of relations between the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia.
and The
In the Americas, Haiti is an example of the results that
can be achieved through concerted action and political will
on the part of the international community in establishing,
through the United Nations, operations designed to achieve,
maintain and consolidate peace. My country wishes to
in those
express its satisfaction at having taken part
operations, as well as in those carried out
in Western
Sahara.
In the same vein, we cannot overlook the problems of
the subregion. Honduras has always viewed with concern
the problems besetting its sister
republics in Central
America. For this reason, we acknowledge and support all
efforts in this regard, in particular the agreements reached
between the Government of Guatemala and the URNG.
At the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly,
my country secured unanimous support in this body to
occupy a seat in the Security Council as a non-permanent
member. We believe that we have fully lived up to the trust
vested in us, since we have worked in the Council in strict
adherence to the principles and norms of international law
enshrined in the United Nations Charter and in keeping
18
Throughout our first
term of presidency of the
Council, in July last year, we succeeded in maintaining
the necessary equanimity and balance to steer the work
and the debates on the various issues brought before the
presidency of the Council. These included humanitarian
operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda and
Burundi, as well as peace operations in Haiti, Angola and
Liberia.
Tomorrow we will assume the presidency of the
Security Council for the second time, and we shall work
in the same spirit of cooperation and with genuine resolve
to help bring about solutions to problems that arise in the
area of international peace and security.
Central America has now returned to the world
scene with a new, integrational approach that promotes
joint action and allows it to speed up its development
process. Our approach, grounded in history, tradition,
solidarity and, above all, our awareness of a shared
destiny, has made it possible for us to pool our efforts in
seeking to achieve
economic
development in all areas.
a higher
level of
In the framework of the integration process in our
subregion,
since 1986 we have held a series of
presidential summits, the first six of which were highly
political in nature, fulfilling the purpose of securing peace
and democratization in the region. The following ones,
focusing on economic topics, led to the formation of the
Central American Integration System (SICA) and defined
our current agenda: alliance for sustainable development.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank this
Assembly for the support it gave our System last year by
granting it the status of observer, which will make it
possible to achieve greater cooperation between the
United Nations System and the Central American
Integration System.
is
to
strongly
committed
As we stand on the threshold of a new millennium,
my Government
the
responsibilities imposed by the world around us. In this
respect, Honduras is in favour of greater democratization
of the principal organs of the United Nations. We take the
view that an increase in the number of permanent and
non-permanent Members of the Security Council should
be carried out
in accordance with the principles of
sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
distribution, and that it should reflect the expansion in the
membership of the United Nations in recent decades so as
to transform the Security Council into a more democratic
and representative organ,
that would thus be a more
credible and effective instrument in fulfilling its primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security without affecting its efficiency or the speed of its
decision-making processes. Genuine democratization and
real representativity in the Security Council should be the
principal basis for the expansion of twenty-first-century
world government.
We would all like to see a more competent, responsive
and responsible United Nations. We should all like it to be
better administered and more consolidated and to yield
tangible results. To this end, it is essential to undertake
meaningful reform in order to enhance its efficiency and to
ensure that the United Nations can have a secure financial
footing, robust administration and structural capacity, and
a clear sense of purpose in tackling its tasks.
The General Assembly should play the role now
played by costly world conferences, and it should be the
forum for sustained thematic debates on important and
topical issues held at regular intervals. At the same time,
the traditional agenda of the Assembly should be cut back
radically. Recurring items should be considered less
frequently. We should impose a time limit on our
statements, and we need to reform the structure of the
committees and auxiliary bodies so as to avoid overlapping
and duplication.
My country, Honduras,
is continuing to work
vigorously to strengthen, among other things, its democratic
system of government, to bolster judicial power, to organize
the national police under civilian rule, to modernize the
State, in addition to striving to create a new frame of
reference to promote development on the basis of full
participation by all sectors of society.
Honduras, like all other developing countries, is deeply
committed to processes designed to combat poverty and
underdevelopment and to mobilize the potential of its
peoples and resources in order to attain speedy, fair and
sustained growth, working jointly to enhance the effect of
national efforts through solidarity, cooperation and mutual
confidence.
However, there are still many economic and financial
obligations that need to be met in the short- and medium-
term. International cooperation is steadily declining, and
poverty indicators are becoming worse.
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
We wish to see a world where countries, mindful of
their diversity, act together to attain common goals, a
world in which peace, security and dignity will be the
common heritage of all peoples, a world in which the
advances of science will serve to benefit humankind and,
in short, a world in which existing resources are used
rationally in order to meet everyone’s needs. This is our
understanding
of what,
essence, North-South
cooperation should mean.
in
As the United Nations enters its second half-century,
we have an opportunity to work towards the objective of
its Charter — world cooperation in deterring and halting
aggression — and to foster peaceful, productive and
sustainable human progress. In this respect, “An Agenda
for Development” offers a unique opportunity to make the
issue of economic and social development a central
priority of the multilateral system. Promotion of sustained
economic growth and eradication of poverty in the
developing countries, as well as the legitimate leadership
that the United Nations should show in this field, must
also be key objectives of the Agenda.
My country hopes that
the negotiations on the
Agenda for Development being held by the Ad Hoc
Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on
An Agenda for Development will conclude promptly and
successfully in the course of the fifty-first session of the
Assembly. The completion of this work will be a point of
departure because it will give rise to firm commitments
and mark the beginning of the task of putting the actions
agreed upon into practice.
Honduras, as a peace-loving country, reaffirms its
total support for the principles and objectives seeking the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons and to establish
a
effective
machinery that will help to promote nuclear disarmament
and to prevent proliferation of such weapons in all its
aspects.
verifiable, multilateral
universal,
and
Consistent with these principles, I am pleased to
announce that Honduras has signed the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty at this session of the General
Assembly, and I would venture to appeal to all States
Members of the United Nations to sign it as soon as
possible. We would also urge all States possessing
nuclear weapons to take resolute steps to reduce them
with a view to their elimination.
The existence of landmines and other undetonated
explosive devices in various regions of the world is a
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
tremendous humanitarian problem and a grave threat to the
security, health and survival of the local population where
these deadly devices have been scattered. These devices
prevent the return of refugees and displaced persons to their
homes in the States affected by this ongoing menace and
impede humanitarian operations and programmes, national
reconstruction and economic development activities and
peacekeeping operations.
For this reason, we urge Member States, particularly
those that have the capacity to do so,
to lend their
assistance to the affected countries, including those of the
Central American region, with a view to establishing and
refining national mine-clearance mechanisms. We also
appeal to the international community finally to agree on
the total prohibition of the production, exportation, sale and
use of anti-personnel mines.
is
My delegation wishes once again to place on record its
interest in seeing the Republic of China in Taiwan admitted
as a Member of the United Nations. At this moment in
time, when democratic systems of government and the rule
of law are gaining ground in most of the nations that make
up this Organization, it seems contradictory to continue
excluding the Republic of China in Taiwan from
participation. This
struggled
determinedly for democracy and succeeded in establishing
it this year with the election of a Government by the direct
vote of the majority of its people. This is a nation that
respects human rights, possesses one of the strongest
economies on earth and has been constantly struggling to
eradicate poverty, and whose population of 21 million
people enjoys an enviable cultural
the
Republic of China in Taiwan fully meets the requirements
established in the Charter for membership of the United
Nations.
country which
level. In short,
a
For the developing countries, its participation in the
various international forums would be extremely beneficial,
since we would be able to draw on its valuable experience
in cooperation programmes, as demonstrated when it
occupied a seat in this General Assembly from the day it
signed the Charter until 1971.
the
“Role
in
of
In this respect, my Government supports the resolution
adopted on 19 July 1996 by the European Parliament
entitled
International
Organizations”, which explicitly states its support for the
idea that the Republic of China in Taiwan should have a
greater
recognition and representation in
international agencies. It also urges the United Nations to
establish a working group to study the possibility of its
level of
Taiwan
20
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
participation in the activities of the United Nations and its
international agencies.
The problem of drug production is not as severe in
the Central American region as it is elsewhere, although
our countries are not unaffected by drug use. For this
reason, on 21 June, the Ministers of the Interior of our
region agreed to develop a plan of cooperation to fight
this evil. In this regard, we support
the initiative of
convening a special session of the United Nations General
Assembly in 1998 in order to strengthen the international
strategy to combat narcotic drugs.
With a view to beginning to address the problem of
the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations
system, 1996 could be a year of meditation and reflection.
Calls have been made for a redefinition of the purposes
of the Organization and, in particular, of the tasks of the
Security Council. In order to achieve this important task,
we must work on the basis of a shared and balanced
vision of the future of the Organization. The construction
of a culture of international peace, security and prosperity
should be the ultimate goal in this redefinition of tasks.
This
the United Nations must
accomplish in response to the needs of our peoples.
something that
is
As we approach the end of the century and the
millennium, the globality of economies and the grouping
of countries into systems of integration are becoming
irreversible facts. One consequence of this will be the
resurgence of mega-States in which smaller States will
remain submerged. We are concerned for the future of
weaker and less developed nations which,
like ours,
require great external and internal efforts to retain the
identity that distinguishes them from the rest of the world.
The right of peoples to decide their own destiny on
the basis of sovereignty is enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations. This right must be observed in the new
world order if we wish to preserve, as is our duty, peace
and cultural plurality among nations.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
Ambassador, Permanent Representative and Head of
delegation of the Republic of Rwanda, His Excellency,
Mr. Gideon Kayinamura.
Mr. Kayinamura
(Rwanda): Permit me
to
congratulate Mr. Razali Ismail on his unanimous election
to preside over this session. His election is a reaffirmation
by the United Nations Member States of the confidence
that they have placed in him and in the Government of
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Malaysia. In this regard, I should like to assure him of the
cooperation of the delegation of the Republic of Rwanda in
our shared desire to galvanize the community of nations in
their common resolve to fulfil the objectives of the United
Nations Charter. I should like to take this opportunity to
pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo
Freitas do Amaral, for presiding over the fiftieth session of
the General Assembly in a most efficient and able manner.
The session over which Mr. Razali is presiding will be
addressing a considerable agenda of more than 155 items,
which, when put together, will contribute to world peace,
security and stability. The United Nations is the most
appropriate forum to discuss these and other related matters
of global peace, development and international cooperation.
The agenda before us therefore seeks to address the
implementation of
the Charter, as
enshrined in Article 1.
the objectives of
for Peace
and its valuable
As we move towards the twenty-first century, it is our
individual and collective responsibility to re-examine the
extent to which our countries have or have not contributed
to the attainment of these objectives. The United Nations
Agenda
initiatives on
peacekeeping, human rights and other development-related
issues — collective security, terrorism, denuclearization,
conflict prevention and resolution — will be discussed
during the session. Rwanda would like to join its voice to
those of the delegations that spoke from this rostrum and
who called for world peace, security and the development
of developing countries.
Statements have been made from this rostrum in
connection with what some have described as the ghastly
events that took place in Rwanda in 1994. Many, perhaps
inadvertently and in a simplistic manner, have described the
events of 1994 in Rwanda as a conflict, a crisis, ghastly
events or as gross violations of human rights. There was
genocide in Rwanda, nothing else but a genocide. It was
not a tribal or ethnic conflict, as it is often referred to.
Between April and July 1994 more than one million
Rwandans were butchered in a systematic and planned
manner. This carnage was carried out in only 98 days. The
devastating effects of
the Rwandan
genocide are still with us, and we live with them. Rwanda’s
population now consists of 70 per cent women, 60 per cent
of whom are widows, and we have 400,000 orphans in the
country.
the aftermath of
The perpetrators of the Rwandan genocide are still at
large in some capitals. Far from feeling remorse, they pride
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
themselves in their unfinished agenda. Their army, militia
and political leadership are in military and refugee camps
within walking distance of the Rwanda-Zaire border. They
have recently stepped up infiltrations into Rwanda in
order to kill the remaining survivors of genocide.
We call upon the international community to exert
pressure on the Government of Zaire to relocate the
refugees away from its borders with Rwanda,
in
conformity with the 1951 Geneva convention (relating to
the Status of Refugees).
The withdrawal of United Nations peacekeeping
troops in April 1994, at the height of the execution of the
genocidal agenda, was not helpful. For us in Rwanda, it
remains, and will continue to remain, a reminder of the
responsibility of the United Nations to ensure that this
does not reoccur anywhere else. More importantly, it
points to the need for the United Nations to support
Rwanda in its efforts to rebuild its socio-economic
infrastructure. This is critical. There can be no sustainable
peace without reconstruction and development. The recent
high-level symposium on conflicts in Africa, which was
held in Tokyo this month, on 9 and 10 September, came
to the same conclusion.
Allow me to put on record my Government’s
appreciation of the efforts made by those countries,
institutions and humanitarian agencies that helped and
continue to assist Rwanda in the various
sectoral
rehabilitation programmes. We are equally grateful to
those who have shown their disposition to do so in the
near future.
The recently concluded round table conference,
which was organized with the support of the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), has been
helpful. We are grateful for the commitments that were
made. This will go a long way in assisting Rwanda to
consolidate and build on the achievements of the past two
years.
The Government of National Unity of Rwanda,
under the leadership of His Excellency President Pasteur
Bizimungu, has made significant strides to return the
country to normalcy. Tremendous achievements have
been made, including the gradual and steady rehabilitation
of the security structure, the judiciary, the legislature and
the economy. The sound macroeconomic policies that
have been adopted have contributed, in less than two
years, to a reduction in inflation from 60 per cent in 1994
to 10 per cent in 1996. This will drop to 5 per cent by the
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
end of 1997. Agricultural production has reached 70 per
cent of the pre-war level, and we have recorded impressive
levels of food production.
We are also pleased to inform the international
community that more than 2.2 million refugees have now
returned to Rwanda. All Rwandan refugees originally based
in Burundi have been repatriated and successfully resettled
in their own communities without
incident. This is
sufficient
other
neighbouring countries, apart from being the hostages of
genocidal leaders in the refugee camps, have no other
reasons to remain.
that Rwandan
refugees
proof
in
These achievements have been made in spite of some
critical factors that the international community could help
Rwanda overcome if we are to maintain the pace of our
continuing progress towards stability, durable peace and
development.
The crippling debt burden has hamstrung all social
sectors, especially the most vulnerable groups. Children,
women, widows and the elderly are among the most
affected. Rwanda’s debt stock at the end of 1995 stood at
a staggering high of $1 billion, or 91 per cent of the gross
domestic product (GDP). Most of this, 84 per cent, is owed
to multilateral institutions; 13 per cent is bilateral; and the
remaining 3 per cent is on account of suppliers’ credits.
Given the magnitude of
the
Government cannot rebuild its shattered socio-economic
infrastructure in the aftermath of genocide. We therefore
urge the international community, and especially the
multilateral financial and development institutions, to cancel
immediately Rwanda’s debt. Short of new resources in the
form of a Marshall Plan, this cancellation would greatly
contribute to Rwanda’s recovery and sustainable growth.
We know very well that where there has been a significant
infusion of financial resources in post-war periods, peace
and stability have been achieved and sustained.
suffocating debt,
this
The question of conflicts and insecurity in the Great
Lakes region has been mentioned by many speakers. The
situation in Burundi
is cause for concern to many,
especially the countries of the region. I should like in this
regard to commend the efforts of the Organization of
African Unity, the leaders of the region and all those who
are involved in the search for a durable solution.
Regional
instability has been complicated by the
systematic persecution of Kinyarwanda-speaking Zaireans.
This process was stepped up this year with the massacre of
several North Kivu region Zaireans of Rwandese culture;
22
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
others were forced to flee to Rwanda and Uganda. This
persecution has recently been extended to the South Kivu
region of Zaire, where, again, Kinyarwanda-speaking
Zaireans have been subjected to brutal attacks by Zairean
forces, along with former Rwanda Government soldiers
and interahamwe militias, who did not finish but exported
their genocidal and “ethnic cleansing” agenda.
Survivors of these attacks — predominantly women
and children, as men and boys are either killed or
imprisoned — have been forced to seek refuge in
Rwanda. It is the responsibility of the Government of
Zaire to unconditionally repatriate its nationals who are
currently living in refugee camps in Rwanda. We call
upon the international community to prevail upon the
Government of Zaire so as to stop the systematic “ethnic
cleansing” currently taking place in eastern Zaire. We
further call upon the Government of Zaire to cease
immediately its military aggression which has recently
been directed against Rwandan territory.
We would like to pay tribute to Mwalimu Julius
Nyerere, former President of the United Republic of
Tanzania, for his unequivocal and genuine search for
solutions, not only for Burundi, but also within the wider
context of the Great Lakes region.
The problem is not the lack of solutions. What is
lacking is the decisiveness to implement commitments
voluntarily entered into. That is what should be addressed.
In the case of the Great Lakes region, former Presidents
Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Jimmy Carter of the United
States of America and General Touré of Mali successfully
managed to get the Heads of State and Government to
agree and sign solemn declarations on the modalities for
solving the problems of the region.
At
this
session, we will be considering the
re-election of the Secretary-General. My Government’s
position has been clear since Yaoundé, during the summit
of
the Organization of African Unity. We are not
supportive of the re-election of the incumbent. Doing so
would reward his failure to use the instruments of the
United Nations Charter in order to come to the rescue of
Rwandans during the genocide. Above all, it would be
against the collective conscience of the Rwandan people
to support the candidacy of the incumbent. But beyond
these moral grounds, we believe that the election of a
contested Secretary-General is not in the interest of the
United Nations. It would jeopardize the functioning of an
institution that needs to be strengthened.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The Acting President: I now call on the Ambassador,
Permanent Representative and Chairman of the delegation
of the Republic of Estonia, Mr. Trivimi Velliste.
Mr. Velliste (Estonia): Let me begin by congratulating
Mr. Razali Ismail on his assumption of the office of
President of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session.
I am confident that his valuable guidance will lead to the
successful outcome of this session. He has the assurance of
our full support.
As an introduction, let me recall that this September
marks the fifth anniversary of Estonia’s return to the
international scene. It was five years ago that the Estonian
blue, black and white tricolour was hoisted in front of this
forum. That moment was equal in historic and emotional
significance to the one 70 years earlier, in September 1921
in Geneva, when Estonia was welcomed as a new member
of the League of Nations — an international organization
whose history has taught the world many lessons.
for
The cold war is over. Nevertheless, the international
community continues to seek further guarantees of a more
secure future for our children and grandchildren. In this
respect, Estonia would like to express satisfaction at the
recent overwhelming support
the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty adopted by the General Assembly.
The signing ceremony at
the United Nations on 24
September was an important milestone, a result of
continued negotiations and at the same time a sign of hope
for the future. We firmly believe that the Treaty can make
an important contribution to preventing the proliferation of
nuclear weapons and promoting international security. The
United Nations must now give a clear response to people
who want to live in a world free of any threats of nuclear
weapons and other means of mass destruction.
Our world is facing new challenges. These new
challenges require a renewed United Nations. At the last
session, considerable efforts were made to reform the
Organization. This work will continue during the current
session. In fact, one of the principal goals of the session
ahead of us will be to increase the effectiveness of the
United Nations. Estonia welcomes the progress made in this
area. There are still a number of ways by which the United
Nations can further improve its performance. We attach
particular importance to the review of the working methods
of the functional commissions and expert groups and bodies
of the Economic and Social Council, as well as to better
coordination between the work of the Second and Third
Committees.
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
reform of
Estonia is looking forward to active participation in
United Nations-reform working groups. We attach
specific importance to the financial
the
Organization. Estonia is supportive of the view that the
United Nations should be put on a sounder financial
footing. Member States should make every effort to fulfil
their obligation to pay their arrears without any
conditions. At the same time, we share the understanding
that the United Nations scale of assessments should be
revised. The new scale of assessments must be fair and
more transparent.
the
fundamental principle of capacity to pay. We hope that
the High-level Open-ended Working Group on the
Financial Situation of the United Nations will achieve a
comprehensive and consensus solution to the current
financial difficulties of the Organization.
should also better
reflect
It
The reform of the Organization will also include
changes in the composition and working methods of the
Security Council. We welcome the decision by the
General Assembly mandating the relevant Open-ended
Working Group to submit a report
to the General
Assembly at its fifty-first session. At the same time, we
hope that, along the lines of the mandate of the Working
Group, Member States can bring about a resolution to the
long-standing
Council
enlargement.
discussions
Security
on
Peacekeeping continues to be one of the important
activities of the Organization. Recent years have seen a
changing role for United Nations peacekeeping missions.
Today they have grown into manifold and diversified
types of action. A new challenge for United Nations
peacekeepers is dealing with internal conflicts throughout
the world. In this respect, I would like to reiterate that
regional peacekeeping efforts that are conducted under the
auspices of
remain under
stringent United Nations control.
the United Nations must
autumn we will
Estonia is continuing to take part in United Nations
peacekeeping. This
increase our
contribution to the United Nations peacekeeping forces by
offering a company to the United Nations Interim Force
in Lebanon (UNIFIL). The company will be deployed in
the Norwegian battalion. The deployment is part of a joint
project to develop a Baltic peacekeeping battalion. That
battalion will be the contribution of the Baltic States to
the strengthening of United Nations peacekeeping
capacities. I would like to take this opportunity to thank
all of the Governments that have contributed to this
common Baltic project.
23
15th plenary meeting
30 September 1996
functioning of this machinery should rely on impartial
reporting and disregard politically motivated allegations.
Failure to do so would seriously damage the credibility of
the Organization. Owing to very recent memories, this
issue is of special importance to Estonia. This is also one
of the reasons why Estonia lists among its priorities issues
regarding indigenous peoples and human rights.
it
is essential
Estonia believes that
to secure
adequate financing for the office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for
Human Rights. At the same time, we would like to point
out
that various regional organizations that focus on
human rights issue periodic reports regarding such
matters. In order to avoid duplication and to make
effective use of resources, the United Nations human
rights machinery should rely on the extensive expertise of
regional organizations,
including the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the
Council of Europe. Those two organizations foster the
basic foundations of security and stability in Europe. The
United Nations should further enhance its ties with them,
especially with the Council of Europe, the established
stronghold of human rights on the European continent and
a symbol of cooperation between nations striving for an
open and mutually beneficial dialogue. Estonia,
the
current Chairman of the Council of Europe, is pursuing
policies of positive engagement
in relations with all
countries, including our eastern neighbour. In this respect,
it is our sincere hope that the Russian Federation will
reciprocate our efforts.
together with all Member States,
In conclusion, let me underline our commitment to
contribute,
to the
establishment of a world community in which individuals
and States may live in peace and understanding. Let me
express our sincere hope for a better world.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I would like to note that, thanks to the praiseworthy
punctuality of delegations, we have saved time, even
though the list of speakers for this meeting was longer
than usual: we have heard seven speakers instead of six.
Thus, we can see that punctuality and the brevity of
statements really do pay off.
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
During the past year Estonia has taken further steps
towards the implementation and follow-up of the major
United Nations Conferences — Rio, Vienna, Cairo,
Copenhagen, Beijing and Istanbul. To this end, a special
inter-ministerial commission has been established in
Estonia. Since the critical areas of concern of many of the
conferences overlap, we are also looking forward to a better
coordination of their outcomes.
Last year important work was done by the Preparatory
Committee on the Establishment of an International
Criminal Court
in elaborating the text of a statute for such
a court. We welcome that work and look forward to further
progress during the fifty-first session.
Failure to respect human rights and fundamental
freedoms is a major cause of conflict. Many intra-State
conflicts arise from the denial of basic human rights. The
Vienna World Conference on Human Rights made it clear
that the promotion and protection of all human rights is a
duty for all States. Estonia reaffirms
its continued
commitment to human rights. In spite of the hardships of
institutional and economic transition, we have been able to
make democracy a way of life. Human rights for all
residents of Estonia is an inextricable part of Estonian
democracy.
We continue to place particular importance upon the
work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr.
José Ayala Lasso, the Centre for Human Rights and United
Nations human rights machinery in general. A transparent
24
