United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
41st plenary meeting
Friday, 25 October 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
In the absence of
the President, Mr. Van Dunem
“Mbinda” (Angola), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 49
Question of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)
The Acting President:
I should like to inform
representatives that, following consultations on this item,
and taking into consideration General Assembly decision
50/406 of 31 October 1995, it is proposed that the General
Assembly decide to postpone consideration of this item and
to include it in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second
session.
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): While my delegation has
no wish to comment on the way the Acting President has
guided us, I should like to voice our concern over the item
before us, which has been persistently postponed without
clearly stated reasons being given to the General Assembly.
If I may request the courtesy of the presidency on
behalf of my delegation, I would suggest that reasons be
given so that, as delegates representing Member States, we
will be in a position to know what to report back to our
Governments. During our last report we mentioned the
same thing — that the issue had been postponed. Without
clarification,
our
participation, especially since the item was included by the
General Committee in the agenda for the Assembly’s
consideration.
frustrating
for
however,
this
is
The Acting President: The General Assembly has
taken note of the statement of the representative of
Swaziland.
May I take it that the Assembly, taking into account
decision 50/406, wishes to defer consideration of this item
and to include it in the provisional agenda of its fifty-
second session?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has
thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 49.
Agenda item 29
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Inter-Parliamentary Union
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/402)
Draft resolution (A/51/L.6)
The Acting President: I call on the representative
of Egypt to introduce draft resolution A/51/L.6.
Mr. Elaraby (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic):
It is a pleasure for me to be the first speaker at this
morning’s meeting to address agenda item 29, entitled
“Cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary Union”, and to introduce a draft resolution
on behalf of the co-sponsors, whose number is steadily
96-86627 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
increasing. This draft resolution is contained in document
A/51/L.6.
an important
In commemorating the agreement reached and signed
between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary
Union (IPU) on 24 July 1996, the General Assembly today
marks
cooperation with
international organizations. This is a very important step
which the General Assembly mandated the Secretary-
General to carry out in resolution 50/15 of 15 November
1995, in order to establish cooperation in all fields and to
promote fundamental human rights and freedoms.
stage
in its
I can only thank the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and the Secretary-
General of the IPU, Mr. Pierre Cornillon, for their joint
efforts and for the efforts of their staff, which were
crowned with the effective implementation of the clauses of
this agreement between the two organizations.
consolidating fruitful
The conclusion of this agreement is a cornerstone in
edifice of
and beneficial
the
cooperation between our two organizations. It
lays the
foundations for the formal framework for this cooperation,
which should be promoted by expanding its scope and
content. We are very pleased that this agreement has been
reached. It is an agreement that provides for cooperation
and consultation between the organizations as
they
discharge their mandates.
The participation of the United Nations in the various
forums of the IPU is incontrovertible. In addition to their
participation in the New York meeting convened to follow
up the World Summit for Social Development and jointly
organized by the IPU pursuant to the conclusion of the
agreement
their
participation was inaugurated by sending representatives of
the Secretary-General to the ninety-fifth and ninety-sixth
Inter-Parliamentary Conferences, held in Istanbul and
Beijing. I should also mention the meetings that took place
very recently between the two Secretaries-General and the
policy makers of their secretariats.
that we are commemorating today,
All this opens the door to very promising prospects for
cooperation which will further foster the lofty objectives
and purposes of both organizations. We hope that this
across-the-board cooperation in all fields will grow, so as
to strengthen the capacity of
the United Nations in
achieving its purposes under the Charter. These purposes
can be furthered through the support rendered by the IPU,
which can also play an extremely important
role in
promoting international peace and cooperation.
2
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
I would like to conclude by expressing Egypt’s
gratitude to the current President of the IPU, who was the
main architect in the development of this cooperation
agreement between organizations
that have similar
missions and principles.
On behalf of the co-sponsors of the draft resolution
set out in document A/51/L.6, and the countries that
subsequently joined them, I would like to present the
various provisions of this draft resolution to the General
Assembly.
In the preambular part of the draft resolution, the
General Assembly recalls that it requested the Secretary-
General to conclude an agreement on cooperation between
the United Nations and the IPU and stresses its desire to
strengthen existing cooperation between the United
Nations and the IPU and to give it a new and adequate
framework.
In the operative portion of the draft resolution, the
General Assembly welcomes the conclusion on 24 July
1996 of the cooperation agreement between the United
Nations and the IPU, considers that the signature of the
agreement constitutes an important step for increased and
strengthened cooperation between the two organizations,
decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-
second session the item entitled “Cooperation between the
United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union”, and
requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to it at
its fifty-second session on various aspects of cooperation
that have taken place between the United Nations and the
IPU in implementation of the cooperation agreement.
In view of the procedural and ceremonial nature of
the draft resolution, and given the lack of any financial
programme implications, I would propose, on behalf of all
the co-sponsors, that the General Assembly adopt it by
consensus.
Mr. Yusof (Singapore): Since this is the first time
that I am speaking here during this session, I would like
to express my sincere congratulations to Mr. Razali Ismail
on his election as President and to take this opportunity
to express my delegation’s satisfaction at the manner in
which he has steered the course of the fifty-first session
of the General Assembly thus far. I have no doubt that he
will continue to acquit himself honourably and with his
own exemplary personal style of the responsibilities thrust
upon him. On a more personal note, it gives me great
pleasure to see a friend of Singapore presiding over the
Assembly. I would assure him of the full support of the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Singapore delegation and that he can call upon us for any
assistance that he may require in the conduct of the affairs
of the fifty-first session of the Assembly and throughout the
term of his presidency.
adopted
by
resolution
consensus
Last year, on 15 November 1995,
the General
Assembly
50/15,
“Cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary Union”. That resolution was introduced by
Mr. Nabil Elaraby of the Arab Republic of Egypt and
sponsored by no less than 62 Member States. Today, we
have learned that the number of sponsors of this year’s
draft resolution has increased.
In adopting that resolution the Member States of the
United Nations recognized that national parliamentarians,
through the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), share common
objectives with the United Nations and that the IPU can
play a crucial role in promoting the work and goals of the
Organization.
My delegation views it as timely that the IPU, with its
membership of no less than 133 national Parliaments,
should seek closer participation with the United Nations.
The ties between the two organizations, particularly in the
areas of peace, human rights and democracy, date back to
the establishment of the United Nations itself. On the basis
of the shared objectives of the United Nations and the IPU,
closer cooperation can only facilitate the work of
parliamentarians and empower the work of the United
Nations.
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
This goes back to the original purpose of the United
Nations, for the Charter of the United Nations begins with
the preambular words:
“We the peoples of the United Nations ...”.
Increased participation and collaboration with the IPU
would therefore make
the United Nations more
representative, as the Parliaments represent the will of the
people of every nation.
My delegation is of the view that it is only through
a gainful collaborative relationship between the United
Nations and the IPU that the will of the people can be
better expressed at the international level through the
United Nations and that, conversely, through the IPU, the
voice of
can be
disseminated at the grass-roots level. In effect, it is a win-
win situation.
inter-governmental process
the
In preparing the United Nations for the twenty-first
century, a fundamental issue that has to be resolved is the
United Nations financial problem. It has been repeated
time and again that the key reason for that problem is the
failure of some Member States to pay their dues in full
and on time.
One reason that has been offered for the inability of
Member States to fulfil their financial obligations to the
United Nations is that domestic political bodies do not
support their current share of the United Nations budget.
The key to cooperation between the United Nations
and the IPU is complementarity. The United Nations is not
a world Government. After all, its mandates are determined
and its resources furnished by its Member States. Yet the
United Nations has successfully established international
law and set international standards and programmes in
almost every field of human conduct.
It is therefore good for the United Nations to bring
the parliamentarians on board. The active participation of
parliamentarians is needed to relay and explain to the
public the issues involved, which would be helpful in
garnering popular support for international action. This
would address the problem of justifying the resources
needed for international cooperation.
However, sovereign power remains with sovereign
nation States. The members of the IPU decide for their
respective nations whether to assume binding international
obligations and how to implement, nationally, the decisions
that States have taken at the international level.
The task of exercising sovereign power should, and
rightly, be exercised only by the parliamentarians, that is,
by men and women elected by the people of each nation,
men and women who are in direct contact with the general
population, who are in touch with their shared aspirations
and who understand their common interests.
My delegation has therefore noted with pleasure that
the Secretary-General’s report submitted pursuant
to
General Assembly resolution 50/15 informs us that a
cooperation agreement between the United Nations and
the IPU was signed on 24 July 1996. My delegation
welcomes the conclusion of
that agreement, which
the framework for effective cooperation
formalizes
between the United Nations and the IPU.
The effectiveness of the cooperation agreement has
already been evidenced by the fact that a list has been
drawn up of the concrete steps and actions to be taken by
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the
IPU as
follow-up to the
the members of
implementation of the decisions and recommendations
adopted at the World Summit for Social Development,
which was held at Copenhagen in March 1995.
a
We are about to embark on a new century, one in
which a borderless world will not be a mere catchphrase.
As the representative of my Parliament to the Assembly, it
is a personal pleasure for me to be here today to witness
the formalization of the relationship between the United
Nations and the IPU.
The formalization of
this relationship reflects a
reaffirmation of the IPU’s belief that the United Nations
and its organs are responsible for and capable of creating
a better world for tomorrow. It is a reaffirmation of the
belief that multilateral cooperation is a necessity and that it
is in the self-interest of all States to resolve the challenges
that threaten all humankind.
I am grateful to have been given this opportunity to
the Republic of Singapore that
express the view of
formalization of the old, but tried and true, relationship
between the IPU and the United Nations brings with it the
hopes for the future of the peoples of the world: peace,
justice, equality and the dignity of all humankind.
Mr. Pelufo (Uruguay) (interpretation from Spanish):
It is an honour for me to address this Assembly on agenda
item 29, “Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Inter-Parliamentary Union”.
Permit me first to express my country’s great interest
in this matter. Uruguay has supported from the outset the
inclusion of this item on the agendas both of the General
Assembly and of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. We believe
that two institutions as important as these in today’s world
cannot work alone or apart from their respective activities
for peace, democracy, human rights and the development of
peoples. On the contrary, they must join their efforts so that
these purposes and goals may be achieved as quickly and
efficiently as possible.
My delegation recognizes the contribution made by the
Secretary-General in his report (A/51/402) and welcomes
the results of the cooperation agreement signed by the
United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union on 24
July this year. The agreement strengthens relations between
the two organizations and greatly facilitates activities
complementary mutually and allows the organizations to
cooperate more closely in joint efforts in specific areas of
the benefit of mankind. We are
their activities for
4
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
convinced that the link that has been forged through this
agreement will also make it possible for the world
Organization of Governments and the world organization
of parliaments to maintain substantive cooperation and in
this way better express the will of peoples at
the
international level.
As a result of this agreement as well as through the
political will displayed by many Governments and inter-
governmental organizations, my delegation wishes to
highlight the convening of a meeting on the follow-up
activities to the World Summit for Social Development,
with the purpose of expanding cooperation among
Parliaments, Governments
intergovernmental
organizations in order to implement effectively the results
of the World Summit for Social Development.
and
The convening of
this meeting on 5 and 6
September, as well as of others which may take place for
the attainment of the same goals, will contribute to a
better implementation of the principles and precepts of the
United Nations Charter and of other instruments of
international law and policy.
Bringing national parliaments closer is a way of
reaching out to the ordinary citizen in order to achieve an
exchange of
ideas and contributions which would
otherwise be difficult. The former Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Uruguay and current President of the Inter-
American Development Bank, Mr. Enrique Iglesias, stated
years ago that
in this
“Parliament
regard is key because it
expresses the voices of the parties; and together with
them public opinion, the media, and professional and
technical circles are heard. In this way, one can
articulate a highly unified foreign policy.”
It is with this conviction that my country has a
coherent foreign policy, where the major principles and
themes that guide the conduct of our country abroad are
shared by all actors in the national political arena. This,
in my country’s view, also takes place in a forum such as
the Inter-Parliamentary Union, which expresses and
deliberates the positions of the vast majority of the
world’s political forces.
At
the
regional
and subregional
the
parliamentary delegations of my country have followed
and continue to follow with particular
the
treatment of items addressed by the Latin American
Parliament, which is presided over at present by a
interest
levels,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Uruguayan legislator. This matter has also been under
consideration in MERCOSUR, the common market of the
South, which through the Protocol of Ouro Preto, created as
one of its bodies a joint parliamentary commission. This is
the body which represents the parliaments of the member
States of MERCOSUR.
is
shown a
involved, Uruguay has
Whenever the Inter-Parliamentary Union or the United
Nations
total
commitment to democracy as the way to govern the future
of our peoples. As we maintain firmly that the United
Nations should achieve innovative ways towards greater
democratization of the system, Uruguay, which is a country
with deep democratic
is pleased that
parliaments
convey their
can make
experiences and be one more voice in this concert of the
peace and prosperity we all hope for.
convictions,
a
contribution,
Mr. Minoves-Triquell (Andorra) (interpretation from
French): The Principality of Andorra has inherited a
parliamentary tradition going back more than five centuries.
Indeed,
the establishment of the Consell de la Terra,
precursor of our present parliament, the Consell General,
goes back to 1419. In accordance with this tradition and
pursuant
to the Constitution of 1993, my country
administers its political system through a parliament similar
to that of many other democracies. It is therefore natural
and necessary for Andorra today to manifest its firmest
support of the cooperation agreement signed last 24 July
between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary
Union (IPU). As a sponsor of the draft resolution submitted
to the General Assembly by Egypt, whom we would like to
thank, my country hopes that this cooperation agreement
will lead to specific projects and that next year when we
again consider this agenda item, we will be able to
commend the progress that has been made.
Barely a year ago, the Inter-Parliamentary Council of
the Union, meeting in special session at United Nations
Headquarters in New York, reaffirmed in its declaration on
parliamentary prospects for international community on the
eve of the twenty-first century the lofty vision and common
goals that
inspired the authors of the United Nations
Charter. The United Nations Charter is a document of
inclusion, aimed at bringing together human beings for the
accomplishment of the purposes of peace, respect for
human dignity, the exercise of democracy and development.
In this,
the assistance of parliamentarians will be
valuable. Let us think, for example, of the expertise that
could be shared in the promotion and verification of free
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
and regular elections. By uniting the efforts of the United
Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union, we will be
sharing a base of information and expertise that will assist
us in better identifying problems in certain States in the
process of democratizing. Let us recall also the numerous
observations made recently at the Beijing meeting of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union regarding the results of the
World Summit
for Social Development held at
Copenhagen.
The Principality of Andorra is particularly interested
in this subject since it authored one of the Copenhagen
commitments, on inter-generational dialogue.
Indeed,
since they are in constant contact with the citizens they
represent, those who are directly elected will be able to
inspire us to put
into place specific programmes to
combat poverty and social marginalization.
In fact, the positions taken recently by the Inter-
Parliamentary Union — on the question of landmines, the
role of women in the world, or any other question —
directly relate to problems to which the United Nations is
particularly devoted. Thus, we must cooperate, share, and
help each other.
We are sometimes discouraged to see that United
Nations activities are improperly recognized, poorly
appreciated and vilified. The Head of Government of
Andorra, Marc Forné, called attention to this a few weeks
ago during the general debate. Moreover, as the president
of our Parliament, Joseph Dalleres, noted last year in this
Hall, during his address to deputies of
the Inter-
Parliamentary Union, our venal world always focuses on
the “dark spots”. Working to improve communications
will help enhance the view taken of the United Nations.
It goes without saying that cooperation and the exchange
of information with the world’s parliaments, through the
Inter-Parliamentary Union, is a means of providing a
better understanding of the Organization. The 24 July
agreement should therefore be fully implemented.
the United Nations and of
Andorra, even though a very old country, is a new
the Inter-
member of
Parliamentary Union, and it
is with the ardour of a
newcomer that we are encouraging cooperation between
the two organizations. We did this last year, through a
unanimous decision of our Parliament and the active
participation of our Government, following the Madrid
Conference. I can assure the Assembly that we will
continue such efforts.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU),
Mr. Wang Xuexian (China) (interpretation from
Chinese): The
an
international parliamentary organization representing the
parliaments of sovereign States, has traversed a course of
more than 100 years. It now has 135 members and enjoys
certain influence in the world. Its twice-yearly meetings in
particular provide a forum for exchanging views and
enhancing friendship and are thus widely accepted and
welcomed by parliamentarians from all over the world.
the invitation of
In September this year, the IPU held its ninety-sixth
session, at Beijing, at
the Chinese
parliamentary delegation, the first ever held in China. The
National People’s Congress of China and the Chinese
Government attached great importance to the meeting and
made careful preparations and arrangements for it. These
contributed to the complete success of the meeting and won
wide acclaim from participants and others concerned. This
is another important contribution that the National People’s
Congress has made to the IPU since it joined in 1984.
During
the Beijing meeting,
parliamentarians
conducted full discussions and consultations on questions
concerning the international political situation, world
economic development and the social progress of mankind.
They exchanged views and adopted relevant resolutions on
the basis of mutual respect and seeking common ground
while putting aside differences. Most representatives were
of the view that mankind is faced with a common challenge
in the wake of drastic changes in the world situation. Peace
and development remain the two major issues in today’s
world. Countries, big or small, strong or weak, rich or poor,
are equal members of the international community and are
entitled to participate in international affairs on an equal
footing. Respect for human rights should first ensure the
right to subsistence and development. Many representatives
also condemned hegemonism and power politics in their
statements, and criticized the hegemonic practice of wilfully
imposing sanctions against other countries.
Thanks to the vigorous participation and efforts of all
representatives, in one week the meeting yielded fruitful
results and achieved complete success. It played a positive
role in strengthening inter-parliamentary understanding and
cooperation, enhancing friendship among the peoples of all
countries and promoting world peace and development. It
is particularly worth mentioning that the session also helped
enhance the understanding of China by parliamentarians of
other counties, who saw for themselves the tremendous
changes in China since the reform and opening-up, as well
as the great progress the Chinese people have made in a
short span of some 10 years.
6
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
The IPU is also committed to strengthening
cooperation with the United Nations while playing a
positive role in safeguarding world peace and promoting
inter-parliamentary cooperation. The IPU Statute states
explicitly that the IPU shares the objectives of the United
Nations, supports its efforts and closely cooperates with
it.
representative
We are pleased to note that here at United Nations
Headquarters, His Excellency Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the Secretary-General,
joined with Mr. Ahmed Fathy
Sorour, President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, and
Mr. Pierre Cornillon, Secretary-General of the Inter-
Parliamentary Union, in signing a cooperation agreement.
This was a major event in the annals of the development
of the IPU as well as a starting point for cooperation
between the most
and authoritative
intergovernmental international organization and the most
representative
international
organization of sovereign States. We hope that on the
basis of the agreement and through the efforts of the two
organizations, the United Nations and the Governments of
its Member States will be able to listen to the voices of
more parliamentarians and thereby reflect the wishes of
all peoples in a more comprehensive manner. We hope as
well that the IPU will be able to better use its influence
and role,
to translate more requests and desires into
practice. As the largest developing country in the world,
a permanent member of the Security Council and an
active participant in the activities of the IPU, China is
ready to contribute its share to this end.
inter-parliamentary
Mr. Park (Republic of Korea): The Republic of
Korea is pleased to co-sponsor the draft resolution on
“Cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary Union”. My delegation is convinced that it
will further promote the strengthening of cooperative
relations between the two organizations by creating an
effective framework of mutual cooperation. We look
forward to its adoption by consensus in the General
Assembly. I should like to take this opportunity to express
my sincere appreciation to the Egyptian delegation for the
leading role it has played in drafting this important
resolution.
as
Built
cornerstones of democracy, national
role in
parliaments have continually expanded their
foreign affairs. In the past, their primary responsibilities
in that field were for the ratification of international
conventions and the approval of the national diplomacy
budget. However, the increasing complexity of global
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
relations has made their participation in the international
policy-making arena all the more relevant.
The Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) has become a
focal point
for national parliaments to enhance and
coordinate endeavours towards the goals of the United
Nations. The current memberships of the United Nations
and the IPU — 185 and 135 respectively — represent a
tremendous source of leadership and potential towards the
promotion of international peace, security and democracy.
Since its inception in 1889, long before that of the
United Nations,
the IPU has upheld the principles of
representative democracy and has been an ardent promoter
of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Today, in the
context of the new world order and a continually evolving
international reality, it is imperative that the IPU and the
United Nations further consolidate their alliance to address
together the challenges of a newly emerging global agenda.
The declaration on “The parliamentary vision for
international cooperation into the twenty-first century”,
adopted by the Inter-Parliamentary Council during its
special session last year on the occasion of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations, provides an effective
analysis of the problems facing the United Nations in the
forthcoming century and prescribes pragmatic measures by
which the two international organizations together can
overcome them.
The United Nations is often likened to the parliament
of the world. Indeed, both the United Nations and national
parliaments
of
representativeness, and their actions are determined by
deliberation, consultation, negotiation and, ultimately,
legislation.
characteristics
common
share
the
The institutionalization of a partnership between the
United Nations and the IPU will undoubtedly serve to
further the laudable goals that the two organizations have
long stood for and continue to advocate. Moreover, closer
cooperation between the United Nations and the IPU should
encourage national parliaments to support the activities of
the United Nations and to fulfil at the national level their
responsibilities
the
programmes and initiatives of the United Nations can only
be effective with the concerted support and cooperation of
the national parliaments of Member States.
those goals. Obviously,
towards
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
tangible results. As the Secretary-General accurately noted
in his report (A/51/402), the agreement will substantially
facilitate
“their effective exercise of mutually complementary
activities.” (A/51/402, para. 5)
Indeed, regular consultations and the active exchange of
information resources will permit the initiation of joint
projects and programmes by which to promote the
principles enshrined in the Charter. The agreement should
also advance the participation of the IPU in the activities
of the various organs of the United Nations.
It was not long after the signing of the agreement
that tangible signs of United Nations-IPU cooperation
began to emerge. For example, this past September, the
IPU,
the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and the Department for Policy Coordination and
Sustainable Development jointly organized a meeting in
New York on the follow-up to the World Summit for
Social Development. This meeting proved that close
tripartite consultation and cooperation among parliaments,
Governments and intergovernmental organizations is
essential to turn summit-level agreements into working
realities.
to the IPU’s activities,
Recognizing the increasingly important role of the
IPU in world affairs, and as a reaffirmation of my
country’s commitment
the
Republic of Korea will host the ninety-seventh Inter-
Parliamentary Conference this coming April in Seoul. In
this connection, the Conference Organizing Committee
has
in motion with supra-partisan
participation and, vested with the nationwide support of
the Korean people, is determined to ensure that the Seoul
IPU Conference is the most successful ever.
the wheels
set
regard,
However,
I wish to emphasize that
the ninety-seventh Inter-Parliamentary
Conference can only be considered a complete success if
the full participation of all Member States is assured. In
this
the Seoul
IPU member countries,
Conference is open to all
irrespective of race, ideology or political orientation. I
urge every member country to attend and to help further
promote the long sought-after goals and aspirations of
humankind.
The cooperation agreement between the United
Nations and the IPU concluded in July of this year marks
a milestone in the translation of cooperative spirit into
In conclusion, convinced that effective, ongoing
cooperation between the United Nations and the IPU is
fundamental to the achievement of the foregoing common
objectives, my delegation looks forward to the annual
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
inclusion of this item in the agenda of the United Nations
General Assembly.
The Acting President: Before calling on the next
speaker, I should like to propose that the list of speakers in
the debate on this agenda item now be closed.
If there is no objection, the list of speakers will now
be closed.
It was so decided.
Mr. Abdellah (Tunisia) (interpretation from French):
It gives me great pleasure to speak today on the item
dealing with cooperation between the United Nations and
the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU).
The institutionalization of
the links between the
universal Organization and the organization that represents
elected officials of the various peoples of the world is, first
and foremost, a tribute to a prestigious
institution
established more than a century ago. Despite the upheavals
that have shaken our era, it has been able, above all, to
consolidate its foundations and increase its scope by now
bringing together the elected representatives of almost all
Member States of the United Nations.
Making relations between the United Nations and the
Inter-Parliamentary Union official is also a recognition of
the role which the IPU can play through the elected
officials of peoples in the promoting the ideals of the
Charter of the United Nations in order to bring about a
rapprochement between nations, improved understanding
among peoples and the consolidation of democracy within
States.
The cooperation that we would like to see established
between the two organizations can only be beneficial and
serve the interests of all our nations.
The Inter-Parliamentary Union with its democratic and
representative mission, will bring a new awareness to the
activities of the organization, enrich its deliberations and
broaden the prospects for global thinking within the United
Nations system.
In that connection, I would like to endorse the position
expressed by Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali at
the signature ceremony of
the cooperation agreement
between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary
Union.
8
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
is
entitled
the
With respect to the contribution the international
from the
community
institutionalization of
two
organizations, the Secretary-General underscored the role
that the Inter-Parliamentary Union could play alongside
the United Nations, especially in the interest of peace,
human rights and democracy.
to
links between the
expect
For its part, Tunisia welcomes the first concrete
steps taken in terms of cooperation between the two
organizations,
through the participation of the United
Nations at the ninety-fifth Inter-Parliamentary Conference,
held in Istanbul
in April 1996. Also welcoming this
cooperation,
that
parliamentarians play an essential role in the service of
the United Nations Charter and that they are the best
illustration of the phrase, “We the peoples of the United
Nations”.
Secretary-General
stated
the
Still in the context of cooperation, I wish to mention
the meeting organized jointly by the Inter-Parliamentary
Union, the United Nations Secretariat, the Department for
Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development and the
United Nations Development Programme
the
framework of the follow-up to the World Summit for
Social Development. That meeting, held in New York last
together
September, made
and
parliamentarians,
governmental
effective
implementation of the results of the Copenhagen Summit.
to
representatives
for
possible
governmental
organizations
bring
the
in
it
of
the
ideas
This approach represents a beginning of
underpinning
the
implementation
the
enhancement of the efficiency of the United Nations and
has made it possible to identify a set of concrete measures
that need to be taken by national parliaments, on the one
hand, and by Member States, on the other. We hope this
innovative approach will make it possible to implement
better the decisions and recommendations adopted at the
World Summit.
With respect to the future programme of cooperation
between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary
Union, Tunisia is of the view that the two organizations
must make a common commitment to meet the numerous
challenges threatening the stability of our peoples and
jeopardizing the ecological balance of our planet. The two
organizations must
to
overcome underdevelopment, illiteracy, poverty and the
over-exploitation of natural resources. Together they must
contribute to the building of a freer
international
community, the establishment on the planet of an era of
therefore unite their efforts
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
peace and solidarity and the judicious management of non-
renewable natural resources.
The two organizations would thus be able to pave the
way to the establishment of democracy, peace and
sustainable development. This triad is at the core of the
Agenda for Peace, but it is also the key ingredient for the
implementation of the Agenda for Development.
In this light, parliamentarians have their share of
responsibility for implementing these principles at
the
national and international levels. This is the fundamental
concern of all constitutional institutions and the Tunisian
representative bodies that
took a united approach to
promoting Tunisia’s process of renewal this decade.
Without a doubt, parliamentarians are duty-bound to
contribute to defining a world of tomorrow in which respect
for the human person and his or her fundamental rights,
guaranteed by the United Nations Charter and the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, is more widespread than it is
today.
In accordance with this approach, President Zine El
Abidine Ben Ali made a solemn commitment in favour of
democracy by stating,
“Democracy is a strategic choice. Democracy will
evolve together
today and in harmony with the
imperatives of our era, whose names are freedom,
human rights and development.”
Mr. Escarpeta (Colombia)
(interpretation from
Spanish): It is a great honour and a privilege to address the
Assembly on behalf of
the Republic of Colombia,
especially in view of the importance my country attaches to
the item before us today.
We cannot but recognize the effort made by the
delegation of Egypt, which has played an essential role in
promoting this agreement.
At
the last
session of
the General Assembly,
Colombia, on the basis of its conviction of the need and
significance of concluding a cooperation agreement between
the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union
(IPU), was privileged to one of the countries that sponsored
the draft resolution adopted by consensus at the plenary
meeting of the Assembly on 15 November 1995.
In its wisdom, the General Assembly considered that
the IPU’s activities to a considerable extent complemented
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
and supported the work of the United Nations, and
therefore the Secretary-General was requested to take the
necessary steps to conclude an agreement on cooperation
between the two organizations.
Member States have been informed, to their great
pleasure, that on 24 July 1996 the Secretary-General, Mr.
Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
the Inter-
Parliamentary Council and the Secretary-General of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union
important
cooperation agreement, in accordance with the mandate
contained in resolution 50/15.
the President of
signed
the
the
between
relations
Strengthening
two
organizations will certainly allow for a more effective
implementation of mutually complementary activities,
thereby allowing both organizations to cooperate more
closely in undertaking joint efforts in their particular areas
of competence, which will ultimately result in greater
benefit for the community of nations.
The agreement has
formalized the close and
longstanding bond between the two institutions in various
fields and consolidated the ongoing efforts of both
organizations for noble causes. In particular, it represents
a further harmonizing step in the constant search for an
ideal world of development, justice and peace to which
we all aspire.
and
effectively
productively
We intend to promote all measures necessary for
progressing
through
exchanges of views, technical cooperation, coordination
of measures, consultations, active participation and
information and documentation exchanges so as to ensure
that
the cooperation agreement will benefit from the
positive contributions of Member States, and that its final
outcome will follow the right course, guided by the
destiny of international politics.
We are sure that the common will of our States will
stand out as the predominant idea in implementing the
agreement, and will gain strength as it becomes part of
our sovereign foundations in defence of the principles and
parameters of political action inspired by our peoples.
Each of us in these two important forums has been
entrusted with the task of representing our States, and, as
a result of
this mandate, we have an inescapable
commitment to work for the success of our endeavours.
The outcome of the development of this agreement
will reflect on each of the States Members of the United
Nations. In this respect, I am fully convinced that it will
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
in vigorous action that appropriately interprets
result
international reality and updates necessary mandates to
enable both organizations to meet the challenges of the new
world order.
The critical situation that exists in the present-day
world has shown that the foundations of the new order are
not as secure as had mistakenly been claimed. Peoples
afflicted by uncertainty are still awaiting the peace and
prosperity that they expected as a result of the end of the
cold war. Notwithstanding some isolated positive trends, the
general picture, especially in developing countries, has
deteriorated rather than improved. The marked imbalance
between the industrialized North and the impoverished
South contrasts with the changes that have occurred in
international relations.
Under no circumstances would it be politically
justifiable not to promote corrective measures in all areas
or to move the United Nations, at an appropriate way,
closer to the effective promotion of an alternative model of
development so as to ensure compatibility between the
required social changes and the current opening up of our
economies.
Only a short time after the signing of the Marrakesh
agreements, which concluded the Uruguay Round of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the international
trade system has been the object of many unilateral and
protectionist actions by certain developed countries. Far
from meeting the expectations created with regard to
market access,
this trend, on the contrary, brings into
question the validity and utility of the new multilateral trade
system as a foundation stone of
the World Trade
Organization, and delivers a hard blow to the new system’s
credibility.
We must add to this situation the many obstacles to
access to financial resources, given the firm resistance to
the various formulas proposed by the developing countries
with regard to the mobilization of essential resources. Over
the years, the economic and social institutions of the United
Nations have become weaker,
increasingly reflecting a
reduced capacity to make concrete proposals to meet the
problems of developing countries. This is becoming more
and more evident, especially when we recall
the ever
decreasing political support and the continuing cuts in
donor funding, all of which have led to the operational
stagnation of these institutions.
International cooperation for development is being
progressively weakened because of the many initiatives that
10
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
some donor countries are tackling with indifference, so
that significant cuts in the flow of official development
ensue. The volume of development assistance has fallen
significantly in recent years, and as a result
the
developing world is witnessing a painful recession that is
affecting a larger percentage of the global population year
by year. This is an unjust state of affairs as we move into
the new century.
External debt has been overwhelming for many
developing countries, and especially for the group of least
developed countries, which are sinking under the weight
of the obligations they have assumed without finding real
solutions to help them overcome the crisis. We must
promote concrete initiatives to alleviate this serious
problem, and allow those States to overcome the harsh
effects now confronting them.
If we wish to realize the dream of the founding
fathers of the United Nations and the tenets of the
Charter, we must implement relevant measures to take
back leadership in international cooperation as it was
understood by the founders of the Organization, who
realized that development and economic and social
progress are the essential foundations of peace and
security.
In facing the twenty-first century, we must enable
our Organization vigorously to meet the challenges of
poverty eradication so that it can bridge, once and for all,
the deep gap between rich and poor. It will not be
feasible to go on living together under present-day
conditions of inequality.
The United Nations today has a commitment to
ensure that the hopes and expectations created by the end
of the cold war do not become new frustrations for our
peoples. We have witnessed with frustration the
domination of the nuclear threat
in the world. Our
countries must wage one final battle to eliminate this
daunting threat from the face of the earth. The risk to
humankind is too high if it persists. Its elimination,
however, would be a permanent
legacy to future
generations.
The major producers of conventional weapons have
increased their sales in developing countries. Such
developments require us to promote initiatives to ensure
that countries in which arms-producing firms operate
adopt
the necessary measures to eradicate the illegal
traffic in such weapons and to control their commercial
flows.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The debate and the search for solutions to these
priority issues must also be addressed, as implementation of
the cooperation agreement with the Inter-Parliamentary
Union develops. It would be particularly significant if, with
the bridge that has been laid between the two organizations,
the parliaments of developed countries can be made aware
of concerns such as those that have been pointed out today,
so that
they can respond positively in their sphere of
competence.
The United Nations needs the support of parliaments.
Its noble objectives are more likely to become reality if the
world’s legislative bodies understand, believe in and fully
support
they complement and, as
appropriate, put into practice measures that require it.
its cause, and if
to
their
ranks
have
This is a solemn and happy time for the Organization.
New and necessary foundations have been laid between two
of the world’s major collegiate bodies, which have the
privilege
enlightened
spokespersons from all over the world, which constantly
seek the same ideal of harmony and coexistence on the vast
and glorious stage formed by all the continents, and which
raise their voices in this Hall for the supreme ideal of
peace.
among
It behoves us to continue to search for a new way that
replaces confrontation by the search for cooperation as the
crux of our actions, based on mutual respect and the
defence of the principles enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations, with the resolute and historic purpose of
contributing collectively to strengthening the world on the
basis of new and better levels of justice, equity and social
development.
As the problems faced in the community of nations
seem more acute, solutions become more difficult and the
international community trembles at
the threat of new
confrontations. We are duty bound, energetically and by
every possible means, to seek reconciliation among men,
dialogue, consensus and concerted action.
It is essential that indissoluble and unshakable unity be
feature of our world, our
maintained as a central
Governments, parliaments and peoples.
In this way,
common interests will prevail on the international scene,
our voice will be heard in the decision-making process, and
we will have a vital place in world political development.
We
therefore need to reaffirm the points of
convergence at the tops of our voices, in order to strengthen
our positions so that they carry the weight they deserve in
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
the international community — the weight and the exalted
power represented by the voice of 185 countries that
make up the membership of this Organization.
I am fully convinced that the common will of the
States gathered here will be strengthened through the full
implementation of this agreement for the common benefit
of all humankind.
The Acting President: Before I proceed, I should
like to inform the Assembly that the representative of
Sudan has requested to participate in the debate on this
item. Inasmuch as the list of speakers was closed this
morning at 11 a.m., may I ask the Assembly whether
there is any objection to including Sudan on the list of
speakers?
If I hear no objection, the Assembly will include
Sudan on the list of speakers.
It was so decided.
Mrs. Heptulla (India): It
is once again a great
privilege to speak in support of cooperation between the
Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) and the United Nations.
It reminds me of the discussions during the last session
when this august Assembly began the process of
establishing a framework of cooperation by unanimously
endorsing resolution 50/15 on 15 November 1995.
The Secretary-General in his report (A/51/402) has
informed us that the modest goal set forth in resolution
50/15 has been met with the conclusion on 24 July 1996
of a cooperation agreement between the United Nations
and the IPU.
This important initial step has opened up new vistas
of cooperation. We need to pool our resources and our
experience to devise complementary plans of action to
address our common problems. Having had the unique
privilege of working in close association with both the
organizations - as Human Development Ambassador of
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and
as a member of the Executive Committee of the IPU, I
realize how essential it is for strong ties of cooperation to
exist between the United Nations and the IPU.
Of all the international institutions, the IPU was
amongst the first to promote the idea of creating a world
organization of nations. It is perhaps one of the world’s
unique institutions in the sense that
its members are
drawn from a wide spectrum of legislatures representing
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
various shades of public opinion. They include not only the
Government but also the opposition, and thus represent the
diverse will of the people in the true sense of the phrase.
in the Union’s
The IPU, while striving to promote international peace
and development and a better understanding of various
problems faced by humanity, works in close cooperation
with other international organizations. In its multifarious
activities, the IPU has worked in close coordination with
the United Nations. A large number of United Nations
agencies and subsidiary organs are represented at senior
levels
statutory conferences. Several
specialized conferences, on a variety of issues, have also
been organized jointly or in close cooperation with United
Nations
International Labour
Organization (ILO), the World Health Organization (WHO),
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO),
the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
and others. Meetings to bring together senior United
Nations officials and parliamentarians attending the United
Nations General Assembly as members of their national
delegations are held each year in New York to review
major initiatives and programmes of the United Nations.
including
bodies
the
The
submit
to their
IPU members
respective
assemblies and Governments the resolutions adopted by the
Union and promote their implementation. It is expected that
the members of
the parliaments attending the IPU
conferences will in turn disseminate the discussions and
conclusions of the conferences back in their countries and
pass these opinions on to the masses. Cooperation between
the United Nations and the IPU will give a greater
opportunity to the United Nations,
through the elected
representatives, to familiarize the people with its objectives
and achievements.
The IPU has been evincing growing interest in various
international issues affecting its member countries and their
peoples. Two full plenary sessions of the IPU each year are
devoted entirely to serious problems and situations
confronted by the people in general. The IPU also organizes
specialized worldwide or
and
symposiums, aimed at bringing together parliamentarians
and experts
to study certain specific problems of
international security, development, human rights, social
affairs, disarmament and so on.
conferences
regional
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
the United Nations efforts at
full support to United Nations programmes and plans of
the IPU were called to
action. Special sessions of
supplement
the Cairo
International Conference on Population and Development
in 1994 and at the World Summit for Social Development
at Copenhagen in 1995. The member parliaments again
met at a special session on 7 September 1995 to offer
their support to the Fourth World Conference on Women
at Beijing. All these conferences, held at the initiative of
the IPU, indicate the complementarity of focus of the IPU
and the United Nations.
Like the United Nations, the welfare and concerns of
women has been a matter of special importance for the
IPU. India, for its part, has always placed emphasis on
this vital social issue. The Indian people, Government and
Parliament have highlighted this aspect nationally as well
as internationally. As a national commitment, after
empowering women at
through a
constitutional amendment reserving seats for women in
local bodies, the Indian Parliament is now considering a
bill to reserve 33 per cent of seats in the state legislatures
and in the National Parliament.
the local
level
In the international arena, a special Conference of
the IPU, as a follow-up to the Beijing Conference, is
being hosted at New Delhi from 14 to 18 February 1997
on the theme “Towards Partnership Between Men and
Women in Politics”. This major Conference will bring
together parliamentarians from 136 countries, United
Nations agencies, media, non-governmental organizations,
academics and activists to fan the flame of equality lit by
the United Nations in Mexico and stoked at Nairobi and
Beijing. As the Chairperson of the National Steering
Committee for this Conference, I take this opportunity to
invite you all to attend this event.
these
between
enormous. Cooperation
The possibilities of cooperation between the United
Nations and the IPU for the common benefit of mankind
are
two
organizations is aimed at weaving an everlasting social
fabric based on fraternity, equality and liberty for all and
at working jointly to ensure peaceful coexistence for our
future generations. It should be not only our endeavour
and commitment, but also our duty to strengthen a better
and prosperous global society. It is in this context that I
commend to this Assembly the unanimous adoption of the
draft resolution contained in document A/51/L.6.
Apart from regular Conferences, which are convened
twice a year, the IPU has called special sessions in support
of United Nations-sponsored world conferences on various
aspects of comprehensive human development. It has lent
Mr. Dzassohov (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): Many diplomats and parliamentarians were
witnesses to and participants in the initiatives that have
12
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
made today’s debate possible. It will undoubtedly go down
in the political annals of the modern world as the beginning
of a qualitatively new era in the relations between the
United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union. This
prompts us to express our well-deserved thanks to Mr.
Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Mr. Ahmed Fathy Sorour and, of
course, Mr. Pierre Cornillon, the Secretary-General of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union, who is here with us today, for
it is precisely their efforts and practical steps that are so
greatly appreciated in the national Parliaments of the United
Nations Member States.
Allow me to make the following brief comments.
First, it has become customary to characterize the post-cold-
war period as a movement
towards democracy and
parliamentarianism. It is precisely in this framework that we
are debating the draft resolution before us today, as it is
fully consonant with the spirit and will of the peoples of the
world.
Secondly, the transition to representative democracy
under way in many regions of the world, such as Eastern
and Central Europe, my country, the Russian Federation,
and the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent
States, is gaining momentum and even new experience. In
turn,
the United Nations and its Secretary-General are
encouraging new democracies. We can speak of
the
timeliness of this direction in United Nations activities
because the theoretical conceptualization of the interesting
democratization processes sometimes, unfortunately,
lag
behind modern global political realities.
How do we propose effectively to gather public
opinion and to bring the full potential of civil society into
play? This is something we all seek. In our view, we can
solicit the greater involvement of the representatives of
national Parliaments in discussions on major United Nations
issues. I am convinced that gathering new experience and
enhancing cooperation between legislative and executive
authorities are urgent
the
international community.
international priorities
for
Thirdly, the issue before the General Assembly is
conducive to efforts along the “diplomat-deputy” approach.
Speaking in May this year before the National Duma of the
Russian Federation, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali correctly
stated that
the peoples of the world, and even many
politicians, have an incomplete picture of the full spectrum
of the issues being addressed by the main international
Organization.
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
For example,
they see only episodes of peace-
building, but not the rest of the process. Today, when
cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary Union is at a new stage of its development,
it
to see high-ranking United
Nations Secretariat officials and the heads of diplomatic
missions of the members of the international community
regularly in the halls and meeting rooms of national
parliaments.
is extremely important
Moreover, after each round of general policy
discussions — and this is an atmosphere that one finds
only here at United Nations headquarters — the heads of
delegations could address national parliaments on their
outcome.
Fourthly, the delegation of the Russian Federation
particularly supports and welcomes paragraph 3 of draft
resolution A/51/L.6 on the inclusion in the agenda of the
fifty-second session of the General Assembly of an item
concerning cooperation between the two organizations.
However, we ourselves — parliamentarians, the Executive
Committee and the Inter-Parliamentary Council — can
and must do a great deal to make future deliberations
productive and to consolidate the breakthrough in
cooperation between legislators and diplomats.
Fifthly, at every stage of promoting the idea of
cooperation in the form now being discussed by the
General Assembly, Russia, and particularly the Russian
Parliament, has been interested in developing such efforts
with the United Nations. A great contribution to the
successful coordination of the preparatory work in this
endeavour was made by the Ambassador of Egypt, Mr.
Elaraby, for which we are very grateful
to him. He
reaffirmed that contribution in his introduction today.
At the same time, I would like to declare that Russia
joins the sponsors of this draft resolution.
In conclusion, I wish everyone every success in this
new endeavour.
Mr. Larraín (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
Today, the General Assembly is considering the draft
resolution entitled “Cooperation between the United
Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union”, which my
country has co-sponsored and hopes will be adopted by
consensus.
My delegation,
like most delegations present,
the activities of the Inter-Parliamentary
believes that
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Union supplement and support the work of the United
Nations. We witnessed this at the international conferences
convened by the Organization, which benefited from the
cooperation of that parliamentary body and from its tireless
interest in bringing new elements to the debates of the
United Nations on such important topics as, inter alia, anti-
personnel landmines and the rights of women and children.
We particularly welcome at this time the cooperation
agreement signed between the two organizations on 24 July
1996. This agreement strengthens relations between the two
organizations, principally in promoting peace, human rights
and democracy in the world.
This agreement has already yielded results. On 5 and
6 September 1996, both organizations held a meeting in this
city on the follow-up to the World Summit for Social
Development. The meeting was aimed at enhancing
and
cooperation
intergovernmental
effective
implementation of the agreements reached in Copenhagen.
They drew up a practical catalogue of concrete steps and
actions to be taken by national parliaments and their
members in this respect.
parliaments, Governments
organizations
among
the
for
two organizations — one
My delegation believes that substantial cooperation
between the
representing
Governments and the other representing parliaments — will
also serve as a better expression of the will and interests of
peoples at the international level.
Likewise, my delegation believes
that a closer
relationship with the Inter-Parliamentary Union is yet
another United Nations show of support for democracies
throughout
the world and a way of strengthening —
especially at the international level — the recognition due
to the legislative branches of government, which are
manifestations of popular will.
In view of the above, my delegation believes that
cooperation between the United Nations and the various
parliamentary groups is very valuable. We also wish to
express in this regard our support for Parliamentarians for
Global Action. That organization has done important work
for international peace and security, human rights and
democracy in the world. In so doing, it has supported the
purposes and principles of the United Nations. It is still
possible to remember the fundamental role it played a few
years ago in the so-called Six-Nation Initiative. More
recently, it played a very important role in Burundi in the
search
among
understanding
dialogue
and
for
14
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
parliamentarians themselves and with the United Nations
system.
Mr. Fulci
(Italy): As a sponsor of
the draft
resolution, Italy wishes to voice its support for this
document. The draft welcomes the conclusion, on 24 July
1996, of the agreement between the United Nations and
the Inter-Parliamentary Union — an agreement which
creates an appropriate and long-needed framework for
increasing cooperation between the two organizations.
We are especially grateful
to the Permanent
Representative of Egypt, Ambassador Nabil Elaraby, for
his clear, comprehensive and thoughtful introduction of
the draft resolution and are confident that the General
Assembly will adopt it by consensus.
The Inter-Parliamentary Union is an organization of
national parliaments. As we all know, parliaments are the
highest expression of the ideals of democracy within the
structure of a State. They are called on to perform
fundamental tasks not only in the domestic domain, but
also in international matters. They adopt
laws and
exercise control over Governments. They ratify treaties,
implement
laws and determine State policy towards
international organizations.
Today, in a world in which States are more and
more interdependent, rather than independent, parliaments
are called on to play an unprecedented role in
international cooperation as well. Parliaments represent
the people and their will is the highest expression of the
will of all the citizens of a country. In other words, they
are the means to enhance democracy.
As the President of the Republic of Italy, Oscar
Luigi Scalfaro, said in his address to the General
Assembly on 3 April 1996:
“The raison d’être of the United Nations is the
defence of the individual, of humanity.
...
“The immense task of humanitarian aid is
certainly the truest path to peace. This is because it
involves sharing in the suffering of others.
“And let us not forget that helping people to
live in freedom, to enjoy social justice worthy of
man, to live in democracy, is certainly the highest
form of humanitarian aid.” (Official Records of the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Plenary Meetings,
103rd meeting, p. 4)
The General Assembly is and must remain the bedrock
of our Organization. It empowers all the other bodies of the
United Nations, including the Security Council, two thirds
of whose members the General Assembly elects. The
General Assembly reflects the opinions of our peoples and
strengthens ties with the institutional
the
Member States. For many years now, the Italian delegation
to the general debate of the General Assembly has included
representatives of both the Senate and the Chamber of
Deputies of Italy. This has proved to be a most positive
experience, giving our political forces a fuller appreciation
of the role and activities of the United Nations.
realities of
to Rome,
The Italian Parliament has been following the work of
the United Nations more and more closely in recent years.
In January, on the occasion of the visit of Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali
Italian
Government met with the Chamber of Deputies in solemn
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United
Nations. On 9 October, the other House of Parliament, the
Senate, dedicated a long and meaningful debate to the issue
of Security Council reform. At the end, a resolution was
adopted to:
the whole
in all
“support
the competent forums the reform
objectives defined in the statement by the Minister of
Foreign Affairs to the fifty-first session of the United
Nations General Assembly, starting with the Italian
proposal for a reform of the Security Council.”
This issue was also considered at the special session
of the Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Union held at the
United Nations headquarters last year from 30 August to 1
September.
the
Since its establishment more than a century ago, the
Inter-Parliamentary Union has greatly contributed to
international cooperation. Its action has been aimed at
various objectives, in particular the peaceful settlement of
disputes,
enhancement of democracy and the
safeguarding of human rights throughout the world. It has
promoted free elections and democratic institutions, fostered
the participation of women in political life and supported
the protection of minorities. In other words, the Inter-
Parliamentary Union has constantly worked to affirm the
ideals and to pursue the goals of modern international
society.
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
The strengthening of cooperation between the United
Nations and the Union will be highly beneficial to both
institutions. But more than anything else, it will greatly
contribute to reaffirming and implementing, on the
threshold of the third millennium,
the purposes and
principles enshrined in our Charter.
(Spain)
(interpretation
Mr. Laclaustra
from
Spanish): Parliamentary democracy is
the natural
framework for the development of the conditions most
appropriate
security.
Furthermore, the purposes and principles of the United
Nations are in close agreement with the guidelines and
criteria that have inspired the constitutions of peace-
loving States.
international
to
peace
and
level
The Inter-Parliamentary Union embodies at
the
role of national
international
parliaments and is a forum for reflection and debate on
the solutions needed to meet
the challenges and
requirements of today’s society.
important
the
At the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, my
delegation emphasized its support for greater cooperation
between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary
Union — a cooperation that, in our view, should be given
an appropriate institutional framework.
In this connection, my delegation welcomes the
this year of a cooperation
signing on 24 July of
agreement between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary Union. This is not the time for an analysis
of or detailed comments on the provisions of
that
important text, but we wish to express our satisfaction at
the opportunity that has emerged since its signature for
the Inter-Parliamentary Union to be invited to participate
in the debates of United Nations bodies and in
conferences and meetings held under its auspices.
That participation of the Inter-Parliamentary Union
in United Nations activities will undoubtedly be extremely
useful and beneficial for both organizations, as it will
allow for the mutual exchange of information and for
interaction between them.
With reference to the draft resolution on this item
introduced by the delegation of Egypt, it has been a
pleasure for my delegation to be among its sponsors. We
trust
resolution A/51/L.6 will enjoy the
unanimous support of the General Assembly.
that draft
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate the support of the
delegation of Spain for continued cooperation between the
two organizations, sharing as it does their interest and
concern for a world of greater peace and security.
Mr. Hayat (Pakistan): On behalf of the Pakistan
delegation, I would like to thank the delegation of Egypt
for introducing draft resolution A/51/L.6 and underlining
the
cooperation between the
Inter-
Parliamentary Union (IPU) and the United Nations.
importance of
On the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, while giving the parliamentary vision for
international cooperation into the twenty-first century, the
members of the IPU reaffirmed the soaring vision and
common purposes that animated the drafters of the United
Nations Charter. They
to
strengthening the bonds of the world community for the
realization of the ideals of that Charter. To contribute
actively to the work of the United Nations, the Union
decided to establish a formal framework for cooperation
between the two organizations.
rededicated
themselves
The United Nations has made invaluable contributions
in a number of crucial areas,
including peacekeeping,
economic development, humanitarian assistance and the
establishment of legal norms. Yet it has not been able to
live up to the expectations of the peoples. To respond to
their wishes, the United Nations needs to become more
accessible to new actors,
such as non-governmental
organizations, who represent the civil society. These actors
are playing an increasingly important role in many areas.
Associations such as the IPU,
the Parliamentarians for
Global Action and other similar organizations are uniquely
placed to build such bridges. While such associations can
generate support for the United Nations to strengthen its
role, they can certainly also sensitize the United Nations to
the aspirations of the peoples.
launch
information
At the political level, the IPU can help mobilize public
opinion in favour of the United Nations. Parliamentarians
can
their
constituents aware of the accomplishments of the United
Nations. Such an exercise is essential. In many countries
people are either indifferent or becoming hostile to calls for
greater
the United
Nations.
financial and material support
campaigns
to make
for
The United Nations efforts to establish the rule of law
at the international level must be supported. In this regard,
while preparing legislation, parliaments should take United
Nations resolutions and decisions into account. National
16
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
laws ought not to be at variance with the decisions that
are agreed upon in the United Nations. Similarly, to
augment the role of the United Nations in promoting
international peace and security, legislators should ensure
that the executive branch of the Government implements
the resolutions and decisions adopted by the United
Nations.
To enhance the efficacy of the United Nations,
parliamentarians can also sensitize the United Nations to
the expectations of the peoples they represent. For some,
the United Nations has not made enough progress in
achieving the goals of peace, security and stability. In
certain regions of the world, it has not been successful in
ameliorating the sufferings of the people. Lack of action
in Bosnia reinforced doubts about
the ability of the
United Nations to deal with conflicts. In our own region,
the Kashmir dispute is still simmering and the people of
Kashmir are still waiting for the United Nations to take
measures for the implementation of the Security Council
resolutions.
Mutual cooperation between the IPU and the United
Nations can help in harnessing the power of the peoples
for the realization of the lofty ideals of the United
Nations Charter. At the operational level, the IPU can
contribute to the United Nations role in the promotion of
democracy, peacekeeping and peace-building.
To acquaint the nascent democracies with the new
system of governance, the IPU, in collaboration with the
United Nations, could launch an information and support
programme. The sharing of information through the
reliable United Nations
channels would facilitate
institution-building in relatively young parliaments.
In the field of peacekeeping and peace-building, the
parliamentarians of major troop-contributing countries
might consider the establishment of an IPU forum or
caucus on United Nations peacekeeping operations. Such
a caucus might arrange seminars and public campaigns in
support of the United Nations peacekeeping endeavours.
The parliamentarians can sensitize the public to the
significance of these operations and ask the Governments
to meet their obligations to this end.
The IPU and the United Nations share a common
interest in maintaining peace and promoting economic
development for the betterment of the peoples of the
world. As a representative body of the peoples of the
world, the IPU has an important role to play in the
realization of a world free of the scourges of war, hunger,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
poverty and disease. To achieve these goals, both
organizations should actively utilize the framework for
cooperation.
Mr. Abdelhamid (Sudan)
(interpretation from
Arabic): Thank you for giving me this opportunity to
address the General Assembly regarding the support and
endorsement of the cooperation agreement between the
United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU).
I did not want to miss such an opportunity to reaffirm
our support for this agreement. We hope that
it will
contribute to the good of humanity in general. This is
particularly true since Sudan has played an active leadership
role in the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) for some time
now. I have been sent here by my Parliament, which was
recently elected in free, fair elections in which for the first
time there was substantial participation. I want to state the
desire and the interest of my people to support cooperation
between the two organizations.
Parliaments express the real will of peoples, and they
express the interest of peoples in sharing power. We hope
that as a result of the expected popular participation in
parliaments, and the participation of all parliaments in the
joint endeavours of the United Nations and the IPU, the
hopes of peoples will be fulfilled and that we will come
closer
to dealing with questions of world peace and
development.
We reaffirm that the United Nations is the mechanism
which can coordinate all the efforts of the world for the
good of humanity in all spheres: economic, developmental
and others. Addressing this human, development aspect
involves dealing with all spheres of cultural and economic
diversity in an objective manner very different from the
indifference that is shown in dealing with some of the other
global questions that may be discussed in the General
Assembly or the Security Council.
Once again I would like to express our absolute
support for the cooperation agreement signed between the
United Nations and the IPU.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to take a decision on draft
resolution A/51/L.6. In this connection, I should like to
announce that since the introduction of the draft resolution
Kyrgyzstan, Madagascar, Nicaragua, Peru,
the Russian
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
Federation and Tunisia have become sponsors of the draft
resolution.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/51/L.6?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 51/7).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the General Assembly to conclude
wish of
consideration of agenda item 29?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 36
International assistance for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and
natural disasters
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/263)
Draft resolution (A/51/L.3)
The Acting President: I call on the representative
of Nicaragua to introduce draft resolution A/51/L.3.
Mr. Vilchez Asher (Nicaragua) (interpretation from
Spanish): It is an honour for me to introduce, on behalf
of the other sponsors, the draft resolution contained in
document A/51/L.3, entitled “International assistance for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua:
aftermath of the war and natural disasters”. I should like
to announce that the following additional countries have
become sponsors of the draft resolution: Benin, Canada,
Germany, Jamaica, Panama, Romania, Suriname,
the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Venezuela.
While thanking the Secretariat for the report contained in
document A/51/263, which reflects the progress and the
difficulties in our transition process, we wish to request
that in the future more space be given to aspects relating
to projects and objectives implemented by the specialized
agencies of the United Nations system.
The draft resolution we are introducing together with
the other sponsors emphasizes the concerns of a country
which has needed the
the
international community to try to overcome the aftermath
of the war in the midst of a triple transition — from war
to peace,
from a centralized economy to a market
economy, and from authoritarianism to democracy — and
the same time to deal with a heavy external-debt
at
sustained support of
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
burden and the economic effects of hurricanes and other
natural disasters.
This draft resolution requests the Secretary-General, in
cooperation with the relevant organs and organizations of
the United Nations system and in close cooperation with
Nicaraguan authorities, to continue to provide all necessary
assistance
and
development of Nicaragua. We trust that this brief and clear
draft resolution will be adopted by the General Assembly
without a vote.
reconstruction,
stabilization
the
for
Since this initiative came to the General Assembly for
the first time as a result of Nicaragua’s urgent needs in
1990 at the end of its decade-long armed conflict and of its
starting on the path to democracy and economic and social
development, we have seen emergency assistance to be a
temporary but very effective mechanism to help resolve the
difficult problems of transition. We hope these problems
will soon be overcome. In this context, the emergency
assistance for the reconstruction of our country which
States, international organizations, the World Bank and non-
governmental organizations
the
Administration of Violeta Barrios de Chamorro has made
a major
democracy,
consolidating the rule of law, eliminating poverty and, in
general, to peace in Central America. The Support Group
for Nicaragua approved by the General Assembly and made
up of Canada, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain and Sweden
has also played an important
role in the search for
consensus and in support for economic recovery.
strengthening
contribution
us during
lent
to
to
There has certainly been broad participation on the
part of the international community in peace-building in
Nicaragua. In this regard, we can mention, among the many
projects which have been carried out,
reducing and
professionalizing the army and the national police and
involving former members of the Nicaraguan resistance in
productive projects for economic development. Also with
international support, we have financed programmes to
reintegrate the population displaced and otherwise affected
by the war, especially in rural areas in the north of the
country. Such support has also promoted programmes for
disarming the civilian population during the first years of
the Chamorro Administration. In the field of economic
recovery, we have promoted credit programmes
to
strengthen micro- and small businesses both in rural areas
and in the cities. We have privatized most of the State-held
enterprises. With the cooperation of friendly countries,
which provided the necessary resources, we have
undertaken major efforts to negotiate and purchase the
commercial debt.
18
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
This enormous effort
to renegotiate the debt
is
providing our country with a new opportunity to
participate and to be a part of the world’s economic
system. We must realize that the effort made by our
creditors may not be repeated, and applying for new loans
in a responsible manner must be part of our principal
purposes. Despite the reduction of the external debt
achieved so far, Nicaragua continues to be a low-income
country with high debts. It is therefore essential for us to
continue those negotiations. In this regard, Nicaragua
needs the support of the international community to
continue to make progress towards a definitive solution in
the process of renegotiating its external debt so that the
effective servicing of the debt will be compatible with its
capacity to pay.
The untenability of Nicaragua’s external debt has
been recognized in the G-7 initiative submitted to the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF),
which provides for an external debt relief mechanism for
highly indebted countries, so that they can sustain its
servicing.
With
assistance,
and with
international
the
exceptional treatment given to our country by the General
Assembly, peace and democracy are being consolidated
in Nicaragua. This is reflected above all in the great
reduction of political violence, the full establishment of
public freedoms for the first time in the history of the
country, the increasingly independent operation of the
organs of the State, the decentralization of the central
Government and the strengthening of local governments.
The population at large recognizes these achievements
and, after a decade of armed and fratricidal conflict,
agrees that one of the most important achievements has
been that of pacification.
the impact of
While the country is at peace and has resumed its
economic growth,
the conflict on
employment and underemployment indicators has kept
them below expectations. Nicaragua continues to face
major problems in terms of social indicators; poverty
continues to be one of the main problems affecting a
large part of the population. In these conditions, to help
consolidate democracy we need the continued support of
the international community and the United Nations,
which has so generously supported us in recent years. The
Government, for its part, is undertaking great efforts in
various fields to alleviate these problems.
In the context of the undeniable achievements and
efforts of the Government of Doña Violeta Barrios de
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Chamorro to consolidate national reconciliation, peace,
economic and social development and the rule of law in
Nicaragua, on 20 October 1996 the Nicaraguan people held
elections for President, the Legislature, local authorities and
the Central American Parliament. The results of these
elections,
their significance and the transparency and
seriousness with which they were held show the great
importance that most of the Nicaraguan people attach to the
final consolidation of democracy, peace and economic and
social development.
Nicaragua cannot return to the past. The definitive
solution to the problem of the external debt, of ownership
and of a considerable improvement in national, foreign and
private investment,
in the framework of a sound and
responsible macroeconomic policy favouring internal
savings and contributing to improving the standard of living
of the Nicaraguan people, must be our goal.
its effort
Nicaragua has reiterated its desire to be a peaceful and
hard-working nation, and it has reiterated its appeal to all
United Nations Member States to support
to
consolidate peace and democracy — not only in Nicaragua
but in Central America as a whole. As part of this effort,
we have urgently needed the resolute support of the
international community to maintain the hopes of a people
that wishes to reconstruct its country in peace, justice and
democracy. International assistance for the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of Nicaragua has been in a pragmatic,
concrete, realistic and well-founded way to contribute to the
universal values that guide the United Nations.
Nicaragua has needed the support and solidarity of the
international community to overcome the aftermath of war
and the natural disasters that have stricken it in recent
years. The unanimous adoption of the relevant resolutions
since 1991 constitutes a clear sign of the political will of
the international community to support the political and
economic process that the people and the Government of
Nicaragua are carrying out. All of this will result in the
consolidation of peace and the democratic process in
Nicaragua.
Once again, on behalf of the sponsors, I request that
the draft resolution contained in document A/51/L.3 be
adopted by consensus.
(Argentina)
Mr. Petrella
from
Spanish): It is of particular interest for my delegation to
participate in the debate on agenda item 36, entitled
“International
and
(interpretation
rehabilitation
assistance
for
the
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
reconstruction of Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and
natural disasters”.
First of all, we wish to congratulate the delegation
of that country on the noteworthy democratic elections
held a few days ago.
that
assistance
As we have stated in previous debates on this
question, Argentina understands
to
Nicaragua is a case from which we can draw guidelines
that are useful for the entire system of international
cooperation for development. The process in Nicaragua
combines two situations that deserve attention in terms of
reconstruction. One is the situation of post-conflict
institutional and economic deterioration, although at the
institutional level exemplary progress has been achieved,
as shown by the recent elections to which I just referred.
The other is the situation stemming from the aftermath of
natural disasters.
A characteristic specific to the Nicaraguan process
is that rehabilitation and reconstruction are taking place in
a pluralistic framework, with the participation of all
sectors of the population. To complement this effort by
the people of Nicaragua, the United Nations must aim its
technical cooperation and economic activities towards the
objective of consolidating the democratic system and of
strengthening institutions,
these being the essential
elements for the stability of the country and for promoting
economic growth.
We must also recall that the Nicaraguan process is
part of an overall regional process of democratization.
Therefore,
improvements in that country will have a
positive impact for all of Central America.
We are aware of the serious difficulties faced by
Nicaragua. To the circumstances already mentioned, we
must add the burden of the external debt, which hampers
productive investment and capital flows. Aware of this
fact, Argentina has cancelled Nicaragua’s debt. We
encourage other creditor countries to do likewise, and
urge the General Assembly to issue a recommendation
along the same lines. In addition, in connection with
concrete commitments to the task of rehabilitation and
reconstruction in Nicaragua, Argentina has developed
several technical cooperation projects between the two
countries, focusing on areas such as human resource
training, agriculture, forestry, fisheries and energy.
Before
concluding, we wish to express our
appreciation for the work done by the Support Group for
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
Nicaragua which, under the leadership of the Secretary-
General, is playing a very active and dynamic role in
supporting efforts at economic rehabilitation and social
development in the country.
produced a favourable environment for increased trade
and economic cooperation. The process of consolidating
democracy in Central America has
reinvigorated
cooperation in the region.
We also wish to express gratitude for the efforts of the
international
and
organizations of the United Nations system, to complement
the initiatives taken by the Nicaraguan Government.
including the organs
community,
Finally, we wish to reiterate our request for support to
give special political, technical and financial attention to
Nicaragua. Such assistance will allow the Nicaraguan
Government to prepare medium- and long-term plans for its
economic reconstruction and to consolidate and strengthen
its institutions.
My delegation lends its full support
to the draft
resolution under consideration by the Assembly and hopes
that it will be adopted without a vote.
Mr. Valle (Brazil)
(interpretation from Spanish):
Nicaragua has made great progress since this item was
included on the agenda of the General Assembly’s forty-
seventh session. Brazil has been closely following the
progress made in Central America and especially in
Nicaragua. As a member of the Support Group of the
countries of the Contadora Group, Brazil participated in the
successful efforts to bring peace to Central America
through dialogue and reconciliation. Together with the
efforts made by the Organization of American States (OAS)
and the United Nations, bilateral contributions have, without
doubt, facilitated progress in the peace process.
In 1990 Nicaragua was still immersed in conflict.
Today,
towards the end of the present Administration,
Nicaragua is a different country. President Violeta
Chamorro will soon have fulfilled the aspiration expressed
in her recently published autobiography to transfer power
to someone who is also elected by the people. The
Government of Violeta Chamorro deserves credit for having
created conditions for national
reconciliation, and the
Nicaraguan people deserve our respect and solidarity for
having taken up the banner of peace.
The Nicaraguan people can continue to look towards
the future with confidence. Their institutions have been
reorganized to provide a solid basis for democracy to thrive
in an atmosphere of respect for civil liberties and protection
of human rights. The ongoing economic and financial
reforms are laying the ground for social and economic
development. The establishment of peace in the region has
20
In spite of this positive evolution, Nicaragua still
faces substantial challenges. Its high rate of population
growth, combined with a stagnant gross domestic product,
has been reducing the already low per capita income. A
succession of natural emergencies has compounded the
country’s difficulties. The report of the Secretary-General
(A/51/263) points to a change in this tendency and
presents us with brighter prospects.
However,
the
provided
assistance
through
multilateral or bilateral channels remains an essential
component of the Government’s attempts to provide
Nicaraguan society with adequate education, sanitary
facilities and other basic infrastructure. The United
Nations,
through the United Nations Development
Programme and other specialized agencies and bodies, has
been playing a vital role in assisting Nicaraguans to
modernize their country, as can be seen from the
successive reports submitted by the Secretary-General to
the General Assembly.
Brazil, motivated by a wish to show material support
for peace and development
in Nicaragua, has been
participating, under the aegis of OAS, in efforts to demine
Nicaraguan territory, and has become involved in projects
for the advancement of rural areas, in accordance with
General Assembly resolutions.
Last year we
attended the meeting of
the
consultative group that coordinates international assistance
for Nicaragua, and we are continuing to collaborate in
human resources development as well as in other fields.
Brazil has likewise demonstrated its readiness to
enter into negotiations with a view to finding a mutually
satisfactory solution to the question of outstanding
Nicaraguan debt, within the framework of the Paris Club.
In July 1996 we sponsored the resolution adopted by the
Economic and Social Council on emergency assistance to
Costa Rica and Nicaragua.
Brazil wishes to take this opportunity to express its
support to the people of Nicaragua as they pursue the
process of consolidating democracy in their country. We
will continue to seek ways to increase our cooperation,
and we reaffirm our willingness to contribute to progress
in Nicaragua.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
assistance
for
the
to express
Mr. Fulci
(Italy):
rehabilitation
Italy wishes
its
appreciation for the Secretary-General’s report entitled
“International
and
reconstruction of Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and
natural disasters”. After the dark years of civil war and the
difficult post-war period, Nicaragua is taking definite steps
toward economic development. Peace prospers and grows
through social justice. It is our hope that the Nicaraguan
Government will continue to pursue policies that assure
sustainable development.
We were pleased to learn of the great achievements of
the Nicaraguan democracy under the able leadership of
President Violeta Chamorro and of its successful efforts in
combating inflation and increasing gross national product.
However, external debt continues to mortgage Nicaraguan
development. That is why Italy has decided to continue to
express,
just
words — its friendship and solidarity with the Nicaraguan
Government and people through a unilateral reduction of
the external debt.
in a concrete manner — with deeds, not
It
is known that Italy participated actively in the
consolidation of the peace process in Central America
through the financing of the Development Programme for
Displaced Persons, Refugees and Returnees (PRODERE) in
six countries in the region, including Nicaragua. I do not
need to recall here what PRODERE has done or the goals
that it has achieved. Others with expertise in development
policies have already done so through the years. The
Administrator of
the United Nations Development
Programme, Mr. Speth, called PRODERE
“an extraordinary example of implementation, at the
local level, of the human development model”.
The former President of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate
for peace, Oscar Arias, presented to the United Nations the
report on the external and independent evaluation of
PRODERE. President Arias said:
“The terror, which a history of repression and political
disintegration had instilled in the population, was
progressively replaced by a climate of confidence
suitable to a genuine state of law in the areas where
PRODERE operated.”
Encouraged by this very positive experience, Italy has
decided to continue to support United Nations action in
Central America. ln Nicaragua, with the United Nations
Development Programme and the United Nations Office for
Project Services,
Italy is supporting the Alliance for
Sustainable Development
through the Programme for
Sustainable Human Development at the Local Level. In this
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
framework, the Italian Government is about to finance a
new project to improve health infrastructures in Nueva
Segovia and Jinotega for a total of about $2 million.
Our colleague the Permanent Representative of
Nicaragua, Ambassador Erich Vilchez Asher, has just
mentioned the natural disasters that have plagued this
country. Also in this regard, may I recall that last summer
we responded to the humanitarian appeal
following
Hurricane Caesar, and pledged a contribution for
emergency relief assistance to the victims of
the
hurricane.
Italy has the real pleasure to be once again among
the co-sponsors of the draft resolution on humanitarian
assistance to Nicaragua. On behalf of my country, I also
wish to confirm our unwavering political support for
Nicaragua and for
its Government. As Ambassador
Vilchez Asher very rightly and eloquently said a few
minutes ago:
“Nicaragua cannot return to the past.” (supra, p. 19)
This is also our strong belief and our most sincere
wish.
Mr. Runge (Germany): The report of the Secretary-
General on international assistance for the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of Nicaragua (A/51/263), which has
been presented today, illustrates in a vivid manner the
many and successful steps Nicaragua has taken, after
years of internal conflict, towards peace, the consolidation
of democracy and economic recovery. The election has
been one more important step in this direction, even
though the aftermath of the conflict is still weighing
heavily on the country and natural disasters continue to
aggravate the situation.
Democracy and the rule of law have been accepted
by the population of Nicaragua in an unprecedented
manner. All major political questions are being discussed
in Parliament and translated into action in a democratic
fashion. We are therefore convinced that Nicaragua will
continue on its path of reconciliation and reconstruction.
We welcome the continued support rendered to
Nicaragua and its people by the international community.
Germany, as the third largest bilateral donor, is one of
Nicaragua’s major partners in the field of economic
cooperation. While in the beginning of this partnership
large amounts had to be contributed towards emergency
measures,
today the extensive bilateral development
cooperation focuses mainly on the consolidation of
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
structural adaptation processes, the rehabilitation of social
infrastructures,
enterprises
(including vocational training), agricultural development,
and the protection of the environment and natural resources.
the promotion of private
In this context, our cooperation is increasingly directed
towards rural areas, focusing on poverty and its alleviation,
with special attention to women. We appreciate the
recognition these issues have also been accorded in the
framework of the ongoing national policy dialogue.
Since 1990, Germany has made a total of DM 800
million in official development assistance available to
Nicaragua. In 1995/1996 alone, DM 56 million in additional
funding has been pledged. Germany also recognizes that the
extremely high external debt burden used to be one of the
most devastating legacies of Nicaragua’s past and has
considerably hampered the process of economic revival. I
am therefore glad to note that
the German-Nicaraguan
agreement on a rescheduling of DM 1 billion of debts,
reached during the course of last year, has contributed to
the considerable reduction of pressure in this area noted in
the report.
My Government
is particularly pleased with the
environmental protection measures against which some of
above-mentioned debts have been offset, and it hopes that
conscious and careful treatment of the environment will
ultimately result
in reduced vulnerability to natural
disasters.
Finally, my delegation welcomes the draft resolution
introduced under agenda item 36. As in previous years, we
fully support its contents and we are more than glad to join
the co-sponsors. With a view to the work of this General
Assembly, we furthermore note with satisfaction the
provisions contained in operative paragraphs 9 and 10,
concerning biennial consideration of the agenda item and its
consolidation with related matters under the agenda item
entitled “Special economic assistance to individual countries
or regions” from 1998 on.
Mr. Wibisono (Indonesia): Let me begin by
expressing, on behalf of the Government of Indonesia, our
sincere appreciation to the representative of Nicaragua for
his lucid and informative statement on this item. I should
also like
for his
comprehensive report (A/51/263), which clearly paints a
sombre picture of the current situation in Nicaragua.
to thank the Secretary-General
22
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
After a decade of civil strife, the Government of
Nicaragua has indeed made significant progress in
achieving peace and national reconciliation, which, in
turn, has greatly enhanced the possibility of laying solid
foundations for successful economic recovery and social
development. Last Sunday we were pleased to see the
democratic process being implemented through the
elections for President, the Legislature, local authorities
and the Central American Parliament. In this regard,
Indonesia was honoured to participate in the process by
sending its experts as official observers of the election
upon the invitation of the Government of Nicaragua. It is
therefore the hope of my delegation that these elections
will mark the final consolidation of democracy and
national reconciliation in Nicaragua.
situation
clearly
Looking back over the recent past, we are very
the cumulative impact of natural
much aware that
disasters and economic crises has combined to produce an
untenable
concerted
international support and assistance. We therefore reaffirm
General Assembly resolutions 50/85 and 50/132, which
reflect the long plight of the Nicaraguan people and the
urgent need for the international community to support
the acceleration of economic recovery and social
development.
deserving
One of
the most serious problems confronting
Nicaragua today is that of the excessive burden of
external debt. This must be vigorously addressed and its
terms renegotiated if sustainability is to be achieved. At
the same time, we welcome the fact that Nicaragua is one
of the countries that is eligible for the joint initiative of
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) on debt, which is designed to relieve the debt
burden of
the poorest heavily indebted countries.
Nicaragua’s social and economic conditions, its natural
vulnerability and its adverse debt-to-population ratio
clearly underline the fragility of its economy and its
inability to sustain its economic reconstruction and
development.
For this reason, my delegation is convinced that
further measures going beyond the terms of the Bretton
Woods initiative are required to ensure that the country’s
external debt burden is reduced sufficiently to allow
development to be revitalized. Only then, we believe, can
its access to private investment be improved and the
widespread poverty that has long plagued the Nicaraguan
population be eradicated.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
We are also pleased to note that various rehabilitation
and reconstruction measures have already been embarked
upon through the United Nations Development Programme
and other United Nations agencies. And we support the
medium- and long-term measures that are comprehensively
covered in the Secretary-General’s report. These, among
others, are imperative if the continuity of the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of Nicaragua is to be maintained and is
to bear fruit.
to express
In conclusion,
Indonesia wishes
its
solidarity with the Government and the people of Nicaragua
in their determined pursuit of political development and
economic reconstruction. Such goals require not only
collective national efforts, but also the attentive support of
the international community. With this in mind, Indonesia
continues its unwavering bilateral and multilateral political
support for Nicaragua in its commendable attempts to
achieve noble and constructive objectives.
report on international
Mr. Albín (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish): My
delegation wishes first of all to thank the Secretary-General
for his
the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua. The report
covers the progress made in Nicaragua, reflected in greater
price stability and the establishment of a framework for
developing a market-oriented economy. The support lent by
the international community in this area has been very
important.
assistance
for
The report also deals with the enormous efforts made
by the Nicaraguan people in recent years to make progress
in national reconciliation and institution-building. However,
there is still much to be done. It will be necessary to
redouble the efforts made so far. In keeping with the
Secretariat’s report, stability in Nicaragua has continued to
depend on foreign assistance. The external debt remains one
of the highest in the world in per capita terms, and poverty,
which has been a problem for decades, continues to affect
large sectors of the population. A new phase is now being
initiated in which a long-term development strategy must be
designed to improve the living conditions of the population.
In the establishment and organization of a favourable
economic
international
community is called upon to play a decisive role through
the continuing interest and support required by Nicaraguans.
environment,
and social
the
This Organization is a witness to the priority my
country attaches to its relations with the countries of the
Central American isthmus. In this context, and following a
process of restructuring and organization of the various
and Mexico
mechanisms
through which Nicaragua
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
developed their relations, we held last year the first
meeting of the binational commission for the purpose of
raising the level of dialogue and of strengthening, through
an integrated approach, consultation and cooperation in
the various areas of our bilateral and international
agendas. At that time we initiated important cooperation
projects in such crucial areas as the war on poverty,
strengthening education,
against drug
trafficking and environmental protection. These projects
have been organized within the framework of
the
cooperation programme between Mexico and Central
America, which includes more than 1,000 cooperation
activities with Nicaragua. These measures
include
training, transfer of technological know-how, technical
application services and advisory services in the solution
of specific problems, such as disease control or energy
supplies in some communities.
struggle
the
In the area of trade, the relationship between our two
countries has been based on the desire for free, fair and
transparent
trade to give impetus to development. In
recent years total trade between Mexico and Nicaragua
has doubled, and the volume continues to increase,
despite the adverse financial situation faced by my
country in 1995. Our efforts to conclude a free-trade
treaty have included almost 20 technical meetings that led
to an intensive exchange of ideas and decisions. We are
moving ever closer to a favourable conclusion for both
countries.
All
the foregoing shows
the Government of
Mexico’s recognition of the catalytic role played by
international cooperation in the process of rehabilitation
and reconstruction of Nicaragua.
and
the World Bank,
Mexico adds its voice again to the appeal to the
international
international
community
organizations — in particular
the
International Monetary Fund and the Inter-American
Development Bank — to continue to support the efforts
to ensure the consolidation of the political, economic and
social
institutions and to lay the bases for sustained
economic growth and sustainable development.
In conclusion, we ask the General Assembly to
renew its support to Nicaragua by adopting the draft
resolution now before us by consensus.
(Spain)
Mr. Laclaustra
from
Spanish): In speaking today on the agenda item entitled
“International
rehabilitation and
reconstruction of Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and
(interpretation
assistance
for
the
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
to underscore my
natural disasters”,
Government’s
and
rehabilitation
reconstruction process, as well as in the international
support it has been receiving.
I would like
that
interest
in
In this connection, I wish to emphasize here the
significant progress that has been made in Nicaragua in
both the political and economic fields since a resolution on
this item was adopted last year, at the fiftieth session of the
General Assembly.
My Government has followed with great interest the
electoral process that has been carried out in Nicaragua,
culminating in the elections of 20 October, which enjoyed
a very high voter turn out in a noteworthy climate of peace
and respect.
I would also like to call attention to the positive
results shown by some of the country’s macroeconomic
indicators, which point to a recovery of the Nicaraguan
economy, and to the significant reforms that have been
carried out to liberalize the economy and make it more
competitive.
Both the economic and political aspects must be
translated into considerable improvements in the standard
of living of the Nicaraguan people, who are the object and
principal beneficiaries of the process.
In recent years Spain has attached special attention to
cooperation with Nicaragua, not only bilaterally but also
within the framework of the European Union and the
United Nations.
Spain’s bilateral cooperation with Nicaragua is
expressed through joint Spanish-Nicaraguan commissions.
This institutional cooperation is supplemented by Spain’s
emergency assistance mechanisms for Nicaragua, the aim
of which is to contribute to the relief of the population at
times of national disasters, such as recently occurred there.
Among the cooperation programmes being considered
within the framework of the European Union is a support
project
for Nicaragua’s National Assembly, whose
competences and authority have been strengthened since the
constitutional reforms of 1995. This should constitute a
fundamental element
in the process of strengthening
democracy in that country.
With respect to the United Nations, I would like to
recall my country’s signing of an agreement with the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) at the
24
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
end of 1995 to establish an $11 million trust fund to
finance programmes that contribute to strengthening
governance in Central America, and therefore in
Nicaragua.
I also wish to recall the intensive cooperation Spain
has been developing, together with other Members of the
United Nations and with the representatives of UNDP in
Nicaragua, within the framework of the Support Group
for
cooperation is of proven
effectiveness. It must continue, and we are committed to
continuing it.
country. This
this
As I indicated at the beginning of my statement,
Spain attaches special importance to the electoral process
in Nicaragua. My country committed itself to this process
on two tracks. First, we made a commitment through the
participation of a prestigious Spanish firm — with
Spanish financing — entrusted with vote-counting and
data processing, as the result of an agreement signed
between that firm and the Supreme Electoral Council of
Nicaragua.
Secondly, we made a commitment
through the
dispatch of election observers, who were present during
the voting. Despite certain difficulties, the election took
place in a climate of moderation, which we consider very
positive.
The rehabilitation and reconstruction of Nicaragua is
a challenge that the country should not face alone, but
rather together with the entire international community. In
this connection, my Government wishes to acknowledge
in this forum the efforts made by the political forces, the
economic actors and, most essentially,
the people of
Nicaragua to move forward on this track. At the same
time, we welcome this item’s presence again on the
General Assembly’s agenda as unequivocal proof of the
importance the international community attaches to it.
For all these reasons, Spain urges the Secretary-
General and the United Nations system to continue to
lend support and assistance to Nicaragua for
the
consolidation of peace and democracy and for
the
development of the country. Spain also wishes to reiterate
its support for and continued commitment to that task.
Guided by this spirit, my Government has co-
sponsored draft resolution A/51/L.3, which we hope will
be adopted unanimously by the General Assembly.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Mr. Meléndez-Barahona (El Salvador) (interpretation
from Spanish): I have the honour to participate on behalf of
the Central American countries in the debate on agenda
item 36, “International assistance for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of Nicaragua: aftermath of the war and
natural disasters”. In so doing, I wish to emphasize the
importance we attach to the rehabilitation process in that
brotherly country.
I first wish to point out that we fully adhere to the
statement made by the Ambassador of Nicaragua, Mr. Erich
Vilchez Asher.
The peoples of Central America have suffered the
consequences of the structural problems that historically
characterize developing countries. These problems, by their
very nature and by the absence of just and equitable
solutions, have been the root cause of
the political,
economic and social conflicts that culminated in armed
conflicts in the region during the 1970s. As a result, we lost
ground in the efforts to improve the standard of living of
Central American societies. Those of us who experienced
armed conflict were most deeply affected.
natural
disasters:
earthquakes,
This situation in Central America was compounded by
the fact that nature has not been very benign towards our
peoples, whose efforts in the search for better standards of
living have not infrequently met with the devastation caused
by
storms,
hurricanes, floods, volcanic eruptions and so forth. These
have had tragic results, not only because of losses of human
life, but also because of social and economic consequences
that have compelled us
to seek humanitarian relief
assistance. These situations have absorbed resources that
would have otherwise been devoted to economic and social
development programmes.
tropical
Nicaragua is one of the Central American countries
whose people have suffered most from these problems. It
has deployed enormous efforts to promote peace, stability,
reconciliation, reconstruction, economic recovery and social
development. These efforts have enjoyed the solidarity and
support of
the
international community. Both moral and material support
have been extended, through international technical and
financial aid and cooperation.
the United Nations
system and of
Nicaragua, together with the rest of Central America,
has made great progress
in overcoming difficulties.
However, serious problems still remain whose causes have
not been totally overcome, especially as regards those
beyond man’s control, such as natural disasters.
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
Central American countries view with satisfaction
the programmes being developed in Nicaragua, with the
support of the international community, to solve urgent
development problems, particularly in the social field,
especially as regards programmes that favour the most
vulnerable sectors of society, which are the most deeply
and directly affected by any crisis.
In this respect, we are grateful for the report of the
Secretary-General (A/51/263) on agenda item 36. We
unconditionally support the draft resolution in document
A/51/L.3, which appeals to the United Nations system and
to the donor community to supplement national efforts in
Nicaragua to promote social and sustainable development,
thus allowing it to move ahead to better conditions for the
Nicaraguan people.
We reaffirm the need for Nicaragua to have access
to sources of financing on favourable terms in order to
provide incentives to economic recovery within the
framework of the commitments and development strategy
adopted in Central America. This should include a review
of the country’s debt-servicing burden. Support for and
progress in political, economic, social and environmental
well-being is also of benefit to the Central American
region as a whole.
We have supported Nicaragua’s attempts to turn
from a country devastated by war and natural disasters to
one in transition towards the consolidation of democracy
and stability and the promotion of development. That
support has been enshrined in commitments adopted at
the Central American presidential summit meetings and in
relevant
the United Nations. Central
American cooperation with Nicaragua is also embodied
and implemented through a variety of meetings held at
the regional level.
resolutions of
We are confident that the draft resolution, of which
we are a sponsor, will be adopted by consensus.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/51/L.3.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/51/L.3?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 51/8).
25
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration
of agenda item 36?
It was so decided.
41st plenary meeting
25 October 1996
Programme of work
The Acting President: I should like to make an
announcement concerning the programme of work of the
General Assembly. I should like to inform the members
that on Tuesday, 29 October, as the first item in the
morning, the Assembly will take up the first report of the
Credentials Committee which was issued this morning as
document A/51/548. Agenda item 47, entitled “Question
of equitable representation on and increase in the
membership of the Security Council and related matters”,
will therefore be taken up as the second item.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
26
