United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
12th plenary meeting
Friday, 27 September 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/50/PV.12
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and External Trade of Iceland, His Excellency
Mr. Halldór Ásgrímsson.
Mr. Ásgrímsson (Iceland): May I congratulate you,
Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-first
session of the General Assembly and pledge to you the full
support of my delegation.
During the past fiftieth-anniversary year, the States
Members of the United Nations have reaffirmed their
support for the fundamental purposes and principles of the
Organization. The momentum created by the anniversary
must now be used to adapt
the Organization to new
realities. To this end, both structural and financial reforms
must be undertaken, setting priorities and reallocating
limited resources. But the point of the exercise must not be
simple cost-cutting. What we need above all is a stronger,
not a weaker, Organization, better capable of dealing with
the enormous global challenges of the twenty-first century.
There is no alternative to the United Nations. The
further evolution of the Organization is therefore inevitable.
But
the Organization will not evolve in a commonly
acceptable direction under duress. Agreement on and
implementation of necessary reforms will only be achieved
in a spirit of dialogue and accommodation.
This applies not least to the ongoing work to adapt
the Security Council. Changes in its composition and
working methods should remain a priority. The Council
must better reflect political and economic realities in a
rapidly changing world.
Its continued effectiveness
depends on a constructive contribution by all its members,
as well as on equitable representation and manageable
size. There should be a geographically balanced expansion
of seats in both the permanent and non-permanent
categories, including permanent seats for Germany and
Japan. We should ensure that small and medium-sized
States have the possibility to be represented in the
Council.
The United Nations system must be strengthened
further in the fields of economic and social policy and
development. The revitalization of the Economic and
Social Council is important if the Council is to serve as
an important venue for coordination and policy-making on
issues which affect our daily existence. Iceland is a
candidate for election to the Economic and Social Council
for
term and is prepared to contribute
constructively to the work of the Council and to the
debate on its future.
the next
Mr. Baumanis (Latvia), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
The signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty (CTBT) this week will be remembered as an
important step towards limiting the nuclear-arms race and
setting us on the path of genuine nuclear disarmament. I
96-86290 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
would like to urge Member countries to sign and ratify the
Treaty as soon as possible.
crimes tribunals is a step in the right direction, provided
they receive the cooperation necessary to fulfil
their
mandate from all parties concerned.
continuous
The proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of
mass destruction is of
concern to the
international community. Unconditional and universal
adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT),
the chemical weapons and biological
weapons Conventions, and now the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is
step towards
eliminating weapons that threaten life on our planet.
critical
a
But
the horrors associated with weapons of mass
destruction must not blind us to the widespread suffering
caused by increasingly destructive conventional arms.
Landmines
growing menace,
indiscriminately maiming and killing innocents no less than
combatants. Iceland strongly supports a comprehensive ban
on the use, production and export of anti-personnel
landmines.
especially
are
a
In the aftermath of the cold war,
it has become
increasingly clear how prolonged regional conflicts can
have serious international implications. Events in Iraq are
only the most recent example. Such conflicts need to be
addressed in a comprehensive manner by the United
Nations. In addition to the important function of the
Security Council, the wider United Nations system should
be employed more actively to prevent armed conflicts as
well as to assist in the reconstruction of societies emerging
from war. Vigilance towards threats or acts of aggression
which can erode regional or international stability is a
necessary part of such preventive activity. International
terrorism is aggression by unconventional means.
Its
victims are mainly civilians. The use or sanction of
terrorism by individual States is unacceptable. The action
of the international community should properly reflect the
universal abhorrence of alliances between terrorists and
individual States.
The sinister scheming of terrorists and organized crime
is of growing concern, not least since it is frequently based
on illicit drug trafficking. The United Nations can do much
to enhance international cooperation in crime prevention
and in the suppression of drug trafficking across national
boundaries. Iceland supports the holding of a special
session of the General Assembly in 1998 devoted to drug
control.
The international community must move swiftly to
enhance respect for relevant human rights instruments in
areas of conflict. The establishment of international war
2
issues
facing
important
Through a series of international conferences, the
Organization has, during the past few years, addressed the
most
humankind. These
conferences have highlighted both the enormity of our
task and the complex interrelationship between the
various global issues we are often called upon to deal
with, be they absolute poverty, environmental degradation,
overpopulation, human rights abuses or social injustice.
Having
of
conferences with the second United Nations Conference
on Human Settlements in Istanbul last June, we owe it to
future generations to join hands and spare no effort to
implement the decisions reached.
unprecedented
concluded
series
this
Universal human rights are the foundation on which
we base the work of the United Nations. This includes the
safeguarding of gender equality and the rights of the most
vulnerable groups in society: the poor and the disabled.
Children are increasingly the target of atrocities in war
and of human rights violations. Six years after the World
Summit for Children we still must do a better job of
honouring our commitments to children. In this context,
Iceland welcomes in particular the recommendations of
the Stockholm World Congress against Commercial
Sexual Exploitation of Children and wishes to see them
followed up as soon as possible.
Hunger and malnutrition are shameful phenomena on
the eve of the twenty-first century. With the resources at
its disposal, the international community should be able
to provide food security for the whole of mankind. The
forthcoming World Food Summit will hopefully secure a
commitment at
to rapidly
achieve this objective.
the highest political
level
source of nutrition.
living marine resources,
As a country owing its survival and prosperity to the
harvesting of
Iceland has
consistently underlined the potential of the oceans as a
major
Icelandic fisheries have
developed experience and technology which could benefit
others. The Government of
Iceland is prepared to
facilitate international cooperation in this field. Iceland
has
establishment of
international law governing the protection and sustainable
utilization of the oceans. The United Nations Convention
on the Law of the Sea has already proven to be a historic
success in the field of international law and remains
among the greatest achievements of the United Nations.
contributed actively to the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The seas and the ocean floors are the depositories of
enormous resources. The agreement of the international
community on an extensive legal framework on this subject
is therefore a major accomplishment. The Convention offers
the prospect of resolving serious conflicts on the uses of the
seas which
international
cooperation. The Convention has already provided the basis
for further agreements, such as the recently concluded
Agreement relating to the Conservation and Management of
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks.
detrimental
could
be
to
Iceland has actively participated in the adoption of the
Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the
Marine Environment from Land-based Activities. Pollution
of this sort is responsible for over 80 per cent of all marine
pollution. In order to facilitate the implementation of the
Programme, a draft resolution on institutional arrangements
will be addressed by the General Assembly at this session.
However, major challenges remain. Controlling the use
of persistent organic pollutants needs to be addressed.
Iceland welcomes the proposal put forward within the
United Nations Environment Programme to establish an
international committee in 1997 with the aim of reaching a
global agreement on this question.
This year, Iceland celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of
its membership in the United Nations. We have strongly
emphasized constructive participation. This reflects our
belief in the importance of multilateral cooperation for
smaller States and,
in the hopes and
aspirations attached to the world Organization.
in particular,
The United Nations is ideally capable of achievements
in specific areas which are beyond the reach of national or
regional authorities. However,
it will never attain the
capacity to meet all expectations. As Member States debate
reforms, I would like to emphasize the importance of
setting priorities and making them well known. The shaping
of a new United Nations suited for the twenty-first century
must be complemented by vigorous information efforts with
the aim of ensuring continued public confidence and
support.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Finland, Her Excellency Ms. Tarja
Kaarina Halonen.
Ms. Halonen (Finland): Let me offer Ambassador
Razali my sincerest congratulation on his election as
President of the General Assembly. This session will
address many difficult and important questions. I am
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
confident that under his experienced and wise leadership
we shall achieve good and constructive results. I should
also like to express the thanks and appreciation of my
Government to the Secretary-General and to the many
dedicated women and men in the Secretariat.
Let me refer to the statement made by the Deputy
Prime Minister of Ireland on behalf of the European
Union. My Government fully endorses that statement.
is
As the United Nations enters its fifty-first year, one
conclusion
peace,
development and human rights can no longer be neatly
separated. They interact, and nowhere more so than at the
United Nations.
self-evident:
questions
of
Let me begin with human rights. There can be no
sustainable peace in societies where the human rights of
individuals are not respected or where their democratic
aspirations are denied. Widespread violations of human
rights, including the rights of minorities, breed instability
and conflict. The United Nations is then, often too late,
called upon to deal with them. There can be no
sustainable development in societies where economic and
social rights, as well as political rights, are flouted.
Authoritarian
or
environmental degradation. The universality of human
rights cannot be questioned. True, civilizations differ;
societies differ. But that does not mean that cultural,
religious, ideological or any other factors can be invoked
as legitimate justifications for human rights violations. To
do so is to deny the inherent equality of human beings.
poverty
answer
rule
no
is
to
But adherence to general principles is not enough.
The litmus test is, of course, practice. Here at the United
Nations we must ask ourselves what we can do together
to promote respect for human rights. I see at least three
areas where the General Assembly can and should act.
First, we must see to it that the United Nations
mechanisms that have been created to promote and
monitor respect for human rights are not impaired through
lack of funds. The High Commissioner for Human Rights,
his special rapporteurs and the human rights treaty bodies
within the United Nations system are entitled to our
support. The General Assembly should insist on the
necessary funding.
Secondly, we must help establish, in accordance with
conclusions of
a
the
to deal with
permanent
flagrant violations of international humanitarian law and
the Preparatory Committee,
international criminal court
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
human rights. I do not have to belabour the reasons why.
One look at Rwanda or the former Yugoslavia is enough.
peace-building efforts to promote stability and sustainable
human development.
Thirdly, we must ensure sustained and integrated
follow-up of the United Nations conferences from Vienna
to Istanbul, so as to implement fully the agreed programmes
of action. Nationally, Governments must commit
the
resources necessary to make the agreed actions a reality. In
the case of
the Vienna and Beijing Conferences in
particular, full and equal enjoyment of human rights by all
women everywhere must be the first goal towards which
the United Nations and all Governments must aspire.
In Finland, women gained full political rights — the
right to vote and, just as important, the right to be eligible
for Parliament — as early as 1906; that is, 90 years ago.
Finland thus became the very first country in the world
where this was made possible. We have come a long way
since then, but we still need to do better until, finally,
women are just as equally empowered in Finnish society as
men. I know that the same is true to varying degrees in
other countries too.
Children, whether girls or boys, are full-fledged
subjects of human rights. Almost universal ratification of
the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child
has been achieved. States Parties must now ensure universal
implementation too. The message
recent
Stockholm World Congress against Commercial Sexual
Exploitation of Children was clear: full implementation of
children’s rights is also the best guarantee against sexual
exploitation. The United Nations must now, along with
Governments, follow up the commitments of Stockholm,
and with vigour.
from the
Even the most democratic societies are vulnerable to
conflicts, even to armed ones. We should therefore do our
utmost to prevent them and, to this end, make full use of
all means available to the international community.
Lessons have been learned the hard way in the past
few years. United Nations peacekeepers are not suited for
peace enforcement. That job should and can be entrusted
by the Security Council to others — whether regional
organizations or other outside ad hoc coalitions — if
necessary. But these are exceptional cases. For the vast
majority of conflicts, the United Nations will be the one
called upon for peacekeeping. Even if the United Nations
must be able to say no on occasions,
the world
Organization cannot shirk its responsibility. Moreover,
when the United Nations acts, it should act on time and
with the support of its members, including funding.
The President returned to the Chair.
Time is of the essence in responding to crises.
Further development of the existing standby arrangements
with Member States is the most practical way to enhance
the
the Organization.
Therefore, Finland strongly supports the establishment of
a rapidly deployable headquarters unit at
the United
Nations as soon as possible.
rapid-reaction capability of
is better
than cure.
Prevention, naturally,
In
is an
peacekeeping as well, preventive deployment
innovation that
is working right now in The former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Finland is convinced
that the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force
(UNPREDEP) operation is making a crucial contribution
to stability in the whole region. It
is a full-fledged
operation in preventive diplomacy encompassing good
human
offices, monitoring
institutional
development,
troop deployment. That
contribution, based on the present mandate, should
continue until peace and stability in the whole region are
better assured.
and
as
as well
and
Finland believes in United Nations peacekeeping. We
have participated for 40 years and stand ready to continue.
The sheer complexity of modern-day conflicts has turned
United Nations thinking towards comprehensive peace
operations. Peacekeeping must be seen as a part of a
comprehensive peace process. We welcome this approach.
The civilian and military elements of a peace operation
should operate in close cooperation. Artificial barriers
separating the two should be eliminated right at the outset
in devising the mandate for an operation.
is also
important that peace operations be linked with longer-term
It
This is the year of the nuclear-test ban. That is what
the General Assembly demanded a year ago, and that is
what the vast majority of the world’s nations has now
agreed. I was proud to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty for my country. That Treaty will
strengthen the security of all of us, without exception.
Banning nuclear-test explosions is a goal to which the
international community has been committed for decades.
The Treaty accomplishes that goal. At the same time, the
Treaty is a step towards the ultimate elimination of
nuclear weapons.
4
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
However, focusing on nuclear weapons is not enough.
We also need to focus on weapons that maim and kill
people today. Those weapons are conventional weapons,
particularly landmines, other small arms and light weapons.
The excessive accumulation and proliferation of small
arms threaten to destabilize communities, countries and
entire regions. A United Nations expert panel, on which my
country is represented, is looking into the problem right
now. Finland, for one, expects concrete recommendations
on how to deal with this clear and present danger
nationally, regionally and through the United Nations.
are
The indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines is
the most visible manifestation of the small-arms emergency.
When they finally achieve peace, societies already ravaged
severely hampered in their
by years of war
reconstruction efforts by landmines
that have been
indiscriminately sown by the millions. A concerted
international effort, led by the United Nations, is needed to
assist in mine clearance. Demining should also be made an
integral part of peacekeeping mandates, as was recently
suggested by Germany and endorsed by the Security
Council.
It is increasingly clear, however, that in the end only
a prohibition of inhumane and indiscriminate landmine use
can bring a real solution. To be effective, such a solution
must be legally binding, global and verifiable. As the first
step, all States should adhere to and abide by the
significantly strengthened landmine Protocol
to the
Convention on conventional weapons. I find it very hard to
understand why two out of three United Nations Member
States continue to remain outside that Convention.
As a concurrent step Finland proposes the initiation of
global negotiations on a treaty banning anti-personnel
landmines altogether. A natural forum for such negotiations
would be the single negotiating body for disarmament that
the international community has at its disposal, namely, the
Conference on Disarmament in Geneva.
Finland will work actively for the inclusion of a ban
on anti-personnel landmines in the negotiating agenda of
the Conference on Disarmament when the Conference
reconvenes in January.
In assisting in the creation of conditions of stability
and well-being, the United Nations has effective economic
and social tools at its disposal. A review of how the United
Nations does its business in this field is under way. The
approval in May of the resolution on restructuring and
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
revitalization of some areas in the Economic and Social
Council sector was an encouraging sign.
to alleviate poverty and contribute
The yardstick in measuring United Nations impact
on development should be how the Organization has been
able
to the
improvement of the quality of life. The first priority now,
as we see it, should be to assess the impact of the
development activities of the United Nations system at the
country level. We were pleased to note that last year the
General Assembly initiated a process to that effect.
it
I have two remarks in this regard. First,
is
necessary to concentrate United Nations development
activities on the poorest countries and the most vulnerable
groups of society. Secondly, better integration of the
United Nations at
the country level would enhance
efficiency. It would promote closer coordination between
development activities, on the one hand, and humanitarian
and peacekeeping activities on the other.
a
agenda
comprehensive
The commitments made at recent United Nations
conferences provide
for
follow-up. One of the conferences, the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development, will be
prominently present at
this fifty-first session of the
General Assembly. That Conference is a promising
example of the capabilities of the United Nations. It has
made global environmental concerns an everyday reality
for all of us. The follow-up session next year will afford
a unique opportunity to assess progress and review
priorities.
In my view, one of the emerging priorities would be
a political commitment at the global level for sustainable
forest management. Finland attaches great importance to
the Intergovernmental Panel on Forests, which has been
established and which expects to submit concrete action-
oriented recommendations to the special session.
Before concluding my statement, I wish to refer to
the statement issued by the Presidency of the European
Union yesterday regarding the killings and violent
incidents in the West Bank and Gaza. I want to state that
my Government fully endorses that statement. On behalf
of the Government of Finland, I appeal to the parties
concerned to take every measure to restore calm and
refrain from acts of violence and provocation. We also
urge the parties to re-engage the peace process, which had
already achieved such promising results.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In view of the Security Council’s primary role in the
maintenance of international peace and security, the reform
of the Council is of particular urgency. The discussions on
this subject during the fiftieth session were thorough and
useful. Convergence of views emerged on many important
issues, yet on others, differences still remain. I believe that
the time is now ripe to take a step forward and engage in
real negotiations on a comprehensive reform of the Council.
Meanwhile, in a few weeks we shall elect new non-
permanent members to the present Security Council. As is
well known,
the five Nordic Countries give their full
support to Sweden. I am confident that the other Member
States will also recognize the merits of our neighbouring
country.
The Deputy Prime Minister of Ireland, Mr. Dick
Spring, when speaking on behalf of the European Union,
underlined the obligation of all Member States to pay their
arrears and their assessed contributions to the United
Nations. Finland having been the first Member State to pay
in full, on time and without conditions its assessed
contribution to the regular budget of the United Nations in
1996, I feel it both my right and my duty to reiterate that
appeal.
The United Nations, we agree, needs renewed focus
and streamlining. Let us now find the determination and
will to proceed with the necessary reform.
Address by Dato’ Seri Mahathir Mohamad, Prime
Minister of Malaysia
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Prime Minister of Malaysia.
Dato’ Seri Mahathir Mohamad, Prime Minister of
Malaysia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of Malaysia, His Excellency Dato’ Seri
Mahathir Mohamad, and inviting him to address the
General Assembly.
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
I would like to think that the selection has to do
with Malaysia’s efforts and involvement, with the United
Nations and globally. Within three years of Malaysia’s
independence, we were involved in United Nations
peacekeeping operations in the Congo. Today in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Malaysia is perhaps the only developing
country participating in the peacekeeping forces led by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), paying
in full the cost of our involvement. Malaysia will continue
to participate in international activities, United Nations-
sponsored or otherwise,
combining altruism with
enlightened self-interest.
This time last year, there was much celebration as
the United Nations attained its fiftieth year. Amid the
celebrations extolling the achievements of the United
Nations, there were serious concerns expressed about the
relevance and effectiveness of this Organization and the
need for democratic reforms so that the United Nations
could better fulfil
the purposes and principles of the
Charter. The fiftieth anniversary came and went and,
despite the extravaganza, very little has been achieved.
The Organization itself remains far removed from
the aspirations of the peoples of the United Nations,
which it is supposed to promote and protect. Hopefully,
the tragedy of Bosnia and Herzegovina will, with
international help, be on the mend, but Palestine’s hopes
and aspirations have been undermined by the new Israeli
Government, which is backed, unfortunately, by some
Western Powers, and is backtracking on painfully
negotiated agreements. At this moment, a rash decision by
Israel not only imperils further the peace process, with
lives being lost, but can inflame and outrage Muslim
States and Muslim society if the sanctity of the Al-Aqsa
Mosque is defiled. In Africa, Somalia, Rwanda and
Liberia remain on the razor’s edge of survival, and
Burundi awaits United Nations and regional initiatives to
avoid a catastrophe. And there are countries such as
Afghanistan, victims of the cold war, abandoned by the
major Powers, needing help to reconstruct and overcome
the destruction wrought by war. And what will be the fate
of tiny Chechnya and its valiant people, facing the full
onslaught of mighty Russia?
I
(Malaysia):
am happy
Mr. Mahathir
to
acknowledge a Malaysian as the President of the General
Assembly, a first for Malaysia. We are thankful to all
Member States for their support, especially the members of
the Asian Group, which endorsed Malaysia’s candidature
early.
6
some
While
countries
developing
become
fragmented and marginalized, the process of accruing
power and benefits continues with the major countries,
aided by their control of the Security Council,
their
monopoly on nuclear power and their economic high
ground. One sees various twists and turns, double
standards and selectivity, as the dictates of domestic
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
justice
overrule
humanitarianism in
politics
international affairs. Commitment to multilateralism is so
qualified and investment in the United Nations so tentative
that common needs have often been sacrificed.
and
Now, as the General Assembly begins its fifty-first
session, we urge again that the international community
work collectively for substantial change, reflecting a more
equitable sharing of political and economic power. This call
for reform is made even more urgent when we consider that
the premises by which international relations are conducted
today continue to perpetuate a grossly unjust system.
The systematic abuse of power by the major countries
has continued. They apply selective sanctions and double
standards on the developing world to promote their narrow
national interests. Clearly disregarding multilateralism, with
its inherent qualities of mutual respect and shared interests,
the North continues its vice-like grip on all spheres of
international activity, including politics, international trade,
development, the environment and the media to name a
few.
Elitism exercised by the major countries is frequently
cloaked in the guise of globalism or of serving the common
interests of nations. However even a cursory examination
of this brand of globalism reveals it to be sanctimonious, if
not hypocritical. For example, under
the pretext of
safeguarding international peace and security, the nuclear-
weapon States maintain their right to destroy, or threaten to
destroy, all life on this planet. Yet these countries deny
others even the right to use conventional weapons for self-
defence.
Malaysia deeply regrets the lack of a consensus on the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty but welcomes its
subsequent adoption at the fiftieth session of the General
Assembly. We worry about nuclear aspirations in our
region and in Israel. To a large extent, the refusal of the
nuclear-weapon States to adopt a timetable for nuclear
disarmament is responsible for this situation and seriously
flaws
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
Malaysia is encouraged by the recent International Court of
Justice Advisory Opinion on the legality of the threat or use
of nuclear weapons. To render
finding
meaningful, there should be serious efforts made towards
accelerating the process of nuclear disarmament, including
the early convening of a special session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament.
the Court’s
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
develop and promote the sales of defence technologies
and weapons of death. Like a drug dealer supplying his
helplessly addicted victims,
the northern-based arms
industries keep poor countries mired in a cycle of poverty
and insecurity,
laying waste vital human skills and
resources.
Perhaps such political elitism comes naturally to
these powerful countries, many of which were imperial
Powers before. A clue as to their priorities for the global
agenda is to be found in the recent communiqué of the
economic summit of the Group of Seven. Reform of the
United Nations, in particular the Security Council, as an
urgent
issue, gave way to the pre-eminence of the
globalization of the world economy. And so, the Security
Council remains a blunt instrument of the foreign policies
of the permanent members.
In the context of a globalized world, much is made
of the terms “interdependence” and “mutual interests”.
Multilateralism has
aside. Yet
multilateralism is the foundation of the international
relations and cooperation which the United Nations
symbolizes. From now on, globalization will take over
and nations will lose their sovereignty.
elbowed
been
Consider the current financial crisis that faces this
Organization. The United Nations is on the verge of
bankruptcy, being held to ransom by its major donor
country, the wealthiest nation in the world. That country
refuses to meet its assessed and legally due contributions,
yet
insists on maintaining its hegemony on global
management.
is
the United Nations
The major Powers’ solution to the United Nations
stalemate is to speak of revitalizing the United Nations as
if they were conducting a corporate downsizing exercise.
While it is important to end bureaucratic inefficiencies
and the wasteful use of resources, we should be mindful
business.
that
a
Overconcentration on internal-management
issues can
deflect the attention of the United Nations from its major
global responsibilities. While Malaysia is critical of the
United Nations and its leadership, we cannot but regret
the tendency of major Powers to assign the United
Nations complex tasks, missions impossible, without clear
mandates and authority or adequate resources. How does
the United Nations undertake peacekeeping operations
without the authority or the means to keep the peace?
not
While these major Powers advocate peace and
condemn arms races by others, their industries aggressively
We find the inequities of power-sharing in the
United Nations to be intolerable and view with alarm
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
prevailing trends towards weakening this Organization
further. Already, the centre of gravity for all principal
economic decisions that affect developing countries lies in
the undemocratic Bretton Woods institutions, the World
Trade Organization (WTO) and of course the self-appointed
Group of Seven.
dominate
institutions, which
Strengthening multilateralism requires a reform of the
Bretton Woods
the
development scene. These institutions are operating against
their general mandate. Decision-making is undemocratic
and untransparent. Despite their specific mandates to
facilitate development and regulate the international
monetary system, these institutions are used to discipline
third-world countries and to act as debt collectors for the
rich North. It is salutary to note that the World Bank
collected a net amount of $7.2 billion in 1995 in debt
repayment over and above what it disbursed in aid to the
poor indebted countries and raked in a profit of almost $1.5
billion. The International Monetary Fund has now become
an enforcer of the dictates of market
lenders and is
assuming the role of a global rating agency.
The majority of poor developing countries are saddled
with unsustainable levels of debt that preclude them from
a share of world prosperity and growth. Debt servicing on
current scales is untenable and debtor countries, as a
consequence, can do little to alleviate their poverty and
misery. The chilling numbers speak for themselves - more
is spent on servicing debt
than on financing basic
programmes for health care, education and humanitarian
relief.
The reductions in the commitments for concessional
assistance by almost all the industrial countries mark a
turning point
in international development cooperation.
Bluntly put, the rich have reneged on solemn commitments
and pledges. The cut-backs in pledges for the replenishment
of
the
unwillingness to clear earlier arrears,
triggered by a
unilateral decision of the major contributor to scale back its
contributions, have led other donors to scale back their
contributions as well.
development
international
assistance
and
Now that the concept of globalism is so intimately
linked with international trade, it is important critically to
examine the realities of this so called “free trade”. The
painfully long history of the Uruguay Round negotiations
should have forewarned us that
the WTO, although
established as a rules-based multilateral organization to
regulate international trade, will become answerable only to
the world’s wealthiest economic Powers. Like the Bretton
8
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
the WTO remains outside any
Woods institutions,
relationship of accountability to the far more democratic
United Nations General Assembly.
During the Uruguay Round, the developing countries
discovered that, instead of negotiating international rules
on trade in manufactured goods, the rich countries of the
North had widened the
and pushed for
liberalization in economic areas where they clearly have
an advantage,
services and
investments.
in particular,
financial
agenda
Even though some countries of the South have
benefited from the liberalization of trade — and Malaysia
is one of them — the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) nevertheless harbours new threats to
developing and newly emerging economies. Not only
have the poor countries of the South to struggle uphill
merely to meet the basic needs of their peoples, but they
are now bullied into adjusting their economic policies to
meet their new obligations under GATT so that northern-
based corporations can penetrate and capture their
markets. The poor may not reserve their markets for
themselves even when they have no capacity to penetrate
the markets of the rich.
and
labour
standards
their attempts
Fair competition and level playing fields are only for
to link the
the rich. For example,
environment
in
manufactured goods is a clear attempt to deny developing
countries
their meagre competitive advantage. The
relationship between trade and labour standards emerged
not because of a concern for the well-being of workers in
poor countries, but as protectionist moves aimed against
growing and competitively-priced imports from the South.
to
trade
interpretation of
To compound this unfair
the
multilateral trade rules, we find that, when it comes to the
transfer of technology,
the northern countries take a
fiercely anti-liberal stand, insisting that all WTO member
States compulsorily introduce a set of national laws to
protect intellectual property rights. Since most patents are
owned by the North, this in effect means legal protection
of their technological monopoly and a drastic curtailment
of the right of developing countries to have access to new
technology.
It appears, therefore, that the northern interpretation
of “free trade” and “liberalization” are slogans that in
reality mean liberalization when it benefits the North but
protectionism if it can block the South. Thus, while goods
and capital are permitted and encouraged to move around
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the globe, labour and technology may not. Even as we are
asked to submit to GATT rules and the WTO, we find one
country blatantly undermining the WTO by enacting
extraterritorial laws that must be submitted to by all nations
and their companies on pain of excommunication.
resources by western
The GATT also fails to protect the genetic resources
of the South while allowing genetically modified materials
to be patented. We now have a situation where theft of
genetic
biotech transnational
corporations enables them to make huge profits by
producing patented genetic mutations of
these same
materials. To what depths have we sunk in the global
marketplace when nature’s gifts to the poor may not be
protected but
their modification by the rich becomes
exclusive property?
There are of course many winners and losers in the
world of the WTO, but we are concerned that the major
losers will soon again be the poorest and most marginalized
countries. A small number of developing countries, like
Malaysia, have benefited. But let me point out that our
gains have been achieved through thrift, productivity and
the ingenuity of our people, hard-earned fruits of our
labour. Lest it be forgotten, our new-found prosperity has
also benefited those in the developed countries. Our
products are competitively priced,
thus contributing to
lower inflation in the rich countries. Our prosperity has
provided vast and expanding markets for the goods of rich
countries, thus creating jobs and helping to lower their
unemployment rates.
The term “globalization” has become the buzzword of
our times. In the G-7 communiqué, globalization was touted
as
“a source of hope for the future ... responsible for the
expansion of wealth and prosperity in the world.”
(A/51/208, annex II, para. 2)
However, some would argue that globalization, with its
objectives of breaking down borders and sucking the
countries of the world into one single economic entity, has
eclipsed multilateralism or attempts to masquerade as the
same thing. Indeed, globalization has been described by the
rich as a
“new global partnership for development”. (ibid.,
annex II, IV)
If the current behaviour of the rich countries is
anything to go by, globalization simply means the breaking
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
down of the borders of countries so that those with the
capital and the goods will be free to dominate the
markets. Colonies in the former British Empire will
remember “Imperial Preference” when they were made
the exclusive markets of
the metropolitan Power.
Globalization can mean just that, except that the world
market will belong to the rich nations. Linkages to
non-trade issues will prevent
from ever
challenging the rich, in the same way that the colonies
were not allowed to industrialize.
the poor
We do indeed live in a brutal and unjust world,
where the astonishing developments in science and
technology and our increasingly sophisticated knowledge
base are not matched by the ability of Governments to
marshal forces to overcome the social and economic
inequities of their countries. The facts and figures are
well documented and widely known, but they are worth
repeating just to jog our conscience — if we still have
one. What are the universal values of this globalized
world when increasing numbers of people in both the
North and South live in abject poverty? A fifth of the
human race — 1.3 billion people — lack access to the
most basic necessities, such as food and clean drinking
water, while preventable hunger and disease kill 35,000
children throughout the world every day. The 1996 United
Nations Development Programme’s Human Development
Report states that, in the past 40 years, the richest 20 per
cent of people have seen the differential between
themselves and the poorest 20 per cent double.
and
the
achievement
of
Are we expected to believe in the sincerity of the
rich countries when they talk about a new global
partnership
sustainable
development, when the fact is that, today, we have over
20 million environmental refugees in addition to an equal
refugees? Why should the
number of
developing countries accept
the twisted lexicon of
northern
“development
assistance” means that the net flow of wealth from poor
countries to rich has increased to at least $400 billion a
year when the terms of trade,
transfer pricing, debt
servicing and the brain drain are taken into account.
development-speak when
traditional
Wading through the obstacles of this strife-torn
world is a critical dilemma that faces the international
community today. It is one of international leadership and
the failure to deal with these critical issues. Instead, we
witness a persistent abnegation by the major Powers of
the responsibilities
that accompany the rights and
privileges of such authority. We must determine the type
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of world and society we want to live in, and this should be
based on truly universal values.
transnational
As we approach the next millennium and as the
pre-eminence of
forces has blurred the
definition of national sovereignty, we must seriously
question why a powerful minority is still allowed to
bankrupt and coerce the majority to meet
its narrow
economic and political needs. The poor are no longer
independent. They have already lost control over their own
currency. And now they have lost their borders too.
Freedom of the press is touted as a basic democratic
principle. But control of the media by a handful of western
corporations has made nonsense of this principle.
Proclaiming to be windows on the world,
the western
media, manipulated and censored by those in control,
invariably manage to distort reports so as to put anything
happening in the South in the worst possible light.
Anything positive in the developing countries is ignored.
The growth and influence of electronic, satellite and
information technology is astounding. But its impact poses
one of the biggest political and ethical challenges of our
time, subverting and distorting our social consciousness.
The elites of the North and the South have become blind to
the enormities of reality. Events and people are stripped of
their context, so that we become less capable of recognizing
the common humanity and equal rights of all the people in
the world. Pictures of poverty and inequality are no longer
received with moral outrage, but have become simple facts
of life. Thus begins the process of dehumanization and
disengagement from the rest of human society.
Although without a doubt the information age will
bring cheap and easy access to knowledge and education
and facilitate worldwide business,
its abuse is already
affecting the moral values of the world. Smut and violence
gratuitously distributed by criminals in the North are no less
polluting than carbon dioxide emissions nor less dangerous
than drug trafficking.
If one great Power can apply its laws to citizens of
another country it considers to be guilty of drug trafficking,
why cannot countries with different moral codes extradite
the traffickers of pornography for legal action under the
laws of the offended countries? Why cannot
there be
international laws and international courts to punish those
who spread filth and incite racial hatred and racial
violence? Before the whole world sinks deeper into moral
decay, the international community should act. Abuse of the
ubiquitous Internet system must be stopped.
10
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
The monopoly of the electronic media by the North
should be broken. As it is, we are getting slanted news,
made worse by broadcasters interpreting in favour of their
own or their countries’ interests. As usual,
the poor
countries with no role in operating the international media
have become the principal victims of world news
networks. Not only are distorted pictures of our countries
being broadcast, but our own capacity to understand what
is happening is being undermined. In the past, Western
missionaries spread the Gospel. Today the media has
taken over, and all our cherished values and diverse
cultures are being destroyed.
The United Nations has not always been a failure. In
its early years it helped to dismantle the empires of
Western European countries. Malaysia is grateful to it, for
it too won freedom because of the moral suasion of the
United Nations. But the United Nations now seems blind
to what is being done to Iraq and Chechnya. One great
Power continues its vendetta against Iraq, firing missiles
at distant targets to bring the Iraqi leadership to its knees,
oblivious to the sufferings of the besieged Iraqi people.
Another Power has shut
the gates of mercy on the
Chechens, and with rockets and bombs has killed
indiscriminately and with appalling brutality in order that
Chechnya should remain part of an empire. How much
more should the Chechens suffer before the Security
Council takes notice? Where are the vaunted defenders of
human rights who claim that national borders will not
stop them?
It is a fact that every year many statements are made
at the United Nations that lament the crises of poverty,
third-world debt, human rights abuses, conflicts and wars,
social disintegration and environmental degradation. It is
almost boring. And yet nothing much has been done
which could bring about an amelioration of this sad state
of affairs.
it
is
the
because
Perhaps
of
processes
intergovernmental consensus decision-making of
the
United Nations are tedious and frustrating. Perhaps it is
mismanagement by the Governments of so many poor
nations which afford many excuses for the rich not to
help.
It is of course easy to use the United Nations as a
forum to unmask the hypocrisies of both the North and
the South, but it is more difficult to work collectively to
implement change and solve problems. Still, Malaysia
believes
repetitive criticism is valid and
injustice and oppression
necessary,
international
that
that
this
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
should not be swept into the dustbins of history. I would
like to say again that Malaysia strongly believes in the
multilateralism of the United Nations and is prepared to
invest
in this international Organization with all our
strength, beliefs and moral fibre.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Malaysia for the
statement he has just made.
Dato’ Seri Mahathir Mohamad, Prime Minister of
Malaysia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the Republic of Korea, His Excellency Mr. Ro-
Myung Gong.
Mr. Gong (Republic of Korea): On behalf of the
Government and the people of the Republic of Korea, Sir,
I would like to express my sincere congratulations on your
assumption of the presidency of the fifty-first session of the
General Assembly. We are confident that under your able
leadership the Assembly will take action to revitalize the
world Organization, building on the foundation laid by your
predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal. My
gratitude goes also to the Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, and the staff of the Secretariat for their
excellent work for this session.
Mr. Baumanis (Latvia), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
The most pressing business of this Assembly is to
create the architecture for United Nations renewal. The
Member States, with vision and determination, need to
construct step by step a consensus on reform that will not
only bring the Organization out of its present crisis, but will
also prepare the world community to meet the challenges of
the twenty-first century. We welcome the ongoing efforts
to strengthen and revitalize the United Nations. But at the
same time we must admit that unless progress is accelerated
in the months ahead,
the
momentum and sense of purpose spawned by the fiftieth
anniversary could well be lost.
there is a real danger that
My Government actively supports the various working
groups of the General Assembly as they seek ways to make
the United Nations more effective, efficient and democratic.
As a member of the Group of Sixteen States in support of
renewing multilateralism, we are also pleased to actively
participate in the efforts to enhance the principle of
multilateralism. The Group’s joint statement embodying this
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
principle was reported to the General Assembly last
Wednesday by Prime Minister Persson of Sweden, on
behalf of the 16 Heads of State or Government.
their
to meet
All these efforts, however, will be of no use if
fail either
financial
Member States
obligations or
to make the political compromises
necessary to produce a durable package of reforms. Let us
not forget that the very principles of multilateralism on
which the United Nations was founded are at risk. As was
so aptly put by the President of the General Assembly in
his 17 September inaugural speech, “the syndrome of
business as usual'” (Official Records of
the General
Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Plenary Meetings, 1st
meeting, p. 3) must be discarded.
Our Organization is in serious financial trouble due
to the arrears and outstanding contributions of Member
States. The Security Council needs to be modernized to
reflect the expansion in United Nations membership, to be
more equitably balanced geographically and to work
efficiently, transparently and democratically. To better
serve the needs of economic development and to reduce
duplication, we should undertake a sweeping reassessment
of the scores of subsidiary bodies of the Economic and
Social Council and of the Assembly itself. While we
welcome General Assembly resolution 50/227 as a step in
the right direction, much more needs to be done. History
will not
judge the United Nations on how many
committees it forms or how many resolutions it passes,
but on how much it does on the ground, day in and day
out,
to further peace, prosperity and justice for the
world’s peoples.
Today I would like to focus my remarks on four
major challenges facing the United Nations and then to
say a few words about
the situation on the Korean
peninsula.
In considering the architecture for United Nations
renewal, we should shape an Organization better prepared
to respond to the following four priority needs: first,
restraining the proliferation of dangerous and destructive
weaponry; secondly, bolstering United Nations capabilities
for effective peacekeeping and peace-building; thirdly,
assisting economic
and social development while
enhancing protection of the environment; and fourthly,
improving mechanisms
for
international law and human rights.
ensuring
for
respect
Calls for a new international order will ring hollow
without more reliable controls on the spread of dangerous
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
armaments, particularly those capable of mass destruction.
As a supporter of the early conclusion of a comprehensive
test-ban treaty (CTBT), my Government heartily welcomed
the long-awaited adoption of the Treaty earlier this month.
The conclusion of
the CTBT will help curb nuclear
proliferation in all its forms and will contribute towards
nuclear disarmament. As an original signatory to the CTBT,
the Republic of Korea aims to ratify the Treaty swiftly. In
order for the CTBT to become universal and verifiable, my
Government urges all countries to accede to the Treaty at
the earliest possible date.
While the Conference on Disarmament failed to reach
consensus on the CTBT, the Conference, through two and
a half years of intense negotiations, was instrumental in
articulating the eventual Treaty. I would like to take this
opportunity to pay tribute to the Conference and to assure
the Assembly that the Republic of Korea, as a new member
of the Conference, will spare no efforts to contribute to its
vital work.
Despite much progress towards a world free of nuclear
weapons, the Korean peninsula still faces the threat of
nuclear proliferation. North Korea has yet
to achieve
nuclear transparency. Once again, my delegation urges
North Korea to comply with its obligations under the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards in
a comprehensive manner, and to implement fully and
faithfully the Framework Agreement between the United
States and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. We
also renew our call on North Korea to live up to its
obligations under the South-North Joint Declaration on the
Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.
to humanity. Towards this end,
Until they are eliminated from the face of the Earth,
chemical and biological weapons too will pose a grave
threat
the Republic of
Korea, as an original signatory to the chemical weapons
Convention in 1993,
recently concluded the domestic
procedures to ratify the Convention. We look forward to its
swift entry into force, for universal adherence to the
Convention is critical to achieving a total ban on chemical
weapons. My delegation therefore strongly urges those
countries which have not yet
joined the Convention,
including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to do
so as early as possible.
Moreover, my Government, which acceded to the
biological weapons Convention supports the efforts to
introduce a strict verification system into the Convention.
12
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
Both of these non-proliferation measures are essential
building blocks for world peace.
My Government, moreover, shares the international
concern over the millions of anti-personnel landmines
scattered throughout the world. We are looking forward
to working closely with other Member States to minimize
the suffering and casualties among innocent civilians
caused by these indiscriminate weapons. To this end, I am
pleased to announce that the Republic of Korea will again
extend its moratorium on the export of anti-personnel
mines for another year.
The second priority for United Nations renewal
should be to adapt and bolster its uniquely valuable
peacekeeping and peace- building work to meet new
challenges. Following several years of rising expectations
and expanding mandates, Member States have developed
over the past two years a more sober appreciation not
only of the limits of United Nations capabilities but, more
their own willingness to provide the
important, of
requisite material and human support
for a more
ambitious role for the world body. Both the scope and the
nature of peacekeeping operations are being tested as the
demands for United Nations involvement remain high in
a world confronted by an alarming number of intra-State
conflicts and acts of terrorism.
Today’s peacekeepers are often required to undertake
diverse tasks such as monitoring violations of human
rights, staging elections, rehabilitating civic institutions
and reintegrating combatants and refugees into peacetime
society. Thus, peacekeeping now directly contributes to
peace-building and conflict prevention. Post-conflict
peace-building, by rehabilitating a country’s war-ravaged
economic and social base, can serve to prevent
the
recurrence of conflict. Member States should recognize,
however, that the broadening of peacekeeping objectives
should be matched by an expansion in the resources and
capabilities of the United Nations for carrying out these
tasks. Peace, too, has a price.
Recently, several promising proposals have been put
forward for enhancing the rapid deployment capability of
the United Nations. We consider the United Nations
system of standby arrangements — currently comprising
of 59 countries, including the Republic of Korea — to be
an innovative and practical mechanism for coping with
emergency situations. We also believe that the growing
interest and participation of Member States have boosted
the credibility of the system of standby arrangements,
making it easier to secure the consent of parties in a
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
given conflict to United Nations peacekeeping involvement.
In addition, we support
the establishment of a rapidly
deployable headquarters team within the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations, as proposed by the friends of
rapid deployment. The Korean Government is willing to
detail personnel to the team as part of our contribution to
strengthening the United Nations
rapid deployment
capability.
Since we first dispatched an engineering unit to the
United Nations peacekeeping operation in Somalia in 1993,
the Republic of Korea has
contributed to many
peacekeeping operations around the world. We intend to
expand our participation in terms of human resources, and
material and political support for practical steps to improve
the peace-management capacity of the United Nations.
In an uncertain world, terrorism poses an ever-present
threat to international and domestic peace and security.
Having been a direct victim of terrorism, the Republic of
Korea strongly condemns all acts of terrorism. We urge the
international community to take firm action to contain and
combat terrorism. The 1994 Declaration on Measures to
Eliminate
that
terrorism in all forms is not only criminal, but also
unjustifiable under any circumstances,
regardless of
political,
racial motivation. My
Government reaffirms its strong commitment to join the
ongoing efforts to eradicate terrorism worldwide.
International Terrorism clearly states
ideological, ethnic or
Economic and social development should also remain
a high priority at a time when scientific progress and
information technology are globalizing the world economy
at a rapid pace. Driven by unprecedented levels of cross-
border trade and investment, globalization presents new
opportunities to bolster economic development and improve
quality of life. Nonetheless, we must not lose sight of the
detrimental effects of this trend, which threaten to leave
some developing countries increasingly marginalized.
The United Nations has an obligation to try to help
those least developed countries, particularly in Africa, that
are truly in need. My delegation fully supports the United
Nations System-wide Special Initiative for development in
Africa, a joint undertaking by the United Nations and the
Bretton Woods institutions launched last March. We look
forward to joining other Member States in a common effort
to bring this worthy endeavour to fruition.
Having risen from the devastation of the Korean War,
the Republic of Korea has achieved sustained economic
growth and advancements in living standards over the past
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
and
human
capacity-building
three decades. Seeking to share the lessons of our own
development experience, we have worked to help other
developing countries apply two key elements of our own
growth:
resource
development. The Korean International Cooperation
Agency is implementing diverse programs to assist other
developing countries in this regard. At the same time,
Korea will
increase its voluntary contribution to the
operational activities of the United Nations by 120 per
cent during 1996-97. In these and many other ways, we
are determined to participate in United Nations efforts to
bring about economic and social progress throughout the
world.
Since 1994, my Government has worked with the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to
establish the International Vaccine Institute in Seoul. This
Institute will be dedicated to capacity-building for
developing countries in the development and use of
vaccines, particularly for children and the impoverished.
The official
the International Vaccine
Institute will take place in New York on 28 October. We
would encourage as many countries as possible to show
their support
this worthy and noble project by
becoming party to the agreement.
launching of
for
of
The
special
unprecedented
emergence
issues,
global
environmental
such as climate change and
biodiversity, calls for genuine global partnership based on
equitable burden-sharing. The
session on
environmental issues of the General Assembly in 1997
will provide us with a valuable opportunity to formulate
a clear, sustainable development strategy for the twenty-
first century. On 5 June 1997, immediately before the
special session, my Government will co-host World
Environment Day,
together with the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP), as part of our efforts
to contribute to the resolution of environmental issues.
The fourth theme for United Nations renewal, in our
view, should be to reinforce the unique United Nations
capacity for codifying, monitoring and encouraging
respect for international law and human rights. As the
Charter so eloquently attests, genuine peace and stability
depend upon a healthy respect for international law and
human rights norms. The continuing United Nations
commitment
justice was
reaffirmed by a series of international conferences during
the 1990s. They include the Vienna World Conference on
Human Rights, in 1993, and the Fourth World Conference
on Women, held in Beijing in 1995.
to human rights and social
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
In particular, the Beijing Conference underscored the
critical principle that gender equality — through the
protection of women’s human rights and the eradication of
all
the
foundation of a sound and prosperous society. The Republic
of Korea is committed to maintaining its support for
international efforts to advance the status of women.
forms of violence against women — forms
All of us need to do more, however, to help the
United Nations live up to its potential for promoting human
rights. Its mechanisms for furthering respect for universal
human rights need to be reinforced and upgraded across the
board. We need to enhance the coordinating role of the
High Commissioner for Human Rights and of the resources
of the Centre for Human Rights. The Korean Government
will do its best to make a meaningful contribution to this
end.
Envisioned since the Nuremberg and Tokyo Tribunals
of a half century ago, the idea of an international court to
punish crimes against humanity is now being materialized,
even as
the Yugoslavia and Rwanda Tribunals are
struggling to bring to justice criminals who have committed
genocide and other mass crimes. A preparatory committee
is refining the draft statute of the international criminal
court, prepared by the International Law Commission. We
look forward to the early establishment of the court, which
we believe will deter violators of human rights. We also
welcome the establishment of the International Tribunal for
the Law of the Sea, which should contribute significantly
to the strengthening of international law and order.
The road to democracy in the Republic of Korea has
been long and difficult. Indeed, laying the foundation for
democracy in a developing country is never easy. It
requires a vigilant public conscious of democracy and
human rights and a government willing to nurture the will
of its citizens. This has been and will remain a primary
objective of the Korean Government. We are making every
effort
to promote further human rights and democracy
through the enhancement of our legal and institutional
mechanisms.
the democratic impulse throughout
My Government has also been active in the endeavour
to assist
the world.
Lending our support to the electoral assistance activities of
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,
we provided a dozen election monitors, as well as supplies,
for the international operation to ensure free and fair
elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the past, we also
electoral observer missions
participated
in
Mozambique, Cambodia, South Africa and Palestine.
in the
14
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
Let me now turn to the situation on the Korean
peninsula. Despite the easing of tensions worldwide since
the end of the cold war, the Korean peninsula continues
to be a source of instability, posing threats to the peace
and
beyond.
Unfortunately, the tides of openness and reconciliation
that swept other parts of the world have not yet reached
the Korean peninsula, the last remaining legacy of the
cold war.
north-east Asia
and
security
of
Last week North Korea dispatched a military
submarine to infiltrate armed commandos into the South.
We uncovered this infiltration when the submarine ran
aground on the shore of Kangrung, a city on the South
Korean east coast, and 26 armed agents are believed to
have come ashore. Of these, 21 were killed and one was
captured. According to the captured agent, the armed
infiltrators were all military officers from the North
Korean defence ministry. Subsequent examinations also
revealed shocking findings. The 11 North Koreans found
dead on the day of the landing were apparently killed by
their cohorts for reasons unknown.
The investigation is still under way to find out the
the
purpose of the infiltration and other details, but
last
findings to date present a strong possibility that
week’s infiltration is part of a larger-scale infiltration
operation.
This brazen act of military provocation by North
Korea constitutes not only a serious infringement of our
territorial waters and sovereignty, but also a blatant
violation of the Armistice Agreement. It also clearly
demonstrates
seeks Korean
reunification by any means, including the use of force.
Needless to say, this act of provocation poses a direct
threat to peace and stability on and around the Korean
peninsula.
that North Korea still
We once again urge North Korea immediately to
renounce its absurd goal of unifying Korea by force and
to pursue peaceful coexistence with the South. The North
should also abide by the Armistice Agreement and end
any attempt to disrupt the current armistice regime.
We also take this opportunity to renew our call on
North Korea to accept our proposal for four-party talks
involving both Koreas, China and the United States,
which will enable constructive negotiations for
the
establishment of a lasting peace on the peninsula. In the
absence of Pyongyang’s positive response and given the
seriousness of North Korea’s violation of the armistice,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
my country firmly believes that the Armistice Agreement
should remain in full force.
At
the historic fiftieth session of
the General
Assembly, we took a collective look at where the United
Nations had been and where it was going. In an open and
forward-looking spirit, we compared visions of the kind of
world body that will be needed to meet the challenges of
the twenty-first century. Now, with this fifty-first session,
comes the hard part: redoubling our collective commitment
to the world body so that it can become a means for
translating our visions into realities.
Together, we can fashion the architecture of United
Nations renewal. Can we achieve harmony out of diversity?
Can we refocus our energies on the four priorities of
stemming the spread of weapons of mass destruction,
bolstering United Nations peacekeeping and peace-building
capabilities, advancing sustainable economic and social
development, and reinforcing our joint commitment
to
international law and human rights? The answer to these
questions must be a resounding collective “yes”. The
Republic of Korea stands ready to make its share of
contributions,
the
challenges of the next century.
through the United Nations,
to meet
The Acting President:
the
Representative of Malta, His Excellency Mr. Joseph Cassar.
now call
on
I
Mr. Cassar (Malta): May I congratulate the President
on his new responsibilities and pay tribute to Mr. Freitas
do Amaral of Portugal. During last year’s jubilee session,
his persistence furthered this Assembly’s revitalization
process.
Less than a year ago, world leaders met in this Hall to
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations
and renew their commitment to the Charter. The world
community rejoiced. Hope had survived the darkness of the
cold war. Trust
in the United Nations was, however,
tempered by an awareness of the difficulties threatening its
survival and the aspirations of the peoples it represents.
Could the Organization address the new phenomenon of
instability which risked sapping its
and
resources? What prevailed was a pragmatic assessment. The
alternatives to the United Nations were either that of
attempting to reinvent the wheel or scuttling this forum of
dialogue and cooperation to have arrogance and chaos usher
in the new millennium.
capacities
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
scourge. Notwithstanding the
Nations was founded to save succeeding generations from
then-widespread
this
colonialism and the angst of bipolarism,
the world
community worked to contain the risk of war. As the
ability to destroy grew, so did the potential of States to be
annihilated. Brave, bold steps required clear vision and a
commitment
to peace. The Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, extended indefinitely
last year, is a monumental landmark in this arduous quest.
The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is another
milestone. Malta co-sponsored the resolution that led to
its adoption by the General Assembly and is honoured to
have been amongst its first signatories.
The challenge remains. We must generate broader
confidence to ensure universal adherence and compliance
to these treaties and others,
including the Chemical
Weapons Convention. Procrastination in their ratification
by the States that matter most could expose them to the
danger of becoming dead letters. Malta welcomes the
commitment expressed by President Clinton of the United
States of America in this regard.
The risk of world conflict, though remote, is still
present. The total horror of a nuclear holocaust induces an
in-built restraint. This is not the case with conventional
armaments or weapons of mass destruction. Millions of
victims of local and regional conflicts — be they dead,
maimed, refugees, displaced, widowed or orphaned —
continue to torment the conscience of humankind. These
tragedies spur us to pursue initiatives which foster
security and confidence. The call for a ban on the
production, export and use of anti-personnel landmines
has Malta’s full support. The seven-point programme of
action proposed by the Foreign Minister Kinkel of
Germany provides a good basis for progress.
of
regime
confidence-building
We must melt the bastions of suspicion. Only a
and
consolidated
disarmament measures can buttress belief
in and
commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes. This
process requires regional and international concerted
action. Malta has been active in promoting security and
cooperation in the Mediterranean. Malta and France have
both made proposals
the
Mediterranean. The sharing of concerns among countries
afflicted by common problems can help overcome them.
This and other initiatives could turn our sea of turmoil
into one of mutual trust.
for a stability pact
for
We, the peoples, can ill afford war. Rhetoric can never
cancel the grief and destruction it generates. The United
Malta’s
foreign policy is both inspired and
dependent on the notion of regional stability. It continues
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
to sustain our efforts at greater Mediterranean cooperation.
It inspired our proposal to have the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe declare itself a regional
arrangement in terms of Chapter VIII of the United Nations
Charter.
The enlargement of the European Union, of which
Malta expects to become a full member in the near future,
provides a unique dimension of the process of regional
cooperation. Malta welcomes the statement made by Deputy
Prime Minister Spring of Ireland on behalf of the European
Union. It reflects the common values which have always
inspired the European process and led to the consolidation
of democracy, prosperity, social justice and solidarity. In
the framework of the structured dialogue, Malta has worked
with its European Union partners on key issues to promote
peaceful
cooperation,
and
progress within the world community.
development
coexistence,
Malta supports the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
Cooperation in the political,
security, economic and
financial areas cannot but yield results. Social, cultural and
human relations are other
this
partnership. Malta has always seen its application for
membership of
that
and the broader political
encompass
the
dimensions. The successful outcome of the negotiations on
Malta’s accession, due to start in the coming months, will
further strengthen our contribution.
the European Union in terms
economic
important aspects of
Interlocking institutions of
the European security
architecture, such as the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe, the Partnership for Peace and the
Council of Europe, have strengthened the distinct areas of
cooperation on which security depends. We must identify
and combat threats to peace as they emerge.
We have witnessed the horror of intolerance based on
nationality,
race, creed or political belief. Agonizing
conflicts and acts of terrorism have shattered lives and
trampled upon the rights and dignity of whole populations.
Such events have shocked us into action. The
establishment of the ad hoc Tribunals and the current
negotiations on the establishment of an international
criminal court, which Malta fully supports, are proof of the
varied manner in which the United Nations responds to new
needs.
The road to peace,
through the compromise of
negotiated settlement, is not always immediate or popular.
Yet, it is the only path. Reconciliation does not happen of
16
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
its own accord. It requires courage and leaders who
stretch out their hand to their adversaries and build, brick
by brick, the edifice of stability.
The universally acclaimed processes which rekindled
the hope of settlement in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the
Middle East are parts of this noble task.
of
rights
the Palestinian
The implementation of agreements reached between
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization,
the
resumption of negotiations and the full realization of the
inalienable
are
indispensable for stability in the Middle East. The
international community must continue to assist
this
process. Malta welcomes the first meeting between Prime
Minister Netanyahu and President Arafat. The most recent
incidents of violence in Jerusalem and Ramallah in recent
days give rise to great concern. The momentum of
achievement should not be dissipated by acts which erode
the confidence built thus far.
people
The people of Cyprus have thirsted for peace and
unity for too long and also deserve the attainment of a
just and long-lasting settlement.
In this Hall, recognition was always and exclusively
reserved for peacemakers. It was never bestowed on
warmongers, aggressors or cynics who constantly doubt
and discourage others from building hope.
The United Nations Children’s Fund, the Office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the
World Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations
Development Programme and United Nations actions in
Palestine, Namibia, Cambodia and Mozambique are part
of this Organization’s history in contributing towards the
well-being and development of peoples, peacekeeping and
peace-building. The success achieved should not be
robbed of merit by instances where it is lacking. Are not
the Blue Helmets
signal of
engagement? Are not
on preventive
diplomacy a commitment to addressing the root causes of
tension and conflict? Are not our deliberations on
development means to create stability and well-being at
the local level?
negotiations
the globe
across
a
In 50 years, we have created a range of tools to
promote cooperation. True enough, our
tools need
perfecting. We must calibrate them to current realities.
Tools, however, need to be used. A shed full of perfect,
tools never provided any farmer with a
but unused,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
livelihood. Only the will to operate tools and invest energy
where it matters helps to reap the fruit.
The future demands a more action-oriented approach:
more time in the field, rather than pondering in the shed.
This resolve inspires us as we follow up the United Nations
conferences on the environment, human rights, population,
social development, women’s rights and human settlements.
The World Food Summit is another example of action.
Renewed focus on development has led to various
initiatives, including those specific to Africa. Partnerships
forged by the European Union and Japan with the
developing world reflect active cooperative involvement.
Achievement registered by a number of developing States
underlines the benefit of such undertakings. The dialogue
instituted between Non-Aligned Movement, the Group of
77 and the Group of Seven is an important and welcome
step.
Malta’s academic institutions, in collaboration with
United Nations agencies and the Commonwealth secretariat,
annually sponsor and organize a number of
training
programmes. Most fall into the category of the training of
trainers. Students from the developing world and from
countries with economies in transition have attended short-
or long-term courses and are now back in their countries
directly contributing to development.
Malta, through its Government and non-governmental
organizations, regularly donates funds for a number of
humanitarian and overseas development aid programmes.
These initiatives, together with the traditional involvement
of Maltese teachers and social workers in the developing
world as volunteers from non-governmental organizations
or members of religious orders, symbolize our national
commitment to international solidarity.
We view our collective achievements with pride. Each
convention and treaty agreed upon by the international
community is a testimonial of our common will to build a
better life, each a symbol of our resolve to beat our swords
into ploughshares. Yet,
the anguished sea of faces of
millions of children denied the right to hope still haunts us,
whether it is war, famine, or exploitation which generates
misery. Our collective future can never be secure until these
children acquire the right to smile in hope and to their fair
share in the bounties of society.
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
people like Mother Theresa dedicate their lives. One
person less going to bed with an empty stomach, one
person less torn with pain, one person less denied
shelter — small pragmatic steps inspired by the innate
dignity of each human being; acts of caring solidarity
which each individual, each family, each community is
capable of; commitment to others generates hope. Each
ounce of food which alleviates famine; each drop of water
which combats drought and desertification; each dose of
medicine which contains the spread of disease; each book
which kindles knowledge helps build a better world.
Democracy, the rule of law, free and fair elections
and constant vigilance in the promotion and protection of
human rights are the guarantors of peace. International
election observer missions are an important contribution
to confidence-building. Malta has participated in this
process, most
recently in Palestine and Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
As much as action is instrumental, so is restraint.
lumbering
Emissions which pollute the environment;
which depletes the rain forests; indiscriminate trawling
which exhausts our fishstocks — even if disguised as
economic imperatives — undermine efforts
towards
sustainable development.
Malta looks forward to this Assembly’s 1997 special
session to follow up and update the Rio achievements.
We have strategies and action plans. Now is the time
for dynamic engagement. Present and future generations
demand that we use these instruments to combat drug
trafficking, illicit arms transfers, money laundering and
organized crime, which sap the life of the communities
we built with so much effort.
My Government is totally committed in this regard.
Legislation adopted has strengthened the arm of the law
in apprehending traffickers, halting the flow of drugs and
confiscating illegal funds accrued. This determined policy
is bearing fruit. Malta supports the convening of a
General Assembly
1998
comprehensively to address drug trafficking and related
issues. Poland’s proposed convention to fight transnational
crime has been noted with interest. Regional and
international cooperation on these issues remains the key
to success.
session
special
in
Cynicism and fatalism cannot cure us of social ills.
Blended with hope, pragmatism yields reward. What is
more pragmatic than the care of the destitute to which
Our children have a right to a life free from fear in
a safer world. That remains our responsibility as parents
and policy makers.
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The United Nations is often accused of lacking in its
assigned role. Yet the United Nations is what Member
States make of it. They decide on its future. United Nations
reform requires discipline in our operating methods. We
have to discard self-imposed fetters and act with the
revived spirit that our times demand.
Tempered by the fires of conflict and the lessons of
the League of Nations, the founding fathers built into the
Charter a balance worth preserving. Reform should not be
reduced to a simple juxtaposition of organizational charts.
Only by revitalizing the spirit that gives our Organization
life and purpose will we achieve the ideal of nations large
and small working in unison for a better world.
As President of the General Assembly at its forty-fifth
session, in the immediate aftermath of the cold war, my
Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Guido de Marco, called for
reflection and action to better the symbiotic relationship
between the United Nations principal organs. Since then
working groups have been set up to discuss restructuring.
Within the Security Council reform group, work has
evolved, but it is still far from reaching common ground.
There is consensus that the Council should be expanded and
be more representative. The type of expansion and the
categories are still subject to a wide divergence of views.
Malta looks forward to an expanded Security Council that
best serves the world community. On the merits of
increasing the Council’s permanent membership, we still
have an open mind. The very nature of permanence
demands that we establish clear and exact criteria on
required qualifications for present and future candidates.
Giving due recognition to changes in international
relations and the nature and extent of the contribution of
States towards tasks assigned to the Council, we must avoid
rigid stances or those that may be construed as such. There
are a number of compromise proposals that could help us
find a solution, even if temporarily. We have listened with
great attention and positive interest to Foreign Minister Dini
explaining the Italian proposal as one which takes into
account both the special contribution of a number of States
and the right of all States to serve on the Council regardless
of their size, wealth or military might.
Only understandings between States that win the
confidence of all can assist us in surmounting existing
obstacles. We are satisfied to note the consensus existing on
bettering the important qualitative relationship between the
Security Council and the General Assembly. Changes
18
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
introduced in the working methods of the Council are an
indication of a universal positive disposition.
negative
that may
perceptions
The Open-ended High-level Working Group on the
Strengthening of the United Nations system has registered
significant progress and tackled a variety of complex
issues. Malta has consistently advocated greater efficiency
and a more effective role for the General Assembly to
dissipate
exist.
Responsibilities of this Assembly, of which we are all
permanent members, are many and varied. We have
already noted the benefits of streamlining. More is
required. Our deliberations have an impact on public
opinion and political contingencies. We would be remiss
if indifference or bureaucratization were to numb us from
fully assuming the responsibilities and obligations
imposed by the Charter.
Starting with the forty-fifth session, my Deputy
Prime Minister has also called for a review of the role of
the Trusteeship Council. Creating
abolishing
institutions necessarily has an impact on the principles on
which they are based. The balance characteristic of the
Charter needs to be enhanced rather than diluted. The
United Nations should continue to cherish all principles
on which it was founded, including the notion of trust, on
which the Trusteeship Council rests.
or
Last year, Malta submitted a resolution seeking the
opinion of States on the Trusteeship Council’s future. The
diversity of views expressed is indicative of the existing
potential. Malta looks forward to further discussion on the
subject, confident in the will to better utilize existing
institutions to serve the principles of the Charter. Our
common heritage and the welfare of future generations
demand that
in reorienting the United Nations we
preserve and protect the vision and ideals that gave it
birth.
Thirty years ago Malta launched the concept of
common heritage. This concept has become ingrained in
the reality of the United Nations Convention on the Law
of the Sea and the International Sea-Bed Authority. It
takes time for ideas to mature and consensus to emerge.
The most recent development, which we welcome, is the
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, to be
inaugurated at Hamburg, Germany, next month. Those
institutions will undoubtedly continue to contribute to the
underlying principle of trust in protecting and preserving
our common heritage.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The financial crisis facing the Organization has
dampened hopes and discouraged many. Malta believes that
the ongoing exercise of assessing costs, eliminating waste
and rationalizing structures must go on. Although pruning
is essential to strengthen the United Nations, so also is the
need for all Member States to meet obligations and to pay
their assessed contributions to the regular and peacekeeping
budgets,
conditions.
Discussion on the scale of assessments will also contribute
to improving the financial base of the Organization.
in full, promptly and without
It
“Bankruptcy” is an awful word.
is too often
repeated in relation to the United Nations. Finances are
undoubtedly a cause of common concern. There is,
however, another threatening phenomenon which looms —
moral bankruptcy. This is by far the greater danger and the
one that we should fear most.
With the end of the cold war, a second-generation
United Nations had to find in its Member States the resolve
and commitment to face winds of change that at times
assume the force of gales and whirlwinds. With a steady
hand on the rudder and our eyes fixed on that guiding star
that inspired the founding fathers, we can still bring ship to
port. The fate of humankind is our precious cargo and
responsibility.
The Acting President: The next speaker is His
Excellency Mr. Jaime Gama, Minister for Foreign Affairs
of Portugal.
Mr. Gama (Portugal) (spoke in Portuguese; English
text furnished by the delegation): I should first like to
congratulate the President of the General Assembly on his
election and to express our confidence in his capability to
conduct the work of the current session. In congratulating
him on his election, I am pleased by the fact that he
represents a country, Malaysia, with which Portugal has
excellent relations in addition to deep historical and cultural
ties.
I believe that it is understandable that I should also
take this opportunity to pay tribute to the outgoing
President, my fellow countryman Mr. Freitas do Amaral,
for the dedicated, competent and innovative manner in
which he directed the work of the fiftieth session of the
General Assembly.
I wish also to express to the Secretary-General my
admiration for the manner in which he has carried out his
functions during a period in which the United Nations has
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
been called upon to take an ever more active role in a
variety of aspects of international life.
My colleague from Ireland has already addressed the
Assembly on behalf of the 15 member States of the
European Union, expressing positions to which Portugal
fully subscribes. Nevertheless, I would like to reflect on
some questions that are of particular importance to my
country.
Allow me to point out that while speaking in my
capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal, I am
also speaking as a representative of a country that is
extremely proud to belong to the Lusophone Community.
This is probably the newest international organization, and
as President of its Council of Ministers, I foresee an
important role for it in the concert of nations, in useful
and effective cooperation with the United Nations and its
agencies. It represents a strengthening of the solidarity
and fraternity that unite these countries and will empower
the economic and social development of its peoples, while
affirming and disseminating the Portuguese language,
which is the common heritage of over 200 million people
scattered over every continent.
The Lusophone Community, made up of Angola,
Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Sao
Tome and Principe and Portugal, is a political project
based on the Portuguese language, which is the historic
bond and a common heritage of the seven countries,
despite geographical separation. It will always be an open
forum, based on mutual support and close relationships
with all Portuguese-speaking communities of the world
and cooperation with other, similar organizations.
One year after the commemoration of the fiftieth
anniversary, we are still far from meeting the expectations
created and the real needs of the Organization. It is clear
that a process on this scale can be realized only in the
medium term.
A core issue of the reform process that we must
address is the resolution of the serious financial crisis of
the United Nations. We believe that the resolution of the
crisis can be found through three essential approaches: the
fulfilment of commitments, in full and on time; review of
the scale of assessments in order to reflect the capacity of
Member States
rigour and
rationalization of existing resources. In the spirit of
contributing to the resolution of this crisis, Portugal
voluntarily increased its 1995 contributions
to the
peacekeeping budget, moving from Group C to Group B
to pay; and financial
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
in the scale of assessments. That decision will result in a
five-fold increase of our initial contribution.
is the reform of
Equally important
the Security
Council. We are convinced that only with an adequate and
balanced representation of all the world’s regions will the
Security Council be more democratic and, consequently,
more effective in the formulation and implementation of its
decisions.
When considering the process of reform, I must also
refer to issues related to the Agenda for Development and
the Agenda for Peace. With regard to the former, we must
recognize the need to review the entire system of
international aid for development and consider the role the
United Nations should play in this domain.
these objectives,
The integrated and sustainable development we
propose should be pursued in all its facets, not only in the
economic field, but also in the consolidation of democratic
institutions. To meet
it will also be
necessary to implement the decisions taken at the major
United Nations global conferences, as it has been at those
conferences that the Agenda for Development has gradually
taken shape. This question is all the more important to us
in Portugal, since we focus special attention on the
North-South dialogue, which is attested to by the fact that
the North-South Centre is located in Lisbon.
Aware of the fact that today the important task in this
area is to help the developing countries, especially the more
vulnerable ones, Portugal has gradually increased the funds
it sets aside for development aid, both at the bilateral level
and through the framework of international organizations of
which it
In this context, our official
development assistance exceeds the goal established for
donors at the Paris conference in 1990.
is a member.
At the multilateral level, allow me to single out the
importance we attribute to the Lomé Convention as a vital
instrument of aid and cooperation between the members of
the European Union and the countries of Africa,
the
Caribbean and the Pacific. Thus, we have strongly
advocated a review of the Convention based on maintaining
the principles of partnership and cooperation.
Maintaining
international
security
undoubtedly continues to be the priority challenge faced by
the United Nations. The results achieved in most of the
relevant missions lead us to conclude that we should not
lessen our commitment or the dynamism of our activity.
peace
and
20
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
and
the United Nations
It is true that the United Nations cannot abdicate its
mission of helping to restore peace. We also believe,
however,
that efforts should be focused on conflict
prevention. But in both areas, the question of cooperation
between
regional
intergovernmental organizations has been discerningly
raised. This can be seen in some recent successful
examples, such as the joint action of the United Nations,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO),
the
Western European Union (WEU), the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the
European Union (EU) in the territory of the former
Yugoslavia, organizations of which Portugal is a member
and in which it participates actively.
Another component of the efforts towards peace is
disarmament. Portugal welcomes the adoption of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
(CTBT).
Portugal, which will contribute significantly to the CTBT
verification system, has signed and will shortly ratify the
Treaty, and appeals to all Member States of the United
Nations to do the same.
It
that
is urgent
the process of enlarging the
Conference on Disarmament be completed, as well as that
of deliberating on its agenda and the rules for decision-
making and for admission of new members, which should
be improved. It
to seriously
debate nuclear disarmament, with a view to achieving the
ultimate goal of the permanent eradication of nuclear
weapons. We
on
that
Disarmament should, early at
its next session, begin
negotiations on a treaty for the banning of the production
of fissile material for nuclear weapons.
is increasingly essential
the Conference
advocate
With regard to the serious problem of anti-personnel
landmines, Portugal hopes that concrete measures will be
taken this year towards a complete prohibition of the
manufacture and export of those devices of death and
destruction. For our part, we have already decreed a
moratorium on the manufacture and export of such
weapons. Furthermore, I would like to mention that on 23
August last my country ratified the Convention on the
banning of chemical weapons.
Among the many activities of the United Nations, I
two areas which I consider
would like to single out
essential: the environment and human rights.
The protection of the environment is becoming an
increasingly prominent issue. In this field, we recognize
the great importance of the problems of climate change,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the
and
protection
the marine
desertification
environment. For this reason, Portugal has been closely
following the implementation of
the principles and
decisions adopted in this regard at major United Nations
conferences.
of
I would also like to underline the particular sensitivity
of Portugal, whose territory includes two archipelagos —
the Azores and Madeira — to questions relating to the sea
from a perspective of
the development of balanced
management of fishing and marine resources. To this end,
my country is
currently concluding the necessary
procedures that will soon permit it to ratify the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
its
Furthermore, on Portugal’s initiative,
the General
Assembly, at
forty-ninth session, declared 1998
International Year of the Ocean. Focusing on this subject,
Expo 98 will be held in Lisbon that same year, with the
theme, “The oceans: a heritage for the future”. Its central
focus will be the relationship between the current state of
knowledge on marine resources and the urgency of
ensuring,
through a rational and scientific management
process, a greater ecological equilibrium on our planet.
The defence and promotion of human rights is one of
the principal concerns of Portuguese foreign policy. We
believe that it is the responsibility of every Government to
guarantee in their respective countries the full enjoyment of
all human rights, but
is also legitimate for the
international community to concern itself with ensuring the
promotion and protection of those rights around the globe.
that
it
and thus
We consider that the United Nations has a key role to
play,
the High
Commissioner and the Centre for Human Rights be
provided with adequate human and financial resources for
the fulfilment of his important task.
indispensable
that
is
it
A constant pursuit of Portuguese foreign policy has
been to stress the need to find a political and diplomatic
solution to the question of East Timor, without which it
will not be possible to put an to end the systematic abuses
of human rights that continue to prevail in that territory.
its sole objective, apart
Portugal has repeatedly stated — and I do so here
from the
once again — that
immediate concern of defending the human rights and
identity of the people of East Timor in their different
aspects, is to find a just, comprehensive and internationally
acceptable solution to the question of East Timor,
in
accordance with international law and the full respect for
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
people,
namely
its
right
to
rights
the
self-determination.
of
its
Despite the difficulties that have been encountered,
the difference between the substantive positions of
Portugal and Indonesia and the slowness of the process,
we continue to be committed to finding such a solution
through dialogue and under the auspices of the Secretary-
General, whose patient efforts I wish to pay tribute to
here. In the pursuit of that objective, we consider it
extremely important to continue the active association of
Timorese representatives to that process, which deserves
the unequivocal support of the international community.
that
this question has
In this regard, I must note here the increasing
support
received from the
international community, namely through the adoption of
positions that range from the resolutions of the European
Parliament to the declarations of the 21 Heads of State
and Government of the member countries of the Ibero-
American summit, and include the common position
adopted this year by the 15 member States of the
European Union,
to which a further 14 European
countries associated themselves.
its
Portugal,
exercising
responsibilities
as
administering Power of the non-self-governing territory of
East Timor, will continue to cooperate constructively with
the United Nations, with full regard for the Charter of the
United Nations and the relevant resolutions, towards the
indispensable conclusion of the process of decolonization
in East Timor.
In this era, at the close of the millennium, marked
by such profound changes and close interdependencies,
we believe that the African continent deserves special
attention from the international community. To that end,
all efforts should be pooled towards the creation of
conditions
from a
development process similar to that enjoyed by other
regions of the world.
that will permit
to benefit
it
We are therefore acting in the context of
the
international organizations of which we are members,
with the aim of preventing the marginalization of the
African continent and ensuring that it receives priority
treatment on the agenda of the international community.
Because we actively uphold this view, Portugal has
proposed to its European Union partners
a
Euro-African summit take place, open to the participation
of all African States without exception, so as to allow for
that
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
a political dialogue at the very highest level on issues of
mutual concern. The goal is to achieve a new dimension to
our relations and provide a further impulse to traditional
areas of mutual cooperation in order
to create the
foundations of a new global partnership. The 15 Member
States of the European Union have already recognized the
interest and importance of this initiative.
In this manner, we are seeking to include Africa in all
its aspects on the international agenda, stressing, on the one
hand,
the scale and economic potential of the African
continent, which is deserving of a new approach and a new
model for dialogue, and, on the other hand, encouraging
African countries to embark on their own process of
development based on the promotion of peace, democracy,
stability and economic and social progress.
We supported from the very beginning the creation
the Mechanism for Conflict
and establishment of
Prevention, Management
the
Organization of African Unity at the Cairo summit in 1993.
and Resolution
by
Portugal attaches great importance to strengthening the
dialogue between the European Union and the Southern
African Development Community. The second ministerial
summit, planned for
in Windhoek, will
certainly allow for a global review of the adequacy of the
activities undertaken as a result of the Berlin conference.
this October
Portugal, a member of the troika of observers to the
peace process in Angola, continues to be particularly
engaged in the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol,
which seeks,
in
Angola of constitutional democratic life and the formation
of a single national army.
the re-establishment
in general
terms,
I
take
this opportunity to salute
the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Alioune Blondin Beye, whose negotiating
skills constitute an important factor in placing peace and
hope in a better future once more on the horizon for all
Angolans.
We note with satisfaction the positive developments
that have taken place over the last few months in the
implementation of
the Lusaka Protocol, which have
permitted the cessation of hostilities throughout the entire
territory of Angola. However, we cannot ignore the fact
that important tasks remain to be completed, without which
the
cannot be
guaranteed. The postponement of the resolution of military
the peace process
irreversibility of
22
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
and political questions is difficult to understand and may
jeopardize the process of consolidating peace.
Allow me therefore to recall the concerns expressed
in the declaration of the troika of observers — Portugal,
the Russian Federation and the United States — issued on
22 August 1996. I appeal to the Government of Angola
and to UNITA to continue to follow the path of peace
they have set out on in order to contribute decisively to
the full implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, namely
through one armed force and the creation of conditions
for the free movement of people and goods, which would
make possible the normal functioning of society,
the
economy and the institutions in that great African country.
I should also like to appeal
to the international
community to support the reconstruction and rehabilitation
of Angola. In particular, it is urgent that the necessary
funds be made available for the implementation of the
programmes for the demobilization of former combatants.
Social stability is indispensable to the success of the
peace process.
I would not like to end this reference to Africa
without expressing concern for the situation currently
prevailing in the Great Lakes region, which has tragic
repercussions on the security and well-being of innocent
peoples. Portugal is participating in the efforts of the
international community to bring to an end this tragedy of
the African continent and to ensure the return of stability
to that region.
Portugal did not remain indifferent to the suffering
of the peoples of the Balkans or to a situation with
serious consequences for peace and stability in the region.
Portugal
therefore participates in the Implementation
Force with a significant military, police and civilian
contingent, very often demonstrating a greater effort and
engagement
than that of other countries with larger
economic capacities.
The recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina
represented an important step towards the consolidation of
peace, and we are confident that they will have a lasting
effect on the consolidation of the Bosnian State — based
on its two entities — allowing for a self-sustained
stability of the country and the reconfiguration of the
International Force so as not to affect the fundamental
goal of guaranteeing peace and the coexistence of the
three communities.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
take
Portugal will be the host country for the next summit
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE), which will take place in Lisbon on 2-3 December
next. We hope that the 53 Heads of State and Government
will
substantial decisions with regard to the
cornerstone principles of a security model for the twenty-
first century. I am certain that the Lisbon charter, to be
adopted at that meeting, will represent a significant step
towards the stability of the European continent and the
institutional strengthening of the OSCE.
Portugal has promoted closer and deeper ties with the
countries of the Mediterranean, especially those of the
Maghreb, a region of fundamental
importance for the
security, stability and development of the entire region. In
the short term, it is necessary to adopt confidence-building
measures that would contribute to launching the foundations
of a new type of relationship between the peoples of both
sides of the Mediterranean. Portugal is committed to the
creation of a Euro-Mediterranean charter, a matrix for a
new partnership that will contribute decisively to the
political, economic, social and cultural development of our
Mediterranean partners.
Portugal is following with great concern the latest
developments in the Middle East peace process.
We believe that
the future of the region depends
essentially on the will of the parties urgently to restart the
negotiations in accordance with the principles of Madrid
and the Oslo terms of reference. I appeal to all interested
parties to exhibit
restraint and to honour previously
assumed commitments, which is the only way to achieve a
just, comprehensive and lasting peace for the region. The
dramatic incidents that have just occurred are the clearest
demonstration that
there is no alternative to the peace
process.
Portugal has very strong human, historical and cultural
ties with Latin America. The next Ibero-American Summit,
take place in Chile, will represent another
which will
occasion to debate the important advances
the
processes of democratization and development have
achieved on that continent. Furthermore Portugal welcomes
the holding in 1998 of the seventh Ibero-American Summit
of Heads of State and Government.
that
Portugal welcomes the projects for inter-American
regional
integration, as well as the mechanisms for
cooperation, that have been gradually established between
the countries of that continent and the European Union.
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
The development of a relationship with Asia also
constitutes one of the Government of Portugal’s foreign-
policy priorities. We share a common historical heritage
with many countries in that region. At the bilateral level,
in addition to opening new embassies in South-East Asia,
we will be seeking to strengthen even further our
relationship with the Pacific island States, which will
certainly be reflected in the framework of the Lomé
Convention.
In terms of our multilateral participation, we hope
that the new dialogue created in the framework of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) will
represent a significant step in the relationship between
Europe and Asia, leading to a more open and broader
contact on all matters of mutual interest to the European
Union and Asia.
The transitional process in Macao, to be completed
at the end of 1999, based on a constructive dialogue and
close cooperation with China,
the greatest
importance to the Government of Portugal, whose
fundamental concern is to guarantee the prosperity and
stability of the territory, as well as to preserve its identity.
is of
The multilateral dynamic is undeniably gaining an
ever-greater importance in the international realities of the
present. Portugal has been developing unequivocal efforts
towards strengthening its participation in the organizations
to which it already belongs and becoming involved in
new multilateral frameworks. Clear evidence of Portugal’s
attitude in this respect is our increasing participation in
peacekeeping operations. Portugal has considerable forces
in Bosnia and Angola, and currently has the sensitive
responsibility of ensuring command of the United Nations
force in the Western Sahara. I am pleased to note that in
the domain of peacekeeping and international security, we
are the European Union’s sixth-largest troop contributor
to United Nations peacekeeping operations, and the ninth
largest among those countries that make up the Western
European and other States group. We are clearly in the
top half of the list of countries that contribute forces to
United Nations peacekeeping operations. We also lead
other Member States with greater resources and per capita
output.
Portugal’s candidature for membership of
the
Security Council should be considered as an important
expression of the will of my country to continue to
participate, as fully as possible,
in the multilateral
dimension of today’s world. Portugal is a country with a
universalist commitment, which is used to establishing
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
contact with many and diverse regions of the world, and to
understanding and accepting different
and
civilizations.
cultures
We therefore believe that as a member of the Security
Council we would be able to contribute to finding solutions
in accordance with the principles and purposes enshrined in
the Charter. We also believe that participation in the
Security Council by States of a size and with characteristics
similar to those of Portugal would contribute to greater
equilibrium and representativity in the decisions taken by
that body.
in truth,
This will be possible only when full respect is given
to the principle of sovereign equality of all Member States,
which,
represents the principal guarantee of
democracy in the Security Council. Yet this principle has
not been observed in practice. Indeed, out of the 185
Member States, 79 have never served on the Security
Council and 44 have served only once, as is the case with
Portugal.
We can and should improve this situation. Indeed, to
guarantee adequate representation by Member States on the
Security Council, obstacles or precedents must not be used
that would prevent a healthy rotation in that organ. For
these reasons, the Portuguese candidature for membership
of the Security Council is based on its own merits. We
refuse to resort to any alliances, coalitions or other artificial
means that would limit and condition the right of choice of
Member States.
Portugal’s candidature was not launched to defend
interests or to respond to the demands of domestic politics,
nor was it
launched to pursue or consolidate external
ambitions. Portuguese foreign policy is an undivided whole.
It
a well-defined
geo-strategic space.
is not based on arrogance or
economic power, nor has it been altered to accommodate
Portugal’s candidature. The foreign policy of my country is
based consistently on its universalist commitment
to
dialogue with all the peoples of the world.
and evolves within,
is part of,
It
Before concluding, I should like to cast my vote of
confidence in the future of the United Nations and to
reiterate Portugal’s full commitment to the reform of the
Organization.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Niger, His Excellency Mr. André
Salifou.
24
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
Mr. Salifou (Niger) (interpretation from French): It
gives me great pleasure to convey to Mr. Razali Ismail
the heartfelt congratulations of the delegation of Niger on
his outstanding election to the presidency of the United
Nations General Assembly at its fifty-first session. His
election is testimony to the high esteem and prestige
enjoyed by his country, Malaysia, in international affairs
for its contribution to the attainment of the ideals of our
Organization. It is also recognition of the fact that he is
a seasoned diplomat and a man of great experience.
I extend my congratulations to the other officers of
the Assembly, and we assure Mr. Razali of the full
cooperation of the delegation of Niger in the discharge of
his duties. I should like to convey to his predecessor,
Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of Portugal, our great
pleasure at, and our compliments on, the excellent job he
did during his presidency.
The President of the Republic of Niger, General
Ibrahim Maïnassara Barré,
reaffirms his unreserved
support for and encouragement to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his tireless efforts for
peace and development. As the Assembly knows, this
support was demonstrated to the Secretary-General at the
recent Summit of Heads of State and Government of the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), when my country
joined the unanimous tribute to him.
I know that my country’s decision to propose one of
our sons as a possible candidate for the post of Secretary-
General has given rise to much comment. Let me here
make it clear that Mr. Hamid Algabid, the candidate in
question, is simply a “candidate for the candidacy”. In
other words, if in the coming weeks no veto opposes the
re-election of Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali as Secretary-
General, Africa would only stand to gain. It would be
perfectly normal for a son of our continent, who is just as
qualified as his predecessors, to enjoy, as they did, a
second mandate at
the head of our distinguished
Organization.
of
The annual session of the General Assembly gives
my country an opportunity to renew its faith in the ideals
and principles of the United Nations Charter. The fiftieth
anniversary
our Organization, which we
commemorated last year, gave us an opportunity to look
at the progress made and to define the priorities on which
we should focus. Among those priorities is joint action by
the international community to reduce the economic
imbalance between the nations of the North and the
nations of the South. Unfortunately, the map of economic
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
and social development of the world contains a geography
of contrasts and disparities, although there were reasonable
hopes that the end of the cold war would facilitate the
mobilization
for
development.
international
community
the
of
Everywhere, and more specifically in the countries of
the South, poverty is the greatest threat to political stability
and social cohesion. The destitution of the shanty towns,
the destitution of the street children, and absolute poverty
are a disgrace to us all, and they will be as long as we see
marginalization as inevitable. As the Director-General of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, Frederico Mayor, stated so well:
“From poverty
from
marginalization to exclusion: this is how the most
fertile breeding ground for violence is created.”
to marginalization,
economic
of major
to the peoples
It is this violence which we must avoid, by offering
to whom we are
better alternatives
this
responsible — most particularly in Africa. Indeed,
continent shows signs of being a land full of vitality,
capable
the
international community gives us a chance and the
resources. Accordingly, the commitments jointly entered
into in the United Nations New Agenda
the
Development of Africa in the 1990s are as relevant as ever.
And more than ever they require that greater efforts be
made for Africa by other members of the international
community.
achievements,
for
if
the G-7 summit
The question of external debt, and in particular the
question of multilateral debt, which was given special
attention at
in Lyon deserves radical,
urgent treatment. Niger fully supports the recommendations
adopted at the mid-term review of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa. We welcome the
launching on 15 March 1996 of the United Nations System-
wide Initiative on Africa. We hope that this programme,
which is
framework for
cooperation, will make it possible to ensure sustainable
economic and social development in Africa.
in any case an important
the main conditions
Official Development Assistance — quite rightly
the
identified as one of
the African countries — should be
revitalization of
increased to the level indicated in the resolutions adopted
on this subject. At the upcoming Singapore meeting of the
World Trade Organization appropriate follow-up action
should be taken to ensure that the rights and interests of all
countries, and in particular of the African countries, be
for
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
the provision of
technical and
protected. Likewise,
financial assistance to implement horizontal and vertical
policies to diversify exports will give African countries
the means for greater economic independence.
Since the end of the cold war, our Organization has
certainly had some success in the maintenance of
international peace and security. Among these successes
was the coming into being of a democratic and multiracial
South Africa and the end of the disastrous war in
Mozambique. We have also made significant progress in
the peace process in Angola, in the crisis in the Middle
East and in the former Yugoslavia,
in particular the
holding a few days ago of elections in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Niger
is following closely the efforts
undertaken by the authorities in Rwanda to overcome the
aftermath of the tragic events we all witnessed and in
particular to consolidate national reconciliation and lasting
peace.
The situation in Liberia has seen a change for the
better after the recent Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) summit devoted to that
country. Niger supports the recommendations which
emerged from it and has decided, despite our own
financial difficulties, inter alia, to strengthen the structure
of
the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) in
Liberia by sending a contingent of about 500 men. My
country believes, however, that these efforts will only be
successful with the valuable support of the international
community, which
its
commitments to this country.I take this opportunity to
commend the tireless efforts made in Liberia by Nigeria,
the great friend and brother of Niger.
alia must
honour
inter
Somalia also deserves support. My country has been
following with great interest the evolution of the situation
in Western Sahara and hopes for a resumption of dialogue
between the two main protagonists there so that, in the
near future, efforts by made by the United Nations will
finally lead to the self-determination referendum which
the international community hopes to see. Concerning the
sanctions imposed on Libya, Niger believes that
the
constructive proposals made by the authorities of that
country provide a serious basis for negotiations to resolve
that crisis,
the consequences of which are adversely
affecting the Libyan people as well neighbouring
countries.
In the Middle East, for three years now, considerable
progress has been made on the path to peace. Until
recently, President Arafat, living among his own people,
25
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
was developing a dialogue with his former enemies that,
while certainly difficult, was also useful. With the support
of the international community, that dialogue must go on.
But unfortunately, since the return of the right wing to
power in Israel, all hopes seem to have been dashed. Our
Organization must shoulder its responsibilities and do
everything in its power to stop the Middle East from
plunging into a new war with unforeseeable consequences.
If the State of Israel has the right to exist and to live in
peace,
the same goes for all States in the region —
beginning with Palestine.
region of
Niger is similarly concerned about the serious situation
in Jammu and Kashmir and hopes that the international
community will discuss it further. It is indispensable that in
that
and with the
encouragement of all countries of good will, that wisdom
and dialogue prevails, so that in the near future the people
of Kashmir can finally exercise freely their inalienable right
to self-determination.
the world as well,
Disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, have a central
role to play in conflict prevention and the promotion of
peace and economic and social development. This is why
Niger
for universal accession to
international conventions and treaties that relate to weapons
of mass destruction, and in particular to the cornerstone
treaty:
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons.
its appeal
renews
Further efforts should be made to control conventional
weapons and, generally speaking, to establish confidence-
building measures among States. The signing of the Treaty
of Pelindaba, on the creation of a nuclear-weapon free zone
in Africa, was a source of legitimate pride. My country
welcomes the adoption here in New York of the important
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, which finally puts
an end to the fears of millions of human beings for their
lives and for their environment. It is certainly a significant
step towards nuclear non-proliferation. Niger was among
the sponsors of the resolution submitted by Australia, and
will be signing the Treaty in the near future. We hope that
this stage, which puts an end to the risks of horizontal
proliferation, will lead to a substantial reduction in existing
arsenals.
Finally, as in previous years, my country will join in
initiatives to be taken to combat illicit trafficking in small
It will also join the increasingly unanimous
arms.
condemnation by the international community of
the
26
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
manufacture and use of
personnel landmines.
those deadly devices: anti-
is
on
population,
still dependent on the
The building of a better world, which is our common
goal,
establishment of
international
relations based on the principle of
cooperation and human solidarity. We have had major
discussions on this subject: in Rio on the environment, in
Cairo
social
development, in Beijing on the promotion of women, in
Istanbul on human settlements, and soon, in Rome, on
food. All the concerns of humanity have been taken into
account in the many important recommendations which
emerged from those conferences and which outlined a
vision of a better world. We believe that only genuine
human solidarity can transform that vision into reality.
in Copenhagen
on
Before concluding, I would like to provide an
overview of the political solution in my country. Niger is
one of the African countries which, early on, chose the
path of democracy. In less than five years, it has tried
everything: a national conference, democratic transition,
and free and transparent elections which established the
institutions of our Third Republic. Following the dismissal
of the Government by the National Assembly, and the
dissolution of that Assembly by the President of the
Republic, the ensuing elections brought about the victory
of the opposition and the establishment of a power-
sharing regime marked by institutional instability in which
the higher interests of the country were sidelined. The
resulting paralysis of State structures prompted the army
to seize power. Understand me clearly: I have no wish to
justify military coups d’état. But in Niger, the putsch was
the lesser evil. At least that is how it was perceived by
the people of Niger, who spontaneously organized
demonstrations in support of the new regime.
As I speak to you now, Niger, having elected a new
President, General Ibrahim Baré Maïnassara,
is now
preparing for legislative elections. The Government is
doing this in cooperation with the opposition, which only
last week finally agreed to hold discussions with the
representatives of the presidential party and to define with
it the conditions for organizing future popular elections.
The two parties have agreed to abandon sterile polemics
and to create the calm conditions so necessary to work
effectively in the higher interests of Niger.
This shows that Africa in general, and Niger in
particular, is not allergic to democracy. But in the matter
at hand, what my country wants is to be given the
opportunity to build to its democratic system — based,
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
for human rights and
without question, on respect
freedoms — at its own pace, taking into account its own
political, economic, social and cultural context. And I
venture here to say that one of the dominant features of
African culture is that we do not turn public administration
into a dichotomy between those in power and the
opposition, between those responsible for running the
country and those who are excluded from that process. In
Africa, we do everything together. We work together, we
12th plenary meeting
27 September 1996
eat together and we manage things together. Of course, in
the interest of the human community to which everyone
belongs, everyone should know his rightful place in this
process and everyone should play the role he has been
given.
In this regard, I would like to add that even just in
our subregion, West Africa, there are several examples of
countries that have understood this process and that are
fruitfully applying it on a daily basis. This is the case of
Senegal and Burkina Faso. Let us try to find in our
culture — or better in our cultures — all the elements
that can enable our countries to establish a viable,
properly adapted democracy, while
also rejecting
categorically any kind of ready-to-wear democracy that
might be foisted upon us.
In conclusion, allow me to reaffirm Niger’s faith in
the ideals of the United Nations and in its ability to find
in the solidarity of all its Members appropriate responses
to the new challenges facing humanity.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
27
