United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
36th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 16 October 1996, 10 a.m.
New York
A/51/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 119 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of expenses
of the United Nations (A/51/366/Add.4)
The President: In a letter contained in document
A/51/366/Add.4, the Secretary-General informs me that,
since the issuance of his communications dated 17 and 20
September, and 2 and 11 October 1996, Sao Tome and
Principe has made the necessary payment to reduce its
arrears below the amount specified in Article 19 of the
Charter.
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes
note of this information?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 45
Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit
for Social Development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/348)
The President: Before calling on the first speaker on
this agenda item, I should like to propose, if there is no
objection, that the list of speakers for the debate on this
item be closed at 12 noon.
It was so decided.
Mrs. Castro de Barish (Costa Rica) (interpretation
from Spanish): On behalf of the Group of 77 and China,
Costa Rica is pleased to express its satisfaction at your
excellent and innovative performance, Sir, in the exercise
of the presidency of the fifty-first session of the General
Assembly.
The Group of 77 and China welcome the Bureau’s
decision to allocate this important item to the plenary,
since it concerns the follow-up to the World Summit for
Social Development, held in Copenhagen. Our Group
acknowledges with appreciation the initiative and effort of
the Government of Chile, a member of the Group of 77,
and of China in convening this Summit on subjects of
such great
relevance and urgency. We believe that
multilateral cooperation is indispensable to meeting the
fundamental challenges that affect the survival of our
peoples on the eve of the twenty-first century and of the
next millennium.
We would like to stress that, in accordance with the
agreements reached at
the World Summit, a special
session of the General Assembly will be convened in the
year 2000 in order to assess the implementation of those
agreements. Clearly, the follow-up of the Summit by the
plenary and on that occasion fully justifies such effort.
The Commission for Social Development held a
special session in order to implement the Copenhagen
Declaration on Social Development and the Programme
of Action of the World Summit for Social Development.
The Commission reviewed its mandate,
its terms of
96-86526 (E)
*9686526*
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
reference, the composition of its membership, its scope of
work and the frequency of its meetings, and it also
elaborated a multi-year programme of work. In this regard,
we wish to reiterate the importance that our Group attaches
to the follow-up of the Summit by the Commission for
Social Development. This important Commission has been
strengthened by the decision to hold annual instead of
biennial sessions, to expand its membership from 32 to 46,
and to ensure it a minimum of eight working days so that
it can better and more efficiently fulfil its mandate. We
expect that the required resources will be made available.
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
globalization and interdependence a more profound
dimension.
countries
developing
to undertake
In their efforts to become integrated in the global
economy, many
been
compelled
at
enormous social and human cost. Although this process
has adversely affected all developing countries,
the
African countries and the least developed countries in
other parts of the world have been the most seriously
affected by this critical situation.
adjustments
structural
have
to eradicate poverty and for
The Group is pleased that the Commission adopted a
resolution that called for the implementation of agreed
measures
strengthened
international cooperation to that end, and which also called
on the international community to mobilize additional
financial resources that are both adequate and predictable to
contribute to poverty eradication.
In the absence of an external environment to support
their national development efforts, many developing
countries continue to languish in poverty, backwardness
and stagnation, and even to experience negative economic
growth. Every year, between 13 million and 18 million
people, most of them children, perish from hunger and
from poverty-related causes.
We must acknowledge our responsibility to leave to
future generations a framework for this cooperation. True
security is global. Poverty and exclusion should not be the
only perspectives for two thirds of humankind. It is not
possible to ignore the inequality of world development and
the ever-widening gap between developed and developing
countries.
this
share
sentiment
and reiterate
Development and social
justice remain an elusive
dream for poor people around the world. The Group of 77
and China
the
commitments entered into at the World Summit for Social
Development. The Summit recognized that the peoples of
the world have demonstrated and reiterated the urgent need
to focus on critical social problems, particularly poverty,
unemployment and social exclusion. The task before us is
to take due account of both the underlying and structural
causes and their unfortunate consequences, so as to reduce
the uncertainty and insecurity of
lives. We are
convinced that
should not only be the
beneficiaries of development, but should also have the
opportunity to become the agents of their own development.
individuals
their
Humankind has begun to recognize that poverty is not
an inevitable part of the human condition. It can be
conquered and eradicated from the face of the earth. We
have the resources and the organizational ability to do this
successfully. The issue has always been the political will of
all Members of the United Nations to attain this objective
and to pursue it within a framework of global partnership
for development, with the aim of waging a concerted fight
against poverty and its consequences. This would give
2
The Fourth World Conference on Women recognized
that the eradication of poverty will require implementing
and integrating strategies at the national and international
levels, addressing all the critical areas of concern outlined
in the Platform for Action that it adopted. The Conference
emphasized, among other things, that empowering women
is a critical factor in the eradication of poverty, and it
gave particular priority to the situation of women living
in poverty, recognizing the need to improve their access
to income, education, health care and other resources.
As long as the developing countries remain on the
periphery of international decision-making, which would
enable them to devise global solutions to the global
economic problems that affect them, this unfortunate state
of affairs will continue. It needs to be faced resolutely
and in a spirit of solidarity by both the developing
countries and the developed countries that are Members
of this world Organization. After all, the United Nations
is an Organization that, because of its very nature,
principles and objectives,
individual or
national interests to represent the interests of all. No
better form of partnership has yet been proposed at the
global
to address the major problems of an
increasingly interdependent world.
transcends all
level
Our Group supports the Secretary-General’s System-
wide Special Initiative for Africa, which reinforces the
United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s.
A major constraint on the
development efforts of these countries is the critical loss
of the financial and human resources to combat poverty
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
and underdevelopment. In an international climate in which
they are unable to secure adequate levels of investment or
other financial sources to promote development, they must
depend almost
exclusively on official development
assistance. Regrettably, however, such assistance has
plummeted over the past decade, dropping by as much as
25 per cent in the past four years alone.
Even more daunting, especially with regard to the
heavily indebted poor countries, including those of Africa,
is the continuing crisis of excessive external indebtedness.
Notwithstanding the broad range of
internationally
supported debt-relief measures carried out over the past
decade, the crisis continues to cripple the ability of these
countries to generate economic growth and development.
There is a critical need, therefore, to expand the current
international debt
it becomes more
comprehensive, development-oriented and durable.
strategy so that
In this regard, we welcome the approval of the Bretton
Woods institutions’ proposal to reduce the overall debt
burden of the heavily indebted poor countries to more
sustainable levels. However,
to enhance the initiative’s
chances of success, we call on the Bretton Woods
institutions to further refine it so as to make it
less
restrictive by, for instance, reducing the adjustment period
from six to three years and by modifying eligibility
requirements so as to better serve the legitimate interests of
the developing countries.
We reiterate that investing in people is as vital as
investing in capital. Special attention should be paid to
sound basic education, to skill formation and to training,
which is a lifelong undertaking that improves the transition
from school to work.
for
the
achievement
are
indispensable
The Copenhagen Declaration, adopted by all
the
Summit participants, stressed that development and social
justice
and
maintenance of peace and security within and among our
nations. Conversely, social development and social justice
cannot be achieved in the absence of peace and security or
of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. This
basic interdependence was recognized 50 years ago in the
Charter of the United Nations and has gained strength ever
since.
The Group appeals to all Member States and to the
their commitments,
United Nations system to honour
particularly with respect
to the provision of adequate
resources, to ensure full implementation of the outcome of
the
the World Summit
for Social Development. At
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
twentieth annual meeting of the Ministers for Foreign
Affairs of the Group of 77 and China, held in New York
on 27 September 1996, the Ministers stressed the fact that
1996 is the International Year for the Eradication of
Poverty and that the General Assembly declared the years
1997-2006 as the first United Nations Decade for the
Eradication of Poverty. In this context, the Ministers
reaffirmed that the goal of eradicating poverty in the
world is an ethical, social, political and economic
imperative that can be achieved only through a
multidimensional and integrated approach. They also
emphasized that the commitments agreed upon at the
World Summit for Social Development should be fully
implemented. To this end, they look forward with interest
to the special session of the General Assembly in the year
2000, which will review and appraise the outcome of the
Summit with a view to considering further initiatives on
the eradication of poverty.
Let us therefore make every effort to fully realize
the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action,
with their lofty principles and commitments, to fulfil the
just aspirations and urgent needs of all our peoples on a
universal basis as we begin the new millennium.
Mr. Camacho-Omiste (Bolivia) (interpretation from
Spanish): It is an honour for the delegation of Bolivia, in
its capacity as coordinator of the Rio Group, to make this
statement on behalf of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica — representing the countries of Central
America — Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Uruguay and Venezuela.
The Rio Group believes that at the World Summit
for Social Development, one of the most important events
of our times, the international community recognized the
need to adopt urgent measures to check social problems.
The Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development
and the Programme of Action adopted at
time
established the guidelines for the creation of a just society
for all and for effectively meeting human needs, on the
basis of democracy, human rights, equality, social justice,
tolerance and respect for diversity.
that
The Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of
Action, and particularly its 10 commitments, made
economic and political issues the focus of international
debate. The key element of Copenhagen is
the
interrelationship between analysis and processes, which
were previously approached in a partial and fragmented
manner, and an emphasis on the fact that poverty is a
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
worldwide concern and a threat
security.
to world peace and
and illiteracy,
economic development in the medium and long term.
through policies leading to sustainable
justice, with
the
objective
fundamental
At the conclusion of the series of high-level world
Conferences organized under the auspices of the United
Nations in the course of the 1990s, we noted that their
common denominator was the promotion of economic and
social
of
approaching the structural causes of poverty in a concerted
manner. The Declaration and Programme of Action
establish an interrelationship between the outcome of the
Social Summit and agreements reached prior to the World
Summit on Children in 1990, followed by the United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development in
June 1992, the World Conference on Human Rights in June
1993,
the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States in April
and May 1994, the International Conference on Population
and Development in September 1994, the Fourth World
Conference on Women in September 1995, and the Second
United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II) in June 1996.
the Global Conference
on
The General Assembly, at its fiftieth session, included
on its agenda the item “Implementation of the outcome of
the World Summit
for Social Development”, and in
considering in plenary the report of the Summit emphasized
the nature of that Conference, pointing out its role as the
foundation for the elaboration of national and international
social development policies.
It also decided that a revitalized Commission for
Social Development, together with the Economic and Social
Council and the Assembly itself, would constitute a “three-
tiered intergovernmental process” in the follow-up to the
implementation of the Declaration and Programme of
Action.
In his report,
the Secretary-General describes the
measures taken in the wake of the adoption of resolution
50/161, and draws attention in particular to commitment 2
of the Copenhagen Declaration and to chapter 2 of the
Programme of Action, concerning the observance in 1996
of the International Year for the Eradication of Poverty and
the proclamation of the first United Nations Decade for the
Eradication of Poverty (1997-2006).
Our leaders appealed to the international financial
institutions to strengthen their support in the fight against
poverty by providing resources and technical assistance to
national programmes.
The countries of
the Rio Group reaffirm their
support for the holding of a special session in the year
2000 to undertake an overall review and appraisal of the
implementation of the outcome of the Summit and to
consider further measures and initiatives.
As a complementary measure to the Summit for
Social Development, the 20/20 initiative recognized the
objective that
to achieve the eradication of absolute
poverty, we must formulate a broad range of policies and
take actions at all levels. The Oslo consensus on the
20/20 initiative pointed out that basic social services must
be made universal and that their beneficiaries should
preferentially be the poorest and most vulnerable sectors.
As stated in the Declaration of Cochabamba, we the
member countries of the Rio Group undertook to continue
to implement favourable policies to enable economic
agents, in particular small and medium businesses, to
create productive jobs with livable remuneration levels.
We also undertook to promote education, training and
social skills, with priority given to the more vulnerable
sectors of our populations.
In this context, the member countries of the Rio
Group reiterate their support for resolution 48/98 of the
General Assembly, which calls upon the Secretary-
General to draft a conceptual framework of a programme
for the preparation for and observance of the International
Year of Older Persons in 1999.
The global theme of the year, “Towards a society for
all ages”, constitutes an appeal for the participation of all
generations and organizations from all sectors of society.
This sends a message that all men and women, of any age
or status, have a valuable contribution to make to society.
This
to promote dialogue between
generations and social harmony.
in turn helps
In this context, the Heads of State and Government of
the countries of the Rio Group, meeting in the city of
Cochabamba, Bolivia, on 3 and 4 September 1996,
reaffirmed our Governments’ resolve to overcome poverty,
malnutrition, exclusion, lack of access to health services,
The member countries of the Rio Group consider
that with the International Year of Older Persons we will
come closer to achieving the ultimate objective of social
integration, which is to create a society for all, in which
each individual will have an active role to play.
4
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
Mr. Ouedraogo (Burkina Faso) (interpretation from
French): Mr. President, I know how important it is to you
that we be concise in our statements, and I am aware of the
great concern you have for making the best possible use of
the time allotted to us. That is your mark of distinction.
After reiterating to you the congratulations of my
Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to turn to agenda
item 45, entitled “Implementation of the outcome of the
World Summit for Social Development”. I also endorse the
points made by the Ambassador of Costa Rica in his
statement here on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
A total of 118 heads of State and Government and
over 800 non-governmental organizations all acknowledged
in March 1995, at Copenhagen, Denmark,
the vital
relationship between social development and improving the
human condition. Commitments were undertaken to work
urgently to attain the goals set, principles for action were
determined, and directives were provided for implementing
and following up the outcome of the Summit.
increased solidarity,
through honest,
development of
serious cooperation and through self-reliance and the
shouldering of one’s full responsibilities, relying on a
foundation of social justice, equity and respect for others.
recognize the work of
With regard to measures taken in favour of social
development, we must
the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and
encourage them to redouble their efforts. Loans made
within this framework must be harmonized with the
special situations of the recipients in order to prevent
interest from accumulating at a dizzying rate. Recipient
populations should not arrive at an impasse, crippled by
growing debts instead of enjoying sought-after and well-
deserved social well-being.
The United Nations System-wide Special Initiative
for Africa, which highlights the priorities of health,
education, water and food security, should become one of
the operational aspects of
the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
What
is the situation almost 18 months
later?
Following the adoption of General Assembly resolution
50/161, we now have the report of the Secretary-General,
which gives us an overview of the initiatives and actions
undertaken as part of the follow-up to the World Summit
for Social Development. The efforts made by the United
Nations system to coordinate follow-up activities to the
major United Nations
common
denominator is development, are immediately evident.
conferences, whose
My delegation would like to make the following
assessment of the Social Summit. Three major themes
emerged at the Conference: the battle against poverty and
measures to promote development; the involvement of civil
society; and the need for financial resources.
In connection with the first issue, the debate held in
the Economic and Social Council on the coordination of the
activities of United Nations bodies to eradicate poverty
yielded
conclusions.
Combating poverty is primarily the responsibility of
Governments, which must
and
formulate,
strengthen national plans and programmes.
objective,
balanced
execute
clear
and
The
international
community is duty-bound to
discharge the commitments it has undertaken. Poverty can
be national or regional; but its origin always — in one way
or another and to varying degrees — has international
dimensions. As a result, the implementation of plans and
programmes to combat poverty succeed better through the
At
level,
the institutional
the United Nations
Commission for Social Development will be expanded
soon through the election of new members. The General
Assembly must provide that body with the necessary
means to discharge its mandate and fulfil its role.
is
The
civil
involvement of
a growing trend. The
society in social
development
increasing
commitment and activity of
the non-governmental
organizations, together with governmental responsibility
and action, is weaving a new fabric of solidarity among
individuals, peoples and nations. This valuable, daily
contribution at the grass-roots level should be utilized in
the social sphere in a way and to an extent that are
compatible with the sovereign expression of States.
However, the mobilization of human and material
resources through non-governmental organizations is not
enough in itself to meet the needs expressed or to satisfy
the priorities of peoples. This brings me to the oft-asked
about the financial resources needed to implement the
social programmes and plans formulated at the World
Summit for Social Development and as part of its follow-
up. The Summit’s conclusions
included the 20/20
initiative, which the Oslo meeting, held in April 1996,
further defined in order to make it operational. This opens
up the possibility of allowing everyone to benefit from
basic social services, according to a realistic and precise
timetable.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
That
timetable was established on the basis of a
redirection of available resources. It is to be followed by
the mobilization of additional resources and, finally, by an
improvement in the effectiveness and quality of services.
Burkina Faso supports the 20/20 initiative and has
agreed to participate in a pilot plan for its implementation.
Still within the framework of the follow-up of the
outcome of the World Summit for Social Development,
Burkina Faso has set up an inter-ministerial follow-up
national committee, headed by the Prime Minister. This
committee has three key tasks before it: to monitor the
specific implementation of the outcome of the World
Summit for Social Development at all ministerial and
institutional levels; to develop initiatives to consolidate and
accelerate the implementation of
the
Summit; and to monitor coordination of the various steps
taken at the national level.
the outcome of
The committee’s permanent secretariat provides a
formal structure for negotiations, which have led to the
elaboration of a national programme of activities. Burkina
Faso, despite its limited resources, is preparing to continue
its work following the holding of a national workshop to
heighten people’s awareness of the outcome of the Summit.
In the short and long terms, combating unemployment
is best done by adopting a global approach that
takes
account of material, social and psychological factors. The
promotion of Burkina Faso’s social sectors is in keeping
with its desire to build a just and unified society in the
place of the current one, in which destitution and the law
of the market are shredding our social fabric. Burkina
Faso’s social development policies are therefore focused on
education, health and the environment. Women are the
driving force in this regard because rapid progress cannot
be made without
their participation in socio-economic
activities, an area in which they are already very active,
particularly in informal ways. These are some of the aspects
of Burkina Faso’s follow-up to the Social Summit.
I wish to conclude by stressing the need for genuine
partnership. The coordination and complementarity of
activities and development programmes is increasingly
necessary at the intergovernmental and non-governmental
levels. We all still need to respect our commitments and the
agreed priorities and programmes, and to work tirelessly so
that political will does not waver and the aspirations of our
people for justice and peace with solidarity can prevail.
6
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
the General Assembly at
Mr. Shah (India): Since this is the first time I have
spoken, Sir, since you assumed the presidency, I would
like to begin by congratulating you on your election as
President of
its fifty-first
session. You have already displayed some of your well-
known talent for organization and effectiveness, and my
delegation looks forward to working further with you to
improve the effectiveness and the image of the General
Assembly.
My delegation heard with interest
the statement
made by Costa Rica on behalf of the Group of 77 and
lends its support to that statement.
At the World Summit for Social Development in
Copenhagen, our leaders committed themselves to the
goal of eradicating poverty in the world through decisive
national actions and international cooperation, as an
ethical, social, political and economic imperative of
humankind. At the international level, it was agreed to
focus attention on and support
the special needs of
countries and regions in which there are substantial
concentrations of people living in poverty. They are the
ones who face the most serious difficulties in achieving
social and economic development. The Summit reaffirmed
rights
shelter,
employment, health and information, particularly for the
purpose of assisting people living in poverty. On the other
two core issues identified for the Summit, they committed
themselves to promoting the goal of full employment and
social integration.
education,
food,
in the
areas of
The world today stands at the crossroads of history,
even as it struggles to free itself from the attitudes and
confines of
the cold-war era. Certain paradigms of
development that had placed the State alone at the centre
have had to be reversed significantly. National rivalries
and competition, defined in the past along ideological
lines, are searching for new identities and motivations.
Interest in the cause of development, often defined in the
context of a search for allies, is now giving way to an
unfortunate questioning of the utility of international
development cooperation. The pendulum has swung
decisively to the syndrome of private-sector-based growth
and to a tendency to put an unfettered market system
alone at the centre of the new scheme of things.
While this enthusiasm is being pushed throughout
the world, practical experience is generating a search for
and recourse to an approach that blends economic growth
with social justice and market imperatives with social and
environmental concerns. There is a continued role for
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
public policy, both at the national and international levels,
to tackle market imperfections and failures. Otherwise, the
poor and the weak will suffer continued exclusion from
growth and prosperity due to the imperfections and the
tyranny of the market.
the
and
positive
At both the Social Summit and the ninth session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD),
of
globalization were reflected upon. It was also recognized
that the rapid processes of change and adjustment have
been accompanied by intensified poverty, unemployment
and social disintegration, and that they bring increased risks
of instability and marginalization.
negative
effects
Mr. Minoves-Triquell (Andorra), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
To succeed, any long-term strategy must place people
at the centre. This centrality of people in the development
process is extremely important. It was recognized in the Rio
Declaration and reaffirmed and expanded upon at
Copenhagen. The central strategy for achieving social and
economic development to sustain human progress should be
to empower the people themselves. The effort must be to
empower every disadvantaged class and group, particularly
women. This will be possible only when certain rights
fundamental
to human development are guaranteed to
people.
regardless of
In today’s context, international cooperation remains
essential to facilitate and accelerate national economic and
social development. All countries,
their
geographical location, are in need of social development
and integration. The dominant causes for discord may be
different in different countries, but no society can claim to
be fully integrated. We have only to look around us to see
the exclusion and marginalization experienced by significant
sections of the population in developed countries, due in
part
social
organization and due significantly to the dictates of the
market-based approach.
to human failings and imperfections of
to markets
The core issues of poverty eradication, employment
generation and social
integration cannot be addressed
credibly without adequate resources, non-discriminatory
access
availability of modern
technologies for invigorating economic and social progress.
At
the
resources required to secure the rights of the poor in terms
of building infrastructure, building and strengthening
institutions, formulating policies and designing strategies
level, countries have to commit
the national
and the
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
and mechanisms of monitoring and evaluation that permit
sustainable implementation.
The father of our nation, Mahatma Gandhi,
mobilized the masses of India in our struggle for freedom.
He inspired an impoverished nation to win freedom from
the world’s mightiest empire by non-violent means. As
India struggles towards its second freedom, the freedom
from want, disease and ignorance, we go back to
Mahatma Gandhi and his technique of social mobilization
of
strategy goes well beyond
representative governance and endeavours to involve more
and more people at the grass-roots level. Our current five-
year plan, the eighth, stipulates that
the people. Our
“it is necessary to make development a people’s
movement, and people’s initiative and participation
must become the key element to the whole process
of development”.
To this end, in the last couple of years, we have
amended our Constitution to provide for decentralized,
participative, village-level democratic institutions with
statutory representation to the socially disadvantaged
groups of our people. One third of all elective
representative posts at the local level have been reserved
for women. A bill has now been introduced in the Indian
Parliament to reserve for women one third of Federal and
State legislative offices. It is our resolve to make the
concerns of gender and the rights of children, adolescents
and youth the centre of all our decision-making, including
economic decision-making. Beginning next year with the
ninth five-year plan, India’s expenditure on education is
planned to rise from its present 3.7 per cent of gross
domestic product to 6 per cent of GDP. The Common
Minimum Programme, adopted by the United Front
Government constituted after the elections earlier this
year, has also set for itself the target of eradicating
absolute poverty by the year 2005.
It
that
that we put
In Copenhagen our leaders adopted a visionary
incorporates major commitments for
document
is
national action and international cooperation.
essential
in place effective follow-up
machinery to translate these commitments into action. The
discussions
in the
Commission for Social Development and the information
that has been made available to the Commission show
clearly that most of the follow-up action has been at the
national level. There has been very little progress in the
area of international cooperation. The Commission should
in its
take a more critical
that have taken place so far
these aspects
look at
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
forthcoming meetings. The synergy between national action
and international cooperation should not be allowed to fall
out of balance merely because of perceived domestic
constraints in the developed countries.
It
to
There is a clearly recognized need to increase
international
substantially the resources available for
cooperation for social development.
is particularly
shocking, therefore, that soon after the adoption of these
major commitments, we are faced with the prospect of the
eleventh replenishment of the International Development
Association at reduced real levels. Greater attention should
be paid to the commitments made to facilitate increased
transfer of real resources to the developing countries.
Legitimate worldwide concern with social development
ought
additional
conditionalities imposed on developing countries from
outside. The social-development agenda cannot be viewed
in isolation. The domestic resources needed for social
development can be mobilized only if the economy is
growing rapidly. A holistic approach has to be adopted in
assessing the balance between expenditure on economic
services and expenditure on social services.
degenerate
simply
into
not
The entire United Nations system should be involved
in the follow-up process. The Bretton Woods institutions
and the specialized agencies, in particular the International
Labour Organization (ILO) and the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO), should be
involved in the follow-up process in a coordinated manner.
We should look at not only the situation in developing
countries, but also the societal problems in developed
countries. My delegation supports the three-tiered structure
for follow-up, which is now in place, consisting of the
Commission on Social Development as the functional
commission with primary responsibility; the Economic and
Social Council, with responsibility for coordination; and the
General Assembly, with responsibility for policy guidance.
We also welcome the decision to hold a special session of
the General Assembly in the year 2000 to review
implementation.
the
availability of domestic
For their part, of course, the developing countries must
increase
resources by
reorienting public expenditure and minimizing waste.
However, the central question relating to the overall limits
of available resources cannot be ignored. Given low per
capita income levels,
resources cannot be
mobilized for the programmes outlined at the Summit, even
with the best political will and expenditure policies. The
onus therefore rests on the international community to
increase in the flow of external
generate a substantial
sufficient
8
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
resources for poverty eradication and social development.
This has to be achieved not just through conventional
means, such as official development assistance, but also
through measures in the areas of trade, development and
technology transfer,
recognition that
accelerated and sustained growth rates in the developing
countries will,
trade and
in turn, generate greater
employment benefits for developed countries.
in the
clear
I believe that in the post-cold-war era our countries
have, through the United Nations, entered into a major
compact for national economic and social development
and international cooperation to this end. This compact is
embodied in the outcomes of
the series of world
conferences held over the past five years. We now have
to ensure an effective and coordinated follow-up of the
commitments undertaken,
including commitments for
international cooperation.
Mr. Albín (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
First, I wish to state that my delegation associates itself
with the statement made by the Permanent Representative
of Bolivia on behalf of the Rio Group.
Last year
the General Assembly adopted the
Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and
Programme of Action, which resulted from the World
Summit for Social Development, thereby enshrining social
development as an essential element in human progress.
The growing deterioration in the living conditions of
millions of people and the alarming spread of poverty and
unemployment were
triggered
consideration of this matter at the highest political level.
The outcome of the Summit stressed the importance of
urgent and decisive action on the part of Governments
and the international community as a whole. Social
development now constitutes an undisputed priority on
national agendas, as well as on that of the international
community.
elements
that
the
entered
The Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of
Action provide a framework for governmental action at
the national and international levels. We, the Member
States, are obliged to fulfil the commitments that we
freely
accordance with
commitment 1 of
the Copenhagen Declaration, and
despite the economic difficulties we have faced, social
policy currently absorbs most of Mexico’s budget. Of
every 100 pesos spent by the Government, 54 pesos —
more than half — are spent on measures to improve the
living conditions of people, families and communities.
there.
into
In
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Social expenditure accounts for 9.2 per cent of gross
domestic product.
In Mexico, social support policies cover the entire
population and include special measures for those who live
in conditions of extreme poverty. We are aware that
additional efforts are required to break the vicious circle of
malnutrition, poor health, educational deficiencies and lack
of opportunities. Our main challenge on the eve of a new
millennium is to meet
the needs of approximately 22
million Mexicans who live in extreme poverty.
In order
to implement commitment 2 of
the
Copenhagen Declaration, Mexico has
accepted the
imperative ethical, social, political and economic need to
overcome poverty by taking vigorous action, with the main
short-term objective of mitigating the effects of deficiencies
and the long-term aim of establishing conditions for the
sustained reduction of economic and social inequality.
As was emphasized at
the Summit, overcoming
poverty is linked to better control over resources and the
expansion of
social participation in decision-making
mechanisms. To that end, we have promoted an integrated
policy tied to the strengthening of democracy in the
country. In his second Government report, President Zedillo
announced that, on the basis of an integrated and federalist
approach, efforts being carried out separately in the areas
of food, health and basic education had been coordinated in
a more coherent and effective programme. The Government
of Mexico will continue to take whatever measures are
necessary to achieve the goals agreed upon at the Summit.
A consideration of the subject of social development
from a broad-based and integrated perspective was one of
the most significant achievements of the Summit. It stressed
the direct relationship between the promotion of equality of
international
opportunity,
economic
that
social
development is the responsibility of each country, and it
was accepted that
to achieve it, a stronger
collective effort by the international community is needed.
economic growth and the
recognized
in order
context.
It was
In this context, the contribution of the United Nations
system is crucial. The agencies of
the system must
incorporate the goals agreed upon in Copenhagen into all
their activities,
to
Governments in translating these commitments into concrete
policies and programmes.
to give effective support
so as
At the intergovernmental level, the General Assembly,
the Economic and Social Council and the Commission for
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
Social Development must continue, in timely fashion, to
follow up implementation of the commitments undertaken
at the Summit. The Economic and Social Council has
taken an important step in substantially changing the
nature of the Commission for Social Development by
giving it a central role in following up the implementation
of agreements made in Copenhagen.
to
establishing
Strengthening the mandate of the Commission, in
addition
new working methods,
annualizing meetings, expanding the membership and
adopting a multi-year programme of work to address all
the issues contained in the Copenhagen Declaration and
Programme of Action, should allow the Commission to
follow up the implementation of these commitments in an
effective,
integrated and broad-based manner. The
Commission will provide a suitable forum for an
exchange of national experiences, assess achievements
and obstacles and formulate necessary substantive
recommendations to achieve the goals established. The
establishment of
inter-agency task forces within the
system has encouraged greater coordination and made a
positive contribution to this effort.
As the Copenhagen Declaration states, the human
being must be at the centre of development, and in this
context, economy must be aimed at meeting the needs of
all members of society. We must attach the highest
priority to promoting social progress and improving the
human condition, on the basis of the full participation of
all. Economic development with social justice is one of
the central objectives that we established at the Summit.
The Government of Mexico today reiterates
its
commitment to this fundamental cause.
resolution 50/161,
Mr. Chowdhury (Bangladesh): At its fiftieth session
the General Assembly reaffirmed the commitments made
by the Heads of the State or Government at Copenhagen
and decided to give highest priority to the national,
regional and international policies and actions for the
promotion of social progress, justice and the betterment
of the human condition, based on full participation by all.
By its
the General Assembly
underlined the critical importance of national action and
international cooperation for social development and
attributed this specific role to the United Nations system
for implementation of the outcome of the World Summit
for Social Development. We thank the Secretary-General
for his comprehensive report outlining the progress made
so far and the initiatives he proposes to take for the
implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration on Social
Development and Programme of Action.
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
are
the
We
that
also
of
follow-up
happy
the World Summit
and
implementation
for Social
Development is being discussed and considered in plenary
meeting. Our general concerns on the matter have largely
been expressed in the statement made by Costa Rica on
behalf of the Group of 77. I should like to elaborate on the
specific issues of concern for Bangladesh and the least
developed countries.
financial
resources
and more
We all recall that last year the Assembly recognized
that the implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration and
Programme of Action in developing countries, in particular
Africa and the least developed countries, would need
additional
effective
development cooperation and assistance. The Assembly also
concurred in the view that substantial debt reduction would
be needed to enable developing countries to implement the
Copenhagen Declaration and the Programme of Action, as
set out in commitment 9 of the Declaration and paragraph
90 of the Programme of Action. The debt burden of many
least developed countries, particularly in Africa,
is
unsustainable. Although a few steps have been taken to
give debt relief to these countries, the measures remain
grossly inadequate.
We recognize with satisfaction that
the important
20/20 initiative, which was endorsed by the Copenhagen
Summit, was also endorsed and its importance reiterated by
the General Assembly. We are also happy to note that at a
recent meeting in Oslo consensus was reached with regard
to the implementation of this important initiative and its
universal application. We commend the Governments of
Norway and the Netherlands for organizing the meeting,
which outlined the
for
implementation of the 20/20 initiative. We believe that the
main focus for the 20/20 initiative should be the effective
and efficient delivery of basic social services to the poor
and disadvantaged and other vulnerable sectors of our
society.
framework and modalities
the
upon
called
We are encouraged to note that the Commission for
international
Social Development
financial
community to seek to mobilize additional
resources that are both adequate and predictable to
contribute to poverty eradication. During discussions in
Paris in 1990 on the Programme of Action for the Least
Developed Countries for the 1990s, and subsequently in
many international conferences, our partners in development
expressed commitments to come forward with 0.15 per cent
of gross national product as official development assistance.
It is disquieting that only a few countries have met the
10
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
target. We urge others to fulfil their commitments in this
regard.
We look forward to the outcome of the study the
Secretary-General is to undertake with the World Bank,
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and multilateral
institutions on the impact of structural
development
adjustment
programmes
social
development. The study will indicate ways and means to
assist adjusting countries in creating conditions for
economic growth, job creation, poverty eradication and
social development. In this context, we recall the concept
of development with a human face, and we are convinced
that this concept continues to be important and valid for
many of our countries.
economic
and
on
task force by the Secretary-General
At the international level, Bangladesh put forward
proposals for follow-up of the outcome of the Social
Summit. One of the proposals was the establishment of a
high-level
in
consultation with the heads of the World Bank, IMF and
the World Trade Organization (WTO), with a view to
making the entire multilateral system more responsive to
the war against poverty. The task force would also aim at
achieving proper coordination between the United Nations
and those bodies and at introducing transparency in their
work. It could also contribute to outlining procedures to
make possible the active participation of developing
countries in the decision-making processes of the World
Bank, IMF and WTO.
The other proposal by Bangladesh was for the
establishment of an independent commission. Bangladesh
proposed that
such a commission include eminent
personalities under the leadership of the chairperson of
the World Summit
for Social Development. The
Commission would submit recommendations on such
crucial
issues as cancellation of outstanding debts,
providing a more human face to structural adjustment and
matching the official development assistance targets set in
1981 at the Paris Conference on the Least Developed
Countries. It would also look into the implementation of
the Programme of Action in these countries.
In response to our démarche, the Secretary-General
informed us that he had submitted to the executive heads
of the specialized agencies a series of proposals for the
establishment of
inter-agency task forces aimed at
providing strong coordinated support for country-level
action,
in the areas of the extension of basic social
services, access by the poor to productive assets and
employment and the creation of an enabling environment
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
for poverty eradication and social development. In this
context, he also acknowledged that he had personally been
pursuing, with the heads of
the
participation and close cooperation of the Bretton Woods
institutions and the World Trade Organization, and that he
intended to keep the progress being made under close
review through
on
Coordination.
the Administrative Committee
these institutions,
In view of the least developed countries’ increasing
marginalization in world trade — a specific consequence of
globalization and liberalization — Bangladesh drew the
attention of the current Chairman of the Group of Seven to
the concerns of the least developed countries. We felt that
it would be expedient to do so, as most of our efforts at
development, particularly social development, are seriously
affected by the continued decrease in national income from
trade. In response, the Chairman of the Group of Seven
assured the Prime Minister of Bangladesh that the Group of
Seven would work with the least developed countries in our
effort to face our development challenges. It is a matter of
great satisfaction and encouragement that, in their Lyon
Summit economic communiqué,
the Group of Seven
expressed their firm commitment to further the integration
of the least developed countries into the global economy
“using the full range of policy instruments having an
impact on development.” (A/51/208, annex II, para. 37)
They have made a commitment to improve the access of
the least developed countries to their markets. They have
also encouraged other developed and developing countries
to undertake similar measures.
for
I wish to refer briefly to the action taken by
Bangladesh at the national level for the implementation of
the Programme of Action. The Government has designated
the Ministry of Planning as the focal point
the
implementation of
the Programme of Action, which
includes the eradication of poverty as one of the key goals.
The implementation components are being allocated to
concerned ministries, divisions and agencies of
the
Government. The role of civil society in particular has been
recognized and, in fact, some of its members are being
invited to participate in inter-ministerial consultations so
that we can receive their views and input with regard to the
implementation of the Programme of Action.
At the regional level, the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation has launched a Poverty Alleviation
Programme pursuant to the Dhaka Declaration on Poverty
Eradication adopted in 1993. Under this programme, each
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
country will, at the district level, form an evaluation
committee — the Committee of Agents and Beneficiaries
of Poverty Eradication at District Level — to take stock
of and eventually coordinate all ongoing poverty-
alleviation schemes. Of the six countries in the region that
have joined the scheme so far, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh
have identified and initiated programmes in one model
district.
About 50 agencies working in the model districts at
the field level have started coordinating their action under
the guidance of the Ministry of Planning. The scheme,
which is being elaborated in line with the 15-year
Participatory Perspective Plan of Bangladesh, calls for a
coherent integrated approach to address hard-core poverty
in the district at the grass-roots level.
I should like to welcome the important initiative to
convene a micro-credit summit in Washington, D.C., in
February 1997, aimed at helping 100 million families to
come out of poverty by the year 2005. We urge all
countries that are involved in poverty eradication at any
level to participate in the summit. The provision of micro-
credit, especially to women, was recognized at the Social
Summit
for poverty
eradication. In this respect, Bangladesh is proud to share
with the international community its experience with the
Grameen Bank.
as being an important
tool
Finally, I should like to reiterate the fact that social
development is a Charter obligation for all United Nations
Members. The preamble to the Charter makes repeated
reference to social development and better standards of
life in larger freedom. It also includes a clear commitment
to employing international machinery for the promotion
of the economic and social advancement of all peoples.
The founding fathers of the United Nations, when drafting
the Charter against the backdrop of the Second World
War, did not fail to see the foundations of durable peace.
Let us work together to realize the depth of their vision.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Mr. Enkhasaikhan (Mongolia): My delegation first
wishes to associate itself with the statement made earlier
today by the representative of Costa Rica on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China.
the Summit — one of
Mongolia attaches particular
importance to the
consideration in plenary meeting of agenda item 45, entitled
“Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development”. In our view, it will help to sustain
the momentum of
the largest
meetings of world leaders, which was crowned by their
collective commitment to fight poverty, create productive
employment and strengthen social integration. We believe
that consideration of
this item will also promote an
effective
and an integrated and
coordinated follow-up to the Copenhagen Declaration on
Social Development and Programme of Action, in tandem
with the results of
the other major United Nations-
sponsored conferences, in the economic, social and related
fields.
implementation of
The holding of these conferences has, indeed, brought
issues relating to human well-being to the top of the agenda
of the international community. As the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali,
rightly underlined in his
statement to the World Summit for Social Development,
social problems that once could be confined within borders,
now spread across the world. Once considered to be the
exclusive responsibility of national Governments, they are
now of global scale and require global attention.
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
core issues of the Summit, as well as the introduction of
such innovative working methods as forming panels of
experts and holding dialogues with the participation of
various entities of the United Nations system, civil society
and governmental delegations.
In order for the Economic and Social Council to
provide overall guidance and system-wide coordination in
the implementation of the outcome of the Summit, it is of
signal importance to harmonize and coordinate the multi-
year work programmes of all
the relevant functional
commissions and to avoid duplication of work. In this
respect, my delegation looks forward to receiving the
Secretary-General’s
report containing comprehensive
information on the mandates, composition, functions and
working methods of the functional commissions, expert
groups and bodies to be submitted to the Council early
next year.
The General Assembly’s role lies mainly in policy
formulation and overall review and appraisal of the
implementation of the outcome of the Summit. It
is
gratifying to note that the functional commissions of the
Economic and Social Council, including the Commission
on Sustainable Development,
the Commission on the
Status of Women, the Statistical Commission, as well as
the regional commissions, have all been undertaking
the
important
implementation of
in the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action.
respectively
the objectives
to
set out
initiatives
support
the fact
Raising global awareness of
that social
problems are a major source of tension — and fraught with
the increasing danger of disrupting the social and political
fabric, both within and between States,
led to specific
commitments being undertaken. Now is the time for those
commitments to be translated into action at the national and
international
the
Secretary-General, my delegation wishes to make the
several observations
the
international level to implement the outcome of the Social
Summit.
levels. Having studied the report of
related to actions
taken at
to
With
regard
institutional
adjustments,
the
Commission for Social Development, as part of the three-
tiered intergovernmental process, has been entrusted with
the primary responsibility for the follow-up to and review
of the implementation of the Summit. The Commission has
been strengthened through an increase in membership, the
holding of annual meetings and the reaffirmation of its
mandate. We welcome the adoption of its multi-year
programme of work for 1997-2000, which will focus on the
12
for
With regard to the mobilization of resources, the
implementation of the Summit’s decisions calls for a
genuine political commitment on the part of
the
community to increasing substantially
international
sustainable human development. We
resources
strongly believe that
the mobilization of additional
financial resources for social development can be made
possible even — to use a frequently quoted, notoriously
popular term — “within existing resources” through, inter
alia, the introduction and wider use of such innovative
schemes as alternative packages of socially responsible
structural adjustment,
the 20/20 concept and debt
exchanges for social development. In this connection, my
delegation welcomes the Economic and Social Council
decision requesting the Secretary-General to prepare a
report,
the United Nations
Development Programme, on all aspects of new and
innovative ideas for generating funds for globally agreed
commitments and priorities
cooperation with
in
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Apart from exploring ways and means of mobilizing
new and additional resources, the Mongolian delegation
wishes
importance of
honouring the long-overdue commitment to the 0.7 per cent
target by those donor countries that have not yet done so.
to underscore the paramount
Finding an effective, development-oriented and durable
solution to the external debt problem of developing
countries — by, inter alia, reducing and cancelling the
debt — would undoubtedly help free resources
for
investment in social development. One might add that the
realistic assessment of
the underlying political and
economic causes of the multiplying debt burden should be
borne in mind when addressing this issue. Furthermore, my
delegation would find useful
the inclusion of a set of
vulnerability factors in the criteria for determining the
sustainability of a country’s debt burden, an idea that is
currently being developed by the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank and to which the Secretary-
General refers in chapter V (G) of his report.
other
action,
both
things,
among
Poverty means,
lost
opportunities — opportunities for adequate education and
training and for equitable access to productive resources.
For the overwhelming majority of developing nations,
however, the problem of poverty is infinitely more severe,
verging on desolation and despair. Solutions must be sought
through
and
internationally. In this respect, we wish to emphasize the
importance of setting time-bound goals and targets for the
substantial reduction of overall poverty and the eradication
of absolute poverty within a national context, as stipulated
in the Copenhagen Programme of Action.
cooperative
nationally
for
for national
Mongolia supported the relevant General Assembly
resolutions to observe the International Year
the
Eradication of Poverty in 1996 and to proclaim the first
United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty. It
would be only logical
action to be
complemented by a global strategy with time-specific goals
to combat poverty. Along these lines, and in accordance
with resolution S-1996/1 of the Commission for Social
Development on strategies and actions for the eradication
of poverty, we expect
the
Secretary-General on actions to be taken by the United
Nations system in preparation for the first United Nations
Decade for the Eradication of Poverty to propose specific
activities for each year of the Decade in order to facilitate
the follow-up to and evaluation of such activities.
the forthcoming report of
Turning to our activities at the national level, I should
like to point out that immediately following the Summit,
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
the National Preparatory Committee, headed by a Cabinet
Minister responsible for social policy, was entrusted with
a renewed mandate to ensure nationwide coordination of
the Summit follow-up. Given the urgent need to elaborate
and implement a well-targeted strategy for the eradication
of poverty, which is a relatively new phenomenon in my
country, in 1994 the Government of Mongolia adopted a
Poverty Alleviation Programme (PAP). Many social
problems have become acute and some new ones have
emerged as Mongolia has entered the transition process
from a centralized planning and state-subsidized social-
security system to a market economy with its own social-
safety arrangements.
A study of social conditions in Mongolia, conducted
prior to the formulation of the PAP, revealed that poverty
had increased dramatically since 1989 and, by early 1993,
had reached alarming proportions. In terms of per capita
income, 26 per cent of the population has been classified
as poor, including 6 per cent who are in absolute poverty.
Children with single parents or no parents, disabled
people, elderly people and female-headed households with
many children were found to be especially vulnerable.
While poverty is high in urban and rural areas alike, the
situation is particularly serious in the latter, which are the
mainstay of the country’s economy. Poverty was also
found to have had a markedly negative effect on women,
due partly to a rapid increase in the number of female-
headed households. Indeed, 72 per cent of single heads of
households, most of them female, live below the official
poverty line, which simply implies a lack of access or
limited access to basic social services, including food,
sanitation, shelter, basic education and primary health
care.
It
human
promoting
The overall aim of the PAP is to reduce the number
of people in poverty from 26 per cent to 10 per cent by
the year 2000.
is focusing on strengthening the
institutional capacities of government, at both the central
and local levels, with regard to policy management and
poverty monitoring;
resources
development by providing better access to health and
education opportunities; alleviating rural poverty; and
developing and strengthening the basic social-safety net,
among other
issues. Special emphasis is placed on
income-generation and the promotion of employment
opportunities among small herders and the livestock
sector in general. In an attempt to raise the income of the
rural poor, the PAP is designed to restructure the rural
economy through market development and upgrading
basic infrastructures, targeting the poorest households for
special credit and welfare schemes and promoting small-
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
scale rural industries in agro-processing and non-farming
activities.
reiterated its call upon the world’s Governments to fulfil
their commitments made at the Summit.
or
through
governments
The programme is decentralized, with most activities
carried out at the local and grass-roots levels, directly by
local
non-governmental
organizations and cooperatives. To ensure coordination of
PAP activities at the national level, a Poverty Alleviation
Committee, composed of
sectoral
ministries and relevant non-governmental organizations, has
been set up. The Committee undertakes its activities in
close synergy with the national focal point for the follow-up
to the Summit.
representatives of
As seen from the report of the Secretary-General,
almost 100 focal points have been set up at national level
to ensure the implementation of the basic objectives of the
Social Summit. The establishment of the three inter-agency
task forces on basic social services, employment and
sustainable livelihoods and the enabling environment for
economic and social development has proved to be
instrumental
in providing United Nations system-wide
support and assistance, through Resident Coordinators, to
national Governments in implementing the Summit goals.
In conclusion, I wish to express my delegation’s
sincere hope that
the ongoing deliberations on the
implementation of the outcome of the Social Summit will
help to generate renewed political will at the national and
international levels to attain the objectives of sustainable
human development.
Mr. Park (Republic of Korea): At the World Summit
for Social Development,
the international community
articulated a new social contract at the global level, which
brought renewed hope to men and women throughout the
world.
in the history of
humankind for human-centred development, with a firm
commitment to giving social evolution the highest priority
and to putting people
forefront of global
development.
It marked a turning point
the
at
During the Summit, the leaders of the world pledged
to ensure universal well-being and social progress in the
twenty-first century while outlining comprehensive policies
and measures by which to meet those goals. Furthermore,
to translate those promises into working realities,
the
General Assembly at its fiftieth session stressed, inter alia,
the need for renewed, solid political will at the national and
international levels to invest in people and their well-being
so as to achieve the objectives of social development, and
14
As for national-level implementation of the outcome
of the World Summit for Social Development, the Korean
Government earlier this year formulated the Framework
for the National Welfare of the Twenty-first Century. This
master plan is aimed at
the achievement of a higher
standard of living for all Koreans by guaranteeing a stable
livelihood, expanding social and welfare services and
improving the social insurance system. The preparation of
medium-term strategies and programmes to realize this
Framework is about to be finalized.
Furthermore, my Government places particular
emphasis on the needs of vulnerable groups, such as the
disabled, in the process of social development, in the firm
conviction that a genuinely sound and prosperous society
can be realized only when all people, irrespective of their
physical or mental disadvantages, are able to pursue a life
of happiness and dignity based on stability and equality.
It was in that context that the Republic of Korea was
this year honoured to be the first recipient of the Franklin
Delano Roosevelt
International Disability Award in
recognition of my country’s noteworthy progress towards
the fulfilment of the United Nations World Programme of
Action concerning Disabled Persons. I should like to take
this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to the
Secretary-General for his message of congratulations to
the President of the Republic of Korea on that occasion.
Both President Kim’s acceptance speech and the
Secretary-General’s message have been distributed as
official documents of the General Assembly.
to
to
the
Turning
follow-up measures
the
commitment to international cooperation made by my
delegation during the Summit, we reaffirm our pledge
vigorously to pursue all efforts towards that end. My
Government has set out its objective not only to expand
the scale of our official development assistance in a way
that is commensurate with Korea’s economic strength, but
also to provide technical training for more than 30,000
people from developing countries by the year 2010. As a
primary step in the implementation process, this year we
increased our grant-type aid by 21 per cent and provided
technical training for 1,100 people. Next year, we will
increase grant-type aid by an additional 30 per cent and
invite 1,200 people from developing countries
for
training.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the Summit and,
The Secretary-General’s report in document A/51/348
provides a good general overview of where exactly we
stand in terms of implementing, in the broader context, the
outcome of
in a narrower context,
resolution 50/161. My delegation believes that the progress
documented in the report and, in particular, the setting-up
of an appropriate framework within the United Nations
system represent a positive initial step in the right direction.
While we will actively continue with our own efforts
towards the implementation of the outcome at both the
national and international levels, my delegation wishes to
underline four specific areas to which particular attention
should be paid in the implementation process.
First, coherent policies and partnerships must be
forged among the United Nations,
the international
community and donors if the goals of various international
conferences,
including the Social Summit, are to be
realized. Secondly,
system must
facilitate the implementation of conference outcomes at the
country level through, inter alia, national capacity-building.
the United Nations
Thirdly, gender perspective must be effectively
incorporated into the implementation of
the Summit
outcome. Fourthly, the more active involvement of civil
society and other
relevant actors — especially non-
governmental organizations — must be ensured in the
planning, elaboration, implementation and evaluation of
social policies at
level, as should their
maximum participation in the United Nations process
relating to the Summit.
the national
In conclusion, I should like to stress that, in our
pursuit of global progress, human-centred development
should continue to be our foremost priority. It goes without
saying that human-centered development depends upon
three indispensable and closely interrelated factors:
the
protection of fundamental human rights, the democratic
participation of all sectors of society and the promotion of
social welfare and equality.
The Republic of Korea will continue to provide its
share of contributions to the achievement of human-centred
development and endeavour to implement the outcome of
the World Summit for Social Development.
Mr. Somavía (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish): It
is a pleasure for me to address the Assembly with
Ambassador Minoves-Triquell in the Chair.
Last year, we met here in the General Assembly to
celebrate the success of the World Summit for Social
Development at Copenhagen. Today, we are meeting to
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
make a first assessment of the initiatives being taken to
implement its agreements.
My comments are in line with the excellent
statements we have just heard from the Group of 77 and
the Rio Group, with which Chile fully agrees.
In
particular, I appreciated the kind words addressed to Chile
by Mrs. Emilia Castro de Barish.
in the history of
As other delegations have noted, the Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action constitute a new
social contract at the global level. They represent the
most progressive commitment
the
international community to making the war against
poverty, unemployment and social exclusion the principal
goal of the twenty-first century. The meeting of human
needs, and especially the needs of the poorest, should
become the yardstick for progress in our societies. This
great international consensus is embodied in the decision
to make social and ecologically sustainable development
and growth with equity and gender equality the major
challenge of our time.
To this
end, we have undertaken 10 basic
commitments. Today, our task is to make them a reality
through concrete measures and activities at all levels. The
Social Summit expressed the political will
to take
advantage of a window of opportunity that has opened in
the world with the end of the cold war to let in fresh air
and to overcome the age-old ideological intolerance and
rivalries of power politics, which were impediments to
true international solidarity and served only selfish self-
interest.
The commitments of the Social Summit opened the
door to a new era of cooperation among nations based on
the security of the individual, above and beyond political,
geographical and cultural barriers. We must ensure that,
in implementing them, we do not falsify those high ideals,
for the cold war is currently being replaced in the
development sphere by a cold peace, a peace of
insensitivity and indifference within and among nations.
A clear indication of this is the fact that developed
societies have entered into a cycle of introspection and
insecurity, in which their attitude towards the dispossessed
within and without
their own countries has become
increasingly severe. Unfortunately, a similar attitude is
emerging in the wealthy sectors of developing countries
with respect to their own have-nots. It would seem that,
in a globalized and competitive world, coldness of feeling
has become the norm.
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
On this occasion, I should like to examine a topic that
I view as one of particular importance, and I shall do so by
raising 10 points. I am referring to the impact of the Social
Summit on the operations of the United Nations and of the
multilateral system in general. We can say with satisfaction
that the Summit has made an important contribution to
revitalizing and strengthening the social
sector. The
implementation of
the Social Summit has become a
dynamic stimulus for the reform and mobilization of the
system as a whole. As I said, however, I wish to make 10
concrete points.
to cooperate
First, the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), the main United Nations organ of cooperation, has
made the commitment
to eradicate poverty as its first
priority. As a result, the nearly 130 Resident Coordinators
have been instructed to make themselves available to
Governments
in the preparation and
implementation of their anti-poverty policies. Mr. James
Gustave Speth has stated that, in its commitment to the
eradication of poverty, the UNDP must be what the United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) was for the World
Summit
the United Nations
Population Fund was for the Cairo International Conference
on Population and Development. In other words, we have
a clear operational United Nations presence at the national
and local levels, and that is where the Summit will become
a reality.
for Children and what
In this respect, the March 1996 decision of the UNDP
Administrator to launch the Poverty Strategies Initiative,
which to date includes 46 support programmes, was a
timely and valuable action within the context of UNDP’s
support to more than 80 countries in its follow-up to the
Summit commitments.
Secondly, we have taken a significant step in the
historic problem of the lack of coordination — and even
animosity — among various organizations of the United
Nations family. The four task forces that have been set up
on employment and sustainable livelihoods, basic social
services for all, the enabling environment for economic and
social development, and women are undoubtedly an
important advance. After a few years of experience here at
the United Nations, I would even qualify it as an amazing
advance, since we have become rather used to the
instinctive resistance with which the bureaucracies of the
agencies, the programmes and the Secretariat greet the
notion of working together without wondering who will be
able to claim the credit. The early results of the task forces
have been encouraging. If they are successful, they will
have made an important contribution to the task of
16
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
coordination, which is a responsibility of the Economic
and Social Council.
Thirdly, the Commission for Social Development has
been revitalized. As we all know,
the Summit was
necessary precisely because we had completely lost sight
of the political implications of social questions. Early in
this decade — and I say this with sorrow, because I value
the Commission for Social Development — that body was
languishing in peaceful obscurity within the system,
discussing important matters but with no real influence on
the overall workings of the United Nations. The concrete
fact
thanks to the Social Summit,
the
Commission has a new agenda and a new dynamic.
is that
today,
Fourthly,
the Summit gave significant political
support to the tripartite task of the International Labour
Organization (ILO) by advocating a modern vision of the
relationship between growth,
social and economic
development and job creation. That has put cooperation
between Governments, businessmen and workers on the
path towards a contemporary, innovative and creative
attitude with regard to the links between society, security
and employment. When so many Heads of State set
employment as a national priority, ILO must accept the
responsibility — and the challenge — of fulfilling that
demand.
Similarly, this year the Summit had an impact on the
most recent meeting of the Group of Seven at Lyon,
France, where that Group, along with the Secretary-
General, set world unemployment as a priority item. That
is being followed up by the ILO-led inter-agency task
force.
Fifthly, until very recently, the relationship between
the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions
was marked by a certain distant reserve. Today, I think
we can say that the links between them are closer, and I
should like to say why: In part, it is due to a deliberate
policy on the part of the United Nations Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, to seek areas of
agreement and cooperation with Michel Camdessus and
James Wolfensohn. But in addition, and importantly, it is
the result of
the formulations and
commitments of the Summit have facilitated a meeting of
the minds with those institutions in developing joint and
individual actions.
the fact
that
I wish to emphasize the recent efforts of the World
Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to adapt
their development policies to a more social vision. Both
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
institutions are reformulating their public expenditure
policies for borrowing countries in order to incorporate
social criteria in their recommendations, giving special
emphasis to basic social services in health and education as
an investment in human capital. These steps are important
in terms of the Summit’s commitment to introduce a social
dimension in the adjustment programmes of the Bretton
Woods institutions. However, bolder steps are still needed
to be able to reach a broad conceptual consensus on
development policies with the Bretton Woods institutions.
I remember having heard Michel Camdessus in a
dialogue with the Economic and Social Council, at the
beginning of this year or last year, when he said that the
Social Summit was the first great document of the United
Nations with which he fully agreed. Someone asked him
how he could hold such an opinion when the Social
Summit was strongly critical of the Fund’s structural
adjustment programmes. He replied that views on structural
adjustments could differ and that, in any case, these had
become more flexible; the important thing was that the
Social Summit advocated that in order to have a sound
social policy countries had to have a sound economy, and
on that basis cooperation was possible.
In that framework, and given the structural nature of
employment problems where macroeconomic policies play
a determining role, IMF and the International Labour
Organization (ILO) are organizing a joint meeting of
ministers of finance and labour as part of the follow-up to
the Summit. The purpose of this is that, for the first time,
macroeconomic policy, which determines many factors in
the labour market, will also be reviewed by ministers of
labour, who need to take other factors into account with a
view to generating jobs.
the follow-up task forces for
Sixth, ties with the World Bank have become even
closer. After uncertain beginnings, when James Wolfensohn
first appeared in the Economic and Social Council
in
Geneva in 1995, the new President of this institution has
emphasized cooperation with the United Nations. The Bank
coordinates one of
the
Summit. It has committed itself to the African initiative
under United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
coordination and has given the war against poverty much
greater momentum than it had before in the Bank. Recently,
for the first time, and I will refer to this later on, decisions
have been taken to begin to reduce the multilateral debt
burden, despite the fact that, as the representative of the
Group of 77 mentioned, some of the provisions need to be
more flexible.
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
Seventh, we welcome the fact that in implementing
the commitments of the Summit the Economic and Social
Council has adopted measures to strengthen its economic
and social areas so that it can appropriately fulfil its role
to give general orientation and supervise the coordination
of the entire system with respect to the outcome of the
Summit. This was stated at the last session where the
subject that was selected for coordination was the war
against poverty.
Eighth,
implementation
of
for
the mobilization of
the Copenhagen
programme calls
financial
resources at the national and international levels, and we
all know that we are today going through a stage of
falling official development assistance. Within this
regrettable situation, certain initiatives aimed at redressing
the problem are discernable. Noteworthy on the
conceptual level, for example, was the recent meeting of
and
the Organisation
Development
a world
association for development in order to achieve several
objectives of the Social Summit, including the halving of
the number of persons living in extreme poverty and
universal primary education for all by the year 2015. As
several other speakers have mentioned, the 20/20 concept
is also making progress.
for Economic Cooperation
(OECD) which
proposed
We should also mention the recent
initiative to
reduce the debt of the heavily indebted poor countries
adopted at the last annual meeting of the World Bank and
Monetary Fund to make use of new facilities which deal
in particular with the multilateral debt. Those mechanisms
can be made more flexible, but we wish to point out that
one of the points which received more political pressure
during the Social Summit was, precisely, in the first
place, the cancelling of the bilateral debt by developed
countries, such as Denmark and Austria. In the second
place, something that up to the time of the Summit had
not yet been possible, there was a recognition that the
multilateral debt of heavily indebted countries is today the
main problem faced by those countries and that they must
be able to continue to borrow from multilateral agencies
while at the same time receiving assistance with their
previous debt. This has started to occur and the political
impact of the Summit was unquestionably instrumental in
this decision.
Ninth, I wish to refer to the contribution of civil
society to the Summit. This was fundamental
to its
success, and at this follow-up stage it continues to be
vital. So many things are happening that it is impossible
to refer to them all but I have selected some of them as
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the Summit,
a symbol of all the initiatives that are taking place to
implement the Summit. For example, in June this year,
close to the first anniversary of
the
International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, which
includes 194 affiliated trade union organizations throughout
the world, took the follow-up to the Summit as one of its
main themes at its 16th World Congress held in Brussels,
and asked its national members to initiate work together
with ILO with a view to implementing the Summit’s
commitments. I should also point out
the Inter-
Parliamentary Union, with more than 100 member
parliaments, has mobilized around the Summit’s goals, and
at its recent Inter-Parliamentary Council meeting in Beijing
in September adopted a document on priority actions for
the implementation by parliaments of the outcome of the
Summit. If we think only of these two items, 194 trade
union organizations asked by their central organ to promote
the objectives of employment at the national level and more
than 100 parliaments also resolved to take initiatives on the
Summit, we realize how this process has been gaining
ground in the political and main social sectors in our
countries.
that
The same could be said of the International Council
on Social Welfare, one of whose major initiatives had to do
with a group of organizations which have constituted
something termed “Social Watch”, an interregional effort by
grass-roots and research groups operating in many countries
which are developing national case studies and also
compiling information at the global level on the specific
purposes of the Summit. As can be seen,
there is an
enormous list. I have merely picked a few examples to
show how this is becoming part of society, apart from what
we can do here in the United Nations system.
it
that
is at
Tenth, in this statement I have emphasized the impact
of the Summit on the United Nations system and civil
society because I think this has been truly important.
However, we cannot forget
the national
government level where we must first reflect our will to
carry forth our commitments. We see with satisfaction that
the Secretary-General refers to replies from over 100
Governments to his appeal to prepare goals and objectives
in order to implement
the
Summit. The number of replies shows that the momentum
of Copenhagen has not been lost. In many cases,
the
national preparatory committees for the Summit are still
operational. There is no doubt, however, that it is at the
national level where we must do more, especially in terms
of
strengthen and
implement, preferably this year, national plans to eradicate
poverty. It is at the country level where we must establish
the commitments made at
to formulate or
the commitment
18
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
the foundations for implementing the commitments, with
the firm will of our Government,
social
development will become the new commitment of the
social contract, as mentioned at the outset.
so that
Regional governmental action is also important, and
almost all regions have taken regional initiatives. I will
mention only the one in which we were involved, which
was the follow-up to the Summit in which we organized
a hemispheric summit on the eradication of poverty and
discrimination, held in Chile in January 1996.
As I approach the conclusion of my statement, I
apologize for its length, but some of you know how
passionate I am on this subject, so I am sure that you will
allow me to take a little more time than most other
delegations have been taking.
We must emphasize that the special session of the
General Assembly set for the year 2000 will be of historic
importance and will provide an opportunity for many
Heads of State or Government
to participate. Many
Presidents have already told me, “prepare the session for
the year 2000 well, because you are going to see me at
the General Assembly. Don’t just put it together at the
last minute, because I will be there to see what we have
done
for Social
Development.”
the Summit
years
after
five
That is why it is essential to begin to prepare in
advance that great gathering with the participation of all
Member countries of the system, just as we prepared for
the Summit with a broad Preparatory Committee in which
everyone had a right to speak his mind. We must prepare
similarly for the special session of the General Assembly,
and in particular we must open it to all the countries
whose Heads of State were in Copenhagen. It would be
absurd if the countries whose Heads of State were in
Copenhagen were not at the special session as well. I will
not go into the details of this, but what I wish to convey
is that we bear a major political
responsibility in
preparing that special session of the General Assembly
very well. It will not be just any session of the General
Assembly. It will be the result of this major process now
under way.
Clearly, the 10 points I have mentioned were not
made with the objective of concluding that all is well and
that because of the realization of the Social Summit there
is nothing to worry about. Obviously, that is not the case
in many respects. What I wished to do was highlight the
significant impact the Summit has had on the work of the
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
institutions of the multilateral system, which I believe is
extremely significant.
I wish to conclude by making three substantive
comments. Firstly, the Social Summit will not have been a
real success over time if it is not a success for Africa and
the least developed countries. One of the results of the
Social Summit of which I am proudest
is the special
commitment made to Africa. It is the first time in history
that almost 120 Heads of State have affirmed that African
and other
least developed countries should be given
political priority in the area of cooperation. I must say that
I personally fought to achieve that commitment, even, at
times, in the face of a lack of understanding by other
developing countries. But we did this because Chile is
deeply convinced that Africa requires and deserves
international solidarity and a major flow of financial and
material support. In their policies of cooperation, the United
Nations and the developed countries must carry out
effectively this commitment to Africa. The initiative for
Africa is a good beginning, especially because for the first
time — and this was of great interest to me now that Chile
is on the Security Council — it links questions of security
and development, a fundamental factor in the internal
reality of every country. However, this initiative for Africa
is not sufficient, and we most go far beyond it.
Secondly, the Summit will not be a success unless it
also succeeds in making progress on the issue of gender
equality and equity. It was also the first time in history that
a gathering of Heads of State, not technical or ministerial
meetings, raised the political standing of women’s rights as
a commitment of the international community.
In this respect, I would like to share an observation
with the Assembly. The other day I was looking around this
General Assembly Hall during the general debate in which
our Ministers participated, and I noticed the overwhelming
absence of women in delegations. Today it is somewhat
different because, as we all know, there are always more
women present to deal with social items than with other
items. But during the general debate there were very few
women in the Hall. Then this thought came to mind: would
this not be the right
time, when we have asked the
Secretariat of the United Nations to gradually incorporate
more women into managerial and other posts, for us to do
the same ourselves — we, the Governments. I will leave
the Assembly with this idea: we should agree, through a
resolution,
to
incorporate into their delegations to the United Nations a
higher percentage of women. We, the Governments, must
be able to lead by example.
to our own Governments
to appeal
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
Finally,
I mentioned at
the beginning of my
statement
that we were living in a world of human
indifference. However, we all know that there is a part of
us that needs to act on the basis of values, ideals and
dreams. We know that we are not heartless robots and
that feelings and affection are an important part of our
human identity. The Social Summit was a modern,
contemporary, realistic and practical effort
to take a
human look at
things and to overcome the moral
indifference of our times. I invite all present to keep the
spirit of Copenhagen alive in ourselves and in the United
Nations.
Mr. Hoey (Ireland): I have the honour to speak on
behalf of the European Union. The following associated
countries, Bulgaria, Cyprus,
the Czech Republic,
Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania,
Slovenia and Slovakia, align themselves with this
statement. Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway have also
aligned themselves with this statement.
The gathering of world leaders in Copenhagen in
March last year marked a new consensus among the
international community on the issue of development. It
provided that economic development, social development
and environmental protection are interdependent and
mutually
sustainable
development. It agreed to place renewed emphasis on
people at the centre of development, to underline that the
main purpose of development is to benefit the individual,
and that development policies must be directed to
achieving this aim. It agreed to give the goals of social
development and human well-being
components
reinforcing
of
“the highest priority both now and into the twenty-
first century” (A/CONF.166/9, p. 5, para. 1)
and provided for a global and integrated approach to
social development.
to health care and social
Over the last 50 years, there has been an enormous
increase in global wealth and, in most countries, people
expect to live longer, are better educated and have greater
access
services. Many
developing countries are participating more fully in the
global
economy and are playing an increasingly
significant role in generating growth and expanding trade.
Yet the gap between the richest and poorest countries
continues to widen. Within many countries, the benefits
of economic growth and wealth are unevenly distributed,
with a disproportionate share going to the wealthiest.
Nearly 1.3 billion people around the world live in
19
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
absolute poverty, and their number is growing at the rate of
almost 25 million a year. Over 120 million people are
unemployed, many of them for long periods of time.
Human rights and fundamental freedoms continue to be
violated, despite the solemn commitments entered into at
the World Conference on Human Rights. Discrimination
flourishes, whether the motive be gender, race, religion,
ethnic origin, sexual orientation, disability or any other
grounds.
series of
The Heads of State and Government gathered at
Copenhagen entered into a
far-reaching
commitments designed to address and overcome these
challenges. They emphasized that development is not solely
a question of economic growth. It encompasses also the
legal and constitutional frameworks of States. It requires
democratic and open governance in which government is
accountable to the people and the individual is empowered
and can participate fully in decision-making at all levels. It
also requires social justice and the equitable distribution of
wealth and income.
Development also demands full respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms, and their enjoyment by
all. It cannot be achieved unless women enjoy in law and
practice full equality with men, and are able to participate
fully in all aspects of society, and to obtain equal benefit
from development. It cannot be achieved, either, if society
discriminates against any of its members on any ground. On
the contrary, the abilities, talents and experiences of all
people, including the young and the old as well as people
with disabilities, should be recognized, promoted and used
in working towards a society for all.
The Copenhagen Declaration recognizes that
the
formulation and implementation of strategies, policies,
programmes and actions for social development are the
responsibility of each country. In so doing, Governments
may take into account the particular conditions that each
faces. Indeed, given the diversity of situations around the
world, and the complexity and interdependence of the
factors affecting social development, there is no single
strategy which is universally applicable. However, the need
to take account of differing conditions and to apply the
strategy that is best suited to meet them cannot be used as
a pretext to avoid or circumvent the commitments freely
undertaken by Governments at the Social Summit and the
international conferences.
The Programme of Action is very clear in this regard.
It proclaims that the ultimate goal of social development is
to improve and enhance the quality of life of all people. It
20
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
implemented in their
sets out numerous actions that must be undertaken to this
end. Among others, the achievement of this aim requires
democratic institutions, increased and equal opportunities,
the rule of law, the promotion of respect for cultural
diversity and respect for all human rights and fundamental
freedoms, including the rights of persons belonging to
these commitments, and the others
minorities. All
adopted, must be
entirety.
Governments cannot excuse a failure to fulfil one aspect
by pleading the inability to achieve another. They cannot
adduce lack of development as a reason for denying the
full equality of women, or for denying the rights of
minorities or indigenous people. Equally, they cannot
point to achievements in one area as a mitigating reason
for neglecting another. A democratic system, respect for
civil and political rights, and free and fair elections do not
permit Governments to ignore social and economic
deprivation and exclusion from society.
The eradication of poverty is the most daunting
social challenge facing national Governments and the
international community today, when more than one
person in five lives in absolute poverty, and many more
have unacceptably low standards of living. Poverty is a
complex and multidimensional problem which has its
roots in structural, institutional and developmental causes
at both the national and international levels. It is often
accompanied by lack of participation in civil and political
life. The economic and social problems faced by people
living in poverty are exacerbated by their exclusion from
decision-making and the fact
their views are
frequently ignored by those in positions of authority.
that
Achieving the goal of the eradication of poverty
requires that Government and society address all aspects
of the problem. It may be necessary to alter the economic
and administrative systems so that everyone can have
access to resources and opportunities. Ensuring that all
can benefit
from sustainable economic growth may
require far-reaching changes in the way wealth and
income are distributed. Measures must be taken to ensure
the democratic participation of people living in poverty,
including participation in the design and implementation
of anti-poverty programmes. It
is also necessary to
provide social protection programmes for those who
cannot support themselves. A gender perspective must be
integrated fully into all aspects of
the design and
execution of strategies and programmes to combat
poverty. Indeed, since the majority of those living in
poverty are women, any anti-poverty programme that fails
to mainstream a gender perspective will
in its
objectives.
fail
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
This was what we agreed at Copenhagen. It is time to
put these commitments into effect. Governments agreed to
formulate or strengthen, preferably by 1996, and implement
national poverty eradication plans to address the structural
causes of poverty. These national plans should establish
strategies and goals for the substantial reduction of overall
poverty and the eradication of absolute poverty. Each
country should also develop a precise definition and
assessment of absolute poverty. Many Governments,
including Governments within the European Union, are
engaged in activities aimed at developing these national
anti-poverty strategies as well as supporting developing
countries in the design and implementation of
these
strategies. It is essential that Governments fully involve
civil society in the development and implementation of
these strategies. This participation should extend to all those
with an interest
and particularly
representatives of people living in poverty, as well as
women, people with disabilities, youth and older persons.
in the outcome,
The support of national poverty eradication plans is,
in our view, the key task for the United Nations system and
should be implemented in an effective, coordinated and
action-oriented manner. We appreciated the discussion of
the issue at the last session of the Economic and Social
Council, and we believe that
the agreed conclusions
constitute solid ground for action by the Commission for
Social Development and the United Nations system as a
whole. The political commitment of the system needs to be
complemented by an appropriate operational framework,
particularly at country level. Poverty eradication plans
should be incorporated fully into the various United Nations
mechanisms to support Governments in their efforts to
achieve sustainable social and economic development. For
its part, the United Nations system, through the resident
coordinators, should provide support to Governments, where
requested, in the planning, formulation, implementation and
monitoring of these plans and programmes.
community at both the bilateral
The European Union believes that the support of the
and
international
levels is essential
in helping to create an
multilateral
in which Governments take the lead in
environment
assessing poverty situations and in developing national
poverty eradication strategies and programmes, and we will
play our part in such efforts. The effective mobilization of
financial resources for poverty eradication and a more
effective orientation of development cooperation and
assistance to this goal need to be fully explored, bearing in
mind our commitment to the 0.7 per cent of gross national
product as the target for official development assistance.
interested countries have
We also note the work that
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
undertaken in developing the 20/20 concept, notably at
meetings that led to the adoption of the Oslo consensus.
We look forward to the follow-up meeting next year,
which will review and assess progress in implementing
this initiative.
The Programme of Action identified full and
adequately remunerated employment as an effective
method of combating poverty and promoting social
integration. The goal of full employment requires that the
State, the social partners and all the other members of
civil society at all levels cooperate to create conditions
that enable everyone to participate in and benefit from
productive work. It is essential to place the creation of
employment at
the centre of national strategies and
policies. Particular attention should be paid to the
enhancement of employment and the need for quality
jobs, with full respect for the rights of workers as defined
in relevant international instruments, notably those agreed
in
International Labour
Organization.
framework
the
of
the
l o n g - t e r m u n e m p l o y m e n t
Particular efforts are required to ensure gender
equality,
equal opportunity and non-discrimination.
Special priority must be given to the problems of
s t r u c t u r a l ,
a n d
underemployment. Priority should also be given to
ensuring productive employment
for youth, women,
persons with disabilities, and disadvantaged groups and
individuals. Education and training programmes assume
a particular importance in providing individuals with the
necessary skills and qualifications to avail themselves of
opportunities for full and productive employment.
Next year, the Commission for Social Development
will examine the theme of “Productive employment and
sustainable livelihoods”. We look forward to a focused
and pragmatic discussion of the various issues involved.
This will require thorough preparation by the Secretariat,
and the active participation of Governments, the social
partners and those elements of the United Nations system
with particular responsibilities in this area. The input and
participation of the International Labour Organization in
this discussion will be particularly valuable.
Unemployment within the European Union remains
a matter of great concern. While the conditions for
economic recovery in Europe are in place, the rate of
unemployment remains unacceptably high, and the fight
for employment remains the top priority of the European
Union and its member States. The European Council,
meeting in Florence last June, had a detailed discussion
21
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
of growth and employment, and stressed that new impetus
was to be given to job creation strategies and to their
implementation. Sustainable employment creation requires
an approach which involves macro-economic stability,
structural reform in the functioning of labour, product and
services markets, and a wide range of
labour-market
policies designed to help the labour categories particularly
hit by unemployment. These include the long-term
unemployed and, in most countries, women, young people
and the unskilled. The issue of employment is an important
question in the context of the intergovernmental conference
at present under way to review the operation of the treaties
and to prepare reforms of the Union’s institutions.
The aim of social integration is to create a “society for
all, in which every individual can participate fully”. Society
must be firmly rooted in the rule of law, democratic
participation, gender equality, the full enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms by all, social
justice,
tolerance, respect for ethnic, religious and cultural diversity,
and meeting the requirements of groups with specific needs,
such as young and older people, as well as people with
disabilities. Achieving this
and
accountable public institutions that are accessible to people
on an equal basis and are responsive to their needs. It
requires action by Governments to enshrine in law the
rights of the individual, and to ensure that effective action
is
respected.
Strengthened participation and involvement of civil society
in the formulation,
implementation and evaluation of
decisions determining the functioning and well-being of
societies is also critical.
taken in cases where
transparent
are not
requires
these
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
relating to the laws and the judicial and administrative
procedures of member States in this field.
1997 has been proclaimed the “European Year
against Racism”. The aim is to highlight the threat posed
by racism to human rights and fundamental freedoms, as
well as to the economic and social cohesion of the Union.
These objectives will be realized in close partnership with
all elements of civil society, including non-governmental
organizations and those affected by racism.
commitments
In turn the
The World Summit on Social Development enabled
the international community to adopt a particular
perspective in relation to development. But it did not take
place in isolation. It built upon the outcomes of earlier
conferences, notably those of Rio de Janeiro, Vienna and
Cairo.
entered into in
Copenhagen have been expanded further at Beijing, and
will continue to be built upon in future years as the
international community continues its efforts to “promote
social progress and better standards of life in larger
freedom” (A/CONF.166/9, p. 39, para. 17 (a)). As a
result, it is important that Governments and the United
Nations system implement these outcomes, and monitor
their implementation, in an integrated manner. We fully
share the views expressed by Under-Secretary-General
Desai when he addressed the Third Committee on
Monday that the credibility of the policy-of-development
process requires that
focus to
implementation, and that the analytical, normative and
operational work
should
increasingly be guided by the objectives of integration
and mainstreaming.
the United Nations
there be a shift of
of
incidents of
The European Union is composed of multicultural and
multi-ethnic societies. We are concerned about many
serious
racial or ethnic discrimination,
intolerance, xenophobia and racially motivated violence,
which continue to occur despite the efforts of Governments
and law enforcement authorities to prevent them and to
bring their perpetrators to justice. The European Union will
continue to combat vigorously these incidents and all other
forms of discrimination. In addition to actions undertaken
at national level, we have launched a Union-wide effort to
combat these manifestations. At its meeting in Florence in
June,
reaffirmed the Union’s
determination to combat racism and xenophobia with the
utmost resolve, and approved the principle underlying the
establishment of a European monitoring centre. The Union
is currently taking steps to establish the centre and is
considering the links between it and the Council of Europe.
The Council of Ministers is also considering other measures
the European Council
Last year, the General Assembly adopted a three-
tiered mechanism to ensure that the follow-up to the
Social Summit should take place in such an integrated
manner. It provided that the General Assembly should act
as the principal policy-making organ on manners relating
to the follow-up of the Summit. This role would be
ensured most effectively if this question were to be
considered in those main committees which have the
primary responsibility for economic and social issues, as
is the case of the follow-up to other major conferences.
The experience of
this year, where we have had
essentially the same debate in plenary and in the Third
Committee, should not be repeated. We are of the view
that our agenda and programme of work for future years
should take account of these concerns.
Important decisions were taken at this year’s session
of the Economic and Social Council on coordination of
22
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
the work of its functional commissions in relation to
poverty eradication, one of the priority themes of the
Summit. We trust that in future years, this coordinated
approach will extend to other matters that were discussed
at Copenhagen and other major United Nations conferences.
The Economic and Social Council also adopted a
framework for the functioning of the Commission for
Social Development to enable it to fulfil its central role as
the functional commission with the primary responsibility
for the follow-up and review of the implementation of the
Summit. It is important that the Commission receive the
support of Governments in carrying out this task. In this
regard, it is important to ensure the participation of high-
level representatives from the field of social development
in its work.
Indeed, the need for such high-level involvement in
the follow-up and implementation of the Social Summit at
both national and international level is essential if we are to
maintain the necessary political will
to turn the
commitments of Copenhagen into reality.
Mr. Owada (Japan): It is now almost one and a half
years since the World Summit for Social Development was
held in Copenhagen. The Copenhagen Summit was the
culmination of a series of international conferences on
social issues that the international community has to tackle
in the contemporary world on a priority basis. The
Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at
the
Summit, containing an important set of commitments and
recommendations to be implemented, became a historic
landmark that established the international consensus on the
goals to be pursued and achieved in the area of social
development for the coming decades.
and
economic
by
characterized
interdependence,
With the demise of the cold war and the evolution of
environment
ever-increasing
an
globalization
the
international community faces a new opportunity as well as
a new challenge for tackling the problem of development in
a new light. Some progress has been made in the right
direction in this regard, but much remains to be done. In
this context, the Copenhagen Summit should be looked at
as a new attempt to address this most important problem of
development from the angle of its social components.
One of
the most
important achievements of
the
Copenhagen Summit was the agreement to place people at
the centre of the development process. As noted in its
Programme of Action,
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
“economic development, social development and
environmental protection are interdependent and
mutually reinforcing components of sustainable
development, which is the framework for our efforts
to achieve a higher quality of life for all people.”
(A/CONF.166/9, p. 5, para. 6)
The Government of Japan believes that in order to realize
this, a new development strategy, to be pursued along this
line,
is very much needed, based on this concept of
people-centred development. We in Japan believe that
such genuine development can only be achieved on the
basis of a comprehensive approach to development which
would involve activities ranging over the economic and
social fields, such as financial resource mobilization
through official development assistance, investment and
trade, and human resource mobilization through social
integration of people by means of ensuring basic
education, primary health care and empowerment of all
groups of people in society.
In any society, sound economic growth can be
attained only in conjunction with sound progress in social
development. With that clear recognition in mind, we
have to tackle the three basic issues on which the Summit
chose to focus its attention — the eradication of poverty,
the expansion of productive employment and social
integration — as challenges to be tackled in unison on
our way to the attainment of development based on social
justice. The Declaration adopted by Heads of State or
Government at the Summit recognizes that today more
than 1 billion people are living in absolute poverty, over
120 million people are unemployed and a great number of
citizens are excluded from the social and political process.
Japan maintains the view that these three basic issues are
closely interrelated. If we cannot succeed in coping
effectively with one issue, it will adversely affect the
solution of the other two, with the result that none of
them will be solved. Each country needs to formulate and
implement comprehensive and effective policies based on
the clear recognition of this interrelationship.
society in carrying out
An essential step towards moving in that direction is
to ensure the participation of people, Governments and
other actors of civil
the
commitments agreed upon in the Programme of Action on
the basis of this integrated approach. This would include
setting up such targets as universal access to basic
education, a reduction in the infant mortality rate, a
reduction in malnutrition among children and the
attainment by all people of a higher level of health.
Efforts to achieve these targets by the countries in the
23
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
assistance
process of development need to be complemented by well-
from developed
coordinated
countries,
international organizations,
the private sector and non-
governmental organizations. It is with a keen awareness of
this point
that Japan has undertaken its initiative for
promoting a new strategy for development and has, for its
part, been implementing such an integrated approach in its
development cooperation policy.
my delegation notes with satisfaction that the General
Assembly last year began its consideration of ways and
means for the United Nations system to follow up the
Copenhagen Summit. Let me offer the views of my
delegation on how these follow-up activities should be
carried out at the international level, primarily within the
United Nations system, and on what part of this process
we must place our primary emphasis.
At this juncture in our consideration of the issues
involved in social development, I wish to emphasize the
importance of one of the three basic themes of the Summit:
social integration. The achievement of social integration is
not only important from the viewpoint that each citizen
should be given the opportunity to make the most of his or
her potential; it is also important from the viewpoint that
the participation of citizens, who have an indispensable role
to play in following up this Summit,
to
achieving the goal of development.
is essential
The commitments and recommendations agreed upon
contained in the Declaration and
at Copenhagen,
Programme of Action, will have to be implemented on the
international level as well as on the national level. It is in
this context that the proposal to achieve and maintain the
20/20 initiative has its significance. Thus, Japan allocated
23.2 per cent of its bilateral assistance in 1994 to projects
related to social infrastructure such as education, public
health, sanitation and population, while 33.3 per cent went
to meet basic human needs, including projects in the social
and agricultural sectors and the area of emergency relief.
The share of
in Japanese official
development assistance has grown steadily in recent years,
and Japan intends to further intensify its cooperation in this
area.
the social
sector
The promotion of social integration requires active
participation by local communities in the development
process and activities at the grass-roots level. As part of its
efforts in these areas, Japan is offering assistance to
activities of non-governmental organizations and local
governments. Furthermore,
to encourage the
integration into society of disadvantaged people, Japan is
actively engaged in providing assistance to developing
countries in support of persons with disabilities, the elderly
and minorities. Japan is also extending cooperation for the
empowerment of women and for child health care. My
delegation urges other Governments to work in the same
direction to meet our promise at the international level.
in order
As regards the organizational side of our work for the
implementation of what was agreed upon at Copenhagen,
24
My delegation is gratified to see that the General
Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the
Commission for Social Development, a three-tiered
mechanism for the implementation of the outcome of the
Summit, have begun their work in their respective roles,
in accordance with the mandates conferred on them by
General Assembly resolution 50/161. As regards the role
of
the Commission for Social Development, Japan
welcomes the adoption of Economic and Social Council
resolution 1996/7 at the Council’s substantive session this
year. The Commission, as part of its existing mandate, is
reviewing and
to assist
appraising
and
problems
encountered in the implementation of the Programme of
Action. The resolution also establishes further substantive
agenda items for
the Commission, as well as its
programme of work and the methods to be employed in
carrying it out. My delegation is fully convinced that all
these new procedural arrangements will enhance the
capacity of the Commission and revitalize its functions as
the
engaged in
monitoring, promoting and guiding the follow-up to the
Social Summit at the global level.
key intergovernmental
in monitoring,
the Council
institution
achieved
progress
the
overall
guidance, maintain
The role of the Economic and Social Council in the
follow-up activities of the Social Summit must be to
provide
system-wide
coordination and review the progress made towards
implementing the outcome of the Summit. In carrying out
this task, it is imperative that the whole structure of the
United Nations, including the roles and functions of the
Council and the organization of the Secretariat in the
economic and social fields, should be reviewed and
reformed with a view to meeting the new requirements
and expectations of contemporary international society.
As for the role of the General Assembly in this area,
the Assembly, as the highest decision-making organ
within the United Nations, should strengthen its policy-
making
the
intergovernmental process and provide policy guidance to
all relevant organs and bodies.
development
social
role
on
in
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Other agencies and institutions in the United Nations
system, working in the field of social development, should
also be brought
into this more integrated scheme of
cooperation. In this connection, the delegation of Japan
notes with satisfaction that the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) has responded to the request of the
General Assembly in a timely manner, particularly by
reorienting its programming activities to target poverty
eradication as its paramount concern.
The active participation of
the Bretton Woods
institutions in the follow-up process is likewise essential. It
is hoped that these institutions will pay much attention to
the importance of social factors in the overall strategy for
development and strengthen their efforts in that area.
Intensified cooperation on their part with the United
Nations system at the global, regional and national levels in
the area of economic and social development would be
most desirable to ensure coherent development efforts to
produce fruitful results.
In order to effect such an integrated scheme of
cooperation along the lines I have just outlined, my
delegation believes that the institution of inter-agency task
forces, as established by the Administrative Committee on
Coordination, can be a major channel
through which
participating agencies can engage in constructive dialogue
for the purpose of ensuring close cooperation in effectively
implementing the Programme of Action. Intensified efforts
for coordination and cooperation are very much desired.
of
an
overall
appraisal
review and
In the year 2000, the United Nations is scheduled to
conduct
the
implementation of the outcome of the Social Summit.
Towards that goal,
the United Nations system, other
international organizations, Governments and the relevant
actors in civil society must work together to move forward
in a spirit of cooperation and partnership. Japan, for its part,
will be actively engaged in this process by promoting the
new strategy for development, of which the task assigned
to us in the Programme of Action for social development
should form an integral part.
Mr. Türk (Slovenia): A short while ago,
the
representative of the European Union spoke on behalf of
the European Union and associated countries, including
Slovenia. The purpose of my statement is to add a few
additional points to the statement made on behalf of our
delegation.
The World Summit for Social Development was an
important conference, and its outcome represents one of the
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
that Ambassador Somavía of Chile,
most far-reaching programmes ever adopted within the
framework of the United Nations. Let me recall in this
in his
context
statement earlier this morning, spoke about
the great
international consensus formulated at Copenhagen. The
Summit articulated, in a systematic and coherent manner,
a set of basic and very demanding commitments and an
ambitious Programme which has the potential to be a
major contribution to the shaping of world economic and
social policies in the decades to come.
the pursuit of
the objective of
It is gratifying to see that the United Nations can be
the international forum that enables the formulation and
adoption, by the highest representatives of States, of such
ambitious commitments as the commitment to eradicate
absolute poverty by a target date to be set by each
country, or
full
employment and the protection of social integration based
on the enhancement and protection of human rights for
all. These
the
achievement of practical results will require time. It is
important to keep in mind the long-term nature of this
vision and the Programme adopted at Copenhagen.
However,
form to
commitments adopted at the Summit must be continuous
and result-oriented. The implementation process will
preserve its credibility only if the first results are seen
soon and if the continuity of a result-oriented approach is
preserved.
commitments
ambitious
concrete
effort
give
and
are
the
to
Two basic conditions have to be met in order to
make the implementation of the outcome of the World
Summit for Social Development successful. The first is
essentially ethical, in our opinion, while the second is
practical and essentially political. The first condition
relates to the actual readiness of decision-makers, both at
the national and the international levels, to take their
commitments seriously. The second requires careful
policy-making and appropriate institutional support. These
two conditions are closely interrelated: without an ethical
component, there is very little hope for genuine success
in policy-making, while without effective policy-making
even a genuine ethical commitment remains empty.
Slovenia takes the ethical aspect of implementing the
commitments of the world social Summit very seriously.
Our experience, like that of many other States, is that in
practical reality difficult policy choices need to be made.
Thus,
the
commitments adopted at the world social Summit must
not be neglected. Moreover, it is precisely in situations
objectives,
requiring
in situations when choices are required,
difficult
choices
that
the
25
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
commitments and Programme of Action adopted in
Copenhagen can be given specific meaning, despite various
obstacles which limit the leeway of decision makers.
“better statistics are essential
debate on the solutions
(A/51/348, para. 17)
for a meaningful
to social problems”.
The objectives and commitments of the world social
Summit can be inconvenient in practice, or can conflict
with other priorities at the local, regional and international
levels. It is therefore necessary that special efforts be made
in implementation, in particular in the first years, in order
to prove the viability of the outcome of the Summit.
The second basic condition relates to policy-making.
Here, both persistence and imagination are required from
policy makers. For Governments, the question of how to
involve the increasingly important non-State actors and civil
society in a meaningful way, and without creating a
relationship of subordination, poses one of the major
challenges for the implementation of the outcome of the
world social Summit.
the local and national
The most important part of policy-making has to take
levels. United Nations
place at
Member States bear the primary responsibility for their
policies in the field of social development and for the
results of such policies. Activities at the international level
are a supplement — sometimes an essential one — to the
activities of Governments at the national level.
As we read the report of the Secretary-General on the
outcome of the world social Summit (A/51/348) in the light
of these basic ethical and policy requirements, we can
discern important elements of progress. Let me mention, by
way of illustration, only two among them. I shall select two
that are not necessarily always the focus of our attention.
requires appropriate methodology.
It is clear that any serious effort for measuring actual
progress in the implementation of the outcome of the world
social Summit
In
particular, it requires a set of adequate and internationally-
accepted statistical indicators to measure actual progress
and agreed-upon methodology to use them. It is therefore
very important that — as we learn from the report of the
Secretary-General — serious initiatives have already been
taken in this domain.
We learn in the report about the statistical project
launched by the Government of Denmark, the host country
of the world social Summit. We entirely agree with the
Government of Denmark that:
26
This approach demonstrates the high level of
commitment of the Government of the Summit’s host
country to making a major and very meaningful
contribution to the implementation of the programmes
adopted at Copenhagen. What is required at the level of
the United Nations is not only recognition but also
effective support for the Government of Denmark for the
success of its statistical project.
In this context, we find it encouraging that a related
development has taken place in the United Nations
Statistical Commission. In paragraph 42 of the report of
the Secretary- General, we read that the Commission has
already established an Expert Group on the Statistical
Implications of Recent Major United Nations Conferences
to draw up a work programme reflecting the major action
areas identified by the Summit and indicators where
international statistical work in the social field should be
concentrated. We learn from the same paragraph that the
Expert Group has already reached agreement — and I
emphasize, has already reached agreement — on a core
list of 15 specific indicators comprising a minimum
special data set to be collected by each country. These
indicators were recommended to the Commission for its
endorsement, and we hope that
the Commission will
agree on them soon.
and
improvement
These developments in the field of statistics should
be encouraged and should converge. There is a need for
both methodological
stronger
international agreement on indicators, and I would
especially emphasize the need for stronger international
agreement on the indicators to be used to measure social
progress, in the future, in a coherent and universally
applicable manner. The level of knowledge about the
actual situation, the actual progress or regression, must be
improved in order to enable the decision-making bodies
of the United Nations and of Governments to promote
competent and successful policy-making.
The critical
importance of
such a seemingly
technical aspect as statistics for successful policy-making
reminds us that we need to understand more completely
the social phenomena we are dealing with in the context
of the follow-up to the Copenhagen Summit in order to
develop appropriate policies. The task of eradicating
poverty requires a better understanding of the structural
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
causes of poverty, some of which are specific to a given
society while others may result from global factors.
The acceptance of poverty as a social reality has in the
past created a specific cultural effect which continues to
persist, an effect that some commentators call the culture of
poverty, which is based on the belief that the problem is
too large and that the situation cannot really be changed.
That belief is still strong worldwide. The commitment to
eradicate poverty adopted at Copenhagen is an important
conceptual challenge to that belief. However, that challenge
is only a beginning which may or may not lead to effective
policy.
We are encouraged to see that
in the context of
preparations for the first United Nations Decade for the
Eradication of Poverty, which will start
in 1997, a
conceptually sound policy approach is emerging. It insists
on income-generating activities by the affected people
themselves and on support through the delivery of basic
social services and social safety nets.
However, the conceptual soundness of the emerging
United Nations approach to the eradication of poverty has
to be tested in the context of actual policies and has to
yield measurable results in terms of attaining the targets set
at Copenhagen, narrowing the income gap within societies
and between States and measurably empowering the people.
In this context it is particularly important to put the gender
issue at
the centre of analysis of the problems to be
addressed and of the policy-making. The experience gained
in a variety of social settings worldwide has confirmed the
primary importance of the empowerment of women and the
primary need to develop appropriate policy approaches to
address this issue.
36th plenary meeting
16 October 1996
In this way, the agenda of implementing the central
commitment adopted at Copenhagen — the commitment
to eradicate poverty — becomes very diverse and
demanding; it is an agenda that will require a great deal
of energy and persistence in its implementation.
Let me say in conclusion that it is important that the
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development be followed closely and continuously
by the General Assembly. We would therefore favour
regular reports by the Secretary-General and regular
consideration of this item by the General Assembly.
Agenda item 119 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/51/366/Add.4)
The Acting President: Before calling the next
speaker, I should like to inform the Assembly that since
the issuance of the provisional version of document
A/51/366/Add.4, I have been informed that Chad has also
made the necessary payment to reduce its arrears below
the amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter. May I
take it that the General Assembly duly takes note of this
information?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: This information will be
incorporated into the final version of addendum 4.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
27
