United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-first Session
27th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 8 October 1996, 3 p.m.
New York
A/51/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Razali Ismail
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Malaysia)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and Worship of Haiti, His Excellency Mr. Fritz
Longchamp.
Mr. Longchamp (Haiti) (interpretation from French):
Almost two years have passed since the establishment of
constitutional order and the rule of law in Haiti. The spectre
of an illegal government and the acts of violence it
perpetrated has vanished. The Haitian people, with the
support of the international community, have succeeded in
demonstrating in a country that the rule of law is more
important than effectiveness where political shake-ups are
common. Today, democracy and tolerance are part of the
Haitian scene, breathing new life into the struggle to
preserve freedom.
However, for this success to be complete, it must lead
the way to security, knowledge, expertise and hope and to
the well-being of seven million Haitians, who are still
waiting for the realization of the dreams inspired by the
return to democracy. Thus, the thorny question of socio-
economic recovery — the true prerequisite for
the
consolidation of democratic gains — is more pressing than
ever.
The United Nations has since 1991 been a focal
point for the Haitian people, because the Organization did
everything in its power to give full force to the rule of
law in my country. That is why I attach great importance
to the outcome of the fifty-first session, which should
the
confirm the commitments we made last year, at
commemoration of
the fiftieth anniversary of
the
security and
Organization,
development.
that your
leadership, your experience and your personal qualities
will ensure the success of our work.
to peace,
I am certain, Mr. President,
international
I should like to take this opportunity to pay a well-
deserved tribute to His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do
Amaral for the work that he accomplished as President of
the fiftieth session.
I also wish to pay sincere tribute to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose tireless efforts
are breathing fresh life into the Organization. The
Government of Haiti acknowledges his active role in
resolving the Haitian crisis. His latest report on the
situation in our country reveals the perceptiveness of his
analysis and his profound understanding of Haitian
affairs.
Since the international community,
through the
United Nations, has invested in Haitian renewal, we have
a duty to report to the Assembly on the progress made by
the Haitian Government and the difficulties it is facing,
and on its commitment to national development and to
international peace and security.
96-86417 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The general elections held on 17 December 1995 led
to the installation on 7 February 1996 of a new Government
and to the renewal of Parliament. The new Government
team is striving to ensure respect for public freedoms and
human rights, in spite of the various constraints it is facing.
It
is encouraging free expression of opinion and the
establishment of organized bodies
the
functioning of civil society.
to improve
However,
in its efforts to establish a democratic
society and the rule of law, the Haitian Government must
labour under two constraints: the economic problems that
worsened after the coup d’état and the shortcomings of the
judicial system, which have given rise to frustration among
the population. Those factors have combined to create a
state of affairs favourable to those forces that are against
change, which have not yet abandoned their plans to
destabilize the Government.
With respect to the reform of the justice system, the
Government
is mindful of the urgent need to end the
incompetence and corruption of most magistrates. To that
end, on 3 October of this year it submitted to Parliament a
bill outlining the substance of the reforms to be undertaken
to correct the discredited justice system and make it more
credible and accessible.
An independent judiciary will be a crucial element in
the reform. The Government is taking every step to ensure
the elimination of any hindrance to judicial impartiality and
integrity. Similarly, it is doing its utmost to provide the
system with the means it needs to function properly.
are
For some time now Haiti has been experiencing an
acute economic crisis. National productivity is declining.
Infrastructures
seriously dilapidated. Real gross
domestic product fell an average of 5.11 per cent from
1991 to 1995. The country’s balance of trade is in chronic
deficit, amounting to $440 million, or 22 per cent of gross
domestic product for fiscal year 1994-1995. Exports have
dropped to less than $100 million.
At
the Government
the macroeconomic level,
is
currently pursuing an economic policy that
takes into
account the need to curb inflation, balance the budget,
reform financing, combat corruption, impose austerity on
public administration and ensure equilibrium among the
macroeconomic variables.
That programme, which is
international financial
worked out clear-cut modalities
supported by the
institutions with which we have
for negotiation and
2
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
cooperation, will enable us better to meet an economic
and social future that will be more promising and that
will better favour the integration of the Haitian economy
into the world scene.
A production-oriented policy should emphasize
increased agricultural and industrial output. However, we
must take into account that Haiti’s agriculture is in crisis
because it is unable to meet its two main goals: food
security and increased export earnings for the country.
Thus,
establish
technological and social conditions that can relaunch
national agricultural production.
the Government
striving
to
is
In the same spirit the Government is giving special
attention to relaunching industrial production. A strategy
has been developed to restore a climate favourable to
business, which is a necessary condition for promoting
investment, which is the driving force of industrial
development. There can be no question that such an
objective can be achieved only through close cooperation
between the country’s various sectors. We believe, inter
alia,
that a dynamic private sector open to foreign
investment is a necessity for economic growth.
recognizes that
The present Government
future
development can be achieved only if we protect our
natural resources. Thus, it intends to take steps to curb
deforestation and soil degradation. Safeguarding our
environment is one of our priorities.
Equally aware of the role played by the tourist
industry in the world economy,
the Government has
devised a set of directives covering the principal elements
of national tourist policy. It is encouraging to note that
activities in that sector are beginning to pick up.
On the social level, the Haitian Government believes
that there is a vital need to combat poverty, illiteracy and
deficiencies in health care. The struggle against poverty
entails a demonstration of strong political resolve to
distribute the country’s scanty resources on a fairer basis
and to take steps to combat unemployment and encourage
private investment.
The persistence of a high rate of illiteracy is a major
handicap when it comes to improving economic results
and raising social standards. Over the next four years the
Government intends to achieve a significant increase in
the number of children attending school. Here, we should
note that particular attention is being put on improving
health conditions in the country, and in that regard a
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
programme of action has been developed that will be
implemented by mobilizing all available resources and with
the support of certain bilateral and multilateral partners.
The task before us is enormous, but we are confident
that we can meet the challenge, thanks to the determination
of the Haitian people and the continuing support of the
international community, which has been unstinting in its
efforts to help resolve problems that threaten international
peace and security.
On the subject of international peace and security, the
international community has once again this year been torn
between fear and hope as it has confronted developments in
situations in various parts of the world. Long-standing
conflicts have shown encouraging positive signs, while new
outbreaks of violence have exacerbated world tensions.
Thus, the Haitian Government welcomes the positive
developments in the situation in the former Yugoslavia,
marked by the holding of general elections in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. It is truly heartening to see that the peace
process has once and for all, we hope, replaced the spiral
of warfare and hatred, with its concomitant systematic
violations of human rights.
The initiatives taken by the Organization, in particular
the creation of the United Nations Protection Force and the
the Prosecution of Persons
International Tribunal
Responsible
International
Humanitarian Law, have greatly contributed to creating a
climate favourable to peace and ethnic reconciliation in that
country.
for Serious Violations of
for
With regard to the Middle East, my Government
wishes to express its satisfaction at
the resumption of
dialogue there. It encourages the two parties to continue
their efforts to achieve lasting peace in the region,
in
keeping with the relevant United Nations resolutions.
On our own continent we welcome the prospects of
peace that have appeared in Guatemala, after 35 years of
armed conflict. The Haitian Government commends the
United Nations on the leading role it has played in that
peace process.
Our Organization should not only intervene in regional
and inter-State situations that pose a threat to international
peace and security but also contribute to help eradicate such
dangerous evils as international terrorism and illicit drug
trafficking or to assist
in finding solutions to certain
problems that threaten mankind’s survival, such as the
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
In that
regard, my Government
nuclear-arms race.
followed with interest the negotiations held within the
framework of the Geneva Conference on Disarmament
and decided to become a sponsor of the draft resolution
submitted to the General Assembly, in the conviction that
the Treaty was
step towards nuclear
disarmament. That is why, two weeks ago, on behalf of
my country’s Government, I signed the text of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, whose adoption
by 156 States Members of the Organization eloquently
attests to the profound desire of all nations to build a
safer world for future generations.
already a
to international peace
Terrorism and illicit drug trafficking also represent
and security.
grave threats
Coordinated action involving all members of
the
international community will be increasingly necessary in
order to eradicate these scourges. As far as terrorism is
concerned, the Haitian Government has always vigorously
condemned indiscriminate acts of violence against
innocent individuals and believes that the international
conventions adopted on this question provide a legal
framework for the prosecution of the perpetrators of such
crimes. However,
and criminal
punishment, we must also try to find a solution to the
problems at their source.
along with laws
Mindful of the gravity of the situation, the member
countries of
the Organization of American States
convened a specialized conference on terrorism that met
in Lima, Peru, from 23 to 26 April 1996. The Republic of
Haiti signed the Declaration adopted on that occasion
with a view to preventing, combating and eliminating
terrorism within the overall framework of the applicability
of international law, respect for the sovereignty of States,
the principle of non-intervention and strict compliance by
and duties. The Haitian
States with their
Government
to the new actions
recommended by the Ministerial Conference held in Paris
on 30 July 1996.
also subscribes
rights
In the area of international drug control, I would like
to note that the Republic of Haiti is aware of the effort
being made by the international community to tackle the
phenomenon of drug abuse and drug trafficking. It is
increasingly necessary for us to define, by means of
appropriate conventions, an integrated framework for the
relentless struggle that we need to wage against drugs in
all phases: production, consumption, abuse, money-
laundering
and
international prosecution of traffickers and confiscation of
goods.
and money-recycling,
extradition
3
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Last year
the
the
commemoration of
fiftieth
anniversary of the Organization allowed us not only to take
stock of its record and of the activities it has undertaken
but also to reopen the question of the reform of the United
Nations necessary to tackle
the
approaching twenty-first century.
challenges of
the
As far as the expansion of the Security Council is
concerned, the Haitian Government would like a consensus
to be reached on a new configuration of that important
body that would favour active participation for all States in
the activities of maintaining international peace and
security.
At the same time, we need to find ways and means to
revitalize the Economic and Social Council. While
recognizing the positive actions of the Economic and Social
Council in various aspects of development over half a
century, the Haitian Government believes that it is possible
to improve its operation in order to make it a more
effective instrument to promote sustainable development.
We stand at a turning point in history where we are
faced with grave dangers as well as many signs of hope. In
Haiti we are striving to restore hope to our people in order
to make a complete break with a past of suffering and
deprivation. It is also the responsibility of all States to
make the reform of our Organization a reality so that it can
usher in a better world for future generations.
The President: The next speaker is the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Chad, His Excellency Mr. Saleh
Kebzabo, on whom I now call.
Mr. Kebzabo (Chad) (interpretation from French):
First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf
of my delegation, upon your election to the presidency of
the General Assembly at this session. Your selection is not
only a recognition of the contributions of your country,
Malaysia, in the defence of the ideals of the United Nations
but is also a confirmation of your talents as an experienced
diplomat.
Allow me also to express my thanks to your
predecessor, Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, for his masterful
guidance of the historic commemorative session of the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.
I would like to pay once again a well-deserved tribute
to our Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and
to reiterate our support for his constant efforts on behalf of
peace and development.
4
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
May I also transmit to our Assembly the message of
hope and the wishes for success of the President of the
Republic of Chad, General Idriss Deby.
The life of a nation is often stamped by events
written in golden letters in the great book of their history.
1996 is going to be one of those pivotal years along the
road to democracy in Chad. Indeed, at preceding sessions,
Chadian delegations regularly informed our Assembly of
the substantial progress achieved in this area. I can affirm
to you today that
is getting
stronger and becoming day by day an irreversible reality.
I offer as proof the two major elections that took place
peacefully and quietly.
the process is ongoing,
First,
last March,
the people of Chad gained a
Constitution that then gave them the opportunity to elect
freely and democratically for the first
time in their
history, with direct universal suffrage, a President of the
Republic from among 15 candidates. Yes, after two hard-
fought
rounds of voting the people of Chad chose
President Idriss Deby, who was officially inaugurated as
President of the Republic of Chad on 8 August 1996 for
a term of five years.
Nonetheless, the process is still under way. Before
the end of the year the people of Chad will be called
upon to elect their representatives to the future national
assembly. The parliamentary election will bring to a close
the first phase in the establishment of the institutions
called for by the Constitution.
organizations. This
Numerous international observers were present in
our country during the elections. They observed that the
elections took place properly and that
the Chadians
showed discipline and political maturity. The organization
of the elections would not have been possible without the
contributions of Chad’s traditional friends, most notably,
France, the United Nations system and international and
non-governmental
contribution
supplemented the efforts of the Government of Chad
itself, which, despite its serious economic and financial
constraints, assumed a part of the financing of the
operations. Here we wish to thank all
those whose
multifaceted support and assistance made it possible to
achieve these happy results. I take this opportunity to
again appeal urgently to the international community to
support Chad in the organization of future elections, in
particular the legislative elections scheduled for next
December.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
It is often said that there can be no lasting economic
development without democracy. The latter, as we all
know, is a long, evolving process. Thus, slowly, patiently,
at its own pace and in the light of its own realities, Chad is
providing itself with the democratic institutions that must
support its socio-economic development efforts, which is
the highest priority of the programme of action of the
Government of Chad.
like a host of other countries, Chad has
Thus,
developed,
in collaboration with the Bretton Woods
institutions, a structural adjustment programme. It has also
just negotiated and concluded with the Paris Club of
Industrial Country Creditors a partial deferment and
rescheduling of its public debt. These actions are designed
to control Government expenditure and ultimately to reduce
the current budget deficit. The main goal is to arrive at a
surplus which would allow Chad to build the basic
infrastructures which are essential to the promotion and
development of economic activities. The Government of
Chad is also re-energizing its private sector, which
generates employment, privatizing State enterprises and
vigorously reforming tax-collection services and economic
development programmes.
Another concern of my Government is the constant
quest for peace and security. As the Assembly knows, war
has stalked my country for more than two decades, which
has completely undermined its structures. This is why we
must work to restore peace and security, which inevitably
involves regaining control of the army. I can affirm to the
Assembly that efforts have been made and are continuing
to this end. Thanks to friendly countries and the World
Bank, more than 21,000 soldiers have been demobilized, an
operation which will continue. However, our demobilization
efforts will be in vain if this means putting out onto the
street men who know how to handle weapons and are
capable of causing unrest and insecurity. This is why a
programme to reintegrate them into society must be
implemented immediately. Only then will
the reform
programme succeed and ensure that we have a disciplined
army, a true melting pot of the nation, at the service of
development: this is our ambition.
The aftermath of war must be overcome, and at the
top of our list of priorities is to de-mine an area equivalent
to one quarter of our national territory. The mines planted
during the occupation of part of our country continue
indiscriminately to kill and mutilate civilians, women and
children in particular. This is an alarming situation because
it hinders any development programme in a region which,
nonetheless, has enormous potential for mining and tourism.
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
It goes without saying that national rehabilitation
cannot succeed, once again, without the assistance of the
international community.
As far as my country is concerned, and despite the
problems I have just mentioned, Chad is resolutely
determined to work for
sustainable socio-economic
development. The people of Chad, in an atmosphere of
peace and freedom, decided to unite for the sake of their
own development. To this end, we would like to see
increasing external assistance, so designed to help us to
reach the point where we no longer need such assistance.
Help us to develop, so that we do not become too great
a burden on the countries represented here. That is our
message to the developed countries.
The international situation is also of concern to us.
Chad is not alone in the world, and what happens in that
world, even if it is beyond us and if matters are settled
outside Chad, concerns us all the same. The rampant
crises in various parts of the world raise the question of
what became of the hopes that were raised by the end of
the cold war. We in Africa applaud the progress towards
restoring peace and security in countries
such as
Mozambique, Angola and Liberia. But these achievements
have to be consolidated. We can do this if we mobilize
ourselves and shoulder our responsibilities.
We deplore the situation of latent war in Somalia
and the Great Lakes region. Genuine efforts should be
made by the international community; the parties involved
also need to show political will to end their fratricidal
confrontations.
is
the
same
The
challenge
and
Herzegovina, where implementation of the Dayton Peace
Agreement must be vigorously supported so that a
permanent peace can be established in that part of the
world.
in Bosnia
In the Middle East, the peace process which began
with Israeli and Palestinian reconciliation seems to have
been thrown into question in the light of events in recent
weeks. We pay tribute to the very recent diplomatic
initiatives to try and restore dialogue between the
different parties, despite the lukewarm results. Chad
exhorts them to respect their commitments to avoid a new
flare-up in the region.
My country fully endorses the numerous efforts
made with regard to disarmament. Thus we welcomed
with satisfaction the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone
5
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Treaty signed in Cairo, the non-aggression pact in Central
Africa signed in Yaoundé and the adoption here in New
York of
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
which Chad signed this very morning.
General have enabled our Organization to foresee and
resolve many conflicts. In that connection, I want to make
it very clear that our country, Chad, will support the
Secretary-General without reservation.
Similarly, faced with the horror caused by mines,
those deadly devices, Chad welcomes the initiatives taken
to eliminate them. Consequently, we are prepared to
support any measure to that end.
The 1990s will have been devoted to attempts to find
global solutions to the serious economic, social and
environmental problems facing part of humankind. Chad, as
a Sahelian country, welcomes the entry into force of the
Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries
Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification,
particularly in Africa and hopes to see rapid implementation
of its provisions.
We also hope that
the forthcoming World Food
Summit will meet expectations in terms of food security
and water management, issues which give rise to often
deadly conflict. Moreover, we should meet
the new
challenges facing the world: drugs, organized crime,
pandemics, terrorism and religious intolerance. Increased
international cooperation seems essential
if we are to
eliminate these scourges which Governments cannot deal
with individually.
its vaccination programmes,
Here, I would like to congratulate the United Nations
Children’s Fund for its actions on behalf of children, in
particular
including the
programme to eradicate poliomyelitis before the year 2000.
We also encourage the World Health Organization to step
up its efforts to contain and eliminate the modern
pandemic, AIDS.
The fiftieth anniversary of our Organization provided
an opportunity for the international community to think
about the future, reform and how to re-energize the United
Nations.
But, like all human activities, only by making all this
a reality will our Organization be able to achieve the ideals
of peace, security and well-being laid down in the Charter
and to which our peoples aspire.
I cannot conclude without
joining with many
preceding speakers in paying tribute to the immense work
done over the last four years by our Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His action on all fronts, and the
availability, willingness and courage of the Secretary-
6
The President: I now call on the next speaker,
His Excellency Mr. Fathulla Jameel, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Maldives.
Mr. Jameel (Maldives): At the outset, allow me, Sir,
to say how gratified we are to see you presiding over this
Assembly. Your election to that high office is a well-
deserved recognition of your personal qualities and
experience, and also of Malaysia’s important role in this
Organization and in the international arena. I have no
doubt that you will lead the work of this Assembly to a
fruitful conclusion.
It
is also my privilege to pay tribute to your
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral
of Portugal, for the exemplary manner in which he
discharged his onerous responsibilities.
to
the
I would also like to take this opportunity to pay
tribute
Secretary-General, His Excellency
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his untiring efforts in the
cause of peace and development. While we realize the
difficulties and the complexity of the challenges that lie
ahead in the years to come, we remain confident in his
wisdom and competence in steering this universal
Organization towards the fulfilment of its responsibilities
in accordance with the principles of the Charter. My
delegation sincerely wishes him every success in his
endeavours.
Last year, we proudly celebrated 50 years of
achievements. As we slowly begin the countdown to the
centenary celebration of the United Nations, on behalf of
the generations to come, we see ourselves coincidentally
on the threshold of a new century as well. My delegation
feels that this is a unique opportunity for all of us to
rededicate ourselves to the purposes and principles of the
Charter with greater determination and commitment to
strengthening the United Nations so that the menacing
trends in human relations which caused so much misery
and destruction in the past can be halted and reversed,
and that existing inequalities among nations and peoples
can be eliminated, creating a new atmosphere of tolerance
and mutual
shared
responsibility for development and progress.
respect, and a new sense of
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Over the past 50 years, the Organization has grown
fourfold and has become the most
representative —
certainly the only universal — institution serving the
purpose of maintaining international peace and security.
This truly global Organization has an immense capability to
mobilize international efforts to deal with global problems
relating to economic, social and environmental issues. It
also possesses the potency to promote universal standards
of human rights despite differences in the historical, cultural
and religious backgrounds of nations and communities.
Admittedly, the Organization has experienced rough times
and has suffered several setbacks during the course of its
existence. However, with the demise of the cold war that
haunted the Organization for nearly four decades, a more
favourable environment has emerged, enabling us to
respond collectively to the challenges of the future.
Mr. Seydon (Niger), Vice-President, took the Chair.
is extremely important
My country is among the smallest and the least
developed countries of this Organization. For us, the United
Nations
in safeguarding our
sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. For us,
it is the protector of freedom and justice, particularly for
the weak and the vulnerable. It is also the beacon of hope
for hundreds of millions of people in the developing world
for a better future free from hunger and disease. Therefore,
we feel
the need to steadily strengthen, revitalize and
reform the Organization in order to make it more effective,
more democratic, and ready to react and respond without
bias to situations that
threaten international peace and
security.
It was with this in mind that we joined in the
initiative, way back in 1979, to include on the agenda an
item on the question of equitable representation on and
increase in the membership of the Security Council. My
delegation welcomes the reform and adjustment process that
is now under way and sincerely hopes that the process will
the Charter, which
not compromise the principles of
emphasize multilateralism, mutual
respect and shared
interests, including the interests of small States. In this
context, my delegation feels that the proposal made by Italy
in the Working Group on the reform and restructuring of
the Security Council deserves our attention and careful
consideration. There
the more
representative the United Nations is, the more democratic
it will be; and that the more accountable the United Nations
is, the more effective it will be, thus benefitting us all,
small or large, weak or powerful, rich or poor.
doubt
that
no
is
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
is
Reforming the Organization alone will not serve the
desired purposes unless the commitment of Member
States to uphold and abide by the principles of the
Charter and their obligations
fulfilled. We are
concerned that the Organization is undergoing the worst
financial crisis in its history. We are reminded that the
main cause of the financial predicament is the failure of
Member States to meet their financial obligations on time
and in full. While my delegation has every sympathy
towards those countries which have genuine difficulties,
we note that by far the greater number of cases in arrears
are those which have the capability to pay. We note with
disappointment
this
Organization is among those who fail or refuse to pay
their dues. It is ironic that the effects of this severe
financial crisis have to be borne most adversely by the
smaller and the poorer States of the Organization, which
in many cases are obligated under the current scale of
assessments to pay more than their fair share. In spite of
its
economic
difficulties it faces, I am pleased to say that my country
continues to pay its share of contribution in full, as we
are convinced that only resources and efforts can produce
results.
richest Member of
limited resources
and the
frequent
that
the
Meanwhile my delegation believes that the efforts of
the international community to reform the administrative
and budgetary functioning of the United Nations should
aim at utilizing the scarce resources of the Organization
more efficiently.
the
Secretary-General to achieve a more lean and effective
Secretariat geared to take on the challenging tasks
entrusted to it warrant recognition. We also welcome the
recent measures
redundancy,
duplication and waste, for only a sound organization can
ensure the success of its mission.
In this regard,
the efforts of
eliminating
towards
The world has never offered a greater opportunity
than today to address critical developmental problems and
challenges. The international community has emphasized
the importance of a revitalized and enhanced system of
international cooperation for development. The sheer
number of major international conferences held during the
past few years and the collective resolve documented
offer adequate testimony to this strong desire. The
outcome of these conferences fostered a common concept
of sustainable economic development for the betterment
of mankind as a whole. However, despite all
these
positive developments on the international economic and
social scene, my delegation is convinced that unless these
ambitious programmes are backed by the necessary
resources and political will, no change can be achieved.
7
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
We also feel that all activities of international economic and
development cooperation, including those undertaken by the
Bretton Woods
the World Trade
Organization, must be coordinated and closely linked with
the development strategies and programmes of the United
Nations system. After all, this Organization remains the
most representative institution.
institutions
and
unfortunately
belongs — continued
While the globalization and liberalization of the world
economy gave some developing countries the opportunity
to assume a more prominent status in the world economy,
the least-developed countries — a category to which my
country
be
marginalized. The standard of living in least-developed
countries has in effect declined over the years, and the
poverty level has intensified in many of these countries due
to indolent economic growth, which in turn was subject to
outside factors. The overall decline in official development
assistance over
the years has further aggravated the
conditions of the least-developed countries at a time when
aid is most needed.
to
This unfavourable situation, if allowed to drag on,
could be calamitous for countries, such as the Maldives,
with severe resource constraints and fragile infrastructures.
For this reason, my delegation can only appeal for priority
action on various international development commitments,
such as the Paris Declaration and Programme of Action for
Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. These have been
endorsed at various recent global conferences. Admittedly,
liberalization of
trade.
However, liberalization has also meant the loss of the only
advantage that the least-developed countries had — their
privileged status — and the consequent
their
markets. Liberalization has therefore, in effect, contributed
to the marginalization of many developing countries.
resulted in greater
trade has
loss of
The inherent obstacles facing small States, particularly
small island States, and their vulnerability, deserve special
attention. Small island States like my own require favoured
treatment to prevent them from slipping back from their
well-earned achievements.
In this context, I also wish to express the need for an
incisive examination of the criteria for least-developed-
country status and related issues, including the graduation
process, in order to do justice to the poorest among the
poor countries when the criteria come up for review next
year. The per capita index used to classify countries for
assistance purposes is no longer adequate, particularly in
the case of small States. It fails to capture the special
problems faced by these countries and their vulnerability to
8
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
external shocks. In this context, the development and use
of a vulnerability index, along with other criteria, may be
feasible in order to minimize these inadequacies.
On the other hand, many of the poorest countries are
still entangled in a web of external debt from which they
are unlikely ever to be able to free themselves. My
delegation believes that more steps should be taken to lift
the debt burden from the poorest and most
indebted
relief measures of
countries by increasing the debt
bilateral
involvement of
multilateral agencies in this responsibility. The developed
countries can also help in eliminating the situation by
demolishing the barriers they still maintain against
imports from the less developed countries, in particular
those which are suffering from the burdens of external
debt.
and by greater
creditors
Poverty cannot be eliminated through charity, but
only through cooperation. In this context, we welcome the
the Organization for
proposal of
Economic Cooperation and Development
the
number of people living in absolute poverty by half in the
next two decades.
the countries of
to cut
to
safeguard
the
community
We are fully committed to the efforts of
the
international
global
environment, especially by building the capacity of the
United Nations to promote sustainable development for
all. We welcome the work carried out by the Commission
on Sustainable Development
in this regard, and are
looking forward to the forthcoming United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development review
conference in 1997. My delegation is confident that this
review process will give the international community the
opportunity to rededicate itself once again to the
preservation of the global environment. Only concerted
efforts on all fronts can produce encouraging results in
this
the
environment is an important issue. We are conscious of
the fragility of our islands and we hope to be able to
them from the potential dangers arising from
protect
global warming and sea-level
rise. We are also
determined to keep our country environment-friendly,
clean and unpolluted. Though the land area we have is so
limited, I am happy to mention that in the Maldives we
initiated a programme in January this year for planting
one million trees in three years; I presume that if all
countries
similar
programmes at a rate of four trees per capita, the world
would be greener and cleaner in 10 years.
challenge. For
the Maldives,
here would
represented
daunting
initiate
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
and
the
concluded,
agreements
The importance of disarmament for the preservation
and maintenance of world peace and security cannot be
overemphasized. We believe that, with the treaties and
bilateral
ongoing
negotiations among the nuclear-weapon States, and also
with the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons last year, the international
community is now reaffirming its commitment to global
disarmament and renewing the hopes for the eventual
elimination of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass
destruction. My delegation is pleased about the positive
approaches taken by the nuclear-weapon States towards the
adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
despite the lack of consensus. We are particularly happy
that the Treaty has now been opened for signature.
We also would like to praise the role played by the
United Nations in demining and mine clearance, and to
congratulate those involved in this dangerous activity for
their bravery and dedication. Anti-personnel landmines have
caused enormous human suffering and continue to maim
and incapacitate countless innocent men, women and
children. We look forward to a worldwide ban on this
horrible and inhuman instrument of killing.
My delegation is firmly committed to the concept of
the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones and zones
of peace and would like to take this opportunity to call
upon all regions, especially the countries in the region of
South Asia, to which we belong, to make every effort to
bring about the proposed nuclear-weapon-free zone in South
Asia without any further delay.
Internal
strife generated and fanned by ethnic,
religious and other factors is a recent
trend, which is
causing large conflagrations in some parts of the world.
While our Organization gropes for effective mechanisms to
respond to such exigencies, we should not
ignore the
serious threats posed by drug traffickers, terrorists and
mercenaries, particularly to small States. Terrorist incidents
have increased alarmingly over the last few years. My
delegation is
the international
community should intensify its efforts to combat terrorism.
The early entry into force of the Convention against the
Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries
will be a step forward in addressing these threats. We urge
all States which have not yet done so to ratify the
Convention as early as possible. Similarly, my delegation
would like to call for the strongest possible international
action against drug traffickers, who are not only poisoning
the fabric of human life but also draining the potential for
fully convinced that
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
productivity and prosperity of nations by exploiting the
vulnerable elements in our societies.
Though deeply concerned over the recent violence in
Palestine and in the occupied lands, which resulted in the
death or injury of hundreds of men, women and children,
my delegation is happy to observe that despite the
numerous difficulties that exist, the Middle East peace
process is continuing to move forward. We fervently hope
that the agreements reached so far will be implemented
fully and without further delay.
The important and critical
role played by the
proponents of the peace process, especially the United
States, deserves the appreciation and praise of
the
international community and should not be forgotten. My
delegation is convinced that
their positive role will
continue to be instrumental to the success of the peace
process. At the same time, we also feel that the United
Nations should continue to play its important role in
providing means to the Palestinian people in their just
struggle for the restoration of their inalienable rights,
including the right
to self-determination and to the
establishment of a sovereign State which could coexist
with its neighbours in peace and harmony.
The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is
encouraging, but we need to remain alert. The Dayton
Agreement has finally paved the way to creating a lasting
peace in Bosnia. The fulfilment of the commitments of
the international community is, however, critical to the
achievement and consolidation of full peace. We also
believe that it is important and necessary to bring those
responsible for the atrocities and the crimes of genocide
to justice and to punish them.
My delegation remains convinced that the United
Nations is the most viable and dependable universal
institution today. It is the responsibility of all of us to
allow this universal Organization to play a more central
and active role in shaping and harnessing international
cooperation for economic growth and development. It is
also our conviction that the dedication and collective
endeavours of the international community, which have
enabled the United Nations to survive the past 50 years,
will
to greater heights of unity and
cooperation so as to preserve and maintain the principles
of the Charter, promote its objectives, and strengthen the
Organization,
to better serve and
enhance the well-being of the peoples of the world.
thereby enabling it
inspire us all
9
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
President
The Acting
from
French): I now call on the Minister for Legal Affairs and
Local Government of Grenada, His Excellency Mr. Raphael
Fletcher.
(interpretation
it
is a widely acknowledged truth that
Mr. Fletcher (Grenada): Virtue constitutes the greatest
form of human strength. Indeed, the very origin of the word
“virtue” connotes manly strength — not merely physical
strength, but moral strength. With respect
to human
interaction,
the
greatest form of power arises when virtue is furnished with
means. That is the concept that gave birth to the United
Nations, inspired its noble deeds, and generally continues
to inform its operations. Accordingly, our celebration last
year of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations was
quintessentially a collective expression of rejoicing in the
wisdom embodied in that powerful truth, as well as an
explicit, joint recommitment on the part of Member nations
to act in accordance with the principle of empowerment of
virtue, through the supply of appropriate means.
In this context it is, for me, a great honour to be
afforded the opportunity to address this very distinguished
gathering of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly.
This event
in the world
calendar, as far as political deliberations are concerned.
is easily the most
important
My delegation conveys to this Assembly the greetings
of
the Government and the people of Grenada, and
congratulates His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia
on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly
at its fifty-first session. We were particularly impressed
with the way in which Mr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral of
Portugal conducted the affairs of the General Assembly at
its fiftieth session, and take this opportunity to thank him
for his handling of those proceedings.
to
the
My delegation further expresses appreciation and
thanks
Secretary-General, His Excellency
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for his vision and willingness
to confront the many challenges that the Organization has
recently been facing and, specifically for his dedication in
seeking to solve world problems in the socio-economic and
political spheres.
This new session of the General Assembly is being
the background of a continually changing
held against
global environment. That notwithstanding, there exists, on
the one hand, a spirit of international cooperation and, on
the other, a high degree of convergence of several ideals,
such as the institution and strengthening of democracy,
promoting and fostering economic integration and political
10
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
harmony, and the pursuit and practice of a new
multilateralism. Yet it must be expressly stated that the
noble goal of achieving global democracy, peace and
prosperity can be realized only with significant inputs
from the developed countries acting in collaboration with
the disadvantaged ones.
Currently, many of the small developing countries
that are Members of this Organization are faced with
severe economic problems. It cannot be overemphasized
that measures aimed at stabilizing their economies and
creating the
sustained growth and
development have very painful effects on the populace.
Nonetheless, these effects can be made more bearable,
and it behoves us to point specifically to the human
dimension in this regard.
conditions
for
Since June 1995, the new Administration in Grenada
has focused on strengthening our democratic institutions
and on rebuilding our economy. My Government has been
developing strategies, mechanisms and procedures to
increase transparency and accountability in the conduct of
Government. Moreover, my Government has pledged
itself to respect the fundamental rights of all citizens as
well as to other elements of civil society, such as a free
press, freedom of expression, a fair and open democratic
process, the supremacy under God of our Constitution and
the effective functioning of the parliamentary system, for
which our Constitution specifically and explicitly
provides.
Economically, our domestic policies are aimed
primarily at encouraging individuals and businesses to
maximize the return on their enterprise and efforts. We
have embraced the notion that promoting micro-
enterprises is one of the ways to accomplish this goal.
Only recently, we initiated a micro-enterprise programme,
with the provision of a modest sum to help young
entrepreneurs in particular to embark upon their several
ventures. We hope that the programme will succeed,
thereby contributing to our overall economic development,
both materially and psycho-culturally. Such preferential
treatment is being given to the young so as to better
fashion a culture of confidence, thoughtful creativity and
purposeful enterprise. We are actively seeking also to
enhance opportunities to enable our working population
to attain higher standards of living.
My Government has
specific goals
including balanced and integrated sectoral growth, a
relevant and adaptive education system, health for all, and
strategic human resource planning and development. In
itself
set
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
latter
respect, priority is being placed on the
this
development of an adequately skilled and disciplined work
force.
While we are aware that the matter of economic and
individual personal development is first and foremost a
national responsibility, we are deeply conscious that our
limited domestic resources constitute a severe constraint
upon us in our quest to fulfil this obligation.
Accordingly, we earnestly ask — indeed we urge —
the many United Nations agencies involved in such
activities, and also individual Governments, to continue to
provide to us and to others in the same position the kind of
help that is needed to meet satisfactorily growing demand
for
to our national
development.
the spectrum of expertise vital
The grim realities of the very limited resources of very
small countries are well known. Nonetheless, these realities
have become more glaring in this era of trade liberalization
and the globalization of production.
Both of these phenomena, as conceived and elaborated
by the developed countries, are startling reminders to us not
only of our condition of institutionalized non-reciprocating
dependence in a world that
is becoming increasingly
interdependent, but also of our vulnerability to economic
marginalization. Thus, we are in no way, and to no degree,
inhibited with regard to addressing inviting profound
reflection on the issue of the special circumstances of small
island developing States — particularly those in the
Caribbean region, where prominent among the features
characterizing our special circumstances is the ever-present
vulnerability to natural disaster and the widespread
devastation resulting therefrom.
The need for official development assistance and the
transfer of real resources from the North to the South has
never been as pronounced as it is now. Indeed, such are the
dimensions of that need in terms of both spread and
intensity that the transfer of resources referred to here can
be effected only on the basis of a concept of a new global
order as was initially envisaged and expressed in principle
by the President of Guyana, His Excellency Dr. Cheddi
Jagan, and adopted by all
the member States of the
Caribbean Community.
This, no doubt, has to be elaborated, and the countries
of the North are especially requested to give disciplined and
objective consideration to this matter. The conceptual
requirements of
a
reconstructive change in interaction between North and
the new global order
include:
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
South; a new basis for interaction; a new ethic for relating
one to the other; and a genuine partnership, a partnership
which eschews exploitation of any one people by another
and seeks instead to pursue mutual upliftment of the
peoples involved.
More specifically, it is explicitly posited here that
the developed countries should assist the less developed
countries in respect of the following: first, the alleviation
of the debt burden by one means or another; secondly,
assistance for the development of centres for investment,
the training of human resources, and training in how to
make the economy more efficient,
responsive and
transparent; and thirdly, technical assistance to the smaller
economies to help them make the transition towards
incorporation and effective participation in a global
economy that is so markedly characterized by so-called
free trade. Smaller countries must not be excluded from
processes which they cannot direct in their favour or,
indeed, effectively influence so as to avoid experiencing
the deleterious effects of those processes. Those are but
a few of the tenets upon which the proffered concept of
the new global order is based.
and particularly the
It is common knowledge that bananas provide a
livelihood for a significant percentage of the people of the
the
Caribbean,
subregion of
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States. Thus,
the
current challenge to our special arrangements for that fruit
in Europe is, to say the least, uncaring, if not hostile.
Grenada and several of the other States now being so
affected have, on many issues, collaborated with and
supported those very countries that are now quite
unrelenting
upon our
preferential arrangement, which constitutes an assault on
the well-being and the very livelihood of a significant
proportion of our people.
in their
deliberate
assault
There should be no need whatsoever to remind the
Assembly that there is a direct correlation between the
premature destruction of our banana industry and the
well-being and integrity of our democratic process and
thus of our democracy itself. Substantial increases in
crime and other social ills have been shown to induce
commensurate increases in involvement in trading in, and
the use of, illicit drugs. We certainly prefer to prevent the
occurrence of such situations than to have to expend our
energies and scarce resources on remedial action to
contain and eradicate the now ever-present threat of an
expanding narco-culture.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
It cannot be denied that, there are other, and more
important, objectives to be achieved besides protecting the
market economy. And this applies to all countries, the
developed as well as the less developed. The time is now
right for serious thrusts to be made towards the alleviation
of the poverty and deprivation which are so widespread
across the world, although most prevalent in the developing
countries. This process must be activated immediately to
ensure that economic progress is buttressed by social
equity. Freedom from want; good health; genuine
education; a clean environment; elimination of the scourge
of
illicit drugs, as well as of unemployment and
underemployment; and the better and wider enjoyment of
basic human rights:
these are the goals we should
unswervingly and constantly be seeking to reach.
In this context, my Government is cognizant of its
duties and responsibilities. We are convinced that through
prudent management of our very limited resources, a
willingness on the part of our people to work hard and, on
our part, clear political leadership and virtuously inspired
guidance — all enhanced by the support of
friendly
Governments and donor agencies — we shall,
in due
course, place our country on a sound path towards genuine
growth.
My delegation is happy to state in this regard that
some improvement has already been made and that our
Government looks forward to achieving in the not too
distant future most of the goals we have set ourselves in
order more effectively to pursue those other goals, which
would significantly enhance the quality of our people’s
lives.
In the context of collective international efforts
towards the achievement of some kind of sustainable
development in the less developed countries, it is instructive
to refer to the recently held Group of Seven summit in
Lyon, France, where most of the efforts focused on the new
global order.
The leaders of the world’s most powerful nations
agreed that in the present global economic situation it is
absolutely necessary to control negative consequences and
fight against the risks of exclusion, both at the national and
international
entitled
“Globalization for the Benefit of All”, does seem to signal
the stirrings of a new order for humankind.
communiqué,
levels.
Their
Grenada welcomes the discussion held on aid for
from the
development — particularly with officials
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank — and is
12
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
heartened by the fact that in those discussions modalities
were defined for a new partnership for development based
on the sharing of responsibilities between developed
countries,
and multilateral
organizations.
developing
countries
The pledge by the G-7 countries
to ensure
substantial flows of public aid for development to the
countries most in need is very timely and most welcome.
Dare we of the South perceive this pronouncement by the
G-7 to be not simply a pledge of honour but, further, an
expression of subscription to the new global order, as
enunciated by a visionary of the South, underscored now
by a soulful shinning forth of virtue on the part of the
North? My delegation sincerely hopes so.
It is several years since any substantial change was
made to the structure of one of the most important organs
of this Organization. I refer to the Security Council.
Meanwhile,
the international political and economic
environments have undergone some drastic and far-
reaching transformations. Grenada strongly believes that
in order to reflect the new geopolitical and economic
realities of our world today, there are changes that are
now due,
the Security Council.
Accordingly, my delegation expresses its unwavering
support for the reforms currently being undertaken, as
well as those now being contemplated with respect to the
United Nations system.
particularly
in
In July of this year, the European Union, through its
Parliament, adopted a resolution to support the call for
participation in international organizations by the Republic
of China. The Government and people of Grenada
consider this action on the part of the European Union to
have been a most significant development. We welcome
this development, and we applaud the European Union for
it. Indeed, we are encouraged by that action, for the
persistent plea of Grenada, constantly repeated over
several years in every appropriate forum, has now been
amplified into a clarion call for moral justice, in contrast
to the expediency of power politics, economic advantage
and legislative manipulation of yesteryear.
The Republic of China has
for many years
consistently displayed its commitment to the values and
principles of this body. Indeed, in the face of threats and
undisguised acts of aggression, the courageous people of
the Republic of China boldly chose to embark upon a
path of freedom, justice, and respect for human rights,
and recently took part in their presidential election, which
was open, free and fair.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The economic achievements of this brave country of
21.3 million people are well and widely known. Thus, there
can be no doubt as to the capability of the people of the
Republic of China to make substantial contributions to the
work of the United Nations. As to their willingness to make
significant contributions, that also cannot be a matter of
doubt. They have given testimony in this regard in several
ways. They have established their good faith. They deserve
the right to participate in the conferences and activities of
the United Nations system. To continue to deny them this
right would be to persist in denying them justice within the
confraternity of nations.
Superior power is found only where there is superior
excellence of some kind, and the Republic of China has
manifested a certain degree of superior power which
derives from virtue rather than from physical strength.
Thus, the Government and people of Grenada unequivocally
exhort
this Assembly to secure participation by the
Republic of China in the agencies and activities of the
United nations system.
With every passing year, contemporary politics
becomes more complex and, thus, commensurately complex
are the related solutions. In this regard, my delegation
especially applauds the efforts of the United Nations in
attempting to maintain some degree of peace and security
in various parts of the world. From Haiti to the war-torn
Republics of the former Yugoslavia, to the famine-stricken
cities of many an African State,
the United Nations
humanitarian activities and missions of peace are indeed
worthy of special commendation. In this regard, I seize the
opportunity now afforded me to express a father’s
appreciation of and blessings upon my son Mark, who for
some years has been and continues to be so engaged, and
I ask your indulgence in this regard.
Grenada is encouraged by the progress — albeit
halting — made in the Middle East peace process and urges
continued dialogue until
the noble ideal of peaceful
coexistence is achieved. But world peace and security will
not be attained if those countries with nuclear capabilities
continue to promulgate their use for military purposes. My
delegation therefore welcomes efforts
to institute a
comprehensive ban on nuclear testing.
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
the
transactions. In the name of humanity,
Government and the people of Grenada, without
equivocation and without qualification, call
this
practice to be stopped, and stopped now.
therefore,
for
It has been suggested by Max Ascoli that
“civilization is a constant quest for non-violent
means of solving conflicts — a common quest for
peace.”
Nonetheless, my Government perceives civilization as
being more than simply a quest for peace, more than
merely the shunning of visible violence. My Government
sees civilization as the purposeful pursuit of peace
through commitment to justice; the inherent equality of all
men and women; and the inalienable rights which derive
from simply being human. My Government subscribes to
the principle of the overriding rule of moral law.
In the context of violations of humanness, it behoves
me to express, on behalf of my delegation, the deep
concern of the Government and the people of Grenada in
respect of
the agonies which are currently being
experienced by a significant number of persons in Cyprus.
Grenada, like Cyprus, is an island nation, small, but
sovereign. We therefore call for an end to the suffering to
which so many of the families and individual persons of
that beautiful country have been subjected. The smallness
of a nation does not, to any degree whatever, negate the
fundamental human rights of each of its citizens.
The great Lebanese poet Khalil Gibran,
in his
Thoughts and Meditations, offered humanity the following
insightful observation:
“My soul preached to me and showed me that
I am neither more than the pygmy, nor less than the
giant. Ere my soul preached to me, I looked upon
humanity as two men; one weak, whom I pitied, and
the other strong, whom I followed or resisted in
defiance. But now I have learned that I am as both
are, and made from the same elements. My origin is
their origin, my conscience is their conscience, my
contention is their contention, and my pilgrimage is
their pilgrimage.”
Similarly,
the practice of
transporting hazardous
radioactive materials, particularly through the Caribbean
Sea, must
very
surreptitiousness with which this business is conducted and
transportation effected is indeed a tacit admission of
wrongdoing. Caribbean humanness is violated in such
immediately.
stopped
The
be
is
of
My
deeply
delegation
the
unsurpassable wisdom which these words of Khalil
Gibran represent. The sentiment conveyed constitutes the
sine qua non for
international
brotherhood. This we do believe.
the realization of
convinced
13
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
Accordingly, my delegation earnestly urges that
henceforth the quintessential sameness of all mankind and
a genuine commitment to virtue should be adopted as the
guiding principles of
this Assembly. May God bless
everyone participating in this fifty-first regular session of
the Assembly, so that, so much the more effectively, the
Assembly will be a transforming blessing to our world.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The next speaker is the Chairman of the delegation of
Lesotho, His Excellency Mr. Perch Metsing Mangoaela, on
whom I now call.
Mr. Mangoaela (Lesotho):
I wish to extend my
delegation’s sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its
fifty-first session. It is with great pleasure that I assure you
of Lesotho’s support and cooperation as you conduct the
deliberations of this body. Let me also take this opportunity
to pay special
tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Diogo
Freitas do Amaral, for the skilful manner in which he
guided the work of the historic session of the General
Assembly last year. My delegation truly appreciates his
leadership and his
tireless dedication to the heavy
responsibilities entrusted to him during the past year.
sterling work that
I also take this opportunity to express our satisfaction
with the
the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has been doing under the very
difficult conditions of reduced financial resources. Were it
not for his tenacity, our Organization would not have been
able to hold together as it has done.
The celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations last year provided an opportunity for
reflection about the global mission of our Organization. We
retraced our past and took stock of the failures and notable
successes that the United Nations had engraved in the
historic record of half a century of its existence. We also
looked ahead with renewed determination, resolved to
create for mankind a future that would be brighter than the
past, amidst the euphoria of hope and expectation in the
new international order that is still emerging from the ashes
of the cold war.
Even as we did so, we were aware how great the
potential was for a relapse to the pitfalls of past years and
for the re-emergence of complacencies that could render
our new hopes and expectations vain and futile. A
deliberate effort is required on the part of the international
community to build on the past experiences of our
14
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Organization and to identify and reinforce the positive
trends that the end of the cold war era has yielded.
The first half-century was characterized by cold-war
conflicts, the struggle against colonialism, the constant
threat of a nuclear holocaust and the fight against
apartheid. All these are either behind us or considerably
abated. Our attention must remain focused on how we can
give the twenty-first century a United Nations equipped
to serve as an effective instrument in the evolving global
environment
the noble goals
enshrined in its Charter.
the attainment of
for
consensus
for
the
A universal
reform and
revitalization of the United Nations was highlighted in the
solemn Declaration that was adopted in this very Hall a
year ago by, inter alia, 128 world Heads of State and
Government. The momentum for the realization of that
aspiration and for the implementation of the commitments
that were made by the world community should not be
lost. The actions and the path that we have to take are
known to all of us.
We would like to see a more democratized United
Nations, whose credibility and legitimacy are enhanced by
the representativeness of its structures.
We have identified the need for measures to ensure
greater consultation between the Security Council and the
General Assembly, particularly on crisis situations, and
the need to restore the role and authority of the General
Assembly in the decision-making processes of our
Organization, without compromising the speed with which
the Security Council may take its decisions.
We have cautioned against regional selectivity in the
attention paid by our Organization to international crisis
situations and have advocated a demonstration of good
faith and the upholding of the principle of the sanctity of
human life in the enforcement of United Nations
resolutions.
We have also stood in favour of exploring a new,
balanced formula for equitable burden-sharing, as well as
for a renewed commitment on the part of all Member
States to fulfil their financial obligations to the United
Nations in full and on time, just as we have joined in the
call to effect economies and improve efficiency through
the transformation of the management techniques within
the United Nations system.
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
The events and experiences we have witnessed since
the last session of the Assembly once again present us with
mixed signals. On the one hand, we have seen a steady
expansion of
tolerance and
democracy, while, on the other, some problems that are
rooted in the past not only have persisted but have been
compounded by new challenges arising from the evolving
international environment.
the frontiers of peace,
Thanks to the efforts of the international community,
the carnage in the former Yugoslavia has been brought to
an end. However, a conscious effort is still required to give
permanence to the positive trends that are still evolving in
Bosnia and to suppress the ever present risk that the peace
dividends already gained can be reversed.
In the Middle East uncertainty and the new obstacles
that have emerged in the path of a negotiated peace have
thrown new doubts over
the prospects for an early
restoration to the Palestinian people of their inalienable
right to self-determination and statehood. We appeal to both
Israel and the Palestinian Authority to adhere in good faith
to the provisions of the peace agreements they have
concluded and to implement them within the agreed time-
frame, pursuant to the Declaration of Principles they signed
in Washington in 1993.
The prerequisite for peace remains the withdrawal of
Israel and the cessation of the establishment of new Israeli
settlements in the occupied Arab and Palestinian territories,
in compliance with the resolutions of the United Nations.
recent
the will of
developments
In Western Sahara
the United Nations Mission for
have
demonstrated that peace in that area remains elusive. How
long will
the Saharan people for self-
frustrated? The
determination and independence be
withdrawal of
the
Referendum in Western Sahara in May of this year due to
the lack of cooperation by the parties raises a real prospect
for a resumption of violence. The international community
must act now to reverse the tragic trends and to persuade
the parties to cooperate in the implementation of the United
Nations plan for the independence of Western Sahara.
In Burundi, Liberia and Somalia the situation
regrettably continues to defy the efforts of the international
community to restore peace and stability. We appeal to the
international community to support the current initiatives
spearheaded by the Organization of African Unity and the
neighbouring countries of Burundi aimed at protecting
democracy in that country.
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
interest on the part of
Lesotho shares Africa’s deep disappointment at the
demonstrable lack of
the
international community in extending the necessary
material support to the Economic Community of West
African
(ECOWAS) Monitoring Group
(ECOMOG) countries that are engaged in the regional
peacekeeping effort in Liberia. This, regrettably, calls into
question the world’s commitment to the universality of
the sanctity of human life.
States
Despite
the
is a source of great
remaining hotbeds of
instability,
fortunately all is not doom and gloom in Africa, even in
the area of conflict resolution. The major strides that have
been made in southern Africa to free the subregion of
conflicts
the
momentum for peace is kept in Angola, there is no doubt
that a subregion long associated with conflicts will have
established
The
implementation of the Lusaka Protocol — particularly the
establishment of a unified army and the formation of the
Government of National Unity — are within reach, and
with more
international
community should soon be attained.
concerted action by the
satisfaction.
stability.
If
durable
peace
and
Throughout southern Africa, political stability, peace,
democracy and human rights continue to be deepened.
Multiparty general elections are being held, and other
political and constitutional reforms are being put in place
to ensure transparency and predictability, especially in the
electoral systems.
The
establishment
the Southern African
by
Development Community of
the Organ on Politics,
Defence and Security reaffirms the region’s resolve to
consolidate the gains that have been bequeathed by the
demise of apartheid and to face head-on the challenges of
peace and democracy.
These measures have contributed to the strong
performance registered by the national economies of
southern Africa in 1995, as well as to the improvement in
the overall investment climate of the region. We hope that
the international community will continue to assist
southern Africa in its reconstruction efforts, particularly
by encouraging the flow of private investment as a
contribution to the regional efforts for the economic
recovery of the subcontinent.
The past 12 months have presented the world with
great opportunities for the attainment of durable peace.
Yet, I regret to say, we have sometimes failed to take
advantage of them. A scourge that has stalked humankind
15
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
for the past 50 years has been the growth in the arsenal of
armaments, especially nuclear ones. Last year, in a historic
achievement, the nations of the world agreed to extend
indefinitely the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons.
In doing so they undertook to achieve a
comprehensive test-ban treaty by September of this year.
It is with unbounded joy that we are able to stand here
today and say that that goal has been attained. To be sure,
it was not attained with ease, but the fact that it was
achieved is a source of great encouragement
that
humankind is slowly but surely moving towards the total
elimination of nuclear weapons. Although Lesotho shares
the view that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
(CTBT) that was adopted here in New York last month is
not perfect, we regard it as a giant step forward that will
serve to put the nuclear-weapon States on notice that the
rest of the international community is serious about its
aspiration to a nuclear-free world.
In spite of the fact that the cold war has ended and
that the START Treaties have been concluded, tens of
thousands of nuclear weapons are still deployed by nuclear
States, and there is a very real possibility that many more
States could develop such weapons.
Worldwide opposition to weapons of mass destruction
resulted in Conventions banning biological and
has
chemical weapons, but as yet
there are no concrete
proposals to negotiate a similar convention to outlaw
nuclear weapons. The fact that nuclear weapons are not
prohibited by convention weakens the willingness of many
non-nuclear States to abide by the Biological Weapons
Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention. These
States perceive an imbalance in the retention of certain
types of weapons of mass destruction by some States,
mostly States of the North, while other weapons of mass
destruction, often held by States of the South — are
banned.
Lesotho believes that
the proliferation of nuclear-
weapons technology and the manufacture of nuclear
weapons constitute a very serious problem which the
international community cannot and must not ignore.
to justice for
The fact that only a handful of people have been
the millions of crimes against
brought
humanity and the serious violations of humanitarian law
committed since the end of the Second World War has not
altered the international community’s view that perpetrators
of international crimes should be tried and punished for
their acts. More recently, the growing global outrage against
16
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
international crimes has been demonstrated by the
creation of the two ad hoc International Tribunals for the
prosecution of crimes in the former Yugoslavia and in
Rwanda. These Tribunals were established by the Security
Council to have jurisdiction over the most heinous crimes
in the world: genocide, other crimes against humanity and
serious violations of humanitarian law.
It is therefore a matter of concern that since their
inception both Tribunals have been plagued by inadequate
and short-term financing and have not received adequate
budgets from this Assembly. It is also a matter of concern
that very few Member States have enacted legislation
permitting effective cooperation with the Tribunals.
The international community must send a clear
message to those who commit genocide and other crimes
against humanity that they cannot escape to fully account
for their actions before international law. We can do this
by providing the much-needed support and resources to
enable the ad hoc International Tribunals to bring to
justice those who are responsible for atrocities both in
Bosnia and in Rwanda.
not
yet
has
Although Lesotho
promulgated
implementation legislation for the Tribunals, it remains
committed to fully cooperating with the two Tribunals in
accordance with the provisions of Security Council
resolutions. We hope that the international community can
build on the experiences and the already noteworthy
success achieved by these Tribunals to pursue the project
of the establishment of a permanent international criminal
court.
While we recognize the important work of the
Preparatory Committee on the Establishment of an
International Criminal Court, we are of the view that the
General Assembly should enhance the Preparatory
Committee’s work by mandating it
to begin serious
negotiations of a consolidated draft treaty based on the
International Law Commission’s 1994 draft statute. The
present momentum for the establishment of a permanent
international criminal tribunal should not be lost, but
should be matched by commensurate political will to
ensure that
the work is completed in time for a
conference in 1998.
Development and the promotion of international
cooperation as enshrined in the Charter, will continue to
be the principal objectives of the United Nations. The
recently concluded mid-term review of the United Nations
New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
has shown that many of the social and economic problems
which led to the adoption of the Agenda in 1991 still exist
and that poverty and unemployment in Africa are expected
to increase substantially. Furthermore,
the estimated
resource mobilization levels in the Agenda are still far from
being attained.
Consequently, the mid-term review recommended that
African Governments should continue to promote, inter
alia, economic reforms, respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms, good governance and administrative
reform. For their part, international partners should seek to
mobilize substantial new resources from all sources —
public and private — and from traditional and new sources,
to find a solution to Africa’s external debt problem and to
enhance Africa’s recovery through trade facilitation and
improved market access.
The United Nations System-wide Special Initiative for
Africa, which was launched by the Secretary-General in
March this year, promises to break new ground by assuring
the cooperation of the whole system, including the Bretton
Woods institutions, in tackling the intractable problem of
accelerating the development of the African continent.
While this expression of interest in our continent is
appreciated, we must also stress that the implementation of
the several initiatives currently on the table must be carried
out in very close consultation with the African countries
themselves,
to avoid the duplication of efforts. The
Organization of African Unity’s Cairo Plan of Action is
relevant in this regard.
As we engage in this introspection one year after our
historic Declaration on the Occasion of
the Fiftieth
Anniversary of the United Nations, it is pertinent to inquire
to what extent we are all
fulfilling our commitment
undertaken during the various global conferences, all of
which — except the Vienna World Conference on Human
Rights — have a development dimension. Perhaps the one
towers above all others in its significance for
that
alleviating the plight of citizens of
least developed
countries, such as mine, is last year’s Copenhagen World
Summit for Social Development.
In Lesotho there is a serious effort to attain the target
of devoting 20 per cent of our budget to the health and
education sectors, but we have not witnessed a
corresponding commitment on the part of our development
partners, as was agreed at Copenhagen.
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
the implementation of
The Commission for Social Development has been
given the primary responsibility for the follow-up and
review of
the Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action. Commitment 2 of
the Declaration and chapter II of the Programme of
Action both deal with the goal of poverty eradication. In
this connection, 1997 is a crucial year, being the first year
of the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of
Poverty.
By its resolution 50/161,
the General Assembly
decided to hold a special session in the year 2000 for an
overall review and appraisal and of the implementation of
the World Summit
for Social Development and to
consider further actions and initiatives. We support the
to enable this to happen, the Commission
view that,
should meet annually,
the length of its sessions
should be extended and that its membership should be
increased.
that
Measures to ensure that women have the same
degree of access as men to economic resources and
opportunities are of equal importance for the attainment
of economic progress. Poverty can be eradicated only
through the empowerment of the poor. United Nations
efforts should therefore be coordinated in such a manner
that all its activities for poverty eradication fully take into
account the gender perspective.
The ratification of the Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Discrimination against Women was
supposed to be followed by the revision of all laws that
act as an impediment
to the social and economic
advancement of women. In Lesotho this goal, although
not yet reached, is still being actively pursued.
Lesotho has joined the other countries of southern
Africa in signing two Protocols to the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) Treaty recently, one of
which deals with politics, defence and security and the
other with cooperation in combating transboundary crime,
especially trafficking in narcotics and money-laundering.
A central element of the Protocol establishing an
Organ on Politics, Defence
the
commitment to work for the protection and promotion of
human rights in the region. Our endeavours in this regard
are intended to reinforce the United Nations own
programmes.
and Security is
The increase in crime, particularly transnational
crime, has a considerable effect on the economies of
17
General Assembly
Fifty-first session
many countries. New worldwide strategies are therefore
urgently needed for combating this malaise. However,
developing countries cannot bear the economic burden of
combating transnational crime by themselves. Technical
cooperation and assistance activities
to develop the
criminal-justice capacities of developing countries should
therefore be accorded a high priority.
The activities of the Crime Prevention and Criminal
Justice Division — particularly its
training courses,
seminars and workshops for criminal-justice personnel —
are to be commended.
27th plenary meeting
8 October 1996
Let me conclude by observing that together we have
the capacity to make the United Nations of the next
century a veritable instrument for meeting mankind’s
aspirations for a better world in all respects. In our
interdependent world, the United Nations has to become
an efficient working forum for searching for universal
consensus, a conscious regulator of
the integration
processes and a vehicle for establishing a stable world
order.
We have deep confidence in the potential of the joint
the entire international community in its
efforts of
capability to enter
the twenty-first century in an
atmosphere of peace, development and joint creative
work, and to provide comprehensive security for all, as is
called for by the priority interests of humankind.
The meeting rose at 5 p.m.
18
