United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
57th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 26 November 1997, 3 p.m.
New York
A/52/PV.57
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
In the absence of
the President, Mr. Mwamba
Kapanga (Democratic Republic of the Congo), Vice-
President, took the Chair.
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/557)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.30)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 39 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea
(a) Law of the sea
Reports of
A/52/491)
the Secretary-General
(A/52/487,
Note by the Secretary-General (A/52/260)
Draft resolutions (A/52/L.26, A/52/L.27)
(b) Agreement
for
the
Implementation of
the
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the
Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/555)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.29)
(c) Large-scale pelagic drift-net fishing, unauthorized
jurisdiction and
fishing in zones of national
fisheries by-catch and discards
Miss Durrant (Jamaica): I have the honour, on
behalf of States members of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) — Antigua
and Barbuda, Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago and my own
country, Jamaica — to speak on agenda item 39, “Oceans
and the law of the sea”.
The States members of the Caribbean Community all
have strong maritime traditions and a natural interest in
matters relating to the law of the sea and ocean affairs.
We participated actively in the processes leading up to the
adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea and to the establishment of important organs
including the
the
International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea and the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. We
are pleased that these organs are now fully operational
and have commenced their work, and we will continue to
give full support to their activities and to the attainment
of the objectives of the Convention.
International Seabed Authority,
for
States members of CARICOM thank the Secretary-
General
the comprehensive reports contained in
documents A/52/260, A/52/487, A/52/491, A/52/555 and
A/52/557, and we wish to express appreciation to the
Legal Counsel and to the staff of the Division for Ocean
97-86599 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Affairs and the Law of the Sea for their work and for the
assistance they have given to delegations.
We are very pleased that the International Seabed
Authority has made good progress in its work. The drafting
of a mining code is at an advanced stage and should be
completed by the next session of the Assembly of the
Authority in Kingston, Jamaica. A historic point was
reached at the August 1997 session of the International
Seabed Authority when the Authority approved the plans of
work submitted by seven pioneer investors. We pay tribute
to the first President of
the Authority’s Assembly,
Ambassador Djalal of Indonesia, and to the first President
of the Authority’s Council, Mr. Lennox Ballah of Trinidad
and Tobago, for the able manner in which they led the
pioneering work of these important bodies of the Authority.
We also commend the Secretary-General of the Authority,
Mr. Nandan,
the direction and leadership that he
continues to give to the secretariat of the Authority as it
approaches the challenging tasks before it.
for
Caribbean Community delegations welcome the
conclusion of a relationship agreement between the
secretariat of the International Seabed Authority and the
United Nations. The agreement
is before the General
Assembly as an annex to draft resolution A/52/L.27, and
we invite delegations to give full support to that draft
resolution.
The Authority has also requested membership in the
United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, and we also urge
the Assembly to support fully this proposal when it comes
up for consideration.
Delegations of the Caribbean Community note with
satisfaction that the international Tribunal for the Law of
the Sea, under
the presidency of His Excellency
Mr. Thomas Mensah, has commenced its work in a
practical way, and now has before it a matter
for
determination.
Our delegations recognize that certain law of the sea
issues and issues of the environment and sustainable
development are interrelated. We recognize especially the
important and related efforts in the context of the United
Nations Environment Programme, Agenda 21 and the
Barbados Programme of Action for
the Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States, to which
our delegations attach great importance. We are particularly
concerned about the pollution of the marine environment
and welcome the attention paid to this issue in draft
resolution A/52/L.26.
2
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
The 29 countries that border the wider Caribbean
region depend upon the health of the coastal zone for
food, recreation and livelihood. We have taken steps to
guard against pollution in one of the world’s most popular
bodies of water and in its sensitive marine ecosystems.
to the Convention for
Through the Caribbean Environment Programme, the
parties
the Protection and
Development of the Marine Environment of the Wider
Caribbean Region have focused on the development of
activities related to the development of the Protocol on
Land-based Sources of Marine Pollution Protocol, the
Global Plan of Action and the Protocol concerning
Specially Protected Areas and Wildlife, and of activities
on the conservation of coastal ecosystems, with its
linkages to the private and tourism sectors.
We recognize the advances made in dealing with
living marine resources, notably provisions relating to
straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks.
Our delegations strongly support ongoing efforts to ensure
that
these resources are exploited in an appropriate
manner, with due regard to the rights of all States under
the Convention and related agreements.
the
interpretation of
With the establishment of the principal organs of the
Convention, which cover vital areas of global concern in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention, the
debate in the General Assembly on the law of the sea
provides an important vehicle for ensuring that all
elements of the Convention and activities thereunder are
addressed in a coherent manner. The functions of the
International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea in the area
of
the Convention and the
adjudication of disputes thereunder,
the duties of the
international Seabed Authority in matters affecting the
deep seabed and areas beyond national jurisdiction and
the work of the Commission on the Limits of the
Continental Shelf represent new and important dimensions
in the implementation of the Convention. These are
principal mechanisms for carrying out the objectives of
the Convention. These
the
comprehensive handling of law of the sea issues in a
complementary way within their respective areas of
competence, thus avoiding unnecessary duplication and
ensuring cost-effectiveness.
bodies
provide
for
Our delegations also believe that the debate in the
General Assembly can serve the useful purpose of
assisting States parties, particularly developing countries,
in conforming with their obligations and in maximizing
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
the benefits which can arise from the implementation of the
Convention.
institution with the competence to conduct such a
comprehensive annual review.
Delegations of the Caribbean Community welcome the
ongoing dialogue in relevant forums on the transfer by sea
of hazardous wastes and nuclear fuel. These are issues of
concern to all island States and to all coastal States which
occupy sensitive and ecologically vulnerable maritime
spaces. We expect
the relevant bodies, particularly the
International Maritime Organization and the International
Atomic Energy Agency, to give due consideration to the
concerns of States through whose waters these potentially
dangerous items are transported.
As we prepare for the celebration in 1998 of the
International Year of the Ocean, CARICOM delegations
urge States that have not yet done so to become parties to
the Convention and the Agreement, so that we may achieve
the goal of universal participation as we seek to preserve
the common heritage of mankind.
Mr. Yel’chenko (Ukraine): The date 10 December
1997 marks the fifteenth anniversary of the signing of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. I had
the honour to be a member of the Ukrainian delegation at
the signing ceremony at Montego Bay, Jamaica, on that
wonderful sunny day. No one who was present will ever
forget the exciting atmosphere of accomplishment, hope and
exhilaration.
The Convention is indisputably one of the major
achievements of the United Nations. It is an outstanding
multilateral instrument that holds great promise for the
maintenance of peace, an equitable basis for sharing the
resources of the world’s oceans and a means of securing
economic and social progress for all the peoples of the
Earth.
The Convention is also an important means for
promoting the economic and social development of all
States. By dealing with such diverse and complex subjects
as navigation or overflight, fishing and exploitation of
marine mineral resources, conservation and prevention of
pollution, it provides a framework for joint action on the
path to development.
Several delegations have already emphasized that at
the present session the item on the law of the sea has been
expanded to include all ocean issues. The wider mandate is
evidence of the importance Member States attach to the
presentation of a global overview of these issues to the
Assembly. Indeed, the General Assembly is the only global
Document A/52/487 contains the report on oceans
and the law of the sea prepared by the Secretary-General,
who has been assigned a special responsibility in these
matters by the Convention. The annual report gives us an
excellent opportunity to concentrate our attention on and
discuss all issues relating to the oceans in a holistic
manner.
The oversight role of the General Assembly is
expected to assume yet greater significance with universal
acceptance of
the Convention and to be further
consolidated by the addition of the new law of the sea
institutions
international
organizations responsible for various specialized aspects
of ocean affairs.
the wider
to
group
of
the International Seabed Authority. Last year
It gives us pleasure to note the progress of the work
of
it
completed its initial organizational phase, and this year it
commenced its functional phase. The most significant
development during 1997 was the approval of plans of
work for exploration of seven registered pioneer investors.
With the election of the Commission on the Limits
of the Continental Shelf, the creation of three institutions
mandated by the Convention is now complete.
There are three important
to the Convention. The first
issues on which the
Commission requires advice from the Meeting of States
Parties
is how the
Commission should handle a submission by a coastal
State which may involve a delimitation dispute. Another
is the issue of confidentiality and the protection of
members of the Commission from possible financial
liability arising from potential allegations of a breach of
the rules of confidentiality. The delegation of Ukraine is
of the view that the members of the Commission should
be considered to be experts on mission for the United
Nations under article VI of the Convention on the
Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations. The
third issue is whether the terms “coastal State” and
“State”, used in article 4 of annex II to the Law of the
Sea Convention,
include a non-State-party to the
Convention. We hope that at their next Meeting the States
parties will be able to consider and decide on these
important issues.
In this connection, I would like to thank Ambassador
in his capacity as
Helmut Tuerk of Austria, who,
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
President of the seventh Meeting of the States Parties,
briefed the General Assembly on the progress of work at
the Meeting and also referred to the items to be considered
at the next Meeting. It is quite obvious that the bridge
between the General Assembly and the Meeting was long
overdue, and we are pleased that
it has finally been
established.
the Secretary-General, prepared back in 1981, entitled
“Potential financial implications for States parties to the
future convention on the law of the sea”. Paragraph 48
stated in reference to the Commission on the Limits of
the Continental Shelf, currently serviced by the Secretary-
General:
is
required to review and monitor
The Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the
Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs (DOALOS), by virtue of
the special responsibilities of the Secretary-General under
the Convention and the oversight role of the General
Assembly,
all
developments relating to the law of the sea and ocean
affairs. The Convention provides for Meetings of States
Parties to be convened by the Secretary-General. The
Meeting has come to be regarded as an important
component of
the new system of ocean institutions,
particularly
the
interpretation of provisions of the Convention. We welcome
this development.
advice with
in giving
regard to
While the Authority, the Tribunal and the Commission
will all deal with specific aspects of ocean affairs and the
law of the sea, the central programme on oceans at the
United Nations concentrates on matters related to the
overall implementation of the Convention. It focuses on the
monitoring of State and regional practices and provides
information, advice and assistance on the uniform and
consistent application of the Convention in many fields of
interest and concern for States and for
international
organizations. We share the views on these matters
contained in the annual report of the Secretary-General.
For many years the General Assembly has repeatedly
expressed its appreciation for the necessary and important
tasks performed by the staff of the Division for Ocean
Affairs and the Law of the Sea. In this connection, we
cannot comprehend why the Office of Legal Affairs has
reduced the number of Professional posts in the Division
from 23 to 17 — a reduction of 26 per cent — and the
General Service staff from 13 to 10 — a reduction of 23
per cent — when reductions on a similar scale were not
proposed in other units of the Legal Office.
Although it
is understandable that
the financial
situation of the Organization and the commitment of the
Secretary-General to a reduction of 1,000 posts have forced
a cutback of personnel, the question arises whether such a
marked reduction in the Division’s staffing is justified. To
illustrate one of the reasons for our concern, we would like
to draw attention to a previous report [A/CONF.62/L.65] of
4
the
“To
provide
necessary
support
services to the Commission, a secretariat
comprising the following staff may be needed:
1 principal officer, 5 Professional and 6
General Service staff members.”
That was in reference only — I emphasize “only” —
to the secretariat servicing of the Commission, and not to
any other functions of the unit, which eventually became
the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea. It
could be argued that the Commission was only recently
there are still no submissions under
elected and that
consideration. I remind representatives that until
last
month there were also no cases before the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. The question arises
whether at its current reduced staffing level the important
functions of
the Commission will be sufficiently
supported when submissions begin to arrive? Will the
Division’s current staffing level allow all
its other
important functions to be properly executed?
I would like, through you, Mr. President, to ask the
Fifth Committee to consider again the issue of the proper
staffing level of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the
Law of the Sea, and I call upon all delegations to support
this action.
At
the present session we are also considering
developments in the field of
the conservation and
management of living marine resources. As always, we
find the relevant reports very useful. They will serve us
as effective tools in conducting any advanced research on
these subjects.
The issues of fisheries and navigation are extremely
to Ukraine. In managing its long-distance
important
fisheries, Ukraine cooperates with the coastal States on
issues of conservation and the rational utilization of living
resources. The protection of the marine environment and
effective and balanced conservation remain priorities for
Ukraine.
In Ukraine,
the
Development of Sea and River Transportation is about to
be adopted. One of its goals is to improve national
the National Programme for
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
standards for the safety of navigation. Ukraine is in the
process of certifying training centres, and intends to submit
to the International Maritime Organization all relevant
information regarding the new national system of training
and certification of sailors.
The National System for the Registration of Vessels,
currently at the drafting stage, is designed to define the
obligations of owners of ships flying the Ukrainian flag.
Ukraine is in the process of issuing national certificates to
shipping companies as well as to vessels. It intends to
become a full-fledged participant in the unified system of
European internal transportation waterways. Ukraine has
signed 13 bilateral
treaties on trade navigation and 6
intergovernmental agreements on fisheries.
Ukraine is engaged in active cooperation with regional
fisheries organizations and bodies dealing with the
conservation of marine living resources. We are interested
in developing cooperation with the North-East Atlantic
Fisheries Commission and the North-West Atlantic
Fisheries Organization.
Ukraine is working on a solution to the problem of
unregulated fisheries in the River Danube. We consider
vital the restoration of the activities of the Commission
which was established on the basis of the 1958 Convention
Concerning Fishing in the Waters of the Danube.
It gives me pleasure to convey to this forum that there
are very positive developments in the Black Sea region.
This year Ukraine took practical measures
the
stabilization of the political situation in the area and for the
improvement of bilateral cooperation in the field of
international security, including maritime affairs, with two
of its neighbouring countries, the Russian Federation and
Romania.
for
The Prime Ministers of the Russian Federation and
Ukraine signed three agreements on 28 May 1997 in Kiev
regarding the Black Sea fleet. The information on these
agreements is contained in paragraphs 370 to 373 of the
report of the Secretary-General, document A/52/487. The
conclusion of the agreements resolved the problem of
ownership of the former Soviet Black Sea fleet. These and
other agreements made it possible for the Presidents of the
two countries
to sign a comprehensive Treaty on
Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership, which also refers
to cooperation in the Black Sea region. Under
the
agreements, Russia will lease from Ukraine several Crimean
bays, as well as other facilities in the Crimea for a 20-year
period.
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
Following the signing of the Treaty on Neighbourly
Relations and Cooperation by the Presidents of Ukraine
and Romania on 2 June 1997 in Constanta, Romania, the
Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the two countries, by an
exchange of letters, concluded an Agreement defining the
principles and procedures for the conclusion of a separate
Treaty on the Regime of the State Frontier between the
two countries. Under the Agreement, the Governments of
Ukraine and Romania will negotiate another instrument:
the Agreement on Strengthening of Confidence and
Security in the Zones Adjacent to the Common State
Frontier. Within the framework of this Agreement, the
Government of Ukraine will undertake not to deploy
offensive armaments on Serpent Island, which, according
to the Agreement of 2 June 1997, belongs to Ukraine.
Ukraine and Romania will also conduct negotiations
to conclude an Agreement on the Delimitation of the
Continental Shelf and the Exclusive Economic Zones of
both countries in the Black Sea, on the basis of the
principles and procedures contained in, inter alia, article
121 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea. The States parties will abstain from the exploitation
of any mineral resources in the zone within which the
delimitation will be made until a decision on delimitation
has been reached.
If the Agreement on Delimitation is not concluded
within two years from the beginning of negotiations, the
Governments of Ukraine and Romania agree that the
matter of the delimitation of the continental shelf and the
exclusive economic zones shall be submitted to the
International Court of Justice on the request of either
State party, provided that by that time the Treaty on the
Regime of the State Frontier between Romania and
Ukraine has already entered into force.
Ukraine has the honour of co-sponsoring the draft
resolution contained in document A/52/L.26, so ably
introduced by the representative of New Zealand. Ukraine
is also co-sponsoring the draft resolution [A/52/L.29] on
the Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and
Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks.
Mr. Šimonovic´ (Croatia): I have the honour to take
the floor on an agenda item of marked importance to my
country. As a country with long traditions and a special
interest
in maritime activities, Croatia has since its
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
independence joined the effort of United Nations Member
States in promoting the law of the sea.
The delegation of the Republic of Croatia thanks the
Secretary-General for his comprehensive report on this
agenda item. It enables the Member States and the General
Assembly to review all the relevant developments relating
to ocean affairs and the law of the sea.
sea,
constant
After the major achievements of the United Nations in
the codification and progressive development of the law of
the
the
implementation of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea is the most important contribution of the
Organization to the international legal order of the oceans
at present.
review and
evaluation
of
In achieving all the goals of the United Nations in the
field, the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the
Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat has
always acted with outstanding expertise and devotion.
the Sea,
the institutions provided for
the International Seabed Authority,
After the entry into force of the Convention on the
the United Nations helped in the
Law of
in the
establishment of
the
Convention:
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the
Commission on the Limits of
the Continental Shelf.
Delegates from Croatia have participated in the work of the
Authority since the inaugural session in November 1994.
Furthermore, Croatian experts have become members of the
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. The
delegation of Croatia renews its expressions of gratitude to
the States parties to the Convention for having supported
those experts.
All of the three institutions which I have mentioned
are now engaged in establishing their organs, elaborating
the rules of procedure and defining their relations with the
international organizations.
United Nations and other
Taking into account
the innovative character and the
specific features of their tasks, we can be satisfied with the
pace of their progress. Thus, for example, we can be
satisfied that the International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea has already adopted the Rules of the Tribunal, the
guidelines concerning the preparation and presentation of
cases before the Tribunal, and the resolution on internal
judicial practice. Moreover, our delegation acknowledges
with satisfaction that the United Nations and the Tribunal
have finalized the Draft Agreement on Cooperation and
and the
Relationships between the United Nations
6
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. The
Agreement should be signed shortly by the Secretary-
General and the President of the Tribunal.
all
these
When
complete
institutions
their
preparatory work, it is up to us — the States parties — to
make the best use of these institutions conceived at the
Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea
as the institutional framework for the international legal
order of the oceans. As far as the International Tribunal
for the Law of the Sea is concerned, two States parties to
the Convention on the Law of the Sea have already
agreed to come to the Tribunal in accordance with the
special procedure for the prompt release of vessels.
Concluding these brief remarks, I would like to point
out
the view of my delegation that
in our activities
relative to the exploration, protection and exploitation of
ocean space, we should pay more attention to the benefit
of mankind as a whole, and particularly to the progress of
the least developed countries and the protection of the
most endangered parts of our planet, than to short-term
cost-effectiveness.
(China)
(interpretation
Mr. Gao Feng
from
Chinese): At the outset, please allow me to express my
appreciation for the remarkable results achieved at the
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and the
Assembly of the International Seabed Authority. I would
also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who
have worked for
the conferences, particularly the
Chairmen of the conferences and the members of the
Secretariat.
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea and the Agreement relating to the Implementation of
Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea adopted on 10 December 1982 constitute the
basic documents of the international community regarding
marine rights and interests and the order governing the
ocean space. These documents have established a legal
order governing the ocean space which will contribute to
the exploration of the sea for peaceful purposes and the
equitable and efficient utilization of marine resources and
facilitate the establishment of a just and equitable
international
actively
participated not only in the drafting of the Convention but
also in the setting up of all the relevant organs under the
including the
Convention after
International Tribunal
the Sea,
the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf and
the International Seabed Authority.
its entry into force,
the Law of
economic order. China has
for
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
For the law of the sea, this has been an extraordinary
year that has witnessed a series of significant activities that
laid a foundation for the orderly and healthy development
of maritime affairs in this century, and the next as well.
The Sixth Meeting of States Parties to the Convention, held
last March,
the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. Mr.
Wenzheng Lu of China was honoured to be among them.
We are confident
they will make outstanding
contributions to the delimitation of the outer limits of the
continental shelf.
elected 21 inaugural members of
that
As a major outcome of the development of the law of
the sea, the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea,
established in accordance with the provisions of annex VI
of the Convention, is the first international judicial organ
dedicated to the settlement of maritime disputes. Last year
the membership of the Tribunal was elected. This year
elections were carried out
the Seabed Disputes
the Chamber for Fisheries Disputes and the
Chamber,
Chamber
for Marine Environment Disputes. The
composition of the Tribunal represents all the major legal
systems of the world and reflects equitable geographical
distribution. We believe that the Tribunal will play an
important
role in the settlement of relevant maritime
disputes.
for
The International Seabed Authority is an organ
dedicated to the management of the seabed and ocean floor
and subsoil
thereof, beyond the limits of national
jurisdiction — the Area — as well as its resources. The
Area and its resources are the common heritage of
mankind, the exploration and exploitation of which are
entirely in the
interest of mankind. The Chinese
Government has been active in all aspects of the work of
the Authority. As a member of group B of the Council of
the Authority, China has also sent its experts to take part in
the work of the Finance Committee of the Authority and
the Legal and Technical Commission. During the second
phase of the third session of the International Seabed
Authority, held last August, the Council of the Authority
approved the exploration plans submitted by the pioneer
investors, which represents a milestone in the history of the
Authority and shows that the work of the Authority has
evolved from the procedural and organizational phase to the
substantive phase of operation management. With the
approval of its exploration plan, China has become one of
the first contractors of the Authority. China will continue
faithfully to fulfil its obligations as a pioneer investor and
make important contributions to the exploration and
exploitation of the international seabed Area. Meanwhile,
China will, as always, continue its participation in all
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
aspects of the work of the International Seabed Authority
and engage in relevant international cooperation so as to
facilitate the exploration and exploitation of international
seabed resources.
in May 1996,
In an effort to safeguard the maritime rights and
in the
interests of coastal States, as provided for
continuously improved its
Convention, China has
domestic legislation on the ocean space. After
the
promulgation of the Act of the People’s Republic of
China on the Territorial Sea and Areas Adjacent to It, the
Chinese Government declared,
the
delimitation of certain portions of the baselines of the
territorial sea of the main continent and the baseline of
the Xisha Islands. To give effect to its sovereign right and
jurisdiction over
its exclusive economic zone and
continental shelf, China is actively engaged in the
formulation of an act of the People’s Republic of China
on the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf.
With regard to the overlapping claims by neighbouring
States with adjacent or opposite coasts over exclusive
economic zones or continental shelves,
the Chinese
Government
is in favour of seeking proper solutions
through peaceful negotiations in accordance with well-
established international
law and the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea. At present, China has
started consultations with the countries concerned on
questions relating to the law of the sea as well as the
delimitation of the sea area and fisheries, and positive
results have been achieved. Through consultation and
dialogue, the countries concerned have enhanced mutual
understanding and trust. This has contributed to the
development of
relations between China and those
countries.
The twenty-first century is one in which mankind
will embrace the sea with all its potentials. With the
development of science and technology, humanity will be
faced with opportunities to obtain much more in terms of
resources and energy from the sea, as well as tremendous
challenges to protect
the environment, achieve the
sustainable development of the sea and maintain optimal
harmony between humanity and nature. All countries
spirit of mutual understanding and
should,
cooperation,
to
contribute to the well-being and progress of mankind as
a whole.
interaction so as
in a
strengthen their
Before concluding,
I would like to take this
opportunity to point out that there is a mistake contained
in this year’s report of the Secretary-General on the Law
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
of the Sea of this year, document A/52/487, dated 20
October 1997. In paragraph 264 it mentions:
“such agreements, including an agreement between
China and Japan for joint exploration and development
of an island group in the East China Sea”.
and
involving
joint
This description is at variance with the facts. The truth
of the matter is that there is no such agreement between
China
and
development of non-living resources of an island group in
the East China Sea. The Chinese delegation requests that
the phrase
exploration
Japan
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
We welcome the entry into force of the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, as well as the
Agreement relating to the Implementation of part XI
thereof, as contributing to the peaceful order of oceans.
Those States that have not yet become parties to the
Convention will, we hope, soon be able to do so to make
this legal regime really universal. It is a matter of great
satisfaction that all the institutions envisaged under the
Convention — namely,
Seabed
Authority, the International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea and the Commission on the Limits of the Continental
Shelf — have all been established. The task now is to see
that they discharge their assigned functions effectively
and efficiently.
International
the
“an agreement between China and Japan for joint
exploration and development of an island group in the
East China Sea”
be deleted from paragraph 264 of the report, that the United
Nations Secretariat issue a corrigendum to that effect and
that this clarification be included in the Official Records of
the fifty-second session of the General Assembly.
Mr. Sharma (India): My delegation welcomes the
comprehensive and informative reports of the Secretary-
General on matters relating to the law of the sea and ocean
affairs. We are pleased to co-sponsor the omnibus draft
resolution on the law of the sea, as well as the draft
resolution on the Agreement concerning the Relationship
between the United Nations and the International Seabed
Authority and on the question of the Seabed Authority
participating in the United Nations Joint Staff Pension
Fund. The last matter is of course still subject
to the
consideration of the Fifth Committee.
India is naturally interested in maritime matters and
ocean affairs, given our geography, with its 4,000-mile
coastline and 1,300 islands. India has had a great maritime
tradition as a civilization. Our ancient and medieval history
records extensive trade between India and Arab countries
on the one hand, and the States of South-East Asia on the
other, as well as with Africa. Large populations on our
coasts and on the islands of Andaman, Nicobar and
Lakshadweep have always depended on the sea for
sustenance. Both before and after its independence, India
has taken active part in the development and codification of
the law of the sea, and participated in the First United
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, in Geneva, and
in the Third Conference. We have invested heavily in the
exploration of minerals in the deep seabed and in the
exploitation of petroleum resources and hydrocarbons in our
territorial waters and exclusive economic zone.
8
Turning now to the work of the International Seabed
Authority, I would like first to congratulate its Secretary-
General, Ambassador Satya Nandan, for his leadership of
the organization. Our appreciation also goes to the first
President of the Council of the Authority, Ambassador
Lennox Ballah of Trinidad and Tobago, for the wisdom
with which he has led the complex deliberations of the
Council in the last two years. This year the Authority
took the historic decision of granting its approval to the
plans of work for exploration of mine sites submitted by
the registered pioneer investors. As a registered pioneer
investor, India was granted approval for the plan of work
for exploration of the mine site in the Indian Ocean which
it registered with the United Nations. This should now
lead to the granting of contracts by the Secretary-General
of the Authority for exploration of the mine sites by the
investors. India has fulfilled its obligations under the
Convention, the Agreement relating to the Implementation
of Part XI and resolution II of the Third United Nations
Conference on the Law of the Sea and is thus eligible to
obtain a contract for exploration of its mine site.
The other important aspect relates to the elaboration
of a draft Mining Code by the Authority. During its last
meeting, the Legal and Technical Commission of the
Authority prepared a full text of the Mining Code and
submitted it to the Council in August 1997. Member
Governments may provide written comments on the
provisional text of the Mining Code by 31 December
1997, so that the Commission can take those comments
into consideration in finalizing the Mining Code at the
next meeting, thus readying it for adoption by the Council
and the Authority. The issue of contracts for exploration
and the adoption of the Mining Code together constitute
the most important substantive basis for the functions of
the International Seabed Authority to be carried out.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
front,
the work of
Further, on the institutional
the Seabed
its Finance
Authority, on the basis of
Committee, agreed on the United Nations
scale of
assessments and prepared its first regular budget in the
modest sum of $4.7 million, and established a Working
Capital Fund of $196,000 in 1998 and a similar amount in
1999. The last date for making these payments is 30 days
from the time the Authority sends the notice or 1 January
1998, whichever is later. Given the fact that this is the
start-up period for the Authority, we only hope that the
assessed contributions will be paid on time and in full,
without any conditionalities, by all members.
My delegation welcomes the observer status of the
International Seabed Authority in the United Nations, and
the signing of the Agreement concerning the Relationship
between the United Nations and the International Seabed
Authority by the two Secretaries-General. Finally, my
delegation assures the Secretary-General of the Authority
and its host State, Jamaica, a country with which we have
very close ties, of our full cooperation.
Turning now to the International Tribunal for the Law
of the Sea, we are glad to note that under the leadership of
the President of the Tribunal, Judge Thomas Mensa of
Ghana, the Tribunal has finalized its rules of procedure and
is even now seized of a case. The last Meeting of States
Parties, held in New York, approved the budget of the
Tribunal as well as the draft Agreement on the Privileges
and Immunities of the International Tribunal for the Law of
the Sea. With the completion of
the Headquarters
Agreement between the Tribunal and the Host Country
(Germany), the Tribunal is now adequately equipped to
attend to its functions.
In its first
two meetings,
the Commission on the
Limits of the Continental Shelf has been working, among
other things, on its rules of procedure. We are sure the
Commission, being a technical body, will devise rules of
procedure that will not involve the Commission in matters
disputed between States, for it is well known that the
Convention provides separately for dispute settlement
mechanisms, and the Commission is not one of them.
Turning to fisheries issues, we consider the 1995
Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10
December 1982 relating to the Conservation and
Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks a landmark in the implementation of
the Convention on the Law of the Sea. In our view, the
implementation of the Agreement should guarantee the
enforcement of the rights of the coastal States while
taking into account the interests of distant-waters fishing
nations. The developing countries should be supported
technically and financially for the development of their
fisheries, as envisaged in articles 24 and 25 of the
Agreement. India is committed, along with the other
Indian Ocean coastal States, to conserving, managing and
protecting Indian Ocean tuna from indiscriminate fishing
and consequential depletion or eventual extinction of
stocks. The Indian Ocean Tuna Commission, to which
India is a party, is starting its functions only now. It is
our view that artisanal and small-scale fisheries should be
protected in view of their social, economic and cultural
importance,
essentially
subsistence fishery that is not commercial in nature.
and also because
this
is
I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome
the Independent World Commission on the Oceans, which
was founded on the initiative of Mr. Mário Soares, the
former President of Portugal. We look forward to the
Commission’s recommendations, which we believe should
only add to and support the legal regime envisaged in the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,
without in any manner attempting to reopen the regime.
India will also participate in the Ocean Expo in Lisbon in
1998. We support
the proclamation of 1998 as the
International Year of the Ocean.
Finally, the very preamble of the 1982 Convention
on the Law of the Sea recognized that all problems of
ocean States are closely interrelated, and article 319
specifically maintained that the Secretary-General should
monitor and review the issues of the law of the sea and
ocean affairs and report on them to the General
Assembly. The central role of the United Nations should
continue, as reaffirmed in resolution 49/28,
in active
engagement with the functional organizations under the
Convention. A healthy relationship between the United
Nations and the specialized law of the sea institutions
established under the 1982 Convention on the Law of the
Sea should be nurtured from now onward to ensure
peaceful and orderly management of the oceans and
maritime resources, for the benefit of mankind as a
whole.
Mr. Yacoubou (Benin) (interpretation from French):
In participating in the debate on this agenda item,
“Oceans and the law of the sea”, my delegation would
like to reaffirm that it attaches great importance to this
issue. Indeed, the seas and oceans are an essential part of
our geophysical environment and of the framework of our
economic and social life.
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Three years ago the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea entered into force. More than 120 States
have already ratified, accepted or acceded to it. This shows
the relevance of
the ever-increasing
awareness by States of the daily threats to the marine and
coastal environment and the need to ensure balanced and
effective conservation of its biological and other resources.
its provisions,
By adopting the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea on 10 December 1992 at Montego Bay,
Jamaica, the Member States of the United Nations took a
fundamental step for the benefit of peace and development.
The provisions of the Convention deal with the essential
aspects of maritime activities concerning coastal or
landlocked States. Similarly, they define the rights and
obligations of the States parties in this matter.
The Convention is unquestionably an essential
contribution to the codification and management of the
problems of the marine and coastal environment. The new
international legal order it embodies will promote, with
effective implementation, the fair and efficient management
of the common heritage of mankind represented by the
resources of the seabed. This new legal regime will also
contribute to ensuring the promotion of peaceful uses of the
seas and oceans.
There is a collective will to work to strengthen the
legal basis of the treatment of the seas and oceans and to
assure their sound and rational management, and Benin is
part of it; on 16 October 1997 it ratified the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, and it will continue its
efforts to honour its commitment
to comply with the
provisions of the Convention.
I am pleased to recall that as part of its policy for the
preservation and protection of nature — specifically the
marine environment in this instance — Benin organized a
national workshop on the management of the maritime
ecosystems of the Gulf of Guinea, held in Cotonou at the
beginning of July 1997. Co-sponsored by the World Bank,
the United Nations Environment Programme, the United
Nations Development Programme,
through the Global
Environment Facility, and the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization, this workshop enabled officials
of national services at various levels, those involved in the
chain of activities
in ports and on the seas, and
representatives of coastal populations, non-governmental
organizations and professional organizations,
to study
together the problems affecting the management of the
major marine ecosystems of the Gulf of Guinea.
10
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
The Government of Benin would like, through me,
to express its great gratitude to the institutions, funds and
programmes which support its efforts to preserve and
protect its marine environment, and we invite them to
continue to do so.
The delegation of Benin studied with great interest
the excellent comprehensive annual report presented by
the Secretary-General on the law of the sea and the
activities of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law
of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs. We are pleased
with the quality of this document and the information
provided in other documents dealing with related
questions.
The establishment of the main institutions provided
for in the Convention and the various activities carried
out by them and other competent United Nations bodies
show that a good start has been made in implementing the
Convention.
The signing on 14 March 1997 of the Agreement
concerning the Relationship between the United Nations
and the International Seabed Authority is a sign of the
Authority’s willingness to strengthen its cooperation with
the United Nations and its Member States. My delegation
therefore strongly recommends that the General Assembly
approve the conclusion of this Agreement.
Mr. Ngo Quang Xuan (Viet Nam): I am happy to
address the Assembly on this agenda item, “Oceans and
the law of the sea”, which for years has been of great
interest and significance to Viet Nam.
I
could
the
not
to
begin without
Secretary-General
expressing
for
our
appreciation
his
comprehensive reports contained in documents A/52/487,
A/52/491 and A/52/557. Our appreciation is also extended
to the Secretariat — particularly the Division for Ocean
Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal
Affairs — as well as the secretariat of the International
Seabed Authority for their contribution on the question of
oceans and the law of the sea this year.
The year 1997 has witnessed significant and positive
developments in ocean affairs and the law of the sea. The
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of
1982 has now been ratified by some 120 countries. This
increasing
the
fundamental importance of the Convention, particularly in
the maintenance and strengthening of international peace
and security, development and cooperation. Gradually, the
ratifications
indicates
number
of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Convention is becoming one of
instruments in the world.
the most universal
We are encouraged that the Agreement relating to the
Implementation of Part XI of
the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, adopted by the General
Assembly in July 1994, has received broader support from
the international community. We are also encouraged by the
fact that a considerable number of States have lent their full
support to the Agreement for the Implementation of the
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks, adopted in August 1995. We believe
that this Agreement must be interpreted and applied in the
context of and in a manner consistent with the Convention.
As a coastal State with a broad continental shelf, Viet
Nam attaches great importance to the establishment of the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. The
international community successfully overcame differences
and gave birth to this 21-member institution in March 1997.
Since coming into being,
the Commission has begun
consideration of its rules of procedure, which will be
decided by the Meetings of States Parties
to the
Convention. It is our view that with its mandate being
closely linked to the sovereignty and jurisdiction of coastal
States over their continental shelves, the functions and
activities of the Commission and its members must be in
accordance with relevant stipulations in the Convention. In
the draft, those rules dealing with delimitation disputes
between States, the issue of confidentiality and the liability
of members of the Commission should be further studied
and seriously considered.
In the meantime, our delegation also notes with
satisfaction that
the other bodies established under the
provisions of the Convention have begun their activities and
made considerable achievements. We highly appreciate the
results obtained at the Meetings of States Parties to the
Convention, above all the adoption of the 1998 budget for
the International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea and the
Agreement
the
International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea. It is our view
the international community should find ways to
that
heighten the role of
these meetings, particularly in
reviewing ocean affairs and law-of-the-sea issues.
on Privileges
Immunities
and
of
The International Seabed Authority, moreover, has
successfully fulfilled its tasks. We welcome the approval of
the work plans for exploration by seven registered pioneer
investors; the considerable results made in the elaboration
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
of the Mining Code and, particularly, the signing and
provisional application of the Agreement concerning the
Relationship between the United Nations and the
International Seabed Authority. Viet Nam has made
considerable efforts to participate more actively in the
work of the Authority, as well as in the exploration of the
deep seabed.
legal
We strongly support the achievements realized so far
in the elaboration of
the
organizational work done by the international community,
the German Government and the International Tribunal on
the Law of the Sea itself to enable it to operate normally
and effectively.
texts, as well as
It is necessary to stress that those achievements were
possible thanks to the efforts by the States parties to the
Convention through their pursuit of a constructive
approach
to
implementing the Convention to make it universal and
effective. In this process, Viet Nam has been making its
active contribution.
commitment
responsible
their
and
it
important
We consider
the international
community continue to make more efforts and take
concrete steps
those newly established
institutions.
to support
that
The serious implementation of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, moreover, requires the
strict observance by States of the spirit as well as the
letter of its provisions and articles. The Convention makes
it obligatory for States, among other things, to respect the
sovereignty of coastal States and their sovereign rights
and jurisdiction over
shelves and
exclusive economic zones, as provided for in the relevant
articles of the Convention. States are required in their
actions at both the global and the regional levels to abide
strictly by the provisions of the Convention.
their continental
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea and other relevant
instruments have enjoyed the
strong and effective support of the Government of Viet
Nam. In our view, the Convention is a framework for
national, regional and global activities in the maritime
sector. We always welcome and actively participate in
those initiatives and efforts to implement the Convention
and other relevant texts. Accordingly, we note with great
interest
the past year has been marked by an
intensified call from the international community for a
coordinated and integrated approach to ocean affairs and
law of the sea issues.
that
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
In its region, Viet Nam has been making tremendous
efforts to promote dialogue and cooperative and friendly
relations with other countries. In the field of ocean affairs,
for
example, Viet Nam signed with Thailand on
9 August 1997 an agreement on the delimitation of
maritime boundaries between the two countries and, with
the Philippines, an agreement on the second cruise for joint
scientific research in the Eastern Sea. At the same time,
Viet Nam has actively participated in other international
and regional initiatives and arrangements on this subject.
We are confident that the aforementioned activities and
arrangements have effectively contributed to promoting
peace, security and stability in the region.
On the question of the Eastern Sea, also known as the
South China Sea, Viet Nam wishes to reconfirm its
consistent position. With regard to the territorial claims
over the Paracel and Spratly Islands, Viet Nam has enough
historical and legal evidence to assert
its national
sovereignty over them. That sovereignty is indisputable.
law,
particularly
Regarding existing disputes, it is our view that they
should be settled through peaceful negotiations in a spirit of
equality, mutual understanding and respect for each other’s
sovereignty and jurisdiction over respective continental
shelves and exclusive economic zones, in accordance with
international
the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea. Moreover, the parties
concerned should, while making active efforts to promote
negotiations for a fundamental and long-term solution,
maintain stability based on the status quo and refrain from
any act that may further complicate the situation and from
the use or threat of force. This is in conformity with the
principles and norms of contemporary international law and
the aspirations of the peoples, and it serves peace and
stability in the region.
that
the
capacity of
We are confident
continuing institutional
the Secretary-General will
ensure
the
Organization to respond adequately to the needs of States,
competent
newly established institutions
international organizations by providing advice
and
the special needs of
assistance,
developing countries. Reports on developments and issues
relating to ocean affairs and the law of the sea should
continue to be made to the General Assembly at its fifty-
third session.
taking into account
and other
I would like to conclude by recommending that an
item entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea” be included
in the agenda of the fifty-third session of the General
Assembly.
12
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
its
facilitate
report will
Mr. Park (Republic of Korea): Let me begin by
welcoming the annual report of the Secretary-General on
the oceans and the law of the sea, as contained in
document A/52/487, and by commending the Secretariat
for
excellent work. This well-organized and
comprehensive
the wide
dissemination to Member States of information on the
recent developments relating to the oceans and the law of
the sea and will greatly contribute to enhancing the
peaceful uses and stable order of the public ocean. We
believe that the United Nations, as a global institution,
should continue to play a central role in facilitating the
effective implementation of the 1982 United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea and in bolstering
international cooperation in the field of the law of the sea.
We also note with appreciation the Secretary-
General’s report on the impact of the entry into force of
the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea on related existing and proposed instruments and
programmes. The report demonstrates how broad and
profound an impact the Convention has upon various
related areas. My delegation hopes that the necessary
measures mentioned in the report will be taken by
relevant
in an
appropriate manner, as they will further consolidate the
orderly implementation of the new legal regime of the
oceans.
and global organizations
regional
As a maritime country, Korea attaches great
importance to the maintenance of a peaceful and stable
maritime order. Because of its enormous potential as the
planet’s last frontier for mankind,
the sea offers us
immense opportunities as well as challenges. Whether the
sea’s bounty brings us prosperity or triggers conflict
largely depends on how the international community
maintains the public order of the ocean. Hence, it is
crucial for all of us to seek the universality of the
Convention and its full implementation. While we are
pleased to note that, since November 1996, 14 States have
additionally acceded to the Convention, raising the total
number of States parties to 122, this figure still falls short
of meeting the test of universality. We therefore urge
States which have not yet done so to accede to the
Convention as soon as possible.
the first year
This year marks
that various
institutions established under the Convention have been
brought into full-fledged operation. At its resumed third
session last August, the International Seabed Authority
approved plans of work for exploration activities of
registered pioneer investors. As one of the seven pioneer
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
faithfully carry out exploration
investors, Korea will
activities pursuant to the Convention and the Implementing
Agreement. We also welcome the progress the Legal and
Technical Commission has achieved in the preparation of
the deep seabed mining code that will govern prospecting
and exploration in the seabed and the ocean floor beyond
the limits of national jurisdiction. My delegation looks
forward to a reliable and predictable operational regime on
deep seabed mining being worked out soon.
the Rules of
The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea has
also made great strides towards laying the groundwork for
judicial functioning since its inauguration last year. The
Tribunal adopted three significant instruments governing its
internal procedures:
the
resolution on the Internal Judicial Practice, and Guidelines
for the Preparation and Presentation of Cases Before the
Tribunal. In this regard, we are pleased to note that the
Tribunal is already in operation to consider its first case
this month. It is our sincere hope that the Tribunal will
continue to solidify its role as a principal judicial organ in
the area of the law of the sea.
the Tribunal,
to the
Instituted this year, the Commission on the Limits of
the Continental Shelf has concluded deliberations on its
Rules of Procedure. In our view, two annexes regarding a
submission involving delimitation disputes and the issue of
confidentiality are very important
effective
functioning of the Commission. My delegation is prepared
to participate actively in the discussion of these annexes
during the next Meeting of States Parties. In connection
with the request by the Commission for the Meeting of
States Parties to clarify whether
the
Commission should extend to non-parties, however, we
believe careful consideration is needed with regard to
identifying the most appropriate forum in which the issue
could be best addressed.
the mandate of
As a responsible fishing State, Korea is firmly
committed to the sustainable development and use of the
resources of the world ocean. In line with this policy, the
Republic of Korea signed last year the Agreement for the
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982
relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling
Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. My
Government
is currently taking the necessary domestic
steps to ratify this Agreement.
Pending the domestic procedures for
ratification,
however, Korea has already put in place various voluntary
measures to implement the Agreement. Korea has done its
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
to
relevant
organizations,
to live up to the letter and spirit of the
due part
Agreement through the voluntary submission of fishing
statistics
scientific
monitoring and study of marine resources, and the
domestic adoption of fishing rules and regulations. Our
active participation in regional and subregional fishery
organizations in the northern and southern Pacific, as well
as in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, has also contributed
to the implementation of the Agreement.
the
Furthermore, Korea has faithfully complied with the
global moratorium on large-scale pelagic drift-net fishing.
Since 1 January 1993, my Government has taken all
necessary measures to suspend all drift-net
fishing
operations by Korean fishing vessels. In addition, such
effective measures as the education of fishermen and the
application of punitive action against violations have been
taken to ensure that no Korean fishing vessels engage in
fishing in areas under the jurisdiction of other States,
unless duly authorized.
Surrounded by a semi-enclosed sea, the Republic of
Korea strongly upholds the principle of cooperation
among the relevant coastal States under the Convention.
No living resource or marine environment
respects
artificial delimitations. The successful management of
living resources or a marine environment
in a semi-
enclosed sea requires the establishment of a regime for
the close cooperation of coastal States that takes into
account the integrity of the sea. In a semi-enclosed sea,
any unilateral measure or agreement in disregard of the
interests of relevant parties would fail
to achieve its
intended goal. Furthermore, it is our strong view that
coastal States in a semi-enclosed sea should not take any
measures or reach any agreements which are likely to
infringe upon the legitimate interests of other coastal
States. Upon the request of any interested coastal States,
consultations should be considered compulsory in such
situations.
Given the formidable implications of maritime
disputes for international relations, the prevention and
early settlement of such disputes is crucial for the
maintenance of international peace and security. Close
consultation and cooperation regionally or among the
to the
States concerned will contribute a great deal
prevention of maritime disputes. Meanwhile,
the
Convention is considered epoch-making in establishing a
third-party compulsory dispute-settlement mechanism. We
believe that the wider use of this mechanism will help the
international community to preserve the order of the
ocean. It is also worth noting that States involved in a
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
dispute should refrain from any activities likely to aggravate
it pending final settlement.
and consistent application, and also for fuller cooperation
by States in the area of the law of the sea.
considers
that
as
delegation
The Russian
an important universal
the
establishment of a single legal regime for the oceans
genuinely promotes the maintenance of
international
peace and security and facilitates the development of
international cooperation in the peaceful use of seas and
oceans. For this reason, Russia has consistently advocated
an enhanced role for the Convention on the Law of the
Sea
legal
instrument
in the domain of maritime activities and
supports the appeals to States not yet parties to the
Convention to accede to it as quickly as possible. This
applies equally to the Agreement on the Conservation and
Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks, which represents a code of
generally accepted standards of behaviour by States and
defines the parameters for bilateral relations and for
regional cooperation in the area of fisheries.
international
Finally, I wish to reiterate Korea’s firm commitment
to the full
implementation of the Convention and the
amicable settlement of maritime disputes. The Republic of
Korea has been, and continues to be, ready and willing to
contribute to the orderly development of the ocean. We
hope that mankind’s continuing voyage into the still-
unknown potential of the ocean will bring prosperity in the
next millennium, just as the voyage of Columbus opened up
the New World 500 years ago. It goes without saying that
the spirit of cooperation is indispensable for the success of
this uncharted voyage.
Mr. Panevkin (Russian Federation) (interpretation
from Russian): The Russian delegation attaches great
significance to the consideration of the agenda item entitled
“Oceans and the law of the sea”. The discussion of this
question by the General Assembly demonstrates the
importance the international community attaches to the
problems related to the oceans and the law of the sea and
permits an annual assessment of
the development of
cooperation among States in this sphere. It also allows us
to identify problems requiring attention and to adopt
appropriate measures. In this respect, we also express our
gratitude to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for
preparing the four reports, which are a good foundation for
today’s discussion.
This past year had substantial significance for the
further development of cooperation between States in
matters relating to oceans and the law of the sea. It was
noteworthy for the further movement by the international
community towards a coordinated and integrated approach
to solving the problems I have mentioned. There has also
been an increase in the number of parties to the 1982
Convention on the Law of the Sea and a number of other
international
instruments related to ocean affairs. The
Russian Federation,
ratified the 1982
Convention as well as the Agreement on the Conservation
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks.
in particular,
We note with satisfaction that with the election in
1997 of the members of the Commission on the Limits of
the Continental Shelf the establishment of the institutions
provided for by the Convention has now been virtually
completed. The International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea took up its first case in November. Thus practically all
the necessary requirements have been fulfilled for the
effective implementation of the Convention, for its uniform
14
At the same time, we wish to express our concern
that
some countries are trying to subordinate the
interpretation and application of the Convention to the
provisions of national law or to interpret some of its
provisions unilaterally, including those related to the right
of innocent passage through the territorial sea, transit
passage through straits used for international navigation,
archipelagic sea lanes passage and freedom of navigation
and other internationally recognized uses of the seas, in
the exclusive economic zone, as rightly pointed out in
paragraph
the Secretary-General’s Report
[A/52/487]. Nor can we agree with unilateral attempts to
change or give individual interpretations to some of the
provisions of other international legal documents on the
law of the sea, notably the 1936 Montreux Convention
regarding the Regime of the Straits. As we see it, such
actions are permissible in terms of international law now
in force only with the manifestly expressed consent of all
the other States parties
international
agreements, including the agreement regarding the regime
of the Black Sea straits.
to specific
15
of
The problems of oceans are tightly interlinked and
should be considered as a single whole. Here the 1982
Convention has a strategic significance as a basis for
national, regional and global actions in the maritime
sector. Unfortunately, we are obliged to note that some
international mechanisms on the law of the sea settle
problems related to the law of the sea outside the system
of the 1982 Convention — a practice that is prejudicial to
a single legal regime for the oceans. We believe that this
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
issue deserves close attention, and we support efforts to
enhance coordination of
international
mechanisms on the law of the sea under United Nations
auspices.
the action of
Russia, as a major
sea Power, attaches great
importance to activities on the open ocean and intends to
continue to participate actively in efforts to improve the
peaceful and mutually profitable cooperation of States in
mastering and exploiting the high seas and to further
strengthen the international legal regime established by the
Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Mr. Edwards (Marshall Islands): At the outset, my
delegation wishes to associate itself with the statement
made this morning by the representative of the Solomon
Islands on behalf of the South Pacific Forum island
countries.
The item under discussion is of great importance to all
small island developing States, in particular to the Pacific
island countries. This has been shown, in part, by our
readiness to become co-sponsors of the draft resolutions
which are before the General Assembly today.
The resources of the seas represent the most tangible
assets for future development and prosperity that we have.
The Republic of the Marshall Islands has, especially within
the past year, taken a very proactive approach towards the
sustainable development of our fisheries. At a time when
reform policies for the public sector and the structural
adjustment that they entail are taking effect in the Marshall
Islands, our fisheries sector is also undergoing significant
changes. While these changes have not been easy, the
results will no doubt
economic
development, while conserving and managing our most
precious renewable resource.
sustainable
foster
New fisheries policies and legislation have been
introduced and accepted by our Parliament. They
demonstrate our firm commitment to sound management
and conservation of our fisheries. For example, the new
Marshall Islands Fisheries Act
incorporates approaches
taken at the international level, particularly in regard to the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and
subsequently the Agreement relating to straddling fish
stocks and highly migratory fish stocks. In addition, the Act
has fully taken on board many of the provisions stipulated
in the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
The Marshall Islands is an active participant in the
ongoing, multilateral, high-level consultation process in the
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
the need to have
Pacific. We were concerned about
working arrangements for the region while we were
dealing with the practical considerations related to
ratification of the Agreement. I might add that the recent
legislation has taken us a good step forward. As can be
noted from the Secretary-General’s report, in May this
year the Marshall Islands hosted the second Conference
in these high-level consultations in our region. A full
report [A/S-19/28] was presented at the nineteenth special
session of the General Assembly in June this year, and
the main findings have been underscored in the Secretary-
General’s report contained in document A/52/555. We
feel
this is an initiative going beyond a simple
commitment on our part; the process has initiated steps
towards the establishment of a multilateral management
arrangement for the Pacific region, which will include the
high seas.
that
The Marshall Islands is also nearing completion of
our
in-zone Fisheries Management Plan. This Plan,
combined with our recently completed Fisheries Act and
the National Fisheries Development Plan,
further
demonstrates our commitment to meaningfully implement
the provisions of the Law of the Sea, specifically articles
61 and 62, in this context. In addition, these arrangements
will be fully compatible with the provisions of the
Agreement as a whole, and will further assist us in the
ratification process.
The Marshall Islands is an active member of our
regional organization, the South Pacific Forum Fisheries
Agency. At its regular meetings at the committee level
the Marshall Islands will continue to emphasize the need
for financial support from the international community, if
we are to succeed in furthering the process that has been
initiated in our region through multilateral high-level
consultations.
I would like to take this opportunity to echo that
sentiment here in the General Assembly. Sustainable
development, conservation and management
in the
developing countries and in our
regions requires a
concerted effort by the international community. We are
grateful for the support that has been given; the names of
our benefactors are contained in the report to the special
session that I referred to earlier. But it is clear to all of us
that we have not yet completed the process. There is
much work to be done. For example,
the Secretary-
General’s report in document A/52/557 stresses that the
level of illegal fishing activities in the Pacific would
decrease with the implementation of a vessel monitoring
system on distant-water nations’ fishing vessels. This was
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
discussed at length here in New York in the Agreement
negotiations, and we have several indications to confirm
this assertion.
regional
consultations have taken this point very seriously and
included it as a major item to be concluded.
this reason that our
is for
It
It is in this regard that my delegation wishes to stress
the importance of financial and technical support from the
international community. We strongly support the inclusion
of this idea in the draft resolutions before us, and urge the
General Assembly
important
recommendations. The role of
the non-governmental
organizations is also important, and they should continue to
be invited to submit views on draft resolutions in the future.
accept
these
to
the Law of
I would like to conclude by stressing the provision of
article 64 of
the Sea Convention that
cooperation between coastal States and States that fish in
the region is compulsory. This cooperation includes
ensuring that appropriate meetings, with full participation
of all parties occurs in a timely manner, and that there is
sufficient funding for such meetings. The Marshall Islands
is fully in compliance with this cooperative spirit, and we
would urge those with an interest in our fisheries to be
equally forthcoming in their support.
Mr. Ayewah (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation is
pleased to participate in the debate on the agenda item
“Oceans and the law of the sea”. At the outset let me
express appreciation to the representative of New Zealand
for her introduction of the draft resolutions on the item and
for the hard work she has put into their preparation.
Since the entry into force of the Convention on the
Law of the Sea, considerable progress has been made
towards its implementation, and the number of parties to
the Convention has also grown. Structurally, all
the
institutions
the Convention — the
International Seabed Authority, the Tribunal for the Law of
the Sea, and the Commission on the Limits of
the
Continental Shelf — have become functional.
created
under
We note in particular that the International Seabed
Authority has progressed this year from an organizational
phase to a functional one, with the approval of work plans
for exploration of seven pioneer investors by its Council,
which requested the Authority’s Secretary-General to issue
them with contracts effective for 15 years under the
provisions of the Convention’s relevant
implementation
Agreement. Work on the deep seabed mining code is also
at an advanced stage, while the draft
regulation on
prospecting and exploration of polymetallic nodules in the
16
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
the
“Area”, which includes draft standard terms of
exploration contract, is under consideration by the Legal
and Technical Commission.
the
of
sole
responsibility
Following the signing of an agreement with the
United Nations, 1998 will mark the beginning of
independent work by the Authority, when its budget will
become
its members.
Consequently, the Assembly of the Authority adopted a
scale of assessment of contributions of members and its
budget, including a Working Capital Fund, during its
resumed session in August this year. In this connection,
it is the belief of my delegation that only the resolute
discharge of obligations under the Convention through the
timely payment of assessed contributions by member
States would ensure an assured resource base for the
Authority to continue to carry out its activities.
On the other hand,
the International Tribunal
established in 1996 has already held four sessions and
approved its own budget. The last of the institutions, the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, has
also adopted its modus operandi. In this connection, my
delegation notes with interest the Commission’s request
for the establishment of a trust fund for travel expenses
and accommodation for developing member States, and
would urge States parties to approve it. We have noted
also that, in line with the streamlining of the United
Nations system, the Meeting of States parties has been
reduced to one annual session. In our view, this is cost-
effective and a judicious use of man-hours.
The strategic importance of the Convention as a
framework for national legal and global action in the
marine sector is underscored. However, only a faithful
implementation of its provisions can yield the desired
results. We agree with the necessity and importance of
promoting international cooperation on the law of the sea
and ocean affairs at the global, regional and subregional
levels.
In its resolution 49/28, the Assembly called for an
annual review of developments relating to the law of the
sea. That resolution conferred on the United Nations
responsibility for, among other things, monitoring State
practices and the provision of information, advice and
assistance in the fields of interest and concern to States
and international organizations. Consequently, cooperation
on important new issues in the field of the law of the sea
and ocean affairs would require the establishment of
national integrated marine policies by Governments. In
this connection, we appreciate the provision of assistance
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
to developing countries as well as training under the
Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe Memorial Fellowship.
While 1998 has been designated the “Year of the
Ocean”, we hasten to add that this can be meaningful only
if all Governments agree to ratify or accede to the
Convention and its relevant instruments and endeavour to
implement them as soon as possible.
that
such as
An annual review of developments relating to the law
through a United Nations
the sea has indicated,
of
Environment Programme (UNEP) report,
there has
been a deterioration of the global environment. More
worrisome even is the report that a third of the world’s
coastal regions are at high risk of degradation, particularly
from land-based activities
rapid, unplanned
urbanization, thus placing a major stress upon adjacent
ecosystems. This must be prevented, as this unsustainable
manner of economic development can in future lead to food
insecurity and conflict situations. It will be recalled that
Agenda 21, from the Rio Summit, had underscored that
socio-economic development and environmental protection
reinforcing. The
are
Convention on the Law of the Sea,
in its turn, has
developed a balance between the use of the oceans and its
resources and the protection of the environment
in a
manner that will ensure the equitable and efficient use of
resources. In addition,
it has developed a number of
international legal instruments which directly or indirectly
contribute to the protection of the marine and coastal
environment.
and mutually
interdependent
In resolution 51/36, the General Assembly took note
of the report of the Secretary-General stating that large-
scale pelagic drift-net fishing, unauthorized fishing in zones
of national jurisdiction and fisheries by-catch and discard
are having negative impacts on the living marine resources
of the world’s oceans and seas and their sustainable use.
We cannot but agree with his deep concern at
the
continuing reports of activities inconsistent with the terms
of resolutions 46/215 and 49/116.
As a developing country and a developing coastal
State, Nigeria is concerned that such detrimental practices
still persist. Even reports of the progress made by members
of the international community, international organizations
and regional economic integration organizations towards the
implementation of relevant resolutions, as indicated in the
report of the Secretary-General, do not pacify us. Equally
alarming are reports by the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO) regarding over-
fishing by large fleet shipping vessels. Unfortunately,
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
developing countries lack the capacity to monitor or
control these fishing activities or enforce the pertinent
regulations.
the Sea and the Agreement
We are happy to note the provision for development
assistance to developing States by the General Assembly
for this purpose. We must also underscore the need for
those concerned to respect applicable international
instruments, including, among others, the Convention on
the Law of
the
implementation of
relating to the
conservation and management of straddling fish stocks
and highly migratory fish stocks. It is in this spirit that
we also welcome the FAO’s efforts and intent to organize
in 1998 a Technical Consultation on Management of
Fishing Capacity, which will draft guidelines for the
control and management of fishing.
its provisions
for
I cannot conclude this brief statement without
drawing attention to the equally deplorable activities of
some industrialized States, which dump toxic and
hazardous wastes, especially in the waters of developing
States, or carry out other forms of pollution through the
deliberate discharge of pollutants such as oil and oily
wastes, noxious liquids or solids, and sewage or garbage.
In the interest of
the marine environment and the
preservation of the ecosystem, we call on such States to
desist from those acts.
Mr. Gramajo (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): The Argentine Republic considers that
the
process begun in 1973 with the convening of the Third
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea is now
approaching fruition. This is because of
the nearly
universal application of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of
the Sea and because the network of
institutions and organs provided for in the Convention
have now been established. The hopes expressed in 1973
at the outset of the Third United Nations Conference on
the Law of the Sea are now being realized. The nearly
universal
the Convention and the
functioning of its institutions clearly prove that law is
playing an increasingly important role in international
affairs.
acceptance of
Given the length of its coastline and its southerly
inevitably give considerable
location, Argentina must
attention to maritime affairs. With a coastline of 4,500
kilometres and with 1.3 million square kilometres of
the world’s most
territorial seas, home to some of
substantial marine
is
particularly active in this area. Here I would recall such
resources, Argentina
living
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
factors as the major squid fisheries off the southern Buenos
Aires region and Patagonia as an indication of how vital
ocean affairs are for Argentina.
For Argentina, the importance of the sea and of the
laws and institutions that govern it is heightened by the role
of maritime routes in its international trade. For example,
vital exports pass to other continents through ports of the
Paraná and Plata rivers, notably Buenos Aires and La Plata.
Our rivers and seas are not merely a source of resources,
but are major trade routes for Argentina.
The importance of the sea for Argentina is heightened
even further by another geographical reality: the Plata river
and the other main navigable rivers in its basin. Through
the Paraná-Paraguay canal, which flows into the Plata, the
Plata basin extends
into the Atlantic Ocean, which
facilitates trade by the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR) with other continents. Argentina therefore
has a keen interest in river matters — an interest it shares
with Uruguay — as well as maritime interests geared
towards trade and cooperation in the framework of a strict
policy of environmental conservation and protection.
in conformity with international
As a coastal State with particular interest
in the
development of the law of the sea and ocean affairs,
Argentina stresses the importance of conserving the marine
environment and of adopting the necessary measures to that
end,
law. Similarly,
Argentina pursues a policy of conservation of living marine
resources, and has adopted domestic laws to prevent
overexploitation in maritime areas under its sovereignty or
jurisdiction. Moreover, Argentina has signed the Agreement
for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United
Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea of
10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and
Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks, and hopes soon to become a party
to this. The purpose of that Agreement is precisely to avoid
overexploitation.
element
of
the
process
the sea is a most
I wish to conclude by noting that, in the light of what
important political and
I have said,
of world-wide
economic
interdependence. The Argentine Republic
therefore
considers that the legal order regulating the sea has a
fundamental role to play in the context of international law.
For Argentina, these political and economic developments
have given the law of the sea renewed and growing
importance compared with the situation in 1973, when the
Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea
was getting under way. As an Atlantic State with a special
18
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
interest in maritime and ocean affairs, Argentina will
continue to participate actively in the process of the
codification and progressive development of the law of
the sea and will contribute to its consolidation.
Mr. Benítez Sáenz (Uruguay) (interpretation from
Spanish): The item entitled “Oceans and the law of the
sea” has special meaning for my delegation, not only
because our economy and our geographical location make
it relevant to us, but also because we firmly believe that
it is a sphere of activity in which international law and
cooperation among States should continue to play a
particularly important role.
Among the most notable activities of the United
Nations was the initiative to convene the Third United
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which
successfully culminated in the adoption of the United
Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea — the
Montego Bay Convention. The organs established under
that Convention have begun functioning, and, following
the 1996 election of
the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea held its first sessions in
1997. Uruguay attaches particular importance to the
establishment of the Tribunal, as it was among the States
that when it signed the Convention opted to submit
disputes relating to the interpretation or application of the
Convention to the Tribunal’s jurisdiction, as stipulated in
article 287 of the Convention.
its members,
This year also saw the Commission on the Limits of
the Continental Shelf begin its work. We welcome the
election of its members and are certain that their technical
skill and impartiality will ensure that States, such as my
own, with continental shelves extending beyond 200
nautical miles will be able to delimit them through the
exercise of the rights set out in the Convention.
Probably the most important event of this period was
the approval by the International Seabed Authority of the
plans of work for exploration of seven registered pioneer
investors. The long-held dream of exploration of the
seabed as the common heritage of mankind is now
beginning to come true. With the impetus and dynamism
provided by the Secretary-General of the Authority,
Ambassador Satya Nandan of Fiji, progress has begun on
this and other tasks entrusted to the Authority. We hope
that we shall now move on to concrete achievements in
this area.
We share the view that the various issues relating to
the maritime space are very closely interrelated and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
should be considered together, especially by the organs
created under the Montego Bay Convention. For that
reason, we reiterate our grave concern at the increasingly
frequent transport of radioactive material and nuclear waste
through areas of the high seas close to our exclusive
economic zone. We cannot accept
these lethal cargoes
being carried so close to our coastline on the pretext of
freedom of navigation.
The fishing resources that are under our jurisdiction
and the marine currents that flow freely according to the
laws of nature do not recognize limits and borders imposed
by man and, in case of an accident, many of our States
would be seriously harmed through such forms of
transportation.
Uruguay believes it essential to proceed to regulate the
maritime transport of nuclear material and radioactive
waste, and we are prepared to contribute in all areas to
ensure that this does not continue.
We are following closely the discussions taking place
in the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and it is our
understanding that the obligation to safeguard the marine
environment requires prior notification of coastal States that
are situated along the route of radioactive cargo.
The draft objective of the Joint Oslo and Paris
(OSPAR) Commission with regard to radioactive substances
marks progress in this area, and we hope that it will be
adopted in 1998 in Lisbon on the occasion of Ocean Expo
98.
As regards accidents involving the transport of nuclear
material and other types of maritime accidents, there is
need to develop new criteria and procedures for
the
payment of appropriate compensation. Article 235 of the
Convention on the Law of the Sea provides for this form of
international cooperation among States
to
determine the responsibilities and obligations related to the
assessment of damage and compensation.
in order
We believe that the progress made by the Ad Hoc
Working Group of Legal and Technical Experts of the
Conference of Parties of the Basel Convention on the
Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes
and their Disposal should be complemented by work in the
context of the relevant provisions of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea.
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions
A/52/L.26, A/52/L.27, A/52/L.29 and A/52/L.30.
Before giving the floor to the next speaker in
explanation of vote before the voting, may I remind
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10
minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
I now call on the representative of Turkey.
Mrs. Baykal
(Turkey): Among the four draft
resolutions before the General Assembly, Turkey will
vote against the draft resolution entitled “Oceans and the
law of the sea” contained in document A/52/L.26.
The reason for my delegation’s negative vote is that
some of the elements contained in the Convention on the
Law of the Sea, which have prevented Turkey from
approving the Convention, are still retained in this draft
resolution.
Turkey supports all international efforts to establish
a regime of the sea that is based on the principle of
equity and that can be acceptable to all States. However,
the Convention does not make adequate provisions for
special geographical situations and, as a consequence, is
not able to establish an acceptable balance between
conflicting interests. Furthermore, the Convention makes
no provision for
registering reservations on specific
clauses.
Although we agree with the Convention in its
general intent, and with most of its provisions, we are
unable to become a party to it owing to these serious
shortcomings. This being the case, we cannot support a
draft
should
harmonize their national legislation with the provisions of
the Convention on the Law of the Sea and should ensure
the consistent application of those provisions.
resolution which provides
that States
The Acting President: We have heard the only
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
and
resolutions A/52/L.26, A/52/L.27, A/52/L.29
A/52/L.30 one by one.
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We turn first to draft resolution A/52/L.26, entitled
“Oceans and the law of the sea”. I should like to announce
that, since the introduction of this draft resolution, the
following countries have become sponsors: Côte d’Ivoire,
Nepal, Russian Federation and Singapore.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
India,
Ireland,
(Federated
Fiji,
Finland,
Iran
Italy,
Lithuania,
Indonesia,
Israel,
Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Estonia,
Ethiopia,
France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
(Islamic
Iceland,
Republic of),
Jamaica,
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia,
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Micronesia
States of),
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian
Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Tajikistan,
Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Turkey
20
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
Abstaining:
Ecuador, El Salvador, Peru, Venezuela
Draft resolution A/52/L.26 was adopted by 138 votes
to 1, with 4 abstentions (resolution 52/26).
[Subsequently, the delegations of Eritrea and Ghana
informed the Secretariat that they had intended to
vote in favour.]
The Acting President: We turn next
to draft
resolution A/52/L.27, entitled “Agreement concerning the
Relationship between the United Nations and the
International Seabed Authority”.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/52/L.27?
Draft resolution A/52/L.27 was adopted (resolution
52/27).
entitled “Agreement
The Acting President: We now turn to draft
resolution A/52/L.29,
the
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982
relating to the Conservation and Management of
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish
Stocks”.
for
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/52/L.29?
Draft resolution A/52/L.29 was adopted (resolution
52/28).
The Acting President: We now turn to draft
resolution A/52/L.30, entitled “Large-scale pelagic drift-
net fishing: unauthorized fishing in zones of national
jurisdiction and on the high seas; fisheries by-catch and
discards; and other developments”.
I should like to announce that since the introduction
of the draft resolution, Singapore has become a sponsor
of draft resolution A/52/L.30.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/52/L.30?
Draft resolution A/52/L.30 was adopted (resolution
52/29).
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Acting President: A number of representatives
have asked to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May
I remind members that statements in exercise of the right
of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention
and to five minutes for the second intervention, and should
be made by delegations from their seats.
I call on the representative of China.
Mr. Gao Feng (China) (interpretation from Chinese):
The Chinese delegation wishes to exercise its right of reply
because this afternoon the representative of Viet Nam, in
his statement before the General Assembly, referred to the
Chinese territory of Xisha and Nansha Islands. The Chinese
delegation is compelled to express its views on this issue.
First, Xisha and Nansha Islands have, since ancient
times, been a part of Chinese territory. This is based on
experience and on our practices in exploring that part of the
South China Sea. It has also been made clear in numerous
international
instruments, and has been confirmed by
international practices, including the confirmation of the
Government of Viet Nam.
Secondly,
the Chinese Government has always
maintained that a peaceful resolution of the problem should
be achieved through bilateral negotiations. As I mentioned
during the general debate, the Chinese Government is in
favour of
resolving the dispute appropriately through
negotiation in accordance with well-established international
law,
including the principles established in the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The Chinese
Government is at present in the process of conducting
consultations in this respect.
the Nansha Islands.
Thirdly, China is opposed to the internationalization of
the question of
It also opposes
intervention in the issue by nations outside the region. We
believe that the parties to the dispute should abide by
international
the guidelines governing relations
between States and the principles for the settlement of
international disputes. The issue should not be made more
complex.
law,
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Viet Nam.
Mr. Pham Truong Giang (Viet Nam): My delegation
wishes to refer to the question of the Eastern Sea, also
known as the South China Sea. My Ambassador,
the
Permanent Representative of Viet Nam, in his address to
the General Assembly this afternoon, reaffirmed Viet Nam's
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
consistent position regarding the Eastern Sea, and Viet
Nam's sovereignty and jurisdiction over the Paracel and
Spratly Islands. Viet Nam supports the 1992 declaration
by the Association of South-East Asian Nations
(ASEAN), containing principles for the settlement of
disputes concerning the Eastern Sea, and we urge that
these principles be upheld. Viet Nam's view is that the
dispute must be settled through peaceful negotiation in the
spirit of equality, mutual understanding and respect for
each other's sovereignty and jurisdiction over
their
respective continental shelves and exclusive economic
zones, in accordance with international law, particularly
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
The parties concerned should, while making active efforts
to promote negotiations for a fundamental and long-term
solution, maintain stability on the basis of the status quo,
and refrain from any act that may further complicate the
situation and from the use or threat of force.
The Acting President:
I now call on the
representative of the Philippines.
Mr. Sorreta (Philippines): I wish to speak on the
issue of conflicting claims in the South China Sea, which
was raised both during the general debate and just now in
statements made in right of reply. The Philippines is also
a claimant, and still maintains its claims to areas of the
South China Sea. Having said that, however, we believe
in, and have been working towards, a just, peaceful and
lasting solution to the conflicting claims. I might add that
our desire to settle these disputes peacefully is driven not
only by the fact that we fully realize that the peace and
stability of our region has been the fundamental basis for
our sustained growth, which is of record proportions, but
because we are very much aware of the potential for
conflict in the region. We are talking about potential
strategic resources and strategic sea lanes in a region of
great diversity — a region of very diverse history,
language, culture, religion and colonial experience, all of
which,
together, could be quite a heady mixture for
conflict. Perhaps in any other region in the world it would
have resulted in conflict.
There is no outward and manifest conflict over these
claims. We are working. All the claimants, except one,
are members of the Association of South-East Asian
Nations (ASEAN) and the one that is not a member of
ASEAN is a very close partner of ASEAN in regional
dialogue. I believe that we will eventually not have to
discuss matters like this in this forum, because we will
eventually find a solution to these problems.
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Malaysia.
57th plenary meeting
26 November 1997
Mr. Marzuki (Malaysia): My delegation wishes to
refer to the issue of the South China Sea. I would like to
place on record that Malaysia is also a claimant to parts
of the Spratley Islands located within our continental
shelf. In this respect, we are committed to resolving the
question of overlapping claims through negotiation and
peaceful means, as set out in the Manila Declaration on
the South China Sea adopted by the Foreign Ministers of
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) in
Manila in June 1992.
The Acting President: We have concluded this
stage of our consideration of agenda item 39.
The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.
22
