United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
20th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 1 October 1997, 3 p.m.
New York
A/52/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the chairman of the delegation of Estonia, His
Excellency Mr. Trivimi Velliste.
Mr. Velliste (Estonia): Mr. President, first of all I
would like to congratulate you on your election as President
of the General Assembly at this session. We wish you
success in this responsible task in a year that will be of
great importance for the Organization.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express
our gratitude to the previous President of the Assembly,
Ambassador Ismail, who showed exceptional commitment
to the reform initiatives throughout the fifty-first session.
That recently concluded session was an important step
towards a reinforced United Nations which, with its
universal membership, will have to be able to deal with
serious problems facing the world today.
We expect the fifty-second session of the General
Assembly to be a decisive landmark in the renewal and
restructuring of the United Nations — a major endeavour
undertaken by Member States several years ago. In this
respect we would like to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General, who presented his report on this question to the
General Assembly on 16 July. My Government lends its
full support
to Secretary-General Kofi Annan in his
efforts. We also note with satisfaction that part of this
package has already been implemented.
Estonia is looking forward to an agreement within
the foreseeable future concerning a response by Member
States to the Secretary-General’s proposals. It
is our
sincere hope that Members will deal with this matter in a
constructive manner and that a generally acceptable
scheme for reforming the United Nations will be agreed
upon. We are confident
that all Member States will
benefit from the reform of the Organization.
I would now like to focus my address on points of
specific relevance to present needs in the reform package.
The aim of reform as a whole is to adapt the Organization
to its new challenges, to make it more effective and
efficient, more manageable and modern in every way. We
are now remodelling this Organization to make it
compatible with the twenty-first century. The world has
changed — the United Nations has to change with it.
Having criteria for the appraisal of performance seems to
be of crucial importance. Result-based budgeting should
assure a strengthened linkage between intergovernmental
mandates and their efficient implementation. Enhanced
cost effectiveness envisaged for 1998-1999 is also an
encouraging sign.
Estonia lends strong support to the idea of cutting
the number of agenda items for future sessions. We also
find the idea of consolidating the representation of
different United Nations funds and programmes in
97-86122 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Member States on common premises and under one flag to
be very attractive. United Nations Houses would enhance
the visibility of the Organization and provide a valuable
source of information about it and its activities. I would
like to note the positive experience Estonia has gathered in
cooperation with the local United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) country office. Many programmes
vital to Estonia have materialized owing to the support of
the UNDP. We highly appreciate this cooperation and hope
that the future United Nations House will be able to use
that valuable expertise.
The financing of the United Nations is a question that
interests all of us. Without adequate financing,
the
Organization would not be able to fulfil its mandate. This
fifty-second session of the General Assembly must assess
the impact of the Secretary-General’s proposed reforms on
the programme budget for 1998-1999 and define a new
scale of assessments for
its Member States. Estonia
supports the Secretary-General’s reform measures aimed at
enhancing the Organization’s effectiveness and better
implementation of its programmes by reducing excessive
and unnecessary expenditures.
With regard to the new scale of assessments, Estonia
would like to see a more transparent scale based on the
fundamental principle of capacity to pay to be adopted. All
measures should lead towards putting the Organization on
a sound and predictable financial footing. We believe that
the main prerequisite for achieving this goal is that Member
States clear their arrears to the regular as well as to the
peacekeeping budgets. Estonia is committed to doing so.
We welcome the appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson,
former President of Ireland, to the position of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights. Estonia supports the plan
for the consolidation of the Centre for Human Rights and
the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights
into one office. We would also like to stress the importance
that we attach to adequate financing of the Organization’s
human rights machinery.
the perception of
Two major events have occurred in the past year in
the field of economic and social cooperation. The first of
them was the adoption of the Agenda for Development.
Estonia shares
the importance of
development issues for the United Nations. Health and
education should also be high priorities. The second such
event was the nineteenth special session of the General
Assembly,
to review the
implementation of Agenda 21, the global plan of action for
sustainable development adopted in Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
aim of which was
the
2
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
Although the special session acknowledged the positive
it also
results which have been achieved since Rio,
expressed concern over worsened overall
trends for
sustainable development. In this regard, we expect the
fifty-second session of the General Assembly to give
further political impetus to the implementation of the
mandates and tasks defined at the session.
In Estonia, we believe that our task today is to
provide the present generation with the safe, good-quality
living environment and resources needed to promote a
strong and diversified economy without compromising the
needs of future generations. For that reason, over the last
five years Estonia has signed, ratified and acceded to
more than 40 bilateral and multilateral environment
agreements and conventions. We have also established the
Governmental Commission on Sustainable Development,
led by the Prime Minister. Estonia is working closely
with the countries in the Baltic Sea area to develop a
Baltic region sustainable development strategy.
I would like to stress the importance that we attach
to the consideration of economic and social issues by the
General Assembly. With this in view, the work of the
Second
should be
rationalized in order to avoid any overlap and duplication.
and Third Main Committees
One of the central areas of the reform concerns
renewing the Security Council. This year, Member States
must continue efforts to achieve the goal of making the
Council more representative and to improve its working
methods. Estonia elaborated its position in cooperation
with a group of smaller
like-minded countries. We
support enlargement in both existing categories. We also
view Germany and Japan as potential new permanent
members of the Council. The developing countries of
Asia, Africa
should also be
represented on a permanent basis.
and Latin America
Disarmament has been one of the United Nations
priority goals since its founding. In fact, disarmament
efforts have yielded considerable progress. The conclusion
of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty last year
was an important step forward.
One of the important responsibilities of the United
Nations is managing conflicts — acting rapidly in the
face of crises. Peacekeeping continues to be an important
activity of the Organization. In recent years, we have
been witnessing a change in the role of United Nations
peacekeeping missions. United Nations peacekeepers have
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
been facing the challenge of dealing with internal conflicts
throughout the world.
of
to
peacekeepers
Estonia is continuing to take part in United Nations
peacekeeping. An Estonian company has recently completed
its successful deployment in the United Nations Interim
Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). Together with Latvia and
Lithuania, we are looking forward to contributing a
battalion
the United Nations
peacekeeping operations. The battalion, called BALTBAT,
will be operational from the beginning of 1998. I would
like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all Member
States of the Organization that have been participating in
this project. The initial experience of Baltic peacekeepers
in United Nations peacekeeping missions has shown how
regional cooperation evolves into global cooperation. The
Baltic preparedness to merge as a joint battalion is an
element strengthening regional security. It proves our
readiness to assume responsibility as well as our right to
choose our own means of security. Estonia is currently
contributing civilian police officers and military observers.
We have also joined the United Nations peacekeeping
standby arrangement.
We strongly believe in the cooperation of the United
Nations with regional organizations in all parts of the
world. Reliance on the expertise and capacities of these
organizations would allow us to avoid duplication and
allocate scarce resources in the most effective manner. We
do have examples of fruitful cooperation with regional
entities. In Europe, we have been witnessing joint United
Nations actions, in particular with the Organization for
Security and Cooperation (OSCE) in Europe and with the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
We would like to note that
the structure and
composition of regional organizations is changing. The
European Union and NATO are gradually opening to new
members. This is a very important phenomenon in the
process towards enhancing stability and security in our
region. Estonia associates its future with full membership
in both of these organizations.
In conclusion, let me express my sincere hope that on
the eve of the twenty-first century mankind is willing to
reverse its classical interpretation of the past so eloquently
expressed at
the dawn of this century by the English
novelist and poet Thomas Hardy:
“War makes rattling good history; but Peace is poor
reading.” [Thomas Hardy, The Dynasts, pt. II, Spirit
Sinister]
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
The President: The next speaker is the Deputy
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and National
Security and Attorney-General of Belize, His Excellency
the Honourable Dean Barrow.
Mr. Barrow (Belize): Permit me first to offer you,
Sir, the congratulations of Belize’s delegation on your
election, and the assurance of our fullest cooperation as
you follow through on the accomplishments of your
distinguished predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail of Malaysia.
As the world shifts gears towards a preoccupation
with what could be described as millennium fever, our
annual stocktaking exercise becomes particularly poignant.
And if truth be told,
the record of our success —
measured against the historical vision of the founders and
against current challenges — is not an unsullied one.
Nevertheless, in every sphere of human endeavour, in
every tangible advance of
the
signature of the United Nations can be found. We have
contributed to fundamental changes for good in the fabric
of the global community. Of course, and as is always the
case with less than perfect man-made enterprises, our job
is far from done.
international comity,
As the Secretary-General noted in his report on the
work of
the Organization, we live in an era of
realignment. Belize shares his view that this Organization
has to continue adjusting to the changes which envelop
today’s world, so as to maintain the balance in favour of
a more secure and predictable peace, greater economic
well-being, social justice and environmental sustainability.
Despite sea changes in the international climate, the
relevance of the original objectives of the Organization’s
Charter remains acute. There is still need to respond
rapidly to threats to international peace and security.
Economic and social development must be further
advanced. Human rights, the rule of law and the ideals of
democratic, accountable governance must be concretized
in our daily life. And the changes, such as globalization
and reshaping of the United Nations environment must
strengthen the commitment of nations large and small to
international cooperation. The one fundamental lesson that
the experience of the last 52 years has taught is that we
cannot go it alone. There is large benefit to be derived
from multilateralism; and to our mind the United Nations
is the one organization with the wherewithal and capacity
to take global action on a global agenda.
We have been promised that the renewed United
Nations system sought by the Secretary-General will
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
become both more effective and more efficient. The
extensive and far-reaching set of changes proposed in his
Programme for Reform are said to be designed to achieve
greater unity of purpose, coherence of effort and flexibility
in response. Belize therefore joins with those voices
applauding the attempt to strengthen and streamline the
United Nations and enhance its institutional capacity. My
delegation will eagerly await opportunities to hear comment
and will participate in joint analysis of the proposed
Programme for Reform.
next step of political union. While this is logical, it is also
a quantum leap.
Now, for juridical and historical reasons, Belize can
only be an observer in this process. But we wish to assure
our Central American brothers that in our heart of hearts
we too are Morazanistas. We too are uplifted and inspired
by this great visionary. And we sympathize keenly with
the spirit of the legacy that now animates his modern-day
progeny.
One major hindrance to the Organization’s capacity is
its dire financial situation. We have noted proposals within
the Secretary-General’s Programme for Reform designed to
ensure a viable financial basis for the Organization. It is my
delegation’s view, however, that there is still a need for
greater clarification if financial solvency is to be assured.
We are not entirely convinced that the creation of the
proposed Revolving Credit Fund will alleviate the situation.
We would rather see implementation of measures for
harsher censure in cases of tardiness in meeting obligations.
Let us again state our view that this Organization should be
granted some measure of autonomy in generating revenue
from sources outside national Administrations.
There is an ongoing parallel at
the national and
organizational level aimed at economizing. Streamlining,
downsizing, or the process of retrenchment by any name,
carries with it a human cost. We must therefore make every
effort to ensure that the product of reform is greater than
the sum of its parts. Within this context, we wish to offer
the caution that in our eagerness to integrate Secretariat
entities and units the critical thrust and focus of various
departments, divisions and programmes, should not be lost.
The gasp of the weak and poor all too frequently can barely
be heard above the loudly trumpeted agenda of powerful
constituencies.
Democracy, human rights and the rule of law have
taken on renewed paramountcy, particularly in the post-
conflict societies of Latin America. Good governance is the
foundation upon which we build structures to ensure
sustainable development and durable peace. In both the
subregions to which Belize belongs this is a principle that
achieves practical as well as intellectual expression. And we
find this fact noteworthy:
internal
conflicts convulsed the isthmus, the countries of Central
America have been able democratically and constitutionally
to reinvigorate their societies. It is also remarkable that so
harmoniously has their economic integration movement
advanced, that they are now prepared to contemplate the
that so soon after
In the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
the
coming of the single market is only the most dramatic
expression of a new solidarity that Belize enthusiastically
embraces. We continue to draw vital sustenance from
what is, after all, a West Indian partnership rooted in a
shared love for, and practice of, democracy, a democracy
that is not resting on its laurels, but that is engaged now
in a process of revitalization based on the urgent search
for collective economic security and social advance.
The proposals for reform encompass suggestions to
achieve greater coordination and cooperation among the
United Nations agencies and entities which help nations
like mine pursue the central priority of sustainable
development. We hope, however, that the effectiveness
and responsiveness of individual agencies will not be
compromised.
More will have to be said about seeking innovative
means to attract greater capital to finance development.
The argument
that a development dividend can be
realized by a shift of resources from administration to
development activities, is not, to our mind, persuasive.
Any possible savings in administrative costs could hardly
be adequate enough to make significant progress in our
collective effort to eradicate poverty.
We have yet
to hear any general admission of
satisfaction with the outcome of the nineteenth special
session of the General Assembly to review and appraise
the implementation of Agenda 21 and other agreements
reached at
the 1992 United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development. The special session
clearly did not meet expectations for the adoption of clear
targets, commitments and specific initiatives as we
progress along the road from Rio. Long-term commitment
and concerted action in the field are still critical if we are
to continue to meet the needs of a rapidly increasing
global population without depleting the resource base on
which our very subsistence depends.
4
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We are heartened that the practical agreements reached
at the so-called Earth Summit + 5 included those of major
concern to small island developing States, such as climate
change, tourism and natural disasters. Belize, a country with
a low-lying coastal plain, several coral atolls and more than
100 coral islands, experiences challenges similar to those
that face small island developing States. At the United
Nations we participate within the very active Alliance of
to the
Small
implementation of
the
Sustainable Development of Small
Island Developing
States, adopted at the 1994 Global Conference in Barbados.
We look forward to the in-depth assessment of
the
Barbados Programme to be conducted at the forthcoming
two-day special session to be held immediately preceding
the fifty-fourth regular session of the General Assembly.
Island States, and we remain faithful
the Programme of Action for
Belize will continue to insist that the constituency of
low-lying coastal States be accorded the deserved support
of the international community so that we too may share in
the tangible benefits to be accrued.
Countries like mine will also increasingly depend upon
the United Nations to steer the way forward in building the
new framework within which developed and developing
nations interact. Against the backdrop of globalization and
market liberalization, a new partnership is called for. The
role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) and the regional commissions in
examining the issues pertinent
to globalization and
development and the effective integration of developing
countries into the international trading system is especially
key, for the recent negative rulings by the World Trade
Organization on the European Union banana regime, which
secured access for African, Caribbean and Pacific countries,
fully demonstrate the dangers
in unbridled
liberalization shorn of consideration for the special needs of
small, vulnerable and disadvantaged economies.
inherent
In the current climate, it is perhaps basest apostasy to
question the new catechism of free trade. “Revisionism” is
a bad word, and heresy will no doubt be swiftly repaid by
excommunication. But has not
the zeal of the convert
blinded us to the humanism of the original aims of
preferential access? After all, this was not some hopelessly
capricious or unreasoning altruism. Preferential access
regimes represented, rather, a real and sincere effort to
enable small developing countries to produce for the
international marketplace, to offer their societies a chance
at a decent standard of living and to assure them a special
stake in the global economy.
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
Although economic thinking has changed,
the
objective conditions of poor countries have not. Fervent
recitation of the new mantra alone can never wipe out the
diseconomies of scale for small, primary-producing States.
We cannot now compete on equal terms. Yet our calls go
unheeded for the comprehensive capital
inflows and
technical assistance so vitally necessary to achieve the
structural adjustment that will enable us to participate
equitably in the new trading arrangements. I repeat to the
industrialized world what surely has now become our cri
de coeur: do not cut off our legs, then tell us to run.
Development
is still one of the most
important
aspirations in today’s world. To return to my earlier
complaint,
the achievement of economic growth and
sustainable development has not been balanced throughout
the five regions that United Nations comprises. It is an
understatement to say that globalization and economic
liberalization have had a different kind of impact on some
of us. A few nations now enjoy the increased well-being,
while
deepening
marginalization.
visited
only
by
others
are
The recently adopted United Nations Agenda for
Development stresses the role of the Organization in
development matters. The Agenda is one concrete manner
in which we can collectively address the issues and
in particular,
problems relevant
development’s
relationship with
peace,
democracy, good governance and human rights.
to development and,
peculiar
Belize repeats its call for an annual observance by
the General Assembly at which development policy would
be the focus of debate. Such encounters could maintain
the Agenda’s impetus, as well as provide a forum for
discussing effective and coordinated follow-through with
regard to commitments made at
the several global
conferences.
Preventive diplomacy and peacemaking are still the
best means at the Organization’s disposal in its efforts at
conflict avoidance. The wide range of activities carried
out in the name of preventive diplomacy must ever be
mindful that success can be guaranteed only with the
consent of all parties.
Both the Security Council
and the General
Assembly, in extending existing operations or authorizing
additional ones, must continue to issue clear mandates. In
the light of
the financial situation, some collective
discipline will have to be applied in authorizing mandates
when adequate resources are not available.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
On a related subject, we have learned of efforts under
way to develop the Organization’s
rapid-deployment
capability. This dimension is necessary, but any deployment
in this sense must withstand the scrutiny of national
consent. Again, we would prefer to see the preventive
aspect stressed rather than the enforcement side. Further, a
rapid-reaction capability is not needed solely to respond to
threats to peace in the traditional sense. Recent measures
employed to enhance the Organization’s humanitarian
response to both man-made and natural disasters are also
demonstrative of the requirement for the institutionalization
of a rapid-response capability.
In the Secretary-General’s programme for reform,
deserved emphasis is placed on strengthening international
cooperation to combat the new threats to civil society. The
deleterious effects of crime, drugs and terrorism know no
borders.
The administrative changes to be instituted by the
Secretariat to focus action through the United Nations crime
prevention and criminal justice programme should give us
the upper hand in waging war against the forces of uncivil
society.
Countries such as mine expend huge amounts of
limited resources in addressing these concerns, which, in a
small State, can amount to nothing less than threats to
national security. Further, we are convinced that the global
nature of
level of
international cooperation that can be achieved. This must
embody the concept of multilateralism and reject unilateral
devices which disrespect the sovereignty of States.
the problem requires the highest
Belize’s
respect
for
affirming
declaration
the
personality, sovereignty and independence of States, which
was sponsored by 30 members of the Organization of
American States (OAS) at the twenty-seventh session of its
General Assembly at Lima, Peru, speaks directly to this
issue and strongly promotes the spirit of partnership that
must underpin an interdependent approach to addressing the
common problem of narcotics trafficking and abuse.
International cooperation in this regard must mean the
just political, but also of economic,
avoidance of not
unilateralism. For example,
the banana industry in my
country may well be destroyed by the efforts of the very
people who claim to be our partners in the fight against
illicit drugs. We have a saying in Belize that the same knife
that sticks the sheep sticks the goat. If the prosperity of
strategically vulnerable southern Belize is to be sacrificed
now on the altar of the new orthodoxy, it will not be long
6
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
before the substitute blandishments of the drug trade
undermine our national anti-narcotics efforts to the point
where they too become only burnt offerings at the feet of
the deity. The immutable, compassionless law of the
market is very much a two-edged sword.
It is in this context that the forthcoming special
session of the General Assembly on illicit drugs is
especially timely.
It will afford Member States an
opportunity to discuss joint action in preventing money
laundering, international cooperation in judicial affairs and
law enforcement. But the debate must be a thoroughly
holistic one that looks carefully at the interrelatedness of
economic well-being and effective anti-narcotics policies.
We commend the prudence of this Assembly in its
decision that the Open-ended Working Group on the
Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in
the Membership of the Security Council and Other
Matters Related to the Security Council should continue
deliberations during the current session.
In the absence of any general agreement within the
Working Group, Belize would find it difficult to accept a
strict deadline in relation to Council expansion. Further,
we do not wish to see qualitative distinctions in the
decision making ability of existing and possible new
permanent members. We note with gratitude that Belize’s
comprehensive proposals on the subject are still included
among the views being considered.
On another issue related to reform, the principles of
equitability and universality confer urgency on the claim
for consideration of the Republic of China on Taiwan.
Twenty-one million people living in a successful, robust
and prosperous democracy should be entitled at the very
least to a discussion of their circumstances. The blanket
“no”, the annual ritual that continues to slam the door
shut on even the possibility of debating their aspirations,
is irrational and unenlightened. A way must be found to
review this situation in a manner consistent with the
rights of the parties and the spirit of the Charter.
This Organization, it appears, is completing a period
of intense self-examination and introspection. We must
continue to counter the influences that would ascribe a
diminished role to multilateralism. Our flexibility and a
visible search for consensus have enabled us to retool.
We are demonstrating that we are still equal to the tasks
ahead. With reform and renewal moving to the fore this
year, it is clear that the crisis of confidence is over.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
With an able chief executive, the United Nations is
now, therefore, strengthening and repositioning itself to
surmount the challenges that face us.
It is our sincere wish that in the weeks ahead we will
reach a new pass in our great undertaking, and that
momentous debate will result in keen, relevant and timely
decision-making.
The President: I now call on the Chairman of the
delegation of Antigua and Barbuda, His Excellency
Mr. Patrick Albert Lewis.
Mr. Lewis (Antigua and Barbuda): On behalf of the
Government and people of Antigua and Barbuda, I would
like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside
over this fifty-second session of the General Assembly. You
are well known to many of the envoys to the United
Nations, and we feel confident that under your guidance we
will have a productive session. I likewise wish to express
my country’s recognition to the Permanent Representative
of Malaysia, for the manner in which he conducted the
work of the fifty-first session. I also pay tribute to the
Secretary-General, who is entrusted with the advancement
of this Organization at such a critical time in its history.
One cannot walk through the edifices of the United
Nations without being asked to comment on the reform
process and the value of the number of conferences that the
Organization has staged. The conferences of this decade
have certainly had an impact on our understanding of
certain concepts, practices and generationally imparted
decisions,
beliefs. Though we
implementation has proved to be difficult,
and a
fundamental aspect of the reason or reasons for this is that
the United Nations needs to be reformed, and Governments
need to zealously renew their commitments to its existence
and continued advancement.
taken many
have
The Secretary-General’s report is most welcome, and
there are many points on which my country is in agreement
and others on which we think continued discussion and
debate are needed. Peace, security and disarmament are
vital
to a safe and secure planet, and the countless
individuals who live daily in constant fear — whether
because of
terrorists, hatred between ethnic groups,
internecine warfare or religious persecution — gives us
much concern.
The Organization must have trained and equipped
forces at all times, and the decision of a group of Member
States to participate in the establishment of a standby high-
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
readiness brigade is most encouraging. Additionally, there
is a need for the demobilization of paramilitary groups,
for demining and for an intensification of peacemaking,
peacekeeping and peace-building. Subsequently,
the
problems associated with financing peace operations need
to be addressed in a meaningful manner.
Antigua and Barbuda strongly supports the concept
of results-based budgeting and endorses the proposal to
have the Secretary-General and the representatives of
Member States enter into a dialogue aimed at shifting the
United Nations programme budget from a system of input
accounting to one of
results-based accountability.
Likewise, my country welcomes the reforms already put
in place in the Secretariat, through which field operations
have been considerably expanded, as a result of
cooperation between the Department of Political Affairs,
the Department
the
Department of Humanitarian Affairs and other relevant
departments.
of Peacekeeping Operations,
We are anxiously looking forward to June of next
year, when the diplomatic conference on the need to
establish an international criminal court will convene.
This undertaking is long overdue, and Antigua and
Barbuda has been working with neighbouring countries to
thwart the dangers of increased international crime, which
is so active in this hemisphere. Of particular concern is
the need for greater coordination among nations if the
blight of narcotics is to be meaningfully tackled. Strong
and determined efforts within certain countries will be
seriously undermined if there is not a united global
approach to manifestations and practices which will
destroy not only the fabric of our societies but the lives
of countless individuals.
The most talked-about aspect of reform, however, is
the “Question of equitable representation on and increase
in the membership of the Security Council and related
matters”. Numerous proposals on the question have been
advanced, some adding more confusion to the existing
deliberations. As such, Antigua and Barbuda wishes to
reiterate its declared position that any expansion should
include developing countries, and that both the Group of
African States and the Group of Latin American and
Caribbean States should be represented.
We would similarly like to see certain restrictions
placed on the use of the veto. We understand that all
efforts at restructuring and reform in the United Nations,
however, should be focused on economic growth and
development. In addition, my country is calling for a
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
reversal in the diminishing role of the General Assembly.
The accountability of the Security Council to the General
Assembly must be re-emphasized, and the General
its role in the
Assembly should more actively assert
maintenance of
in
accordance with General Assembly resolution 377 (V) of 3
November 1950, entitled “Uniting for peace”.
international peace and security,
The buzzword that we are constantly hearing is
“globalization”. Those of us
from small developing
countries would rather have the emphasis placed on poverty
alleviation, but
the present-day reality incorporates the
belief that the emphasized process of globalization and
economic integration is unavoidable. There are new
techniques of production and new forms of organization
which have given flexibility to the location of industrial
activities and have reduced the share of wages
in
production costs. In many of our democratic societies
throughout the world, where sacrifices have been made to
reduce unemployment, Governments are faced with the
daunting and even frightening reality that
is
becoming a dispensable commodity. The International
Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade
Organization all are promoting the emergence of a global
market. The small countries of the Caribbean are forced to
adapt, and our businessmen must accept the reality that the
concept of protected markets is fast disappearing.
labour
The multilateral financial institutions which provide
resources to developing countries at concessional rates
continue to use the gross national product as a basis for
judging our economic wherewithal. Antigua and Barbuda is
deemed to be middle-income, but
the reality of my
country’s various vulnerabilities causes our people and
those of other Caribbean countries to bow to the flattery
and highlight the unjustness of this means of measurement.
Our sister island of Montserrat has recently had a
series of severe volcanic eruptions which have caused the
inhabitants much pain and anguish, and Antigua and
Barbuda, along with other Caribbean Community countries,
has endeavoured to render assistance. As a result,
the
population of Antigua and Barbuda has increased by some
5 percent, which means that the resources of Government
for housing, health, education and all other services are
strained. Our citizens have, however,
rendered much
support, and Antigua and Barbuda will do all in its power
to help alleviate the plight of our brothers and sisters from
that lovely but now unsafe island. We strongly support the
recommendation of the Committee of 24 that the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the United
Nations Development Programme should move swiftly to
8
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
in alleviating the plight of
assist
beleaguered population of
Caribbean.
the Emerald Isle of
the sturdy but
the
There
are other dangerous volcanoes
in the
Caribbean, and one is presently forming undersea in the
vicinity of Grenada.
In 1974 Antigua and Barbuda
experienced an earthquake which measured 7.8 on the
Richter scale and which caused considerable destruction.
In 1995 Hurricane Luis unleashed its fury on our country
for 48 hours and was declared to have been the worst
storm of the century. Indeed, a single hurricane can set
back our development some 10 years. Yet
the gross
national product continues to be used to measure our
economic performance, resulting in the absurd distortion
of Antigua and Barbuda’s being deemed more developed
than Mexico or Brazil.
We are pleased to read that at the 1995 Copenhagen
World Summit for Social Development, the conclusion
was reached that an economic system has no intrinsic
value. It has to be assessed in relation to the betterment
of the human condition. As such, a good economic
system should of necessity provide opportunities for
sufficient income to all members of the society; generate
enough resources to enable public institutions to fulfil
their responsibilities and promote the common good; and
permit, in addition to the government, participation by
citizens and other public and private actors in the
decision-making process. To this end, the Government of
Antigua and Barbuda is presently holding meetings in
various forums to discuss precisely the realities of
globalization and the achievement of a single market
within the Caribbean Community.
In June of this year a special session of the General
Assembly was held on the overall review and appraisal of
the implementation of Agenda 21. Though there was
disappointment at the outcome due to the inability of
countries to coalesce around a common position or
common commitments, there was the clear recognition
that the threat to the global commons remains a profound
reality. There
and
degradation of what has been bequeathed to mankind,
whether in regard to overfishing, overgrazing, excessive
destruction of forests, or air and water pollution. We have
collectively failed to capitalize on the promise and
accomplishments of the 1992 Rio Conference.
overexploitation
continued
is
Nine out of ten people in both the developed and
developing world have no idea what the term “sustainable
development” means and how it affects them. Nine out of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
ten also have little appreciation of why mutual recognition
and mutual action are necessary. People have not been
made partners in the process of sustainable development,
and Governments should do more to make them so by
education via the mass media, in the schools, in public
debate and in public presentations.
The industrialized countries must take the lead in
changing their patterns of production and consumption to
save the global environment and assist developing countries
such as mine in our effort to meet our peoples’ basic needs,
to eradicate poverty and achieve economic growth. During
the special session in June, Caribbean newspapers reported
that every Caribbean representative zeroed in on the
“poverty issue”.
To eradicate poverty and achieve economic growth is
not an easy task and has been further compounded by the
fact that official development assistance, a crucial part of
the Rio agreements, has fallen from 0.33 per cent in 1992
to 0.27 per cent in 1995. This is well below the agreed and
accepted target of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product
of the industrialized countries pledged to development
in official development
assistance. The precipitous fall
assistance
burden
sustainable
development unfairly to developing countries, destroying in
the process the equitable balance which was reached at that
very important Conference. Private capital and foreign
direct
the panacea for
sustainable development
in developing countries, have
shown only selective benefits to some countries and have
bypassed the vast majority. A combination of private capital
flows, foreign direct investment and debt relief as part of an
overall financial package may be a solution.
investment, once touted as
shifted
has
the
for
an integrated approach to
In recognizing that
is necessary, since political,
sustainable development
economic, social and environmental
issues are closely
interlinked and intertwined, we cannot overlook the integral
role that women can and should play in the quest for
sustainable development. In Rio, women were considered
a major group whose involvement was necessary to receive
the sought-after goals. Mainstreaming women’s concerns
and participation in the planning,
implementation and
monitoring of all development and management of
environmental programmes to ensure that women benefit is
necessary for sustainable development. In this regard, we
call on the multilateral and bilateral donors to increase their
support for women’s organizations in countries such as
mine to enable them to play an active role in all aspects of
the developmental process.
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
the fact
There is, however,
the need to reduce the speed of
thrust. Dominant Governments
that we must stress
the
repeatedly:
globalization
and
institutions are setting deadlines and establishing agendas
with such severe demands that most other actors find
them impossible
to
participation, as it now stands, is marginalization. If all
countries are required to fully participate, then there is a
clear need for selective linking processes with reference
to both national circumstances and national cultures.
follow. The
alternative
to
This brings me to the vexing question of bananas.
The undoing of the Lomé trade agreement and the injury
which this hostile act will
inflict on small, banana-
exporting countries of
the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States, of which Antigua and Barbuda is a
member, is tantamount to an act of war. Small, peace-
loving States, causing no harm to any other State under
the terms of the Lomé agreement, have found themselves
yoked by the recent World Trade Organization ruling.
Without some form of protection, the banana industry in
the States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
would collapse, leading to severe social dislocation which
would ultimately manifest itself in political catastrophe.
Be reminded that on more than one occasion,
the
President of the United States has cautioned that in this
galloping global economy,
small States cannot be
trampled upon by their large neighbours.
When my country chose to host in May of this year
the regional seminar of the Committee of 24, better
known as the Special Committee on Decolonization, it
was because we knew that the Caribbean has many other
obstacles to overcome in the emerging history of our
region and the global community. Highlighted at
the
meeting was the principled position of
the Special
Committee that the sustained economic growth and social
advancement of the Non-Self-Governing Territories is an
essential prerequisite of
the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples. Of necessity, particular attention
has to be given to the environment, natural disaster
mitigation, public health, education, economic self-
sufficiency,
the prevention of crime and illicit drug
trafficking.
the implementation of
The Non-Self-Governing Territories of the Caribbean
have the same problems as the independent countries in
regard to narcotics. There is a multidimensional thrust
upon our
to
governability by non-State actors, the drug operators.
Caribbean countries additionally have to contend with
challenge
entities,
there
the
as
is
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
extraterritoriality and other forms of sovereignty challenges
from other States, primarily because of conflicting interests
and because the Caribbean States are small and lack
significant power.
markets, they are human societies. Markets must be our
servant, not our master. Clearly, the reality of commerce
is global, but
the paths to human development have
historically been proven to be local.
The
countries
of CARICOM are,
however,
endeavouring to improve most aspects of their existence,
and new ground in the integration arrangement has been
broken. Haiti has joined the ranks of CARICOM, a
development which is considered to be of
immense
significance, and we wish to applaud the decision to have
the United Nations Mission in Haiti extended. There has
been further movement
towards the CARICOM single
market and economy. When Protocol II is ratified, the
ground will be laid for the free movement of factors of
production among countries which have agreed to be bound
by its provisions. A plan is being developed for the
sustainability of both tourist and airline industries in the
region. Approval was given to a comprehensive human
resource development plan for the specific purpose of
building a more creative and productive workforce in the
Caribbean.
the countries of CARICOM are
endeavouring to overcome the major legacy of colonialism:
being placed on the periphery of the industrialized world.
Indeed,
As a collective body seeking the betterment of
mankind, the countries which form the United Nations need
to recognize that human advancement requires managing
markets as well as liberating them. Clearly, unbridled
markets tend to produce a race to the bottom, manifested
through a global search for the location with the weakest
regulatory, environmental, social and labour standards.
What is required is for rich and poor countries to have a
commonality of purpose that ensures a path of sustainable
development. Year after year my country pleads for genuine
acceptance of the principle of multilateralism, yet what is
projected under the banner is of a selective nature projected
by and through the powerful and the dominant. Together
we must find a way towards a global regime that reduces
emissions of greenhouse gases, accepting the necessity of
well-off nations to transfer the technology to make this
possible
another
opportunity for private industry to profit.
than viewing this
rather
shift
as
It is sad that competitiveness can be pushed in a
direction which handicaps and retards human development.
State socialism failed, and in the process deprived hundreds
of millions of individuals of both liberty and prosperity.
Market forces, taken to the extreme, yield poorly distributed
rates of growth, plunder the natural environment and are
most devastating in regard to the wreckage of humans. The
just emerging
States of the developing world are not
10
century,
twenty-first
In approaching the
the
Government of the twin island States of Antigua and
Barbuda has decided that
it should focus on human
capital and its development rather than focusing narrowly
on the economic question. There will be a continuance of
the policy of carrying out
intense investigations and
feasibility studies to decide where to concentrate limited
resources. In addition, even though the Government is
divesting itself of some of its holdings and encouraging
greater
and
commodities,
there are some areas, particularly those
surrounding technology, in which the Government has to
remain directly involved and catalytic; it will continue
with its practice of seeking consensus on determining key
industries
for
development.
investment
activities
in vital
services
private
and
crucial
and
critical
We will continue to take pride in and to cherish the
United Nations, as we recognize its capacity for
achievements in areas beyond the reach of national or
regional authorities. Now the nations which comprise this
body must redouble their collective commitment for
translating vision into reality. That is why it is essential
to have international cooperation for development in the
forefront of our activities. The United Nations is still our
greatest hope for peace, development and social justice.
The President:
I call now on His Excellency
Mr. Ahmed Attaf, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Algeria.
Mr. Attaf (Algeria) (interpretation from Arabic):
Your election to the presidency of the General Assembly
at its fifty-second session, Sir, gives me the pleasant
opportunity to congratulate you most warmly and to wish
you all the best for success in carrying out the noble task
entrusted to you.
I wish also to pay tribute to your predecessor,
Ambassador Razali Ismail, who discharged his mandate
with a skill and effectiveness that earned our respect and
appreciation.
My praise goes also to Mr. Kofi Annan, who since
taking up his duties has worked with courage and
selflessness to revitalize the Organization with a view to
bringing it
into step with the times and with the
aspirations of the peoples it brings together.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the
and
that
reconfirmed
We are meeting once again at a time when it is being
confirmed
international
Organization is facing a comprehensive transition involving
two fundamental questions: whether mankind is able, first,
to form a concept of the Organization and to put that
concept
to ensure that the
concept and its implementation enjoy universal participation
rather than being the sole preserve of the dominant Powers.
into practice, and secondly,
The fact is that this transition has both a political and
a strategic dimension. Now, soon after the cold war, the
closure of the East-West rift and the end of the bipolar
system, we must find a new pattern of balances in order to
establish a new, more just and more unified world order, a
world order that respects the interests and aspirations of all,
a world order that quite simply restores the values and
ideals on which our Organization was built.
This transitional phase also has a basic economic
dimension: the challenge of globalization, which must be
faced by us all in unity so that there will be room for the
aspirations of each of us. The test
to master
globalization, for unbridled globalization would bring new
setbacks and new exclusions, which would pose a threat to
all.
is
thus
threats
far misunderstood
Finally, this transition has a new dimension: that of
or
coping with
underestimated, such as the scourges of
international
terrorism, drug trafficking, international organized crime
and environmental degradation. In a related vein, we must
share the objective of establishing States based on the rule
of
the
foundation of
relations we are
building.
law, human rights and good governance as
the new international
Clearly, the United Nations is an active partner in this
global transition; hence, it must first of all adapt itself to
ongoing changes so that it can influence their development.
The Secretary-General has in fact taken the good step of
beginning reflection along these lines,
for which we
commend him, and has taken the initiative to reform the
Organization.
Here, let me share some of my thoughts on this great
plan for the future.
thought
My first
is somewhat methodological
in
nature. In the package of reforms submitted we distinctly
see those which come within the sole purview of the
Secretary-General of our Organization, and he has the right
as well as the duty to implement these reforms. But at the
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
same time, it is equally clear that other proposed reforms
come only within the purview of Member States, which
must naturally discuss them before taking a decision.
of
My second thought gives me the opportunity first of
all to express our satisfaction at the inclusion of new
priorities in United Nations activities — be they in the
area
the
environment, combating terrorism or the crackdown on
drug trafficking. These are all new universal concerns,
and the United Nations has a central place in dealing with
them.
humanitarian
affairs,
human
rights,
Having said that, the objective of streamlining our
Organization’s activities should not sacrifice what has
been and remains the very reason for being of the United
Nations — the two pillars on which it has always rested,
namely peace and development.
From this standpoint, international cooperation for
development, as much as international security and
disarmament affairs, must not suffer on account of the
restructuring contemplated. Otherwise, the credibility and
effectiveness of the United Nations would be eroded in
these areas of action, which are destined to remain at the
forefront of the challenges which our countries will have
to face.
My third thought concerns the financial crisis of our
Organization. Proposals made by the Secretary-General,
be it
to introduce a new culture of management of
resources or to create a revolving fund, are of some
interest. However, it is important that Member States be
motivated, first and foremost, by the obligation they have
pursuant to the provisions of the Charter to pay their
contribution to the budget of the Organization regularly
and fully. This, in effect, is where we find the genuine
and lasting solution to a problem which seems to go on
indefinitely and which should be distinguished and solved
as such, without its serving as justification for depriving
the United Nations of essential functions which it intends
to undertake in the service of all.
My fourth thought relates to the United Nations
General Assembly. If it has become absolutely necessary
today to streamline the work of this central body and to
re-examine its programme and work methods, we should,
by the same token, see to it that the Assembly continues
to be the special forum of States where essential issues
concerning peace, security and development can be
debated and considered. This is certainly one of the most
appropriate ways to ensure effective participation in the
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
management of world affairs, in our quest for solutions to
international
genuine
democratization of international relations.
problems,
promote
and
to
In the era of democracy, transparency and proper
management that we are claiming for our countries, there
is nothing more normal than to insist, together, on the same
values and principles in this Organization which unites us.
It is in this same spirit that we see the problem of the
legal nature of General Assembly decisions and resolutions,
which should be given the necessary effectiveness. It is also
in this spirit that we see the problem of re-balancing the
powers of the Secretary-General and the General Assembly,
which should come consistently within the scope of
redefining all the relationships among the principal organs
of the United Nations.
Finally, and this is my last thought, a revision of the
importance and
United Nations Charter
requires
our
Organization to a level on par with the vision, principles
and objectives which are inherent in it.
thought which would
is of crucial
in-depth
raise
In this same line of thought, and even if this goes
beyond the context of reforms proposed by the Secretary-
General, I would like to refer to the issue of the expansion
of the Security Council. The Council is, quite obviously,
the body whose role and responsibilities best reflect the
hopes, expectations and, above all,
the frustrations of
States. Consequently, it is important that the reform tries to
reflect correctly the qualitative and quantitative changes
which have taken place in international relations.
The enhancement of the political and moral authority,
as well as the legitimacy, of this vital body requires a
balanced representation within it, whether with regard to
permanent or non-permanent
seats. Furthermore, any
decisions regarding its expansion and the revision of its
methods of deliberation and decision-making would benefit
by having the broadest possible support of Member States.
The declaration of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of
the Non-Aligned Countries in New Delhi in April 1997,
which was reaffirmed here in New York, and that of
African heads of State and Government in Harare in June
1997 are, in this regard, valuable contributions for our
collective
and
functioning of the Security Council which we all hope will
serve our common expectations.
the membership
regarding
thinking
12
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
Among the new challenges facing the international
community, terrorism is the one which apparently is the
most formidable because of its threats not only to the
basic rights of
the individual but also to the very
democratic foundations of our societies. No State can
consider itself immune from these threats in the long run.
In this regard, we should welcome the international
community’s awareness which has taken shape of the real
nature of this phenomenon. This has been accompanied
by greater mobilization of efforts against this scourge,
which, above and beyond hindering economic and social
development of States, engenders the most serious
dangers to international peace and security. In addition,
we should welcome the decision of the General Assembly
to include the campaign against international terrorism
among the major priorities in its medium-term plan of
action. The present stage requires that we make effective
use of every achievement by guiding United Nations
action in an innovative and practical direction, based on
operational legal aspects of multilateral activities against
terrorism.
Mr. Kamara (Guinea), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
In the same vein, the conclusion of an international
convention to suppress acts of terrorism in an integrated,
global manner must be one of the major priority areas for
more effective international action. The international
community must, above all, resolutely respond to the
needs of the struggle against terrorism, depriving terrorists
of
sanctuary and strictly abiding by the relevant
international instruments.
In every sphere, Algeria is continuing to work for
the emergence and consolidation of mutually beneficial
frameworks for dialogue, solidarity and cooperation and
for the promotion of relations based on confidence,
mutual respect and common interest. That is what guides
Algeria in its commitment to building a Maghreb that is
united, acts in solidarity and is stable and prosperous.
Algeria, which has made the Maghreb project a national
priority, is resolved to work together with its partners
there to relaunch the process of building the Maghreb on
a solid and durable basis.
To this end, my country is contributing to the search
for a just and lasting solution to the question of Western
Sahara. Aware of
as both a
neighbouring country and an official observer of the
repeatedly urged the
Settlement Plan, Algeria has
responsibilities
its
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in Houston, resulting from the direct
international community to shoulder its responsibilities with
regard to the peace process in Western Sahara. The recent
agreement
talks
between the Kingdom of Morocco and the POLISARIO
Front, under the auspices of Mr. James Baker, the Personal
Envoy of the Secretary-General, brought a solution to
problems that had until then prevented implementation of
the United Nations Settlement Plan. This constitutes major
progress towards the final settlement of this conflict, and
Algeria, like the rest of the international community, is
delighted. Concerned for the stability and security of the
region, Algeria will continue to make a full contribution to
the efforts of the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy
aimed at the holding of a referendum to enable the people
of Western Sahara freely to exercise their right to self-
determination.
In the Mediterranean almost a quarter of a century ago
my country distinguished itself through its pioneering role
in highlighting the indivisible link between the two coasts
of our common sea with regard to security and cooperation
matters. The Helsinki process began at that time. Because
of its dedication to the Barcelona process, Algeria is today
continuing to work to establish and consolidate permanent
frameworks for dialogue and cooperation so as to ensure
that we deal in a satisfactory manner with the political,
security, economic and human concerns of all the States in
the European-Mediterranean theatre
the
legitimate aspirations of their peoples. We are encouraged
in this regard by the reaffirmation at the Second Euro-
Mediterranean Conference, held in Malta on 15 and 16
April 1997, of the dedication of the Mediterranean countries
to the Barcelona process, which rightly constitutes a major
political achievement that should be preserved and promoted.
as well
as
In the same context, I am pleased to refer to the
holding of the fourth meeting of Foreign Ministers of the
Mediterranean Forum in Algiers on 11 and 12 July. This
provided the European-Mediterranean theatre with a special
meeting place for dialogue to foster mutual understanding
and give a new dynamic to the promotion of the European-
Mediterranean partnership, at both the multilateral and
bilateral levels.
Within the Mediterranean theatre, recent developments
in the Middle East are in many respects causing great alarm
and legitimate concerns on the part of the international
community. Prospects for peace that were recently opened
up by the peace process now seem dangerously distant, and
fear of a return to confrontation is increasing every day.
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
At the heart of the current impasse are the Israeli
Administration’s renunciation of the Oslo declaration and
the Washington agreements; its negation of the principle
of land for peace and its refusal to resume negotiations at
the point at which they were suspended; and its
continuing policy of settlement, including in Al-Quds Al-
Sharif, where a programme of systematic judaization is
continuing. The Israeli Administration must understand
that only a lasting peace — that
is, a just and
comprehensive peace — can ensure genuine security for
all the peoples of the region.
The revitalization of the peace process requires the
Israeli Administration urgently to end its unilateral
actions, which are contrary to the spirit and letter of the
commitments that it entered into.
Similarly, it cannot indefinitely and with impunity go
against the will of the international community, which has
set as an absolute requirement for peace withdrawal from
the Golan and southern Lebanon, as well as the right to
self-determination of the Palestinian people, including
their right to an independent State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif
as its capital.
Also in that part of the world the Iraqi people are
continuing to suffer unjustly from the effects of a cruel
embargo. My country can only renew its appeal for the
lifting of sanctions, which have lasted for too long and
cannot be justified today. This appeal also applies to the
situation of the Libyan people, who also continue to be
subjected to an embargo that is as unjust as it is invalid.
Given the start of the process of disengagement from
Africa by the international community, and the dangers of
marginalization, Africa’s resurgence demonstrates its firm
determination to take charge of its destiny and to break
the cycle of dependence once and for all. This welcome
development
collective
determination of Africa
considerable
challenges that confront it by relying first and foremost
on its own resources. In fact, every day Africa gives the
lie to the theory that it is condemned to be a zone without
laws or development, a zone of insecurity and instability.
demonstrates
to face
the
the
also
The democracy and pluralism, which are gaining
ground every day in Africa and taking firm hold and the
economic growth at rates that are often spectacular, point
to new development prospects. At the same time, Africa
is showing a promising capacity for conflict management
and resolution.
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The establishment of the Organization of African
Unity Central Organ’s Mechanism for Conflict Prevention,
Management and Resolution and the Treaty setting up the
African Economic Community are the product of the spirit
of solidarity and mutual assistance which is rooted in
African culture and of a strategy for giving fresh impetus
to intra-African factors of integration and complementarity.
This is the forum to state that the international community
must encourage and help these praiseworthy efforts.
In this regard, we welcome the convening of a special
ministerial meeting of the Security Council on Africa,
which is a major political advance. We venture to hope that
we are thereby taking steps towards international solidarity
with the African continent, which will finally be considered
an active partner which cannot be excluded from
humankind’s great march towards the fulfilment of its
destiny.
The signs of recovery which have recently been
evident through the growth of the world economy are a real
source of satisfaction. However, this slight improvement
needs to be consolidated so as to make it the lasting trend
of the end of the century.
In this regard, it is particularly important that the
problems of development around the world, and particularly
in developing countries, be given priority, since the current
contribution of developing countries is still well below their
potential and falls short of the role they legitimately want
to play.
The phenomenon of globalization, which promises so
much, instead continues to bring great uncertainty to the
countries of the South, which is compounded by concern at
seeing many of
them further marginalized and even
excluded from the long-awaited overall development
process they so desire. This state of affairs is mainly due to
a structure of international relations still marked by the
North-South divide. It highlights the continuation of the
basically adverse nature of an international economic
environment characterized by the North’s
increasing
monopoly of the decisive elements of development: trade,
financial
and
investment, and technology transfer.
and stock markets,
flows of
capital
The countries of the South have made economically
and socially costly adjustments, and carried out bold
reforms in their quest for greater integration into world
trade, but they still encounter numerous difficulties. These
are aggravated by, inter alia: stifling external indebtedness;
a continued deterioration of the terms of trade; an alarming
14
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
decline in official development assistance; and an equally
worrying reduction of
international cooperation for
development in general.
that has
consensus
These disturbing trends are in contrast with the
global
emerged during major
international conferences organized over the past decade
under the auspices of the United Nations. They raise
legitimate questions as to the very future of the system
established to organize international cooperation for
development.
On the eve of the third millennium, and at a time
when we are trying to find consensus on the need to
reform our Organization to prepare it
to take up
challenges and face future tasks, we all need to do some
soul-searching. Tomorrow’s United Nations will be what
we, the peoples of the United Nations, want it to be. And
the new United Nations that our countries intend to build
will, above all, need to be freed from the mistakes and
bad habits of the past.
Yesterday, the United Nations was a melting pot for
the ideals and values that unite us; tomorrow its job is to
reconcile these ideals and values with all the expectations
of our peoples and nations that are still to be met. This
reform project should result in our ideals and values being
dealt with in the only way that matters, namely, turned
into a vision that become reality. This is what lies at the
heart of this major project which we can undertake for the
United Nations and, in the final analysis, for ourselves.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, His Excellency
Mr. Somsavat Lengsavad, on whom I now call.
Mr. Lengsavad (Lao People’s Democratic Republic)
(spoke in Laotian;
interpretation from French text
furnished by the delegation): In accordance with tradition,
I take this opportunity to begin by congratulating the
President most warmly on his assumption of
the
presidency of the fifty-second session of the United
Nations General Assembly. His unanimous election,
which has placed him in this highly responsible post in
this important international arena, is a warm tribute to his
country, Ukraine. I wish him every possible success in the
discharge of his difficult duties.
I would also like to congratulate his predecessor,
Mr. Razali Ismail, Permanent Representative of Malaysia,
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
on his dynamic presidency during the last session of the
General Assembly.
The Lao delegation also wishes to express
its
appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, our new Secretary-General,
for his good work so far. His first nine months at the helm
of our Organization have been a time of strenuous effort
and resolute action aimed at reforming our universal
Organization to make it more effective and better suited to
meeting today’s challenges. To our new Secretary-General,
we express our sincere wishes for success in shouldering
his weighty and great responsibilities.
The general trend towards dialogue and cooperation
between States and peoples for the progress of humankind
in this new era continues to characterize international
relations. Clearly, we are delighted because on the whole
this is highly positive. However, in several regions of the
world we still witness persistent tension and conflict, due
to interference in the internal affairs of States;
the
implementation of policies aimed at hegemony over
developing States; and tribal, ethnic, religious and other
divisions. This situation of
is a
potential
to peaceful coexistence and harmony
between States, and may even jeopardize the current
atmosphere of
cooperation to promote
development. In the interests of world peace, a sine qua
non for the promotion of socio-economic development, we
should work together patiently and resolutely,
to find
realistic and appropriate solutions as soon as possible.
tension and conflict
international
threat
In Europe, the peace accords signed in Dayton on 14
December 1995 opened the door to resolving the painful
and destructive conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We
truly hope that the parties concerned will sincerely and
strictly honour their commitments in order to preserve the
fragile peace and cooperation in that region.
In some African countries tribal and ethnic conflicts
continue to rage, causing serious harm to their peoples. We
express our sincere sympathy to the peoples of these
countries over the untold suffering they have had to endure.
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic considers
it
imperative that
the international community, and in
particular the countries concerned, redouble efforts to
resolve these disputes as quickly as possible.
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
Cuba to resolve their differences, in the interest of both
the American and the Cuban peoples and in the interest
of regional and global peace.
the establishment of
In the Middle East,
the
Palestinian Authority, in accordance with the Washington
accords signed in 1993, marked a crucial stage in the
search for a just and lasting solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, which dates back over 30 years. The
peace process which had been set
in motion is now
confronting grave difficulties, as the recent violence
clearly demonstrates. The Lao People’s Democratic
Republic expresses its grave concern regarding this
situation. We very much hope
the parties
concerned — Israel
the Palestine Liberation
Organization — will show great wisdom, and even
greater restraint, and will engage in serious negotiations
to resolve their problem, thus contributing to restoring
peace and stability to this sensitive region.
that
and
In the Korean peninsula, the implementation by the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United
States of America of agreements that had been concluded
and the recent opening in New York of preliminary
quadripartite talks on peace in Korea are important stages
in the efforts to ease tension and confrontation in that
region. In this context, the Lao Government and people,
while welcoming the efforts of the parties concerned,
express their unswerving support
the legitimate
aspirations of the Korean people to live in peace and
achieve
the Korean
homeland.
reunification of
the peaceful
for
In South-East Asia, efforts to strengthen economic,
cultural and other cooperation and improve the settlement
of disputes by peaceful means are clearly priorities.
The admission of the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic and Myanmar as fully fledged members of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) on
23 July last was a historic event of great significance. It
is our firm hope that an ASEAN of 10 will become a
reality in the near
future and will contribute to
strengthening our region, and making it more prosperous,
in the interests of peace, stability and cooperation in Asia
and the Pacific, and in the world at large.
In the Caribbean, multifaceted cooperation between the
States of the region continues to grow, thus contributing to
peace and security in that part of the world. In this context,
it is time the United States of America made greater efforts
and undertook reasonable negotiations with the Republic of
Another problem which has aroused international
concern is the recent event in Cambodia. Fortunately, the
current Government has been able to restore normality in
accordance with the country’s legislative procedures. The
including the Lao People’s
international community,
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Democratic Republic, continues to recognize and respect
His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk as Head of State of
Cambodia. It is our hope that all countries and the United
Nations will also respect his royal authority.
In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, political
stability continues to be solidly guaranteed. The multi-
ethnic Lao people are living in solidarity and unity — a
fact which ensures social harmony. In accordance with our
Constitution, the fourth elections for the National Assembly
will be held in mid-December. That election will once
again demonstrate the fervent patriotic spirit of the Lao
people and the development of its democracy towards the
establishment of a State of law, a State of the people, by
the people and for the people.
In the economic sphere, implementation of the renewal
policy, which began in 1986, has made it possible for our
economy to experience sustained growth, with an annual
rate for the past five years of approximately 7 per cent.
Unfortunately,
this year, my country suffered equally
sizeable losses because of natural disasters and the
repercussions of financial recession in South-East Asia.
Nonetheless,
between Laos
the
international community remains very strong.
cooperation
and
Parallel with its admission to ASEAN,
the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic continues to strengthen its
relations of bilateral
cooperation with neighbouring
countries in the region and in the world on the basis of the
principles of equality and mutual interest. In order to ensure
the sustained development of the national economy, the Lao
Government has taken important measures to integrate its
economy and its market with those of the region and of the
world. This integration is of great benefit to national and
foreign investors thanks to the country’s economic and
other potential such as its geographical location, in relation
to major regional markets, its transit role, its role as a
supplier of hydroelectric power to neighbouring countries
and export producer, using the country’s raw materials, and
its innumerable natural tourist attractions.
Following up its endeavours and successes of the last
10 years through the implementation of its renewal policy,
the Lao Government firmly intends to continue its policy of
developing the country on the basis of a market economy
and broadening relations of
cooperation with the
international community. Its aim is to extricate the country
from its state of underdevelopment by the year 2020 and to
establish a preliminary basis for its gradual transformation
into an industrialized, modern country under the slogan
“Building a strong and prosperous country, ensuring the
16
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
well-being of the people, forming a civilized and fair
society”.
international
countries. The
The world economy is seeing some signs of growth.
Nonetheless, this growth falls short of expectations. We
witness growing inequalities between developing and
developed
economic
environment in terms of access to markets and financial
resources granted on preferential terms for development
purposes is,
in decline. Faced with this
situation, the developed countries must spare no effort to
coordinating
take
by
their
macroeconomic policies in order
to bring about a
recovery of the world economy thanks to a stronger
liberalization of
trade, which would contribute to
establishing an international economic environment more
favourable to development.
in general,
necessary
the
steps
The problem of drug abuse remains a subject of
international concern. My country has taken many
national and international measures with a view to
contributing to the global effort to eradicate this scourge
from the face of the earth. For the first time, in May, the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic was unanimously
elected a member of the important Commission on
Narcotic Drugs by the Economic and Social Council. We
are profoundly grateful to the international community for
this demonstration of confidence and support and we will
make every effort
responsibilities
honourably.
to discharge our
Last June, after over three years of hard work, the
General Assembly adopted, without a vote, An Agenda
for Development. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic
is pleased at its adoption, which it regards as an important
stage in the effort to build a real partnership between the
developed and developing countries. The Agenda for
Development, a highly valuable document, provides a
foundation of principles, objectives, measures and actions
which can serve as a guide to Member States in the
global approach to development questions
in the
immediate and long term and at
the national and
international levels.
That June, the General Assembly met in special
session to review the implementation of Agenda 21 five
years after
the Rio Summit on environment and
development. At the conclusion of that session, a follow-
up programme on the implementation of Agenda 21 was
adopted without
that
implementation, inter alia, to the eradication of poverty
in the years to come was stressed. The international
importance of
a vote;
the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
community is therefore called on to exert every effort to
strengthen cooperation to make this programme a reality.
As we near
the twenty-first century,
the United
Nations — the only universal multilateral body — has an
important role to play in the consideration and management
of international affairs. If it is to be commensurate with that
task, our Organization must adapt to the new dynamic and
complex world. In this context, we express our sincere
gratitude to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the
important initiatives of his programme of reform, issued last
July, which aim at reorganizing our global body in order to
make it more flexible in its structure and more efficient in
its actions. This very important programme generally tries
to take the interests of Member States into account.
it
In considering these questions,
is necessary to
emphasize that any reform process must have the primary
goal of strengthening the Organization’s capacities to
promote social and economic development for all States,
particularly the developing among them. At the same time,
this promotion must be undertaken while addressing
questions related to peacekeeping, human rights and
humanitarian activities. It is on the basis of these essential
criteria that we would wish to see the Organization
reformed and revitalized and given an improved structure,
a more democratic regime and a solid financial footing. If
we do so, the United Nations will be able effectively to
meet the new challenges of our times.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and
Worship of Haiti, His Excellency Mr. Fritz Longchamp.
Mr. Longchamp (Haiti) (interpretation from French):
At the outset, I wish to convey the pleasure of the Haitian
delegation at faithfully attending this great annual meeting,
which always has a particular importance for us. It is yet
another opportunity to participate in the discussions on the
great questions before us and to seek better solutions in our
quest
to preserve international peace and security and
promote economic and social progress.
The consideration of various subjects will certainly
entail difficult debates, but Mr. Udovenko’s long experience
and solid understanding of international problems are sure
guarantees for the successful outcome of our meetings. In
congratulating him on his election to the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session, I wish him
every success in his guidance of our work.
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to
Ambassador Razali Ismail for the achievements of the
fifty-first session.
To our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, I
convey our satisfaction at the dynamism with which he
has infused the Organization since he assumed office.
Three weeks ago, the wreck of a passenger boat,
which killed more than 100 of my compatriots, threw the
country into grief and the entire world into dismay.
Messages of sympathy arrived from every corner, as did
assistance that helped us to cope with this tragedy. On
behalf of the Haitian people and Government, I wish to
express our deep gratitude to the international community,
which, yet again, has demonstrated great solidarity with
my country.
For some time, the gist of statements made in this
Organization about Haiti was a plea for the restoration of
a state of law and an end to the violence and brutal
authoritarianism. Today, I am pleased to convey the
message that the Haitian people has been greatly relieved
by the reestablishment of democratic institutions, assisted
by the international community, and the United Nations
in particular.
I wish to highlight some of the progress that has
been made in the political sphere and the efforts exerted
to consolidate the gains of the new democratic deal,
whose rules of play are being increasingly respected. The
transition of power has been recognized and accepted as
a cardinal principle of political life. The state, quasi-state
and civil
institutions are being further strengthened.
Socio-professional associations and pressure groups are
playing an ever more active role.
In the field of human rights, no effort has been
spared to end the repressive practices that characterized
the former dictatorial regimes. Arbitrary arrests, summary
executions and abuse have practically disappeared. The
structures of oppression have been dismantled and
replaced by institutions sensitive to the need to respect
citizens’ rights. This is the case with the National Police
force that has replaced the Haitian Armed Forces, which
were the main perpetrators of human rights violations in
the country. Created barely two years ago, this Police
force continues to acquire the experience necessary to
carry out its responsibilities for keeping the peace and
public safety. It is already gearing up to ensure security
and stability throughout the country when the mandate of
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the United Nations Transition Mission in Haiti ends in late
November.
for
The judiciary,
its part, has enjoyed special
attention, given the desire for justice expressed by the
populace. Parliament is currently considering a bill that will
allow the necessary deep-rooted reforms to be undertaken
to improve the administration of justice.
While the political situation in the country has
stabilized, economic and social performance has lagged
behind. The gaps created by the crisis of 1991-1994 have
yet to be breached. Democratic institutions are up and
working, it is true, but they remain fragile because certain
needs of the public have yet to be fulfilled.
Nonetheless, efforts are being undertaken to revitalize
it has been decided to
the economy. For example,
modernize public companies. Hence, the creation of the
Council to Modernize Public Companies. Cooperation with
Parliament has already led to the creation of
legal
instruments aimed at maximizing the potential of these
companies to the great profit of users and the consumers of
the goods and services they produce. Similarly, the fiscal
and financial
system is being reformed and trade
liberalized. A bill on customs tariffs is currently under
consideration by Parliament.
In order to invigorate national production, an agrarian
reform programme has been launched that aims at
bestowing ownership on the peasants of their means of
production. It works on three levels: access to land, access
to credit and availability of
training. The
Government believes that agrarian reform will facilitate the
social
integration of citizens who have long been
marginalized.
technical
This programme falls within an anti-poverty campaign
led by the Government in order to assist the poorest sectors
of society. As can well be imagined, the democratic process
in Haiti is being pursued, but it remains fragile because of
the precarious situation and the great poverty of the people.
It is quite obvious that, if it is to be viable, it must be
maintained, nurtured and supported by sustainable
development.
The Heads of State and Government who met here
during the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations two years ago committed themselves to
enabling the Organization to carry out its mandate properly.
Consequently, the Secretary-General is now proposing a
the
programme of
reforms to strengthen the role of
18
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
Organization and to give it a new impetus. We thank the
Secretary-General for this initiative, to which we give our
full support. This bold and innovative proposal will
enable the Organization to become more effective and
carry out its mission fully.
development,
Some of the measures presented have drawn our
particular attention. For example, there is the idea of
regrouping the activities of the United Nations around
five major themes: peace and security, economic and
social
cooperation,
humanitarian affairs and human rights. However, we must
ensure that development issues, which are crucial for the
majority of Members, are given the same attention as
other themes — if not more. Any reform must give
development
political
commitment it deserves.
development
the
priority,
resources
and
role
The question of Security Council reform, which is
still being studied, is another matter on which we must
make progress, given the Council’s
in the
maintenance of international peace and security. Haiti
continues to call for more transparency and participation
in the Council’s work, so that the views of States which
are not members of the Council are considered in the
decision-making process. Any expansion of the Security
Council should be carried out in a way that guarantees a
fair and equal geographical representation. Everything
should be done so that the universality of the inhabitants
of our planet is recognized in the United Nations system.
However timely they may be, reforms alone will not
make the Organization more efficient if it does not have
adequate financial resources to carry out its activities. We
are convinced that
the financial crisis of the United
Nations may reduce its capacity to cope with the serious
problems it faces.
We need a strong and efficient United Nations,
capable of finding solutions to current problems and
facing the challenges of the next century. It is through the
orchestrated, collective action of the United Nations that
we will be able to overcome our numerous current
problems, which threaten international peace and security
and compromise the well-being of our populations.
There we refer first to the many armed conflicts
which are raging in all regions of the world, some of
which seem to resist any attempt at a negotiated
settlement. Haiti encourages the use of regional and
multilateral mechanisms to solve these conflicts.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Likewise, the existence of vast arsenals of weapons of
mass destruction is a grave threat to our collective security.
The progress achieved in the area of disarmament —
especially the opening for signature last year of
the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the entry into
force of
the Chemical Weapons Convention — is
encouraging. However, we urge the countries concerned to
make further efforts
to achieve complete and true
disarmament.
The Republic of Haiti welcomes the recent adoption
of the text of a treaty banning anti-personnel landmines.
This is an important step in the battle to eliminate these
deadly devices, which have caused so much suffering and
which continue to take a toll among civilian populations,
especially among women and children.
The illicit use of drugs and drug trafficking are also
problems which the international community must face with
determination. They are, in fact, a threat to the internal
security of small States because of the violence and
criminality with which they are often associated.
Furthermore, drug use affects the most vulnerable stratum
of society: young people.
International cooperation is
absolutely necessary to overcome this scourge.
Since 1960 several summits and conferences devoted
to poverty and development have been organized.
Recommendations have been formulated and measures have
been contemplated. Nevertheless, poverty continues to gain
ground. According to the 1997 Human Development Report,
more than 1.5 billion of the planet’s inhabitants live in a
state of extreme poverty, particularly in African countries
and less developed countries, which see themselves
increasingly marginalized.
The eradication of poverty, especially in the least
developed countries, should go beyond simple speeches or
resolutions. It requires a strong political will, adequate
resources, well defined strategies and the implementation of
appropriate programmes. It also requires the sincere support
of the international community, especially the support of
international institutions and the leaders of the industrialized
countries, namely,
those who possess technology and
wealth. The battle against poverty must also be a struggle
for human dignity, sustainable development and peace.
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
a joint Haitian-Dominican Commission. This is an
excellent tool for cooperation and working together to
find a solution to the various problems of the island. We
would like to see this important forum continue, as it
represents a necessary stage towards greater mutual
understanding between the Haitian and Dominican
peoples.
Likewise, Haiti
recently rejoined the Caribbean
Community (CARICOM). By getting the train of
integration under way, my country intends to contribute
in a significant manner to the realization of the objectives
of the Community, because Haiti is aware that a strong,
open-ended, united CARICOM will largely determine the
socio-economic performance of the Caribbean region. In
this context, we urge the international community to
continue to support the reconstruction of Montserrat.
Fifty-two years ago at San Francisco we undertook
to work for the progress and happiness of our peoples in
a world where peace and security would reign. We should
therefore work to realize their dreams and meet their
expectations and aspirations.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The next speaker is the Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs
and Special Envoy of the President of Afghanistan, His
Excellency Mr. Abdullah Abdullah.
Mr. Abdullah (Afghanistan): Let me impart at the
outset the sad news I received early today of the aerial
bombardment by the Taliban of the city of Mazar-i-
Sharif, the sixteenth consecutive bombardment in just two
days. These bombardments have taken as many as 150
lives among the civilian population of the city, mostly
women and children. I express outrage and condemnation
at this cowardly act of terror, which typifies the Taliban’s
gross violation of international humanitarian law and their
relentless belligerence against every norm recognized by
the world today.
I
in
the
stand before the Assembly and the world
past Afghan
community
representatives — with the exception of those during the
years of occupation — representing an independent,
sovereign and non-aligned Afghanistan.
tradition
of
With a view to strengthening international peace and
security, the Republic of Haiti has pursued a policy of good
neighbourliness which has enabled it to come closer to
countries in the region.
It has established with the
Dominican Republic a mechanism for consultations through
One year ago, our Foreign Minister, the late Abdul
Rahim Ghafoorzai, stood on this podium to explain the
dark and ominous movement known as the Taliban,
which — backed by foreign forces — had invaded
Afghanistan. Tragically, Mr. Ghafoorzai died in the
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
service of his nation. So today it is my duty to stand before
the Assembly to explain the struggle the Afghan people
have waged against these mercenaries.
When the Taliban entered Kabul on 27 September
1996 their first act was to storm the United Nations
complex. The past 12 months have seen a seemingly
endless series of edicts issued by the Taliban in areas of
Afghanistan that they claim to control. Under those edicts,
they have in fact imprisoned every woman and terrorized
every man.
the
journalists,
European Union Commissioner
Their latest ignominious act has been to arrest Emma
Bonino,
for
Humanitarian Affairs, her aides and a group of visiting
international
including CNN’s Christiane
Amanpour. Outraged by the Taliban’s act, the German
Foreign Minister, Mr. Klaus Kinkel, said that he considered
it a slap in the face and an act of “cynical disregard for the
entire European Union”. The group was eventually released,
but not before at least two of its members were beaten with
the butt of a Kalashnikov rifle. Ms. Bonino told Reuters
that the experience had given her a taste of what Afghans
go through every day under the Taliban.
“This is an example of what people here go
through every day: in a situation of random terror.”
[Reuters News Wire, “EC commissioner released by
Taleban,” 29 September 1997]
An Afghan quoted in The New York Times of 24
September 1997 stated,
“Most days I wake up thinking we’d all be better off
dead than under these fanatics.”
These are just a couple of facts to open a small window
onto the gloom and despair facing our people.
As this terror continues in Afghanistan, we are here
today to discuss the Afghan question, which is now an
international issue.
As the crisis in Afghanistan continues to unfold, we
must ask — and answer — important questions, questions
to be answered particularly by those who, under the guise
of neutrality, equate the aggressors with the victims of
aggression. Those questions are: Who is following the rules
of the civilized world? Whose actions warrant recognition?
Who deserves to participate in civilized discussion at a
global level?
20
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
On the battlefield, we continue, of course, to defend
ourselves and our nation. In this imposed war, we are
taking what we consider to be the moral high ground of
negotiation and dialogue.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan — like many
others in the world, including some prominent Pakistani
politicians and commentators — still identifies Pakistani
intervention and interference in the internal affairs of
Afghanistan as the root cause of the prolonged conflict
and the subsequent suffering of our people.
Pakistan constantly alleges that the Taliban control
two thirds of Afghanistan, including Kabul, where peace
prevails. Mr. William Maley, the renowned Australian
expert on Afghanistan, stated earlier in the year that the
Taliban brought peace to Kabul in the same sense that
Hitler brought peace to Warsaw.
On 7 August 1997, Mr. Gohar Ayub Khan, the
Foreign Minister of Pakistan, said:
“In Afghanistan ... the majority in the country is
Pakhtoons, who are 60 per cent. The other groups,
including Uzbeks, Tajiks, Hazaras and Ismailis
collectively, constitute about 40 per cent.”
The Pakistani Foreign Minister is blatantly inventing
fraudulent statistics to fuel the flames of ethnic hatred and
conflict in Afghanistan and to justify Pakistani objectives.
No valid statistics could claim that any ethnic group in
Afghanistan — Pakhtoon, Tajik, Uzbek or other —
constituted more than 37 per cent of the population. If
Pakistan continues its irresponsible policy of perpetrating
ethnic hatred in Afghanistan, a consequential escalation of
“ethnic cleansing” will threaten the national unity of our
country.
Pakistan maintains that
it has no favourites in
Afghanistan. The
Pakistani
is
establishment has designated one group of Afghans to be
the natural rulers over all the rest and conceivably to turn
Afghanistan into a subservient protectorate State.
reality
that
the
The reality was best expressed by Fred Halliday, an
international affairs specialist at the London School of
Economics, who wrote last November:
“The capture by Taliban guerrillas of
the
Afghan capital, Kabul, however short- or long-lived,
has come after two years of one of the most
obnoxious interventions by one State in the affairs of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
another in many years. Reported in the West as an
indigenous struggle, in fact Pakistan set up the Taliban
as a semi-regular fighting force in 1994 ... providing
them with ... guns, money, fuel and technical support
... Since its creation in 1947, Pakistan has harboured
the goal of dominating its northern neighbour.” [The
Nation, “Kabul’s Patriarchy with Guns”, 11 November
1996, p. 19]
And, finally, the Pakistani Government, by proposing
the dubious “vacant-seat” formula for Afghanistan, strives
to expel from the United Nations a country that has been a
member of this global body since before the birth of
Pakistan.
My delegation is grateful to the Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan, for having summarized the tragic situation in
Afghanistan in his address to the fifty-second session of the
General Assembly on 22 September 1997.
According to General Assembly resolution 51/195 B,
which was adopted unanimously on 17 December 1996, and
fully supported by the Islamic State of Afghanistan, the
Assembly is
“Strongly
sovereignty,
independence, territorial integrity and national unity of
Afghanistan”.
seventh
preambular paragraph]
[resolution
51/195
committed
to
the
B,
The General Assembly also stressed
“the
importance of non-intervention and non-
interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan”.
[ibid., sixteenth preambular paragraph]
Unfortunately, since last year the supply of weapons and
ammunition from abroad has massively increased and
constitutes a very important programme of action by the
powerful Pakistani
Inter-Service
Intelligence (ISI).
intelligence
service,
The situation has also worsened with regard to what
the resolution called
“actions undermining the security of State frontiers,
including the growing illicit
traffic in arms and
narcotics by criminal elements and groups from
[Taliban occupied] areas of Afghanistan and ... the use
of [occupied] Afghan territory for the training and
harbouring of terrorists”. [ibid., eighteenth preambular
paragraph]
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
It is amazing that some of the countries that consider
terrorism a threat to peace should nonetheless — while
claiming impartiality — favour the rejectionist Taliban by
equating them with the Government of the Islamic State
of Afghanistan, which shares the mounting concerns of
the General Assembly in this matter.
With regard to the peace process, we share the view
that
“the main responsibility for
finding a political
solution to the conflict lies with the Afghan parties”.
[ibid., paragraph 2]
The Taliban, however, favoured, encouraged and assisted
by the cross-border political and military support,
consider their only responsibility to be the waging of an
aggressive war aimed at conquering the whole of Afghan
territory by crushing all resistance movements.
The Taliban’s intransigence and disregard for United
Nations General Assembly and Security Council
resolutions calling for a peaceful settlement of the Afghan
problem are a fact well known to the international
community. The report of the Secretary-General dated 16
March 1997 indicates that:
activities on the ground,
“The Taliban, judging both from their words and
from their
appear
determined to gain military and political control of
the whole of Afghanistan and to establish their
vision of an Islamic State”. [A/51/838, paragraph 7]
report
The Secretary-General’s
(A/51/929) of
16 June 1997 equally illustrates Taliban’s choice of the
military option and its intention to overrun the country by
force. This utterly bellicose position of the Taliban, while
prolonging the suffering of
the Afghan people is
aggravating the concerns of the countries in the region,
which views it as a serious threat to the region’s peace
and security. It is worth mentioning that the Taliban’s
aggressive attitude is encouraged by military intelligence
services of neighbouring Pakistan, which still hopes to
install a puppet regime in Kabul, subservient
to its
expansionist and hegemonic desires. The dull-minded
interventionists should read the history of Afghanistan
once again and learn from the defeat of previous
aggressors in this homeland of dauntless and courageous
people.
We are fully aware
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
“that a cessation of armed hostilities ... and political
stability are indispensable if reconstruction measures
are to have a lasting effect”. (Resolution 51/195 A,
eighth preambular paragraph)
The Taliban have expressed no interest in the urgently
needed reconstruction of the country. In fact, starvation by
blockade is their favourite weapon against Afghans.
Afghanistan remains committed to the safety of the
United Nations personnel and the personnel of other aid
agencies in Afghanistan.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan, in the light of the
mounting needs of the Afghan people, appeals to all
donor agencies not to abandon Afghanistan, particularly
in the face of the upcoming harsh winter.
We express our full
“support for the continuing efforts of the United
Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan” (Resolution
51/195 B, thirteenth preambular paragraph)
led by Mr. Norbert Holl, and the special assignment on
30 July 1997 of Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi as Special
Envoy of the Secretary-General to assess the situation and
the role of the United Nations in Afghanistan.
We reaffirm the full support of our Government for
the
in facilitating ...
“activities of the United Nations Special Mission to
Afghanistan,
in cooperation with
[neighbouring and] interested States and international
organizations, the political process towards the goals
of national
reconciliation and a lasting political
settlement with the participation of all parties to the
conflict”. (ibid., paragraph 5)
document
S/1997/588
Security Council
of
25 July 1997 explains the Islamic State of Afghanistan’s
agreement to a Declaration of the United National and
Islamic Front
the
foundation for an enlarged body representing all ethnic
groups from all over Afghanistan. The Declaration
addresses an appeal in favour of the peace process to the
Taliban and the Pakistani Government.
the Salvation of Afghanistan,
for
We favour
“An immediate and durable ceasefire among the
Afghan parties, to be supervised by a commission
composed of
the warring
parties, facilitated by the United Nations”. (ibid.,
paragraph 8)
representatives of all
One of the most important elements in the General
on
Security Council
resolutions
Assembly
Afghanistan is the call for
and
Because of the shortage of time, I am omitting some
paragraphs from my prepared text.
The Taliban have refused to negotiate any political
settlement and have insisted on a unilateral military
solution.
“demilitarization of Kabul, with adequate safeguards
to ensure security and public order”. (ibid.)
The Islamic State of Afghanistan considers this point to
be very important. It could constitute a credible precedent
that could be applied in the future in other parts of the
country.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan honours
The
“its commitments
regarding the safety and full
freedom of movement of United Nations personnel, in
particular the personnel of the United Nations Special
Mission, as well as the security of their premises in
Afghanistan.” (ibid., paragraph 7)
on
about
14 September 1997
Recently, however, as a result of the disturbances
by Taliban
brought
infiltration,
the premises belonging to international aid
agencies and non-governmental organizations in the city of
Mazar-i-Sharif were plundered. This city was previously a
haven of peace and security. The Islamic State of
22
“establishment
and
representative authoritative council” (ibid.)
broad-based
of
a
fully
as required by the General Assembly resolution, will be
feasible if the appeal of the United Front inviting the
Taliban to join the Front is heard. The Islamic State of
Afghanistan, in this regard, extends its full cooperation to
the United Nations.
is imperative to secure the
agreement of the Taliban with the United Nations and to
ensure its full cooperation with such a broad-based
authoritative council.
It
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We are ready to cooperate for the creation of
“a national security force to provide for security
throughout the country and oversee the demobilization
of all the warring parties through the collection and
safeguarding of all heavy weapons in the country, and
to stop the flow of arms and of equipment related to
arms production to the parties”. (ibid.)
We are grateful to the leaders and Governments of the
central Asian republics of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and
Turkmenistan for their respective proposed peace initiatives,
as well as to the Islamic Republic of Iran. Apart from
supplementing each other,
these initiatives may be
coordinated so as to lead to the convening of useful
negotiations with a specific agenda under the auspices of
the United Nations. The proposals, however, thus far have
not been accepted by the Taliban.
The General Assembly deplored
“the civilian casualties inflicted by the indiscriminate
use of landmines.” (ibid., paragraph 11)
The Taliban have recently spread landmines in and around
the northern city of Kunduz. This is only one example of
Taliban mass use of landmines.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan shares the General
Assembly’s deep concern over and denunciation of
“the discrimination against women and girls and other
recurring abuses of human rights in Afghanistan ...
emphasizing the importance of democracy and of the
realization of human rights in any future political
process in Afghanistan”.
(ibid., ninth preambular
paragraph)
Mr. Lloyd Axworthy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of
Canada, said in his statement of 25 September in this
Assembly:
“Canadian women, appalled at the treatment of their
sisters in Afghanistan, have started a letter-writing
campaign. I will be delivering some 5,000 letters
today to the Secretary-General, which call on him to
take the lead in exposing the gross human rights
violations of women in Afghanistan as unacceptable in
the world’s citizens.” [See Official
the eyes of
Records of
the General Assembly, Fifty-second
Session, Plenary Meetings, 12th meeting]
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
by
the
document
containing
(A/52/384)
20 September 1997
We draw the attention of the General Assembly to
the
the
recent
Declaration of Principles made by the United Islamic and
National Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan, adopted
on
of
Afghanistan. The Declaration, systematizing a political
the country, contains the following
framework for
principles: first,
the principle of Islam; secondly,
the
principle of independence and international cooperation;
thirdly,
the principles of democracy and pluralism;
fourthly,
the principles of election and delegation of
authority to local administration; and, fifthly, the principle
of human rights.
Islamic State
The General Assembly last year called on
“all States strictly to refrain from any outside
interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan,
including the involvement of
foreign military
personnel”. (Resolution 51/195 B, paragraph 15)
Regarding the involvement of Pakistani military personnel
in Afghanistan, the Government of the Islamic State of
Afghanistan
documented
information to the United Nations.
transmitted
amply
has
The book, entitled The Not-So-Hidden Hand —
produced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
Islamic State of Afghanistan — has been distributed to
the members of
the Security Council, some other
interested countries and the Secretariat of the United
Nations. This book — I will not go through it; it is a big
book — documents directly and proves the physical
presence of Pakistani paramilitary and military personnel
inside Afghanistan, fighting alongside the Taliban against
the Islamic State of Afghanistan.
and
other
fingerprints
descriptions,
The book includes, first, identification photos of
each Pakistani captive, prisoner registration forms with
detailed
data
pertaining to each; secondly, identification cards taken
from some prisoners that illustrate their membership in
extremist Pakistani organizations responsible for terrorist
acts in South Asia, such as Anjuman-i-Sipah-e-Sahaba
Pakistan; and thirdly, correspondence from most of the
prisoners to their families in Pakistan, written mostly in
Urdu — the official Pakistani language, which is not
spoken in Afghanistan.
I should like to remind the Assembly that on 3 July
1997 Mr. Francis Okelo, the Deputy Head of the United
Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan, together with a
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
United Nations military adviser, paid a visit to Maimana
prison in northern Afghanistan and verified the physical
presence of Pakistani military prisoners in the prison. And
The News of 6 September 1997 — printed in Islamabad —
contains an article entitled “Pakistanis in Masood’s captivity
plead for release”.
The General Assembly called upon all States
immediately to end the supply of arms, ammunition,
military equipment, training or any other military support
to all parties to the conflict in Afghanistan. Furthermore,
document A/52/403, dated 29 September 1997, confirms the
recent dispatch of some 600 additional military personnel
and that shipments of arms from Pakistan to Afghanistan
have significantly increased.
reiterated that
The General Assembly has
the
continuation of the conflict in Afghanistan provides a fertile
ground for terrorism and drug trafficking, which destabilize
the region and beyond. The United Nations Information
Service reported on 11 September 1997 a rise in opium-
poppy production in Afghanistan to 2,800 metric tons in
1997, an estimated 25 per cent
increase over 1996.
Mr. Derek Fatchett, a Minister in Britain’s Foreign Office,
pointed out in The Guardian of 25 June 1997 that the
Taliban war chest is financed by drug money. Furthermore,
96.4 per cent of Afghanistan’s total opium production
originates in provinces currently under Taliban control,
according to the United Nations Information Service report.
the
protection,
identification,
Afghanistan, as a State party to the Convention for the
Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage of
23 November 1972, has recognized its primary duty to
ensure
conservation,
preservation and transmission to future generations of, inter
alia,
the cultural heritage situated in the country. The
General Assembly has called upon all Afghan parties to
take appropriate steps to prohibit, prevent and, if necessary,
put a stop to any form of theft, pillage or misappropriation
of and any acts of vandalism directed against, cultural
property of the Afghan nation. The Taliban, however, on 17
April 1997, out of fanaticism expressed its intention to
demolish the two largest statues of Buddha in the world. In
spite of great concern by the Secretary-General and
Mr. Federico Mayor, Director of
the United Nations
Educational,
and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO), and many Buddhist leaders throughout the
world, the Taliban did not exhibit any change of attitude.
Fortunately, its military push was repulsed and the colossal
statues remain intact.
Scientific
24
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
In this context, reference should be made to the
ancient artifacts plundered from the rich Kabul National
Museum. According to Pakistani press reports,
the
artifacts have been added to the personal collections of
the former Pakistani Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto, and
the former Minister of the Interior, Nasirullah Babar. On
behalf of the people of Afghanistan, I call upon the
Pakistanis to return these irreplaceable Afghan artifacts,
which are also part of the world’s cultural heritage. I urge
UNESCO to investigate the matter.
I should like to announce that the delegation of the
Islamic State of Afghanistan, together with some other
countries of the third world, will co-sponsor the draft
resolution entitled “Towards a culture of peace,”
submitted under agenda item 156. My delegation also
supports the resolution of the Economic and Social
Council adopted in Geneva entitled “Proclamation of the
Year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of
Peace”.
We want to establish the best fraternal relations with
Pakistan and other neighbouring countries. Afghanistan’s
pivotal location places it, as always, at the crossroads of
different corners of Asia. Naturally, no regional economic
cooperation — in the context of the transit of goods,
petroleum and natural gas — can succeed without a
peaceful Afghanistan enjoying administrative unity.
Afghanistan must cease to exist as a country of
confrontation, discord and clashes. Rather, it must turn
into a land of interrelation, association, joint action and
cooperation. This is the genuine desire of all patriotic
Afghans and of the true friends of Afghanistan.
Fifty-two years ago, the United Nations was founded
on the paramount
ideals of a safer world and on
parameters of global peace and collective security. The
Foreign Minister of Italy, His Excellency Mr. Lamberto
Dini, said in his speech last week before the General
Assembly:
“We no longer live in a world of purely
national interests. More and more, policy-making is
informed by global concerns such as human rights,
solidarity and social justice. At the threshold of the
twenty-first century, let us pledge to settle religious
and ethnic conflicts through dialogue, tolerance and
cultural exchange, and to find collective answers to
international
terrorism, organized crime, drug
trafficking and the degradation of the environment.”
[See Official Records of
the General Assembly,
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Fifty-second Session, Plenary Meetings, 11th meeting]
Let me from this rostrum remind all of us here, as the
general debate draws to a close, that we must ask ourselves
about the level of our commitment to the implementation of
the ideals I have mentioned.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call on Mr. Pierre Osho, Minister for Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation of Benin.
Mr. Osho (Benin) (interpretation from French): As I
take the floor on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of
Benin, I would like first to associate myself with the words
of congratulations and deep appreciation expressed to Mr.
Hennadiy Udovenko by previous speakers. They spoke so
eloquently that I will confine myself to saying how hopeful
I am that
from his proven
competence and his remarkable analytical mind in order to
draw from our debates constructive conclusions that
preserve a just balance between the different suggestions
and recommendations contained in the various statements.
this session will benefit
The particular significance and nature of this session
do not reside only in the impressive gathering of leaders
from 185 Member States. That has long been customary,
and has even become ritual, during this period every year
since the establishment of the United Nations in 1945.
What confers on this fifty-second session a distinctive
character, and what promises it an excellent place in the
annals of the United Nations, is the central focus of its
agenda, which, as we all know, is devoted to structural
reform.
What
is our assessment of
the specific reform
provisions that are to be discussed and decided upon in the
course of these meetings? What are the ins and outs of
reform, the issues at stake and the real objectives? Are the
reforms capable of giving the Organization the means for
productive and effective action to meet
the complex
problems and numerous challenges on the horizon of the
next millennium, whose effects are already strongly felt in
the everyday realities of today’s world?
These are a few of the major concerns of countries,
such as mine, that are today experiencing both hope and
doubt: hope based on the enormous potential of our Earth,
whose intelligent, rational and well-directed use should
make it possible to ensure the progress, prosperity and
development to which all peoples legitimately aspire; but
also doubt, a feeling of stubborn and profound uncertainty
constantly fuelled by misery and poverty, ignorance and
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
technological
economic
disease,
backwardness that over 1.5 billion human beings suffer
from.
lags,
and
the
Since his election in January 1997 our Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has resolutely tackled, with
commendable diligence, strength and motivation,
the
preparation of a programme for reform, which he himself
rightly describes as
“the most extensive and far-reaching reforms in the
fifty-two year history of
this Organization.”
(A/51/950, Letter of Transmittal, first paragraph)
It is reform aimed at giving the United Nations
“the ways in which the United Nations can more
effectively and efficiently meet the challenges that
lie ahead as we enter a new century, and a new
millennium”. (ibid.)
We regard as appropriate the global approach taken
by the Secretary-General, his view of general and sectoral
problems, the thrust of the measures and solutions he
advocates,
in accordance with a methodology that
combines pragmatism and the need for democratic and
more effective functioning. Therefore, the delegation of
Benin is in favour of the bulk of the proposals in the
report.
Nonetheless, I must draw attention to the following
considerations to which my country attaches great
importance.
First, Benin believes that it would not be appropriate
to eliminate the Committee for Development Planning,
which is,
inter alia, entrusted with developing the
performance criteria for the least developed countries. We
believe that rather than having it replaced by groups of
experts created by the Economic and Social Council we
should consider purely and simply retaining the
Committee.
Secondly, since the situation in Africa is one of the
priorities on which the Secretary-General would like to
focus in the next five years. My country would hope that
the Office of the Special Coordinator for Africa and Least
Developed Countries might be strengthened in terms of
human and financial resources in order to be better able
to play a full role within the United Nations system.
25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
it
Thirdly, although on 20 June 1997, following over
three years of negotiations, the General Assembly adopted
the Agenda for Development,
the
Secretary-General’s reform programme made no mention or
and means
explicit
to mechanisms
for
implementation and assessment of
the Agenda. My
delegation hopes that
this question will be taken into
account in the framework of measures envisaged in order
to bring about the renewal of the Organization.
is regrettable that
reference
Lastly, I would like to anticipate the results of our
session by saying that, both individually and collectively,
we must
the
decisions and measures that will be taken in the framework
of this long-awaited reform.
firmly commit ourselves to implement
Our consensus will be not a triumph for the ideas of
one State or group of States over another, but, rather, the
fruitful result of a shared political resolve to adapt our
universal Organization to the changes and developments of
this end of the century period.
Here, and with specific reference to reform of the
Security Council, Benin strongly recommends that
the
following principles should be taken into account: an
increase in the membership of the Security Council truly
reflecting the political and economic configuration of
today’s world; equitable geographical representation of the
five regional groups, with the African group entitled to four
two permanent and two non-permanent; and
seats,
protection of democratic and transparent
functioning,
ultimately involving the elimination of the right of veto.
By formulating the 15 priority objectives of his reform
programme as a series of profound changes of major scope
which should enable the United Nations to embark
resolutely on a course of radical reform, the Secretary-
General produced a document of undeniably high quality,
whose title — “Renewing the United Nations” — is
significant in more than one respect.
Given the noble and legitimate aspirations of the entire
international community for the future of the planet, the
Organization certainly needs to be renewed in order to
confront effectively and successfully the exciting yet
disturbing challenges posed by globalization. Renewing the
United Nations requires a new vision of the world, new
conceptions and approaches to partnership among nations,
and new methods for the Organization and for handling
relations among States in a new world. That is the real
problem. Those are the real stakes at a time when we are
inexorably approaching a new millennium. Globalization is
26
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
both a phenomenon and a process; it has become the
recurrent and omnipresent theme of all debates and of all
concerns.
Like other members, I noted with particular interest
that President Clinton — first at the Waldorf Astoria hotel
on the evening of 21 September, then the following day
in this Hall — forcefully and germanely stressed the need
for the United Nations to ensure that the globalization of
the economy does not create deep disparities between rich
and poor and that it establishes innovative partnerships
between
non-governmental
organizations and international financial institutions.
private
the
sector,
As the representative of a least developed country,
Benin, I cannot but welcome this great and noble idea,
imbued with generosity, pragmatism and a spirit of
solidarity. But, looking the facts in the face, what do we
see?
When on 18 December 1991 the General Assembly
the
adopted the United Nations New Agenda for
Development of Africa in the 1990s, it created a new
political covenant, one of whose vital features was the
principle of shared responsibility and the international
community’s full and complete involvement with Africa
with a view to achieving development objectives
including a real growth rate of at least 6 per cent per
annum in gross domestic product, and a minimum net
total of $30 billion in official development assistance for
1992, with an annual
increase averaging 4 per cent
beginning in 1993.
Today, six years after the adoption of the New
Agenda, in spite of all the efforts of African countries to
make better use of official development assistance, and in
spite of the express intention of a number of developed
countries to support the development of Africa, the total
volume of official development assistance to Africa has
declined considerably: by about one third compared with
the forecast of $30 billion.
It was in this context of the decline in official
development assistance that the famous United Nations
System-wide Special Initiative for Africa was launched in
March 1996 in order to lend fresh momentum to the New
Agenda. But it is obvious that this great initiative can be
successful only with the support of the international
community, through a massive mobilization of financial
resources to carry out the programmes and projects that
have been set up. While,
is first and
foremost up to the African countries to make the greater
to be sure,
it
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
part of the effort, the excessively restrictive procedures and
conditionalities for the granting of loans, and the lukewarm
reaction of certain creditors to the idea of simply cancelling
the foreign debt of poor countries, are obstacles to the
effective mobilization of the expected financial resources.
In a publication issued at Washington just a few
months ago, in May 1997, the International Monetary Fund
defined globalization as
“the growing economic interdependence of the entire
world caused by an increase in the volume and variety
of transborder transactions in goods and services, and
in international capital flows, along with the rapid and
broad dissemination of modern technology”.
Welcomed by some, feared by others, globalization
has become an unavoidable economic reality for all nations.
For most experts and other analysts, this process marks the
success of the global spread of an economic liberalization
that began in Europe half a century ago with the Marshall
Plan. In their view, it brings unprecedented possibilities to
billions of people all over the world.
a
reality,
the harmonious pursuit of
For us in Africa, that optimistic vision needs to be
tempered, for possibilities are not realities. So that it can
become
the
globalization process, in the context of real development for
all those billions of people throughout the world, especially
in Africa, necessarily presupposes a new international
programme of solidarity and cooperation for the poor
countries, without which globalization will very soon
transform their
regions into a poor and marginalized
periphery of a hyper-rich and hyper-developed world.
In fact, the developed countries are already doing a
great deal for Africa, if we consider the sum total of the
loans made to the continent
through bilateral and
multilateral assistance. And yet, contrary to what statistics,
curves, graphs and growth rates would have us believe,
African populations have not yet
felt any tangible
improvement of their standard of living in their daily lives.
In spite of all this, for the immense majority of Africans
the will
to survive is stronger than despair, and hope
prevails over resignation.
The ministerial meeting of
the Security Council
devoted to Africa, held on the commendable initiative of
the United States last 25 September,
led to a fruitful
exchange of views that showed us a real will on the part of
the international community to become more actively, more
significantly and more concretely involved in a new type of
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
partnership with Africa in order to contribute to its
development.
The signs of this real readiness on the part of the
developed countries have proliferated in recent years, as
we can see, inter alia, from the resolutions of the G-7
adopted in Lyon and in Denver, assistance programmes of
the eighth European Development Fund, President
Clinton’s initiative for a partnership for economic growth
and opportunity and the Tokyo International Conference
on African Development (TICAD I), and so on.
All in all, it can be said that the will exists to help
Africa emerge from poverty and underdevelopment, that
concrete actions are being undertaken in this direction and
that new commitments are being made. Nevertheless,
there still remain, unfortunately, enormous problems, and
Africa continues to present to the world the desolate
spectacle of endemic poverty, aggravated by crises and
fratricidal conflicts.
should envisage
In order to put an end to this distressing situation,
Africa’s development partners
a
comprehensive and integrated mechanism for flexible,
operational and effective financing, free of bureaucratic
impediments and red tape, with the aim of establishing a
centralized funding entity to receive resources from all
sources
and social
development.
to be devoted to economic
The end of the cold war, the process of economic
globalization and the progressive realization of
the
concept of sustainable development offer the opportunity
for profound change, calling into question some of the
traditional
to
development problems.
and conventional
solutions
answers
In the dark centuries of the slave trade, Africa
contributed blood, sweat and the toil of its strongest arms
to the building of the bases of the economy of the New
World. The collective memory of humankind must not
forget this important historical fact. Today the developed
countries have the moral duty to be as concerned as
Africans themselves about the destiny of Africa, not to
abandon Africa along the roadside of globalization and to
make available to it part of their enormous material,
technological and financial strength, in order to support
Africa’s
from
underdevelopment and to enter the modern age.
to emerge
struggle
in the
efforts
In order that
the implementation of the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in
27
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
limited resources,
the Active Forces of
The consolidation of our process of democratic
the historic National
renewal, which began after
Conference of
the Nation in
February 1990, necessitates immediate and short-term
social and economic successes. That
is why we are
endeavouring, with our
to take
multifaceted actions to improve the living and working
conditions of our rural and urban populations. However,
we know that we can rely on international cooperation,
founded not only on solidarity, but on mutual interest and
partnership, to overcome the difficulties confronting us, to
support our efforts at economic and social recovery, to
build a State genuinely based on the rule of law and to
construct a free, democratic, modern and prosperous
nation.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I shall now call on the representative of Canada, who
wishes to speak in exercise of the right of reply.
I remind members that statements in exercise of the
right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes
the second
intervention and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
for
Mr. Duval (Canada) (interpretation from French):
I should like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo for his statement
this morning, and especially for his favourable reference
to the Ottawa process and the global efforts to prevent the
production and use of anti-personnel landmines. However,
I should like to clarify one issue with regard to the
Minister’s statement that some members of the Security
Council refused to support
the idea of a temporary
multinational force, led by Canada, in response to the
humanitarian crisis raging in what was then called eastern
Zaire. It is important to recall that the mandate of the
multinational force in question was adopted unanimously
by the Security Council as resolution 1080 (1996) on 15
November 1996.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call on the representative of Pakistan, who wishes to
speak on a point of order.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the 1990s (UN-NADAF), the United Nations System-wide
Special
Initiative on Africa, Agenda 21 and other
programmes of action can be truly successful, it will be
necessary to establish a global system of operations and
financing for Africa,
like the Marshall Plan, which
contributed greatly to the reconstruction and economic and
social recovery of Europe after the Second World War. The
establishment of this mechanism before the year 2000 will
make it possible for Africa to stride confidently, not slouch,
into the twenty-first century.
Shortly before the statement that was made on 5 June
1947 at Harvard University by General George Marshall to
define the foundations of his well-known European
Recovery Programme, President Harry Truman stated:
“Our duty is to help free peoples to fashion their own
destiny in their own way. I believe that our assistance
must be first of all economic and financial, because
this is essential to economic stability and political
order.”
Fifty years later, this magnificent and noble spirit of
solidarity, displayed voluntarily by the great American
people and its Government, still retains all its validity and
all its historical meaning.
There are cases in which, because of the requirements
of its own unfolding, history repeats itself. Here at the end
of a century, we are experiencing one such case: it is
necessary to meet the urgent need for a new Marshall Plan
for Africa. And the upcoming second Tokyo International
Conference on African Development (TICAD II) could
provide one of the best opportunities to do so.
If the international community works resolutely in this
direction, we will have laid the solid and indestructible
foundations for a road on which we will all be able to
march triumphantly into the third millennium.
For its part the Government of Benin, while awaiting
the fulfilment of that hope, has developed the concept of a
shared social minimum level in order methodically and
effectively to take actions and measures aimed at
eliminating poverty, hunger, disease
and illiteracy,
providing adequate housing, guaranteeing productive
employment, improving standards and conditions of living
and ensuring the sustainable use of natural resources. This
concept was the subject of an international symposium,
supported by the United Nations system, which was held in
Cotonou from 4 to 6 August 1997.
28
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Islam (Pakistan): The gentleman styling himself
as the representative of Afghanistan made a number of
objectionable references about Pakistan in his statement this
afternoon. My delegation would like to reserve the right of
reply, and will exercise it at a later stage.
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
20th plenary meeting
1 October 1997
29
