United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
28th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 7 October 1997, 3 p.m.
New York
A/52/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: The Assembly will first hear an
address by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Papua New
Guinea, His Excellency the Honourable Mr. Kilroy Genia,
M.P.
Mr. Genia (Papua New Guinea): On behalf of the
people and Government of Papua New Guinea, I wish to
join previous speakers in conveying our felicitations to you,
Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-second
session of the General Assembly. The Papua New Guinea
delegation is confident that you will guide this session to a
successful conclusion.
May I also take this opportunity to express my sincere
gratitude to your predecessor, His Excellency Ambassador
Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for his energetic, visionary and
outstanding stewardship in facilitating the work of the fifty-
first session of the General Assembly.
At
the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations,
to
world leaders reaffirmed their resolute commitment
uphold the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter
of the United Nations. They pledged their support for the
pivotal role of the United Nations in building international
cooperation and partnership in development and in
engendering trust and confidence among nations and
peoples in order to foster world peace and security.
No human institution is perfect, and the United
Nations is no exception. It has nonetheless withstood the
test of
time. The shortcomings of our collective
endeavours have necessitated efforts for constructive
reform and measures directed at strengthening and
reinvigorating the United Nations, our paramount
Organization.
Papua New Guinea has always believed, and
continues to believe, in the utility of the United Nations,
and in this context commends the Secretary-General, His
Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his bold initiative in
proposing for our consideration a comprehensive reform
package aimed at making the United Nations more
responsive to the changing international situation.
In his proposal, the Secretary-General emphasized
that the principal objective of the reform is not only to
make the United Nations efficient and effective but also
to improve its delivery system and operational coherency
through management
innovations. Papua New Guinea
fully supports these principal objectives of the proposed
reform package. The overall direction of reform should
and must be tailored towards strengthening the United
Nations system in order to better serve the needs and
aspirations of its Members. It makes eminent sense for us
to move from merely debating issues to determining
practical steps and strategies that would make our
Organization more responsive and capable of meeting the
ever-changing
and
modernization as we enter the next century.
globalization
challenges
of
97-86176 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
These changes are necessary to enhance public
confidence in the United Nations and to improve its
capacity to build partnership between Governments and
civil society. This will enable the Organization to meet the
daunting challenges of economic development faced by our
global community and those posed by the political and
ideological differences afflicting nations today.
Consistent with the reform process, we see merit and
value in revising the regional groupings within the context
of the United Nations to reflect present geopolitical
realities. In this regard, we support the calls made by
New Zealand and others in the South Pacific region for
the consideration of their inclusion in the Asia-Pacific
grouping.
The proposed reforms stem in part from the need to
ensure the operational viability and sustainability of the
activities of the United Nations. Papua New Guinea is fully
aware of the predicament of the United Nations — starved
of much needed financial resources for its operations to the
point of being insolvent. We cannot allow such a situation
to persist.
We agree with and applaud the role of
the
Organization in development — in framing structures and
policies that will enhance the technological capacities of
developing
effective
participation in international markets, including their access
to credit
information
technologies.
ability to acquire
and their
countries
and
improve
their
Regarding priorities, Papua New Guinea is gravely
concerned at the lack of full implementation of a number of
initiatives and programmes undertaken by the United
Nations, in particular with respect to such critical areas as
the empowerment of women, child care, the protection of
our global environment, poverty eradication and sustainable
development.
It is critical to be aware that organizational reform
alone cannot guarantee the effective delivery of services.
The United Nations needs more than bureaucratic and
technocratic innovations. It needs our concerted action. It is
therefore imperative that we as Members commit ourselves
to encouraging the development of genuine partnerships and
seriously take urgent and practical measures to remove the
obstacles and barriers that exist between developed and
developing countries.
In addition to its traditional role in the maintenance of
peace and security, this paramount international body must
be equipped and strengthened to do more in framing
international
treaties and standards and in encouraging
international norms and practices that will bring about
equitable economic development and social justice for all
peoples. Equity and justice in all spheres of development
should be our ultimate objective.
2
I now turn to the question of the reform of the
Security Council, which is an important decision-making
organ of the United Nations on global security concerns.
As a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, Papua New
Guinea fully supports the declaration adopted by the non-
aligned Ministers at the twelfth Ministerial Conference of
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries — held in New
in April 1997 — and reaffirmed more
Delhi, India,
recently in New York on 26 September
last. The
composition and modus operandi of the Security Council
must reflect the changes that have taken place since its
formative years, and, more importantly, must mirror
current geopolitical and economic realities.
Papua New Guinea believes that the reform and
expansion of the Security Council should be guided by
the principle of the sovereign equality of States and
equitable geographical distribution. It should also take
transparency,
into
for
the working
accountability and democratization of
methods and procedures of
the Security Council,
including its decision-making processes.
consideration
need
the
The reform of the Security Council should be
comprehensive and based on universal values in order to
enhance its legitimacy. More importantly, the reformed
Security Council should allow for equitable representation
by developing countries. On the question of permanent
membership, we reiterate our position on the inclusion of
Japan and Germany from the industrialized States and
also support
representation of developing
countries as additional permanent members, particularly
those that have the capacity and ability to contribute to
world affairs.
the fair
Papua New Guinea strongly supports the view that
there should be no distinction in terms of the privileges
accorded to permanent members, particularly in relation
to the exercise of the veto power. In other words, all
permanent members of a reformed Security Council
should enjoy the same privileges so as to maintain
geopolitical equity and balance.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
It
is indeed ironic to note in this Assembly the
contradictory positions of some of our members, who
purport to be champions and defenders of human rights
issues and yet continue to maintain colonial situations that
directly deny genuine democratic representation and the
rights of people to govern themselves in a manner
consistent with their political aspirations.
Having achieved decolonization in many parts of the
globe — of which the United Nations can be proud — we
would be failing in our noble duty if we were to ignore the
concerns and aspirations of the peoples of the remaining 17
Non-Self-Governing Territories, some of them in the South
Pacific, which are still struggling to establish their own
political autonomy, and even to exercise their right of self-
determination. Given the importance we attach to this issue,
Papua New Guinea is gravely concerned that
recent
initiatives in relation to the United Nations programme on
decolonization have seriously eroded the importance of the
political essence of that programme and have impacted
negatively on it. We hope that this anomaly can be resolved
quickly and amicably.
Papua New Guinea wishes to recall that many of us
represented here would not have taken our place in this
forum had we not been allowed the opportunity to exercise
that right. We therefore urge this body to adopt a more
serious and aggressive approach to the implementation of
the decolonization programme of the United Nations. At the
recent meeting of the South Pacific Forum in Rarotonga,
Cook Islands, the States members of the South Pacific
Forum reaffirmed their support for the decolonization
process.
The Non-Self-Governing Territory of New Caledonia
continues to be of great interest to the South Pacific Forum,
and we have over the years followed developments there in
relation to the Matignon Accords. Early this year we
mounted, with the help of the Government of France and
the authorities in New Caledonia, a Forum ministerial
mission to the Territory. We are pleased to note that all
parties to the Matignon Accords appear to be satisfied with
the progress made in implementing the Accords. Papua
New Guinea continues to recognize the right of the people
of New Caledonia to self-determination and urges all
parties in the Territory to maintain their commitment to
reaching a negotiated solution as a successor arrangement
to the 1988 Matignon Accords. This negotiated successor
the wishes of all
solution must
communities,
on
changing
demographic composition of New Caledonia.
take into account
including
concerns
the
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
The economic prosperity and political developments
and changes in the Asia-Pacific region continue to be of
interest to Papua New Guinea. As a special observer of
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN),
we were heartened by the initiatives taken by ASEAN
leaders to bring the belligerent parties in Cambodia to the
table for urgent negotiations for peace and security. It is
our hope that the people of that ancient civilization will
return to their daily lives in a peaceful and secure
environment once more.
The ongoing difficulties in the Korean peninsula and
the competing territorial claims in the South China Sea
continue to concern my Government, because they all
have a bearing on the overall maintenance of regional and
international security, as well as on other forms of
cooperation.
While we do not understate the importance and
value of our diplomatic relations with the People’s
Republic of China, we have, however, on a number of
occasions urged both Beijing and Taipei to resolve their
fundamental differences with the aim of maintaining an
amicable coexistence.
In view of
the changing international climate
characterized by global interdependence, it is important
for all peace-loving States to make every effort
to
minimize areas of hostility that could seriously undermine
international peace and security. The United Nations
therefore has an obligation to assist in maintaining a
secure global environment in which economic growth and
other forms of development can continue to thrive for the
benefit and common good of all peoples of the world.
In its efforts to attain economic prosperity, Papua
New Guinea has had to engage all economic entities in
our trade and commercial relations. Consistent with our
obligation to assure our people of a better future, we
intend to expand our economic ties with trading partners
that have demonstrated their willingness to assist without
our having to compromise various aspects of our existing
relations with our partners.
economy
and
in
trading
It is in this regard that we recognize Taiwan as a
dynamic
partner without
compromising our one-China policy. Since Taiwan
the Asian
participates
such
Development Bank,
Economic
Cooperation Council, the World Trade Organization and
the South Pacific Forum as a dialogue partner, I cannot
organizations
as
the Asia-Pacific
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
see any reason why we should not deal directly with
Taiwan on trade and economic matters.
The world has witnessed once again the derailment of
the peace process in the Middle East. We call on the
leaders of both Israel and Palestine to cooperate with
United Nations efforts to reach an amicable solution to
avert further violence, and to focus on the path to peace.
Papua New Guinea strongly believes that the rights of the
Palestinian people over their homeland and their freedom to
establish their own Government and identity are paramount
among the conditions that could lead to enduring peace.
We
encouraged to see positive
signs of
are
appeasement
in Rwanda, Burundi and the Democratic
Republic of the Congo. Nevertheless, given the tense
situation that exists in that region, we urge those in
positions of authority, including all leaders in that part of
the world, to resolve their differences peacefully to prevent
further bloodshed. In this context, we are heartened to see
the Organization of African Unity playing a critical role in
the endeavour to bring about peace and stability in the
Great Lakes region. The crisis in Sierra Leone needs urgent
attention, and we join the Secretary-General’s call to the
leaders of the military junta and support his continuing
efforts to encourage them to respect the rule of law and
make every effort to restore democracy in that country.
(APEC)
On the regional front, Papua New Guinea is taking a
major initiative in setting up the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council
regional centre in Port
Moresby. We would like to offer our gratitude for the
support given by the States members of the South Pacific
Forum in our efforts to set up this centre. The objective of
the APEC centre is to assist in the area of capacity-building
in the economies of 13 small island developing States in
our
the challenges of
globalization and liberalization. We are also grateful for the
support provided by the United Nations Development
Programme.
region as we prepare to meet
At
the leaders
the recent summit of the Heads of the South
reaffirmed our
Pacific Forum countries,
commitment to maintaining a nuclear-free zone in the South
Pacific consistent with the overall objectives of the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We
welcomed the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty and reiterated our support for banning the
transboundary movement of radioactive and other hazardous
wastes in the region, and in particular for the Vienna
Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage and the
draft Convention on Supplementary Funding.
4
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
In this context, we welcome the ratification by the
United Kingdom of the protocols to the South Pacific
Nuclear-Free Zone Treaty, known as the Treaty of
Rarotonga. We are still hopeful that the United States of
America will do likewise, and call upon it to do so at the
earliest possible opportunity.
At the last session of the General Assembly, we
sought and forged new agreements,
including our
relationship with the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons. We also expressed our support for an
international convention to ban all anti-personnel mines,
and have participated in the Ottawa process, most recently
at Oslo. Like other members of this body, Papua New
Guinea is making the necessary arrangements to become
a party to that historic Treaty when it opens for signature
later this year.
In a few months we will usher in the International
Year of the Ocean. Like other South Pacific Forum
countries, Papua New Guinea has an affinity for the sea
which cannot be overstated. It is, for the greater part, the
source of our livelihood.
We urge the United Nations to continue to play a
major role in ensuring global awareness of sustainable
use, conservation and management of marine resources.
In this regard, we call on the international community to
coordinate efforts to implement the priorities agreed upon
during the special session of the General Assembly on the
environment and sustainable development. We are gravely
concerned that much of the outcome of the special session
will remain the province of historians and academics, if
not given practical effect. We urge that greater attention
be given to the special needs and concerns of the small
island developing countries.
An environmental issue of great importance and
relevance to Papua New Guinea and other small island
States in the South Pacific region is the impact of
greenhouse gas emissions, which are causing rising sea
levels and changing weather patterns in many member
countries, especially low lying island nations.
This issue was given priority attention at the recent
South Pacific Forum meeting in Rarotonga, Cook Islands,
where the Forum countries expressed deep concerns about
the insufficient progress made by the countries which
contribute significantly to greenhouse gas emissions.
As a member of the South Pacific Forum, Papua
New Guinea strongly urges all countries concerned to
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
make additional efforts in meeting commitments under the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(FCCC). We also urge all parties to the FCCC to consider
fully the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) draft
protocol during the ongoing negotiations, especially at the
forthcoming Kyoto conference,
in order to pursue the
greatest possible level of net reduction in global greenhouse
gas emissions by means of a legally binding protocol or
other legal instrument.
On Bougainville, let me reassure this body that Papua
New Guinea, as I stated earlier this year in the United
Nations Commission on Human Rights, remains fully
committed to a peaceful and enduring resolution of the
crisis. It is absolutely clear that the people of Papua New
Guinea, including the majority of Bougainvillians, want
peace and will pursue a peaceful solution by every available
means. As in the past, we will continue to give the people
of Bougainville every opportunity to participate fully in the
reconciliation process.
My Government is mindful of the effects of the crisis
on our region, particularly of the spillover effects on our
close neighbours. We wish to take this opportunity to thank
the neighbouring countries in our region for their assistance
in the peace process. I would like to acknowledge the
contributions of Australia and, in particular, New Zealand,
in initiating and facilitating the peace conference of all
Bougainvillian leaders which resulted in the signing of the
Burnham Declaration last July. A follow-up meeting —
Burnham Talks II — between Bougainvillian leaders and
representatives of Papua New Guinea’s Government
is
currently under way in New Zealand. We are optimistic and
confident
that we can resolve the crisis within the
framework of the Papua New Guinea Constitution.
Let me also take this opportunity to thank, on behalf
of my Government and people, the previous and current
Governments of the Solomon Islands and their people for
their tolerance and understanding, particularly when they
have had to bear the full weight of the spillover effects. I
want to thank them also for agreeing with us to put in place
in the last 12 months two important bilateral treaties: the
comprehensive framework treaty guiding bilateral relations
and the basic border agreement. These treaties set
the
parameters within which our bilateral
relations are
conducted, including the legal mechanisms for consultation
and dialogue relating to a more effective management of
our common border, which is critical to the containment of
the Bougainville crisis, including its spillover effects.
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
My Government also offers its gratitude to the
leaders of the South Pacific Forum for recognizing
Bougainville as an integral part of Papua New Guinea,
and for
the peace efforts
concerning Bougainville by all parties involved, including
Bougainvillians and their leaders, the Papua New Guinea
Government, and the Governments of
the Solomon
Islands, Australia and New Zealand.
their acknowledgment of
In conclusion, let me echo what other speakers have
said before me. As we prepare to meet the dawn of the
next millennium, let us commit ourselves to building
genuine partnerships in development that will ensure a
secure environment for our present and future generations.
We do not and should not expect guarantees, but we
shall look far and wide in our search for safeguards. We
do not want and shall not seek handouts; however, we
demand equity and greater participation to foster and
expand opportunities for our peoples.
It
is only through the development of genuine
partnerships and the enhancement of equity and justice in
global trade and investments that we can improve the
socio-economic conditions of our people, ensure their
prosperity, and guarantee the safety of our global
environment, without which there is no hope for the
attainment of enduring peace in our societies today and in
future. Only when such peace has been attained can we
truly say that we have lived up to our obligations, for the
interests and common good of humanity.
The President: I now call on the Minister-Secretary
General of the Presidency of Mauritania, His Excellency
Mr. Ahmed Ould Minnih.
Mr. Ould Minnih (Mauritania) (interpretation from
Arabic): At the outset, I would like to say how pleased
we are to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the
presidency of the fifty-second session of the United
Nations General Assembly. We are convinced that your
great experience and wisdom will promote the success of
this session. I can assure you of the cooperation of the
delegation of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania in
reaching the results to which we all aspire.
I take this opportunity also to express our gratitude
to and esteem for your predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for
the great efforts made and the positive results obtained
during his term of office as President of the past session.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
I should also like to express our appreciation to
Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
for the tireless efforts he has made since his assumption to
his high office to promote the universality of the United
Nations and to strengthen its credibility and capacity to
discharge its responsibilities despite a difficult international
situation.
In this context, we welcome the initiative taken by the
Secretary-General
in submitting an outline for reform,
which includes a number of provisions that could improve
the functioning of the Organization. An in-depth study of
this outline will undoubtedly facilitate its adoption by all
members of the international community.
While the end of the cold war has created a favourable
climate for the emergence of a new era of international
dialogue and cooperation, the improvement of the economic
conditions of developing countries remains an urgent need.
trade,
Indeed, with the growing trend towards globalization
the developing
and liberalization in international
countries are facing a number of obstacles, including slower
growth, falling export revenues, and a reduction in the
volume of
investments and in official development
assistance. All of this may prevent these countries from
becoming part of
the global economy and further
marginalize them if the international community does not
mobilize swiftly to provide them with the aid they need to
meet these challenges.
The increase in the volume of debt is another obstacle
to the economic and social development efforts undertaken
by these countries for the benefit of their peoples. In this
respect the 1996 report of the World Bank notes that the
burden of debt in many of the least developed countries has
reached such a level that it is virtually impossible for them
to continue with their economic reforms, which are of
crucial importance; and that this situation is exacerbated by
the fact that in 1996 official development assistance, which
can reduce the effect of indebtedness, fell to its lowest level
in real terms in 23 years.
International strategies do not seem to have succeeded
adequately in easing the burden of debt in the developing
countries, which is why more effective solutions, such as
increasing official development assistance, must be found
so that
these countries’ development priorities can be
financed.
Despite the fragility of the international economic
situation, progress has been made in various areas due to
6
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
efforts by the United Nations to promote international
cooperation and to define policies and strategies capable
of meeting the economic, social and environmental
challenges that confront the world today. For instance,
several important international meetings and conferences
have been organized during the past five years under the
auspices of
resulting in some
decisions and undertakings relating to the main issues of
development
international
cooperation and coordination for development.
the United Nations,
promote
seek
that
to
the
I am referring in particular to the World Summit for
Children, held in New York; the Earth Summit, held in
Rio de Janeiro; the World Conference on Human Rights,
held in Vienna;
International Conference on
Population and Development, held in Cairo; the World
Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen; the
Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing; the
World Food Summit, held in Rome; the second United
Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II),
held in Istanbul; and the nineteenth special session of the
General Assembly, devoted to the overall review and
appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21, which took
place in New York last June.
These initiatives attest to the determination of the
United Nations to take into account the concerns and
interests of the international community with regard to a
whole range of development issues. The United Nations
should continue on this path and seek to ensure
implementation of the decisions adopted.
Under the enlightened guidance of its President, His
Excellency Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya,
the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania has completed the process
of establishing constitutional
institutions within the
framework of a democratic process that began 11 years
ago. This ensures that these institutions will be able to
function normally within a multi-party system and a State
based on the rule of law. My country is proud to state
that we do not hold any political prisoners.
as
such
freedoms,
Fundamental
freedom of
expression and a multi-party system, as well as trade
union freedoms, are guaranteed and enjoyed by 20
political parties and a large number of organizations and
trades unions that can pursue their activities in complete
freedom. Likewise, there are dozens of newspapers and
magazines that reflect various political and intellectual
sensibilities.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Furthermore, in keeping with the provisions of our
Constitution,
the two Houses of Parliament have been
replenished, and for the second time presidential elections,
set for 12 December this year, are being prepared in a
climate of freedom, peace and stability.
economic
and social development
A global strategy that seeks to raise the level of our
people’s
and to
consolidate democracy has been implemented. This goes
hand in hand with the democratic process and is in keeping
with the following comments of the President of the
Republic, His Excellency Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed
Taya:
“We are seeking to build a modern society
capable of accompanying the world on its march
forward
and
and
information; a society aware of the
technological
challenges of our time and working to meet those
challenges”.
assimilating
scientific
of
jobs and health services,
In this context, the promotion of women’s rights and
the campaign against illiteracy figure prominently in our
development programmes. A sustained effort is also being
made to provide as many of our citizens as possible with
access to education,
thereby
guaranteeing them a better standard of living. The results
obtained in this regard are satisfactory.
the
enrolment rate in our schools has reached 86 per cent and
health care coverage for our people has been significantly
extended towards meeting the goal defined by the World
Health Organization, which is health for all by the year
2000. Drinking water supply systems have been built in
several regions, and the main cities of the country now
have electricity.
Indeed,
Within the framework of a huge programme to
provide access to remote towns in the interior of the
country, several new roads have been built, and a modern
telecommunications system now covers the entire country.
These important achievements attest to our firm desire
to combat underdevelopment in all its forms, relying first
on our own resources and then on the support of our
development partners.
and
I should like here to express my gratitude to all
brotherly
international
organizations and agencies, as well as to non-governmental
organizations, for their support of my country’s efforts in
this area.
countries
friendly
and
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
One of the positive features of international relations
today, which has led to the strengthening of democracy
and respect for human rights in several regions of the
world,
to
consolidate fundamental principles such as transparency,
the representative character of power, the primacy of law,
and the independence of the judiciary.
community’s effort
international
the
is
While we can be satisfied with the significant
progress made in this area, we should not lose sight of
the fact that democracy cannot be limited to the narrow
confines of each individual country; it must extend to
relations between nations. In this respect we attach
particular importance to the efforts made by the Open-
ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the
Security Council. We also hope that these efforts will
lead to greater
transparency in the decision-making
processes of the Security Council as well as to improved
working methods.
In a different area, we need to adopt a new form of
preventive diplomacy that
is capable of preventing
conflicts and the human tragedies that result from them,
such as those we have witnessed recently and those we
see today and yet are unable to resolve.
The Islamic Republic of Mauritania expresses its
profound concern at the difficulties encountered in the
peace process and at the negative developments in the
region of the Middle East, which result from non-
compliance with agreements concluded and commitments
undertaken in accordance with the established timetable.
My country believes that there can be no just and
lasting peace in the Middle East unless Israel withdraws
from all the occupied Palestinian territories, including
Al-Quds, the Syrian Golan and southern Lebanon, and
unless the Palestinian people regain their right to create
an independent State on their territory.
My country also calls for the taking of the steps
necessary for the resumption of the peace negotiations
among all the parties concerned. We are convinced that
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and
425 (1978) and the principle of “land for peace” remain
the basis of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace.
Furthermore, we call upon the two sponsors of the
peace process to redouble their efforts to ensure that the
chance for peace is not lost and the hopes for a new era
of cooperation and concord, in which the potential of the
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
region is dedicated to economic development and social
promotion, are not dashed.
In this context, my country calls for the lifting of the
embargo placed on the Palestinian people, and we ask the
international community to mobilize the necessary resources
to finance the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East so that it can do its job
properly.
In the Gulf region, the aftermath of the war continues
to impede the normalization of the situation. The Islamic
Republic of Mauritania, while reaffirming its dedication to
international law and its commitment to respecting the
principles thereof, again states its rejection of any violation
of Kuwait’s independence, its territorial integrity and the
security of its citizens, and calls for a rapid solution to the
question of Kuwaiti prisoners.
We also reaffirm our steadfast position that no
measures should be taken that threaten Iraq’s unity and
territorial
integrity, and we call for the lifting of the
embargo imposed against the Iraqi people, so that an end
can be put
the
implementation of the resolution regarding “oil for food”
can help to achieve this.
suffering. We hope that
to their
Still on the same region, we reiterate our support for
the United Arab Emirates in its desire to regain its
sovereignty over the islands of Greater Tumb, Lesser Tumb
and Abu Mussa.
In the Arab Maghreb, my country is acting in
cooperation with its brothers for the attainment of the
aspirations of the States of the Union of the Arab Maghreb.
the main
On the subject of Western Sahara, my country
welcomed with great satisfaction the agreement which was
concluded on 16 September last in Houston in the United
States under the auspices of Mr. James Baker III,
the
Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, and which deals
with
the
implementation of the settlement plan for Western Sahara
worked out by the United Nations in coordination with the
Organization of African Unity (OAU). The Islamic
Republic of Mauritania reaffirms its willingness to do
everything it can to promote implementation of the plan for
the settlement of this dispute.
hampered
issues
that
have
Furthermore, we call for the lifting of the embargo
imposed against the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and we hope
that the efforts of the League of Arab States and of the
8
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
OAU to find a peaceful solution based on the principles
of international law, a solution that will put an end to this
situation so detrimental to the Libyan people and all other
Maghreb peoples, will be given favourable consideration.
On the question of Africa we hope that the meeting
of the Security Council at the ministerial level held two
weeks ago to consider
the situation in Africa will
contribute to the achievement of appropriate solutions to
the problems of the continent.
My country also wishes to reaffirm its commitment
to the principles of dialogue and negotiation as the only
way to overcome crises and conflicts and to defuse
pockets of tension which exist in several parts of the
continent. Accordingly, my country renews its support for
efforts to revitalize the central organ of the OAU that
deals with prevention, management and settlement of
conflicts in Africa.
As for the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros,
the efforts undertaken by the
my country hopes that
League of Arab States and the OAU will contribute to the
settlement of the crisis in that country.
We hope also that in Somalia the parties concerned
will have recourse to constructive dialogue to reach a
solution that will guarantee harmony and stability.
In regard to the Republic of Congo, my country
hopes that a peaceful solution that will restore security
and stability will be found.
We hope that there will again be a normal situation
in Sierra Leone, in keeping with international law.
The United Nations is today required more than ever
before to react more vigorously to the problems facing the
international community. The end of the cold war, and the
international community’s awareness of the importance of
coordination and dialogue, are positive factors for giving
our Organization the necessary momentum to enable it to
meet the challenges and to establish the bases for a new
international order founded on the principles of justice
and solidarity and guaranteeing the maintenance of peace
and security throughout the world.
There is no doubt also that being aware of the
magnitude of the challenges and the need to pool our
efforts to meet them is the best way to restore our hope
of moving closer to the fulfilment of the ideal that was
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
consecrated at the ceremonies commemorating the fiftieth
anniversary of the Organization:
“We the peoples of the United Nations united for a
better world”.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Eritrea, His Excellency Mr. Haile Weldensae.
Mr. Weldensae (Eritrea): Allow me at the outset, Sir,
to congratulate you on your election as President of the
fifty-second session of the General Assembly. Eritrea joins
in the expressions of recognition of your attributes by
previous speakers. You are presiding over an Assembly
session that will be remembered for focusing not only on
crucial international issues but also on the reform of our
Organization. While wishing you success
in your
leadership, I also assure you of the full support and
cooperation of the Eritrean delegation.
I also seize this opportunity to pay tribute to the
Permanent Representative of Malaysia, His Excellency
Ambassador Razali Ismail, for the way he conducted the
work of the fifty-first session, and to thank him for his far-
sighted proposal on the reform of the Security Council.
Likewise, I wish to extend sincere gratitude to the new
Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan,
for the efficient and dynamic way he is discharging his
duties.
We are meeting at a critical juncture of history. After
almost 50 years the dark and ominous clouds of world
conflict no longer loom threateningly over the horizon.
Those grim days are over. In the last few years we have
taken great strides towards making the world safer for
future generations.
The road to disarmament has been made easier with
the signing of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
(CTBT) by 146 world leaders in 1996. The world has also
accelerated efforts to eliminate anti-personnel landmines.
More importantly, there seem to be clear indications of a
great change in values, attitudes and perceptions which will
foster the creation of cooperative relationships among the
States of the world, thus promoting new perspectives of
common policies to solve mutual problems.
True, we should, at the same time, remember that old
and new conflicts continue to plague the world. Thus,
destabilizing factors such as the marginalization of nations
and peoples, transnational crimes, the use of violence and
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
the threat of violence as instruments of national policy
still haunt our planet. In addition, old and new conflicts
in Europe, Asia and Africa seem to threaten or reverse
the global gains achieved in the last few years. It is hoped
that these will be the exceptions rather than the rule and,
as relics of the past, will be swept away in the near
future. In this respect, it is encouraging to note that the
Security Council held, during the second week of the
General Assembly, an unprecedented ministerial meeting
on the security situation in Africa. This will encourage the
United Nations to play a more meaningful and credible
role in supporting regional initiatives to solve regional
conflicts.
time,
the first
Thus, perhaps for
there is an
opportunity to undertake a common, realistic and critical
reappraisal of our involvement in world affairs and to
come to an agreement on the role of the United Nations.
The Members of the United Nations, both old and new,
must welcome this opportunity to demonstrate their
readiness to tackle these new global problems and the full
intent of the contribution they can make to empower the
United Nations to become a strong and relevant force in
international relations.
In recent years, there have been persistent requests
for a change in the structure and mission of the United
Nations. There is undoubtedly need for reform. The most
obvious reason is the fact that today the Organization
remains essentially the same entity that was created over
50 years ago in San Francisco. Its membership has more
than tripled since then, with at least two dozen new States
joining since 1990. Yet, its structure remains essentially
the same. Also, the problems that face the world are so
radically different
there is a dire need for the
reorganization of priorities in the Organization’s mission.
that
Although it is true that different States, or groups of
States, will have different perceptions of what needs to be
changed,
in the opinion of my
delegation, the most important issues that must be taken
into consideration if change is to be meaningful and
credible.
the following are,
there
First,
are only two major
challenges
confronting the world today: development and security.
These are, of course, interdependent. It is evident that
there will not be any development without peace. Yet,
without development
improves the livelihood of
people, the task of guaranteeing peace will be extremely
difficult. The assaults on these two problems must be
made simultaneously, and all of our actions should be
that
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the
than
rather
aspects
economic
taken with an eye to solving both. Hitherto, emphasis has
been on security to the detriment of development, with
catastrophic results. Since the reason for this disparity,
namely the cold war, no longer exists, it should not be too
difficult to put a little more emphasis on development.
Lately, however, there has been a growing emphasis on the
political
of
development — that is, on democracy and human rights.
True, people everywhere are clamouring for the right to be
free from dictatorships and to participate meaningfully in
decisions which affect their lives, and they must be strongly
supported in this. However, it must also be realized that the
meaning of human rights and democracy is being
challenged and questioned, and they are being given
different interpretations. Whatever the case, any effort to
apply standards of democracy and human rights, however
defined, will not be successful unless the root causes of
underdevelopment and poverty are effectively addressed.
Any reform of
therefore,
empower it
to promote sustained economic growth in
developing countries even more energetically. Only this will
help to develop good governance, that is, democracy and
human rights and stability, and will militate against inter-
and intra-State conflicts.
the United Nations should,
a
Such
development would
Secondly, the United Nations belongs to all of its
Members. Thus, the increased participation of all of its
Members in its activities is a right that must be exercised
to safeguard against the arbitrary abuse of its powers and
functions.
enhance
immeasurably its effectiveness as a guarantor of peace. It
is hardly possible to speak sincerely of a universal
organization whose major decisions, taken by a few, will be
binding upon the rest of the world.
is no longer
acceptable to the rest of the world that a relatively small
number of States, even after the proposed increase of
membership in its major decision-making organs, should, in
the name of international peace and security, dictate the
agenda of the United Nations or impose a system of
international conduct. Indeed, it is sad to note that the same
countries that make democracy a condition in their foreign
policies are adamant about maintaining an elite club of
States in the consideration of Security Council membership.
It
In any case, any future system must eschew cold-war
doctrines and principles and give equal emphasis to social
justice. Peace and justice are interrelated and cannot be
mutually exclusive. There is thus no longer any excuse to
deny equitable representation in the major organs of the
Organization and undemocratically to deprive States of the
opportunity to participate in the making of decisions which
will affect their destinies and the welfare of their peoples.
10
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
The United Nations will be in danger of being
marginalized if it does not take into account the needs
and aspirations of most of its Members and does not build
trust between its Members, big and small, rich and poor,
weak and strong. It can build such trust and mutual
confidence only if it makes sure that democratic norms
and principles are accepted and practised by all
its
Members.
Thirdly, this is the age of decentralization. Whenever
possible, therefore, the United Nations must create the
appropriate modalities to enable regional organizations to
assume tasks which they will be able to execute more
effectively. To this end, the General Assembly must take
the necessary steps to ensure a relevant role for regional
and even subregional organizations, without losing its
leadership role or eliminating its support.
Fourthly, the urgency of reform is recognized, but it
would be counterproductive to rush into decisions whose
implications we shall live to regret. Those who resent the
veto power of
the
Security Council would be well advised to take the time,
and to allow others to take the necessary time, to study
issues before they make final decisions on such weighty
matters.
the five permanent members of
its
Since
independence
in 1993, Eritrea has
embarked on a course of nation-building, reconstruction
and renewal. In this endeavour, we were inspired by the
eternal ideas of our struggle, which enshrines justice,
equity, human rights and equal opportunity to all,
including, in particular, hitherto marginalized groups.
to
of
our
prior
declaration
In the last six years — for we liberated our country
two
formal
years
independence — we have taken the necessary measures
to establish a regime of peace and marked stability in a
region of the world in which they have been absent for
several decades; consolidate our profoundly democratic
tradition of struggle by adopting a new constitution and
holding our first democratic regional elections; create a
development-oriented State and government structure;
ensure a corruption-free society; build schools and health
facilities in most regions of our country; and formulate an
economic
an
environment that encourages investment and has thus
made our country a new frontier of widely expanding
opportunities. These policies have yielded good political,
economic and social dividends that have enabled us to
look to the future with hope and optimism.
and financial policy which fosters
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
this belief
In our foreign relations, we have been guided by two
basic principles. The first is our deep conviction that, where
there is goodwill, all can be resolved through peaceful
negotiation without recourse to violence. A natural corollary
of
is the firm conviction that all States,
regardless of their ideological orientation, can live together
in peace. This tenet underlies Eritrean foreign policy and
has guided its relations with all the countries of the two
regions — the Red Sea and the Horn of Africa — in which
it is located.
This has enabled it to establish an exemplary, close tie
of friendship with Ethiopia, our erstwhile adversary. These
close relations and friendship have widely manifested
themselves over the last four years as we have coordinated
activities in the political, economic and social fields. It has
also helped us to defuse conflict and to arrive at a mutual
agreement
to resolve the conflict between us and the
Republic of Yemen over
the Eritrean Hanish-Zukar
archipelago on the Red Sea by the peaceful means of
arbitration. The State of Eritrea has time and again affirmed
its adherence to the Agreement of principles of 21 May
1996 and expressed its commitment
to abide by the
decisions of the Arbitration Tribunal. Since both parties
have committed themselves to abide by the decision of the
Arbitration Tribunal, my Government feels that the dispute
is already solved.
Unfortunately, even the best of goodwill and intentions
could not help avert bad relations with our other neighbour,
the Sudan, which is bent on conducting a bad-neighbour
policy, is at odds with almost all of its neighbours and with
others beyond, and has, because of its avowed policy of
exporting terrorism abroad, become an international pariah.
The second pillar of Eritrean foreign policy is an
unswerving devotion to justice and equity. This policy
emanates from Eritrea’s subjection to the horrors of
aggression and colonization at the height of the cold war.
At that time, our pleas to the United Nations and the
international community fell on deaf ears. Because of this,
we are convinced that there are no substitutes for justice
and equality for the purpose of ensuring the maintenance of
peace in the world. These, too, have influenced our search
for friendship and cooperation with our neighbours as well
as with other States. They have also underlined our efforts
to bring peace and stability to our region and to achieve an
early end to the fratricidal conflict in Somalia, a just and
fair
and the
development of economic, commercial and political
relations among countries of the region.
the Sudanese
resolution of
conflict,
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
The conflict that has ravaged the Sudan for about
two decades must be brought to an end. The absence of
peace in the Sudan has had severe consequences for most
of its neighbours. Thus, they have a substantial interest in
the restoration of lasting peace, security and stability in
the Sudan.
Intergovernmental Authority
those of its neighbours which are
To this end,
members
of
the
on
Development
(IGAD) have, both collectively and
individually, exerted much effort during the past seven
years to promote an inter-Sudanese peace process. None
of the members of IGAD has an interest other than
ushering in peace in the Sudan. All have favoured and
encouraged dialogue, compromise and tolerance. They
were convinced that peace could be achieved on the basis
of the Declaration of Principles formulated by IGAD after
a serious assessment of the objective reality prevailing in
the country. It is regrettable that until last month the
Sudanese regime had done all it could to subvert the
peace process it had willingly accepted. It has now
accepted the Declaration of Principles. We hope it will
respect its commitment and implement the provisions of
that Declaration. If and when it does, it will bring our
initiative to a successful conclusion and usher in peace
and stability in the Sudan.
I also wish to refer to the efforts made by IGAD
concerning the tragic situation which still exists in
Somalia. It will be recalled that the members of IGAD
have both collectively and individually expressed deep
concern that this grave situation has continued for many
years and that no workable solution has yet been found.
Many attempts to bring the concerned parties to the
negotiating table have failed. Where they have succeeded,
no agreement could be achieved. Where agreements have
been reached, they have been broken soon after.
In the global context, my country is fully convinced
that international cooperation is of vital importance. To
ensure sustainable development, Eritrea has been engaged
in fostering regional
integration and international
cooperation because it is firmly aware of the importance
of partnership in development. Eritrea believes that
partnership can be ensured only when independence of
choice and recognition of equality and mutuality exist.
We in Eritrea are convinced that the world will
benefit from a strong, purposeful and dynamic United
Nations. We will therefore contribute, however modestly,
to the creation of the conditions necessary to make it a
real force which will ensure international peace and
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
security that
development.
is broadly defined and premised on
We note with great
interest and welcome the
Secretary-General’s proposals for reform. We are studying
them with care. We fully endorse the values and principles
underlying the objectives of reform, as enunciated in the
Secretary-General’s address to the current Assembly,
particularly his
reference to the new paradigms of
cooperation.
In spite of the many achievements of the United
Nations, much remains to be done. The world is still
plagued by poverty, all manner of diseases — some even
defying medical science — terrorism, regional conflict
and the menace of drugs. There can be no real peace or
security if millions of people go to bed hungry. There can
be no comfort if the rich man turns his back on the poor
man and treats him as a statistic. It seems as if the moral
obligation to help the disadvantaged has been totally
abandoned in some quarters.
Today,
I assure the General Assembly of our
commitment to the United Nations and to its new principles
and purposes and its vision of a new world, as well as its
sincere commitment
to promoting genuine peace and
development and defending the cause of small, weak States
and vulnerable peoples. One would think that a nation like
Eritrea — which had been systematically betrayed by the
United Nations during the past four decades — would have
second
the
Organization. However, we always believed that there was
nothing wrong with the message of the United Nations, and
we had subscribed to it even in our days of struggle. Surely
we cannot blame the message for the shortsightedness of
the messengers. We urge others who share our feelings to
join us in giving the Organization the wholehearted support
it now deserves and needs if it is going to be as effective
as we wish it to be.
committing
thoughts
about
itself
to
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Tourism and Information of Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, His Excellency the Honourable Alpian R. O.
Allen.
Mr. Allen (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): I wish
to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous
election. I am confident that under your leadership this
session of the General Assembly is well placed to address
the important issues on its agenda.
Commendation is due His Excellency Mr. Razali
Ismail for the balanced and effective guidance he provided
during the just concluded session.
My delegation takes this opportunity to offer heartfelt
congratulations to our new Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, on his assumption of such a high and noble office.
He will no doubt bring fresh insights to bear on the
Herculean tasks and problems confronting the United
Nations. We wish to indicate our support for his initiatives
for reforming the United Nations.
12
its
cherished
country, with
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines remains a very
peaceful
democratic
institutions intact. Recently our judicial system, which is
known historically for
its integrity, was put under
microscopic examination with a view to discrediting it.
The test results reveal a clean bill of health. This painful
period in our history has taught us many lessons. We
know now that there are friends who will smile with us
while plotting our execution. Today it is true to say that
might is not right and that a small nation like ours can
have the fortitude to withstand attacks even from those
who may have the strength of Samson.
Our banana pains continue to intensify. The
prognosis appears to be very bleak. The recent World
Trade Organization (WTO) ruling has left us dazed and
helpless. The concept of every man being his brother’s
keeper has been shattered.Can we survive? Will our cries
for help go unheeded? What about our neighbours? Are
they deaf or uncaring? I know it now. Money and greed
have been elevated to the status of a religion, and care
and concern are now regarded as a vice. Our future is
now on a life-support system. However, I am confident
that our resourcefulness and faith will see us through.
of
the
My
idea
delegation welcomes
the
establishment of a zone of peace in the Middle East. We
call on all parties to take urgent and practical steps
towards the establishment of such a zone in accordance
with the relevant General Assembly resolutions adopted
by consensus. We also call for a halt to the distribution
and production of conventional weapons, which have
caused immense suffering, especially in this century.
Recent acts of terrorism have given cause for great
concern. Why should innocent people continue to perish?
The United Nations Charter provides for the peaceful
settlement of disputes. Both sides have rights which must
be respected. Violence can never be a solution. Let us put
reason before bloodshed.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We should not rush to write the obituary for the
Middle East peace process. The wounds inflicted are not
fatal; the haemorrhaging can be stopped and the process
revived.
I look forward to the day when peace will break out
in that ancient region, when men shall beat their swords
into ploughshares and into pruning hooks their spears.
Our own hemisphere is not without problems. Our
region believes in neighbourly love, and any attempt to
inflict pain and unjustified hardship on any of us affects all
of us. Those who exert pressure, be it economic or legal,
will
in our bosom. The strategy of
diplomatic isolation has failed. It is clear that in the new
millennium, we cannot do business as usual. In hemispheric
matters, muscular diplomacy should give way to moral
suasion.
find no comfort
During this year both Suriname and Haiti have become
full members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
We take this opportunity to welcome them once again. We
also note the progress made since the reestablishment of
democracy in Haiti, and we urge the international
community to continue to offer technical, material and
financial help. That will enable the people of that country
to deepen the process of democracy and to promote the
country’s sustained economic and social development. I
would like to take this opportunity to express my sympathy
to the Government of Haiti in regard to the recent tragedy
at sea.
In our region, nature has manifested its mighty force,
and the people in Montserrat are now fleeing from an angry
volcano that erupts periodically. Our hearts are with the
people there, and we have done whatever we can to assist.
Efforts to help are continuing at home even as I speak. Let
us hope that the full extent of the plight of the people of
Montserrat is realized by those who are in a position to
make a substantial contribution. Now is the time to stand
up and be counted.
My delegation welcomes the convening in 1998 of a
special session of the United Nations General Assembly
dedicated to the fight against the illicit production, sale,
demand for and distribution of illicit drugs and psychotropic
substances. Those who traffic in this trade can properly be
regarded as merchants of death. International cooperation is
the only way to combat this menace.
I wish at this time to pay tribute to a woman who has
died recently and whose name evokes mystic reverence.
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
Her legacy is one of compassion. I speak of Mother
Teresa. She embraced the poor, the sick and the suffering,
the favoured and the dispossessed. Her life shows that
even in this cruel world there are still people who are
willing to put others before themselves in unrewarded
service. She lived her religion to the fullest. May she rest
in peace.
It is our hope that the issue regarding Taiwan can be
resolved peacefully. We urge those on both sides of the
Taiwan Strait to hold discussions and negotiate a peaceful
solution in the reunification process to which both sides
are committed. We of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
are very grateful for the assistance we have received from
Taiwan, and we would hope that
the international
community would respect its contribution to development
and that
it may find its place in the international
community.
continue
to support
My delegation will
the
fundamental rights of all peoples to self-determination.
We are heartened to see the emergence into sovereign
statehood and independence of peoples once under
colonial domination or foreign occupation. We reaffirm
the inalienable right of peoples of Non-Self-Governing
Territories to self-determination.
The reform and expansion of the Security Council is
of paramount importance as we approach the dawn of a
new millennium. My delegation wishes to emphasize that
the ongoing discussions on the reform and expansion of
the Security Council must take into account the principle
of sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical
distribution. There is also the need for transparency,
accountability and democratization.
My delegation has no objection to the inclusion of
additional developed countries on the Council as
permanent members, but we fully support the proposal
that all regions be represented in a permanent capacity,
including Latin America and the Caribbean. The reform
cannot be handled piecemeal. We will not support any
change that does not
include Latin America and the
Caribbean Community.
Expansion of the Council must not and cannot be
limited to permanent seats. It is necessary to increase the
number of non-permanent seats to give more countries an
opportunity to serve on the Council within a relatively
shorter time-frame. In addition, we recommend that the
regional non-permanent seats be rotated among the
countries that are desirous of serving on the Council.
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
In this process we must remember and be guided by
the word “democracy”. If this body is to have the moral
authority to restore or encourage democracy in some
Member States, it must first become fully democratic.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines remains a loyal and
dedicated member of the United Nations committed to
upholding the noble principles of the Charter. Now more
than ever before we must reaffirm our collective respect for
the fundamental principles of the Charter. The small nations
of the world must receive constant reassurances from the
larger nations that their interests will be safeguarded, their
sovereignty respected.
When we speak of the United Nations, we must
project our vision beyond this building. In the end it is our
deeds that will count. Yes, it is what we do to the least of
our brethren. Promises and statements have no meaning
unless they can be translated into action. This body must
never be perceived as a gathering of word merchants but,
rather, as one of action-oriented men and women.
Our planet’s resources are finite, and even the most
economically developed States cannot pursue unilateral
policies in isolation from the rest of the world.
We stand firm in the belief that the United Nations is
still
the best hope for the world. This hope must be
grounded in action, in a firm resolve to act decisively in the
best interests of this great institution — indeed in the
interest of all humanity and untainted by the narrow
national interests that have dogged our path during the last
five decades.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and International Cooperation of Kenya, His
Excellency the Honourable Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka.
Mr. Musyoka (Kenya): Allow me, at the outset, to
convey to you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation, my warm
congratulations on your election as the President of the
fifty-second session of
the United Nations General
Assembly. I am confident that your work will meet with
great success throughout the session, particularly in guiding
us in the task of reforming and restructuring the United
Nations in preparation for the challenges ahead.
I would like to pay tribute to your predecessor,
Ambassador Razali Ismail, Permanent Representative of
Malaysia, for the excellent manner in which he conducted
our deliberations during the previous session.
14
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
I also take this opportunity to commend the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his vision and
devotion to the service of the United Nations.
The creation of the United Nations by the founding
fathers was a courageous decision. Although their
objectives are yet to be fully realized, Kenya is convinced
that they are still valid, and we remain fully committed to
their achievement. The world has undergone tremendous
transformation since the signing of the United Nations
Charter
in San Francisco 52 years ago. We have
witnessed the end of the East-West military and political
rivalry, which at times crippled decision-making in the
United Nations system. New opportunities have emerged
and the role of the United Nations has diversified, with
the international community placing greater expectations
on the Organization.
Under
the able leadership of His Excellency
President Daniel T. arap Moi, Kenya has undertaken bold
political and economic reforms whose benefits we are
beginning to realize. We are committed and determined
to continue forging national unity to enhance the process
of democratization and socio-economic development.
It is against this background that I wish to address
some of the issues contained in the agenda of this session.
In recapping the events of the past years, we note
that
the United Nations has made efforts to secure
international peace and security. We regret that the peace
dividend expected after the cold war has not materialized.
Instead,
the total volume of assistance to developing
countries has declined, and the scourge of conflicts in
various parts of the world, and in Africa in particular, has
revealed the frightening proportions of ethnic and
nationalistic hostilities and humanitarian crises. Intra-State
conflicts have torn some of our nations apart, as they
pose threats to security, social cohesion and economic
progress.
Some of these conflicts have proved difficult to
prevent, manage or resolve. They have caused diversion
of
resources from developmental purposes to non-
productive use. Kenya believes in the peaceful resolution
of conflicts and encourages the settlement of disputes
through
and
arbitration as opposed to use of force. His Excellency
President Daniel T. arap Moi, along with other leaders in
Africa, has
spent considerable time and resources
coordinating peace initiatives in southern Sudan, Somalia,
negotiations, mediation,
conciliation
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Burundi, Rwanda and the former Zaire, among other places.
of
the
Summit
extraordinary
We are happy to report that the stalled peace process
concerning the conflict in southern Sudan was re-energized
following
the
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) held
in Nairobi on 8 and 9 July 1997, at which the Sudanese
Government accepted the Declaration of Principles, which
calls on all factions to work together. In addition, during
the IGAD Ministerial meeting held in Nairobi on 22
September 1997, the parties to the conflict agreed on 28
October 1997 as the date for the next meeting. Kenya
believes that the parties must have the courage and political
will to negotiate in good faith. It is equally important for
the international community to actively support this process
by making financial resources available as well as by
exerting pressure on all the parties to rededicate themselves
to finding a lasting solution to the conflict. We pay tribute
to the IGAD Partnership Forum for its supportive role vis-
à-vis the IGAD initiative.
The prolonged conflict in Somalia remains a matter of
great concern to Kenya. The continued absence of that
sisterly State among the family of nations is indeed
regrettable. We maintain that reconciliation of the warring
factions
lasting and
comprehensive peace settlement
to the conflict. The
international community, in particular the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development, the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) and the United Nations, has an important role
in assisting in the process of reconciliation.
to finding a
critical
just,
is
The crisis in the Republic of Congo is similarly a
matter of grave concern to Kenya. We are concerned that
three months have elapsed since the President of Gabon,
Omar Bongo, called upon the Security Council to deploy a
United Nations force to assist in normalizing the situation
in that country. We wish to reiterate the OAU position
stated at the recent Security Council ministerial meeting —
namely, that there is a need for urgent intervention by the
United Nations.
Likewise, the situation in Burundi is also of concern
to my country. We support the efforts by Mwalimu Julius
Nyerere to find a negotiated solution to the problem in that
country. We urge President Pierre Buyoya to take into
account the concerns of the subregion and the international
community in general and work towards a negotiated
settlement.
Kenya wishes to reiterate the position taken on the
conflict in Sierra Leone by the thirty-third session of the
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
OAU Conference of Heads of State and Government, held
in Harare, Zimbabwe, in June 1997, that the international
community desist from recognizing the military junta. We
support the efforts by the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) in the search for a solution to
the crisis in that country and urge the junta to return
Sierra Leone to constitutional rule. We are convinced that
quick and effective action by the international community
is necessary, as underscored by President Tejan Kabbah
during his intervention before the Assembly on 1 October
last.
My Government is also concerned with the political
developments in the Islamic Federal Republic of the
Comoros. We support the efforts by the Organization of
African Unity aimed at bringing the Government and
other parties together with a view to seeking a solution to
the problem. We urge the people of the Comoros to work
towards maintaining the sovereignty, national unity and
integrity of their country.
Kenya has been involved in the peace process in
Angola since 1975. We are encouraged by the progress
that has been made towards finding a peaceful solution to
the prolonged crisis in that country. However, we wish to
reiterate the need for both parties, in particular UNITA,
to cooperate fully in the implementation of the Lusaka
Protocol, the agreed framework for peace in Angola. At
this point
the
people of Angola.
in time, any alternative will only hurt
On a positive note, we are encouraged by the
cooperation between the United Nations and ECOWAS
that enabled Liberia to hold successful elections, won by
President Taylor. In this regard, we commend the efforts
of ECOWAS,
the international community and the
Liberian people for the manner in which the elections
were concluded. We wish Liberia success in the difficult
task of reconstruction and post-conflict peace-building.
critical
in the
Kenya believes that a continued United Nations
the international
presence and focused support of
rehabilitation and
community are
reconstruction of Liberia, including the repatriation and
reintegration of refugees. We welcome the Secretary-
General’s intention to establish a peace-building support
office in Monrovia upon the termination of the mandate
of
the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia
(UNOMIL). We are convinced that this will assist the
new Government
in its efforts to rebuild Liberia’s
economy and contribute towards the promotion of peace
and stability in the region.
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Kenya welcomes the recent movements towards the
resumption of negotiations by the parties to the conflict in
the Middle East. We wish to urge them to honour in good
faith the Oslo agreements they have entered into and to
refrain from activities
the potential of
undermining the peace process. There is a need for the
Government of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to
resume dialogue in order to resolve all outstanding issues.
Kenya will continue to support the parties in their search
for a just, durable and comprehensive peace.
that have
We also welcome the Secretary-General’s initiative in
Cyprus and the efforts of the international community to
bring the parties to the negotiating table. In this respect, we
applaud the face-to-face intercommunal
talks held in
Switzerland on 11 August last. The world would like to see
both the Greek and Turkish Cypriots resolve their problem
of more than two decades. There is therefore a need to
intensify efforts to find a durable solution to that problem.
We call upon the international community to also support
the talks by exerting pressure on both sides and to refrain
from activities that might be seen as impeding the peace
process.
The humanitarian emergencies accompanying these
conflicts require an urgent response from the international
community. Thousands of people are affected in one way
or another. Refugees and displaced persons are experiencing
varying degrees of suffering on a daily basis. While
reiterating our support for the work of the Office of the
High Commissioner for Refugees and of the international
community, we feel
to enhance closer
coordination and cooperation between all actors to facilitate
the complementarity of efforts.
is vital
that
it
We are committed to the promotion of universal
humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law.
Kenya, indeed, has been host to thousands of refugees from
our region. We have stretched our meagre resources to
accommodate the refugees but regret that some of them
have abused our hospitality and caused problems of
insecurity in our own country. We urge the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees to work closely with the
Government of Kenya in monitoring and verifying the
genuineness of
to address this
problem.
the refugees in order
Kenya and other African countries have contributed
troops to various United Nations peacekeeping missions
worldwide. We view the reluctance by the international
community to support operations in Africa as a departure
from the Charter responsibilities of the United Nations. We
16
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
recognize that concerted efforts by the countries affected
and others in the region are necessary in the settlement of
conflicts. The involvement of regional organizations in the
prevention, management and resolution of conflicts should
therefore not entail any derogation of the responsibilities
of the United Nations. We wish to reaffirm that the role
of peacekeeping and peace enforcement throughout the
world must
the United
Nations and in particular of the Security Council, in
accordance with the Charter. In this respect, Africa
expects to see swift handling of the conflict in the Congo
(Brazzaville), in much the same way as was the case in
the Balkans.
remain the responsibility of
My country welcomes the results of
the Oslo
Diplomatic Conference on an International Total Ban on
Anti-Personnel Landmines. This constitutes a significant
contribution to the realization of ending the use of
weapons that have wreaked havoc in many parts of the
world. Kenya commends the international community for
its efforts to bring to an end the use of these deadly
weapons.
A prominent feature in recent years has been the
increasing globalization of the world economy. Although
the global economy continues to show modest growth,
with the highest performance being experienced in East
Asia, Africa’s economy still lags behind. The continent
remains highly vulnerable to adverse international
economic policies and natural calamities due to its limited
capacity to respond. The economy is characterized by
poverty and underdevelopment. The per capita incomes
are the lowest in the world, and most of the countries are
unable to feed their growing population. At the same
time, the marginalization of the continent continues, with
unsustainable external debt being a major factor.
the bilateral and multilateral
We welcome the measures taken by the international
community at
levels to
mitigate the debt burden. It is evident, however, that
Africa’s indebtedness continues to be a major constraint
in the economic development of the continent despite
efforts by many countries
to implement economic
reforms. These efforts have not met with adequate
bilateral and multilateral financial support, resulting in
limited prospects for economic growth. We underscore
that the reduction or cancellation of both the bilateral and
multilateral debt of the heavily indebted countries needs
serious consideration. Kenya urges the international
community to seriously address the external debt crisis.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
that
In addition, we regret
the agreed official
development assistance target of 0.7 per cent has not been
met by most donor countries but has, as a matter of fact,
the
declined to approximately 0.25 per cent. Hence,
implementation of
the United Nations Agenda
for
Development should address all these issues and place
Africa in its proper perspective. We appeal
to the
industrialized countries to reverse the declining trend in
official development assistance and to honour
their
commitments by attaining the agreed target. Kenya believes
that to achieve good results, development must be people-
oriented and involve all actors, with emphasis on human
resource
and
technology, and the creation of employment and income-
generating opportunities.
development,
application
science
of
be
Africa has abundant human and natural resources,
which, if properly harnessed, could generate wealth for the
people of
the continent. Kenya is committed to the
promotion of South-South cooperation and urges that
necessary measures
effective
collaboration. In this regard, Kenya and other countries of
the region are promoting regional cooperation in order to
integrate our economies in the long run. We wish to appeal
to our partners to complement these efforts by intensifying
technical and financial support. We underscore that without
social and economic progress it
to achieve
peace.
is difficult
ensure
taken
to
The liberalization of trade regimes and the promotion
of an open and secure multilateral trading system are vital
requirements for the acceleration of economic development.
As a member of the World Trade Organization, Kenya is
committed to the liberalization of both trade and investment
regimes. In this regard, unilateral protectionist actions,
which are inconsistent with multilateral trade agreements,
should not be allowed to interfere with these arrangements.
Kenya is committed to the implementation of the
outcomes of the various United Nations conferences, such
as the Rio United Nations Conference on Environment and
the Cairo International Conference on
Development,
Population and Development,
the Copenhagen World
Summit for Social Development, the Beijing Fourth World
Conference on Women,
the Istanbul United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and the
Rome World Food Summit, among others. We are
disappointed that the outcome of these conferences has to
a large extent remained unimplemented. In the course of
implementing Agenda 21, my country has
initiated
innovative steps to protect and preserve the ecosystem.
These include public awareness programmes, environmental
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
education and the Great Rift Valley Conservancy
Programme, which ensures integrated utilization of land.
We urge the international community to honour their
commitments by making available new and additional
resources for the attainment of the intended objectives.
As the United Nations continues to introduce
measures to ensure reduction of waste, it is imperative
that the Organization ensure maximal and rational use of
the existing facilities within the United Nations system.
As host to the only United Nations headquarters in the
developing world, we are concerned that the facilities at
the Nairobi offices are underutilized. In this regard,
Kenya wishes to see maximal utilization of the facilities
available in Nairobi,
the headquarters of the United
Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and of the
United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat).
We therefore wish to urge that General Assembly
resolutions
their
respective headquarters should, to the extent possible, be
adhered to.
requiring meetings
to be held at
We are further concerned that both UNEP and
Habitat suffer from inadequate funding despite their
enormous potential. We note that
these two United
Nations bodies need to be strengthened by streamlining
their administrative and financial management. Above all,
they require adequate and predictable financial resources
from all sources in order to fulfil their mandates. In this
context, we would like to request the Secretary-General
to expedite the implementation of measures expected to
revitalize the two institutions. In addition, we wish to
appeal to the donor community to honour their financial
commitments and release any blocked funds to enhance
the effective operation of UNEP and Habitat. Kenya will
continue to ensure that the United Nations offices in
Nairobi operate in a smooth environment.
The challenges facing the Organization in the next
millennium are many and complex. It is imperative that
the Organization be restructured to enable it respond
adequately to new priorities and challenges. In this
respect, we wish to commend the Secretary-General for
unveiling reform measures and proposals that will form
the basis of our discussion. We urge the Secretary-
General
to speedily implement measures within his
mandate to reduce waste and ensure effective utilization
of
coordination and
cooperation within the United Nations.
existing facilities
and better
Kenya is committed to the reform of the United
Nations and will continue to participate actively in the
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
debate. We expect that the reforms will be carried out with
transparency, and in full compliance with the democratic
principles and purposes of the Charter. In our view, the
Organization requires not radical transformation but rather
the strengthening and modification of its structures and
organs to enhance its effectiveness.
In reforming the United Nations, it is of paramount
importance for Member States to recognize that unpaid
contributions constitute a major obstacle to the effectiveness
of the Organization. We are concerned that the United
Nations is facing a financial crisis which is due basically to
Member States not honouring their Charter obligations. For
the United Nations to fulfil its mandate effectively, there is
need for stable, predictable and adequate financing. We
therefore urge Member States to take concrete action to
clear their arrears without conditionalities. Furthermore,
adjustment of the scale of assessments ought to be the
result of a collective decision to redistribute the financial
burden while bearing in mind the principle of capacity to
pay.
Kenya considers that the Security Council should be
reformed to make it possible to achieve transparency,
accountability, democratization and balanced regional
representation. We reaffirm the position of the Organization
of African Unity calling for the enlargement of the Council
in both categories of membership to a total of 26 seats. We
reiterate that Africa should be allocated at
two
permanent and five non-permanent seats in the reformed
Council.
least
We also support reforms in the economic and social
fields which should enhance complementarity and better
coordination of the activities of the Council. The Economic
and Social Council should assume effective coordination of
international policies and the activities of the specialized
agencies. Further, it should ensure mobilization of resources
for the operational activities which are critical for the
achievement of socio-economic development. We are
convinced that strengthening and revitalizing the functions
of
the Economic and Social Council will accelerate
development, particularly in the areas of poverty alleviation,
environment
humanitarian
assistance, among other areas.
degradation,
health
and
I should like to conclude my statement by reaffirming
Kenya’s readiness to support measures that will strengthen
the United Nations and turn it into a more focused and
integrated Organization able to steer humanity into the next
millennium. Let us all strive to make the Organization more
18
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
effective in serving mankind in the years to come. We are
determined to make our contribution.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the general debate.
A number of delegations have asked to speak in
exercise of the right of reply. I remind members that, in
accordance with decision 34/401, statements in exercise
of the right of reply shall be limited to 10 minutes for the
first intervention and to five minutes for the second, and
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Sarris (Greece): I have asked to speak in order
to respond to a statement made by the Deputy Permanent
Representative of Turkey last Friday, 3 October. It is
regrettable that Turkey has chosen this debate to attack
my country and introduce an element of
strident
confrontation at the present time, when the international
community is conscientiously striving for bridge-building
and peaceful cooperation in addressing the outstanding
world
Permanent
Representative abused his right of reply in order to
present Greece as a party at fault, by using doubletalk,
distortion and misinformation.
Turkish Deputy
issues.
The
relations with Turkey — without
I would like to refer to the statement my Minister
for Foreign Affairs made to the Assembly in order to
confirm that we remain committed to a positive approach
in our
forgetting,
however, that none of the problems we are facing are of
our own making: because it is a fact and not propaganda
that since 1974 Turkey has presented an open-ended
agenda of claims that converge into the single objective
of revising the status quo in the Aegean; that Greece has
been under the pressure of systematic Turkish claims over
our sovereign rights and responsibilities conferred by
international agreements; that since January 1996 Greece
has faced the aggressive manifestations of direct territorial
claims, which our neighbour was prepared to back with
military action; that Turkey, challenging existing treaties
after more than 70 years, has successively claimed the
Imia islets as well as an undetermined number of islands
in the Aegean, the island of Gavdhos, which is south-west
of Crete, and unspecified “grey areas in the Aegean”,
“any island that is not specifically mentioned by name in
a treaty”, and “geographical formations whose status is
not determined by international agreements”.
In order to deny these facts, the Turkish Deputy
Permanent Representative has distorted realities. Such a
distortion is the Turkish representative’s allegation that
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
law as far as its national
Greece ignores international
airspace is concerned, although Turkey had respected from
1931 the delimitation of Greek airspace to 10 nautical
miles.
months, clearly illustrate the contrary. Nor can the
statement by the former Turkish Prime Minister,
Mr. Mesut Yilmaz, that “international law does not apply
in the case of the Aegean”.
Concurrently, Turkey has tried to dispute Greece’s
right to extend its territorial waters up to 12 nautical miles,
a right stemming from international law as codified by the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and has
repeatedly threatened that the exercise of this legitimate
right would be a cause of war, thus violating Article 2 of
the United Nations Charter.
Moreover, Turkey seeks to impose a status of
defencelessness on the Aegean islands in order to have
them at
the mercy of the considerable military forces
concentrated on the Turkish coast. The examples of the
Cyprus invasion of 1974 and the repeated invasions of Iraqi
soil by the Turkish army clearly convince us of the
soundness of our decision to take all necessary measures in
accordance with international law in order to prevent any
new instances of such “peacemaking” by our neighbours.
exist
or
agreements
there,
through
either
provisions
The legal regime in the Aegean is clearly defined by
international treaties, and especially by the 1923 Treaty of
Lausanne. Boundaries
through
international
of
international law. Turkey asserts that the whole range of
arbitrary claims it has put forward concerning Greek
sovereignty or sovereign rights in the Aegean should be
“resolved through dialogue”, a convenient code for
negotiations without reference to the rules and principles of
international law. Such a dialogue is unacceptable for any
country, because it would legitimize claims that have no
foundation in international
law. One cannot conduct a
dialogue with a neighbour that intends to acquire parts of
one’s sovereign territory.
Greece has proposed a step-by-step procedure destined
to improve the state of
relations with Turkey. The
procedure provides for the reference by Turkey of its
territorial claim over the islet of Imia to the International
Court of Justice, for recourse by Greece and Turkey to the
same international instance to resolve the outstanding issue
of
the continental shelf and for
resumption of the dialogue previously conducted on a series
of bilateral issues.
the delimitation of
Contrary to my colleague’s assertion,
the Turkish
attitude can hardly be considered constructive, positive or
conciliatory. The
by
Mr. Bulent Ecevit, Deputy Prime Minister, in the past few
statements
bellicose
repeated
Turkey has constantly rejected the realistic approach
offered by successive Greek Governments after 1976 and
up to 1995 by undermining all our efforts and proposals
for the improvement and normalization of our relations.
The bottom line in Greek-Turkish relations is really
very simple, as far as Greece is concerned. On our side,
we have no claims or designs of any kind against Turkey.
We have no demands of Turkey other
than good-
neighbourly relations based on respect for the principles
of international law and treaties. We hope that Turkey
will respond to this and channel
its behaviour into
accepted norms of conduct between neighbouring States.
Such an attitude would have made the present exchange
totally unnecessary.
international
framework of
Through our Madrid joint statement, by which we
stand, it has been put to our neighbour to respect the
existing overall
law and
treaties that has defined our borders and relations and has
stood unchallenged for the last 70 years, and to desist
from aggressive policies, refrain from territorial claims
and submit to the jurisdiction of the International Court of
Justice any argument it might deem valid concerning the
islet of Imia.
We call again upon Turkey to submit to the general
jurisdiction of the Court, as Greece has done, and to
follow our realistic approach for clearing up the issues
that shadow our relations, within the spirit prescribed by
our Madrid statement.
Mr. Osman (Sudan) (interpretation from Arabic): In
his
statement
the
representative of the Eritrean regime made certain naive
and absurd accusations against my country, and I take the
floor in order to exercise my right of reply.
this Assembly,
before
today
At the outset I would like to make it clear that the
target of this response is the Eritrean regime, which is
immature, and not, in any case, the brotherly, gracious
people of Eritrea, which has bonds of history, blood and
common destiny with the people of the Sudan.
From this rostrum, I would like to emphasize that
we have the greatest respect for the people of Eritrea, but
the Eritrean regime is an instrument for destruction,
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
murder and subversion in our region. Its policies are
directed by a tyrant and an ingrate dictator, well known to
the people of Eritrea and to the people of the Sudan as
well. He shared the livelihood of the people of the Sudan
in his darkest moments during the more than 20 years that
he lived in the Sudan.
Unlike all the other neighbours of the Sudan who have
spoken before this Assembly in support of the peace efforts
under way in the Sudan, the last of whom was the Foreign
Minister of Kenya, who only a few minutes ago and
underscored the commitment of the Government of the
Sudan to peace, only the representative of the Eritrean
regime spoke of bad relations between the Sudan and its
neighbouring countries.
The attempt by the Eritrean regime to attack my
country is a crude way of obscuring the miserable and
severe living conditions of the fraternal Eritrean people
since the People’s Front took control in that country. The
representative of Eritrea spoke about issues that are an
invention of his own sick imagination which is attracted by
murder and destruction — a sick mind which is unable to
comprehend bare facts. The Sudan, which hosted the head
of the Eritrean regime for over 20 years — longer than he
has lived in his own country — has a heritage, tradition,
and morality which prevent it from pursuing policies of
terrorism and the targeting of others.
It is common knowledge that many elements of the
Eritrean leadership have been liquidated by the Eritrean
regime. The President of the Eritrean regime knows better
than anyone that the lists are quite long and are well known
to the Eritrean people, in addition to that regime’s terrorist
adventures. Indeed, the regime’s adventures have spread
even in the past few months, beyond Eritrea’s borders.
Thus, the regime has liquidated elements opposed to it in
neighbouring countries.
The Eritrean regime, which arrogated to itself the right
to make false accusations against the Sudan, should instead
have addressed the miseries it has brought upon the
Eritrean people by its foolish policies. Those policies
resulted in preventing hundreds of thousands of Eritrean
refugees who are hosted by the Sudan from returning home;
selectivity has become the hallmark of Eritrean policy
regarding the return of refugees. This is a gross violation of
all
international norms that guarantee the basic and
humanitarian rights of refugees.
Examples of the arbitrariness and intransigence of the
Eritrean regime abound. We cite here the announcement by
20
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
is
the Eritrean president at a forum in Asmara that the
Eritrean army is in a state of war with the Sudan and that
to bring down the Sudanese
their objective
Government. He also said that
the Eritrean regime’s
support for the Sudanese opposition to achieve this goal
is without
limits. When the Agence France Presse
correspondent, Ruth Simon, reported that announcement
she was arrested and detained by the Eritrean regime.
These facts show the extent of the threat posed by the
Eritrean President to international and regional peace and
security.
The Eritrean regime flouted international treaties
when it took the step, unprecedented in the history of
international relations, of handing over the premises of
the Sudanese Embassy to armed Sudanese opposition
movements which are supported by the Eritrean regime.
It also encouraged terrorists and hijackers by refusing to
extradite those who hijacked a Sudanese civil aircraft and
treating them as heroes — an action that was also in
violation of international treaties.
Does the representative of a regime that declares war
against a neighbouring State and publicly threatens to
bring down its Government have the right to be among us
as a Member of an international Organization whose first
objective is to promote world peace and security? Does
the representative of a regime that has accused this
international Organization, as he did in his statement
today, of betraying his country have the right to talk
about peace in the Sudan?
The clearest answer is provided by the fact that this
regime expelled from its territory the personnel of the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, thereby insulting them. That is yet another clear
example of how the Eritrean regime does not respect
international treaties and laws which regulate asylum and
the status of refugees. The adventures of the Eritrean
regime and its dictator President, which demonstrate lack
of maturity and responsibility, are not secrets to be
divulged. Their actions are but a noisy coverup for
invading neighbouring countries, violating their territorial
integrity, sovereignty and territorial waters. Such acts
show no respect for other African States, deriding them
on their soil, as was done when Eritrea attended a
meeting of the Organization of African Unity for the first
time as an independent State.
In conclusion, we do not
intend to waste the
Assembly’s time by responding to the attacks of the
irresponsible Eritrean regime. We do not wish to
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
encumber the time of this session devoted to the reform of
the Organization. However, we have been forced to respond
by the false accusations made by the representative of the
Eritrean regime, which does not appreciate the value of the
international Organization and its reform. We would like to
underscore the fact that the whole world is well aware of
the burdens shouldered by the Sudan for over 30 years in
support of the cause of the Eritrean people. We are not
boasting of this to the people of Eritrea because we owed
these efforts to them but we want to emphasize here the
inferiority complexes which grip the sick mind of the
leadership of the Eritrean regime, which displayed a sense
of ingratitude by invading the territory of the Sudan,
assaulting it with tanks, and planting landmines inside our
territory, thus terrorizing innocent citizens. These are the
citizens who hosted that regime and shared with it their
resources for over three decades.
The President: I would like to remind members that
the time limit for the second intervention is five minutes.
This applies to the next speaker,
the representative of
Turkey.
Mr. Tanç (Turkey): The response of the representative
of Greece to the questions in my statement in right of reply
did not provide any answers clarifying the position of
Greece with regard to international law or to Greece’s
selective approach to its implementation. Greece does not
seem to be ready to explain its double standards with
respect to its national airspace and sea space in the Aegean,
to the demilitarized status of the eastern Aegean islands or,
finally, to the modalities of resolving the existing territorial
disputes in the Aegean Sea.
We asked how Greece could explain its militarization
of the eastern Aegean islands in violation of international
treaties, and the inconsistency in claiming different airspace
and sea space in contravention of the relevant Chicago
Convention.
The representative of Greece also referred to Turkey’s
territorial claims on Greece. We would like to stress that in
each and every case at issue between Turkey and Greece it
can easily be seen that it is a Greek claim to which Turkey
has responded. In this respect, I would like to refer to the
programme of
the former Greek Government which
establishes a zone of areas of Greek domination, including
northern Epir, Macedonia, Thrace, the Aegean region of
Turkey, the eastern Mediterranean and Cyprus. It is these
expansionist policies to which Turkey has been forced to
respond.
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
In a letter addressed to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations in 1995 we asked whether Greece was
ready to announce that it did not harbour any territorial
ambitions with regard to the “lost homelands” to which
they refer in their programme. I am happy to hear that
there is movement in that direction.
With regard to the statement of the Greek Foreign
Minister claiming that Greece has 3,000 islands in the
Aegean, Greece should remember that in the Aegean only
the islands to which sovereignty was explicitly transferred
by international treaties belong to Greece. The Aegean
Sea as a whole has never belonged to Greece. There are
two countries — Turkey and Greece — on the two sides
of that Sea. When one country threatens to extend its
territorial seas up to 12 miles, in effect wanting to acquire
70 per cent of that Sea and cutting off the lifeline of the
other coastal State to international waters,
is an
infringement of the rights of that coastal State. Greece’s
rights in the Aegean end where Turkey’s rights begin. It
is not Turkey which is advancing any claims in the
Aegean Sea;
that
Greece is advancing to extend its waters up to 12 miles,
thereby cutting off international waters to Turkey.
is only responding to the threat
it
it
The misrepresentation of facts on the Greek side is
most striking and alarming when it comes to the issue of
Cyprus, which also took up a large part of the statement
of the Greek Foreign Minister. Greece would like third
parties to believe that the question of Cyprus began in
1974, when in response to the Greek attempt to annex the
island to Greece, Turkey, on the basis of the 1960 Treaty
of Guarantee, exercised its right to intervene to prevent
Greece’s annexation of Cyprus. If the Cyprus issue began
in 1974, how can Greece explain why the United Nations
Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus was deployed in the island
in 1964, 33 years ago and 10 years before Turkey was
forced to intervene in order
to protect
the Turkish
Cypriots from Greek Cypriot aggression?
I need only quote from Archbishop Makarios, the
Greek Cypriot leader, who spoke in the Security Council
on 19 July, immediately following the Greek coup. It is
a long statement, elaborating on the invasion by Greece,
and so as not to take up the time of the Assembly I am
going to read only one of the last sentences of the
statement. Archbishop Makarios said:
“The coup of the Greek junta is an invasion, and
from its consequences the whole people of Cyprus
suffers, both Greeks and Turks.” [S/PV.1780, para.
32]
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
In conclusion, I would like to say that no progress in
Cyprus can be achieved by mixing priorities. The objective
should be first
to find a just solution to the Cyprus
problem, and not to create faits accomplis. In Cyprus the
important requirement is to base a solution on realities. It
is necessary to be sincere,
realistic, constructive and
creative, and not to confuse wishful thinking with the facts.
Mr. Sarris (Greece): What the Deputy Permanent
Representative of Turkey has just said is a repetition of
what he said last year on this issue. I do not intend to reply
again to statements made last year.
foreign policy of aggression,
I would merely add this: It is Turkey, not Greece, that
consistently undermines international law and the United
Nations Charter by flagrantly violating their most
fundamental principles — that is, by its application of a
traditional
invasion and
military occupation towards neighbouring countries; by its
custom of threatening the use of force and war; by its
continuous promotion of territorial and other expansionist
claims; and last, but not least, by its complete disregard for
its international commitments with regard to respect for
human rights, including minority rights.
And now Turkey insults the General Assembly —
thereby adding insult to injury — by insisting on distorting
the truth through the same false and unsubstantiated
allegations. I do not consider these allegations worthy of
further discussion in this body.
Mr. Moushoutas (Cyprus): In the 23 years of Turkish
invasion and occupation of Cyprus, Turkey has been
consistently attempting either to eclipse itself from the
scene of the crime of aggression or to cloud the issues of
what is known as the “Question of Cyprus”.
The representative of Greece very aptly described
Turkey’s behaviour as double talk and distortion. I agree
with him.
Even though differences exist between the Greek
Cypriot and the Turkish Cypriot communities, especially
from the constitutional standpoint, the gist of the problem
is not these intercommunal differences but Turkey’s act of
aggression and continuing occupation of 37 per cent of the
territory of Cyprus, the uprooting of 200,000 people from
their ancestral homes and lands, the importation of settlers
from mainland Turkey into Cyprus so as to change the
demographic structure of the island, and the ongoing gross
violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of all
Cypriots — Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots alike.
22
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
The problem is not about defence expenditures,
despite what we have just heard, or about the right of
self-defence. After all, under Article 51 of the Charter,
States are given the right — indeed they have the duty —
of self-defence.
Nor is the problem of Cyprus its Government’s
application to join the European Union. As we have stated
before, Cyprus is neither a colony nor a province of
Turkey. It is ludicrous for Turkey to assume it can decide
who will and who will not apply for membership in the
European Union. And yet, under this ridiculous pretext,
Turkey declared the integration and annexation of the
occupied part of Cyprus to mainland Turkey — evidence
of Ankara’s erratic foreign policy, as it was described in
the Wall Street Journal.
As I have stated, the grave issue facing the United
Nations and the Assembly is the Turkish act of aggression
compounded by the non-implementation and outright
contentious disregarding of solemn Security Council and
General Assembly resolutions and decisions. These
resolutions demand the withdrawal of the occupation
troops, the return of the refugees to their homes and
lands, and respect for the human rights of all Cypriots.
Ironically, Turkey
the
unanimously adopted General Assembly resolution 3212
(XXIX), which was endorsed by Security Council
resolution 365 (1974), and thus rendered mandatory.
favour
voted
in
of
General Assembly resolution 37/253 again demands
the withdrawal of all occupation troops, affirms the right
and the sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus over the
whole of its territory, and calls on Member States to
assist the Republic to exercise these rights. In order to
frustrate the implementation of the provisions of this
resolution and to disappear from the scene of the crime,
Turkey purported to establish an entity in the occupied
areas of Cyprus; it did that as a shield against world
condemnation. This entity was declared legally invalid by
Security Council resolution 541 (1983), which demands
Turkey’s withdrawal and calls on the international
community not to recognize or in any way to assist this
secessionist entity. The provisions of Security Council
resolution 541 (1983) were reaffirmed by Security
Council resolution 550 (1984) and reiterated in many
subsequent resolutions.
For the Turkish representative to speak about treaties
and to claim that Turkey has followed the provisions of
the Treaty of Guarantee is absolutely unacceptable in the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
light of the fact that this very Assembly described the
presence of the troops there as occupation troops and asked
for their withdrawal.
The reason for the lack of progress in finding a
solution to the problem of Cyprus in accordance with the
report of the Secretary-General in 1994 is the lack of
political will on the part of Turkey, which is evidenced by
its refusal to withdraw its troops from Cyprus. General
Assembly resolution 37/253 very accurately states that the
withdrawal of the occupation forces from the Republic of
Cyprus is an essential basis for a speedy and mutually
acceptable solution to the problem of Cyprus.
The Treaty of Guarantee could not have given Turkey
the right to use military force because that would have been
contrary to Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Charter — and the
demands of the Charter are superior to any treaty.
The President: The general debate at the fifty-second
session of the General Assembly has come to an end.
Before declaring it closed, I would like to make some
concluding remarks. This is not a summary of the debate
since it is neither my task nor my responsibility to do that.
It is my conviction that the General Assembly debate
has proved once again the unique and important role of the
General Assembly within our Organization. In the course of
the general debate the major global issues facing the world
community today were addressed at the highest political
level. We had the privilege of hearing statements by 176
speakers. Among them were 18 Heads of State, one Crown
Prince, 14 Prime Ministers, 16 Deputy Prime Ministers and
Foreign Ministers, 111 Ministers for Foreign Affairs, four
other Ministers, and 12 Heads of Delegations.
Providing statistics at the end of the general debate has
become a long-standing tradition, but I would urge us not
to dismiss those numbers as mere “facts for the record”,
but, instead, to look at them as vivid testimony to the
universal character of our Organization. And as for those
critics who tend to view the general debate as simply an
occasion for generalized statements, I think the past two
weeks have shown Member States engaged in an eloquent,
vigorous, focused and thought-provoking discussion on
issues of global significance.
Can we do even better? No question about it, and it is
therefore not surprising that many speakers emphasized the
need to strengthen the role of the General Assembly and to
streamline its procedures. We should spare no effort to
make sure that the General Assembly, as a unique world
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
parliament, conducts its business in the most efficient,
pragmatic and productive manner. Now, in that context,
the general debate performs many important functions and
one of the key ones among them, I think, is that of an
accurate barometer of world opinion, especially as it
pertains to the United Nations. If we look at the past 12
days from that angle, I believe we would be justified in
concluding that the barometer is pointing towards “good
weather”.
clouds
ominous
We all recall, however, that only a couple of years
ago — ironically on the eve of the Organization’s golden
anniversary — there were
of
disappointment and disillusionment on the horizon. As the
Organization came under a barrage of harsh and often
destructive criticism from different quarters, there was a
sense of uncertainty and doubt about the Organization’s
ability to change and to adapt itself to a post-cold-war
world. True, there was no shortage of appeals for reform;
but,
the gap
between exhortations and practical deeds seemed to be
hard to bridge.
in the absence of a realistic blueprint,
After listening carefully to the statements during the
debate, I am convinced that the discussion has reflected
a major change in perceptions and attitudes. I think that
on the issue of reform we have made a crucial step from
the quicksands of the doubtful to the firm grounds of the
possible.
Virtually every speaker addressed the issue of reform
and commented on the report of the Secretary-General
(A/51/950), which contains a concrete programme for
renewing the United Nations. It was one of the major
themes during the general debate. In this respect, it would
be fair
the efforts undertaken by the
to reform the United Nations has
Secretary-General
obtained
strong
political
all
delegations welcomed the comprehensive reform package
of
supported its
endorsement in principle.
the Secretary-General
support. Practically
to state that
and most
Delegations emphasized the comprehensive nature of
the reform package. There was also a broad focus on the
Secretary-General’s efforts to transform the leadership
and management structure of the Organization. It was
recognized that we need to ensure that
reform is
undertaken as a concerted effort
to redesign and
strengthen this Organization for the task it would be
expected to perform in the period ahead, rather than
merely as a cost-cutting exercise. At the same time, a
number of speakers referred to the fact that certain reform
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
consideration. The
proposals would require
importance of reflecting the needs and aspirations of all
Member States was stressed, as was the need for consensus
and full participation.
further
The focus placed by Member States on the question of
United Nations reform during the general debate, both in a
general and in a detailed fashion, emphasizes
that
delegations recognized the need for expeditious action on
the issue. This debate has made it clear that Member States
want to move rapidly to provide the Secretary-General with
the mandate and the direction he requires to move ahead
with his reform programme.
It is very important not to lose the momentum and to
translate the high level of political will and commitment
demonstrated during the general debate in favour of the
proposed programme of
reform into prompt concrete
actions by the General Assembly.
There is a clear awareness of the critical moment the
United Nations has reached. We can succeed in our joint
efforts to build up a more effective and more viable
Organization and to make it better prepared for the new
millennium. To attain this goal, we should be guided by
reason, tolerance and determination.
this organ is of great
The reform process of the United Nations will be
incomplete if it does not embrace the Security Council. The
general debate has reaffirmed the broad agreement that the
reform of
its
functioning and legitimacy. In this respect, views were
focused on the enlargement of the membership of the
Council, taking into account equitable representation, new
realities and the interests of various regions. It was also felt
by many that there is a need to democratize the Security
Council and to increase the transparency of its procedures
and working methods.
importance for
There is also a broad understanding that the reform of
the Security Council is a key issue for the United Nations
that demands a well
thought out and well-balanced
decision.
The urgent need to put the United Nations on a sound
financial footing has been identified by Member States as
a prerequisite for the successful reform and functioning of
the Organization. The theme of continuing financial
difficulties
facing the United Nations was a clear
pessimistic undertone in the general debate. I have noted
strong appeals to those who are in arrears to fulfil their
legal obligations and to pay outstanding dues to the
24
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
Organization. At the same time, it was pointed out that
the time has come to adopt a new scale of assessments,
based on agreed principles, which would reflect
the
capacity of Member States to pay. The reform process
will be substantially facilitated if we reach a consensus
decision on this very important issue this year.
It is very important that at this period of renewal and
change, the United Nations received the full confidence
of Member States during the general debate, which
reaffirmed its essential goals: maintaining international
peace
for
development, strengthening the role of international law,
promoting and encouraging respect for human rights, and
providing humanitarian assistance.
cooperation
enhancing
security,
and
The general debate has demonstrated that
the
international community continues to concentrate its
efforts on the resolution of the most acute problems
facing humankind. The concern of the Member States
remained focused on areas of instability. The conflicts in
the Middle East and in the Great Lakes region of Africa,
in Central Asia and in the Balkans were particularly
disturbing. The internationalization of problems such as
terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering and
corruption,
trading and environmental
pollution was also placed at the centre of the debate.
illicit
arms
The debate justifies the conclusion that an adequate
response to these and other issues is to be delivered
through a continuing process of negotiations; a resolute
policy of disarmament, both of weapons of mass
destruction and of conventional weapons; the promotion
of sustainable development; the further strengthening of
human rights machinery; and the gradual reorientation of
the United Nations peacekeeping activities
toward
preventive diplomacy.
on
focusing
prevention
In the political area, a clear trend has emerged
towards
on
peacemaking and peace enforcement. The emphasis was
put on the preventive presence of troops or their rapid
deployment to avoid an escalation of hostilities as well as
on post-conflict peace-building as a way of preventing the
recurrence of crises in the future.
rather
than
The promotion of economic and social progress, the
eradication of poverty, ways to ensure the widest possible
participation in an expanding world economy, and
regional integration and cooperation justifiably occupied
a predominant place in the general debate.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the
that
clearly
process
stressed
It was
of
globalization, which is now bringing both opportunities and
dangers to Member States, should lead to an increasingly
integrated approach to development and benefit all nations.
The barriers that are still maintained in order to hamper
access to foreign markets and the discriminatory and
protectionist practices in international
trade must be
eliminated in order to bring a vision of global free trade to
reality.
and
growth
sustained
Achieving
sustainable
development must remain a major global objective. There
are persistent problems, such as lack of safe water, threats
to biological diversity, ozone loss, global warming,
declining land productivity and desertification. Sustained
growth is essential to the economic and social development
of all countries. Its promotion will improve the standards of
living through the eradication of poverty, hunger and
illiteracy.
28th plenary meeting
7 October 1997
has been demonstrated in the general debate. We should
direct our future work in the plenary and the Main
Committees in such a way as to embody them in the
decision-making process. At present, this Organization
depends to a decisive extent on what we are saying or
doing. It is in our hands to agree on what kind of United
Nations we wish to have in the future.
to
In
like
thank
I would
conclusion,
the
representatives of all Member States who participated in
the general debate for their cooperation and support of
this presidency. This cooperation allowed us to begin
plenary meetings punctually and to conclude the general
debate on time. We managed to achieve the maximum
use of conference-servicing facilities as well as national
savings for this Organization, a goal to which we must
continually subscribe.
I will continue to count on
Members’ cooperation for the remainder of the session so
that we may be able to conclude our work at
the
prescribed time.
The general debate has also witnessed support for
encouraging human rights, democratization and good
governance, as well as the advancement of women and
protection of the rights of children and persons belonging
to minorities. The need to strengthen the capacity of the
United Nations in these fields has been stressed by many
speakers. It is therefore our responsibility to protect the
philosophy of the Charter of the United Nations and further
develop the role of this Organization in the economic and
social spheres.
I am also pleased to indicate that, during the past
three weeks, I have noticed that more women delegates
have been participating in our deliberations. This has
given a more gender-balanced representation to our
meetings.
May I take it that it is the wish of the General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 9?
It is also our responsibility not to lose the spirit of
cooperation and commitment at the high political level that
Announcement
It was so decided.
I
to
like
should
The President:
inform
representatives that, in connection with agenda item 157,
entitled “United Nations reform: measures and proposals”,
an informal list of measures and proposals summarizing
the principal actions and recommendations contained in
the report of the Secretary-General has been prepared by
the Secretariat. This informal list is available in English
only and has just been distributed in the General
Assembly Hall.
I would like again to emphasize that
this is an
informal document and therefore is available in English
only.
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.
25
