United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
29th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 8 October 1997, 3 p.m.
New York
A/52/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 3:25 p.m.
Agenda item 120 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/52/350/Add.3)
the Secretary-General
The President: In a letter contained in document
A/52/350/Add.3,
the
President of the General Assembly that, since the issuance
of his communications dated 16 and 29 September and 6
October 1997, Equatorial Guinea has made the necessary
payment to reduce its arrears below the amount specified in
Article 19 of the Charter.
informs
May I take it that the General Assembly duly takes
note of this information?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 157
United Nations reform: measures and proposals:
Report of the Secretary-General (A/51/950)
Conference room papers (A/52/CRP.1 and 2)
The President: May I draw the attention of delegates
to the fact that, on the recommendation of the General
Committee,
the General Assembly decided to consider
agenda item 157 directly in plenary meeting.
In connection with this item, members will recall
the
entitled
that
“Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for
Reform” has been issued as document A/51/950.
the Secretary-General
report of
The Assembly also has before it two conference
room papers prepared by the Secretariat: A/52/CRP.1,
entitled “Establishment of the post of Deputy Secretary-
General”, and A/52/CRP.2, entitled “Rationalization of the
subsidiary machinery of
the Economic and Social
Council”.
that an informal
I should like to recall
list of
measures and proposals summarizing the principal actions
and recommendations contained in the report of the
Secretary-General, also prepared by the Secretariat, was
made available yesterday and is being distributed today in
this Conference Room. Therefore, we have three
additional documents prepared by the Secretariat.
It
is my understanding that
During the past three weeks, I have carried out
extensive consultations on the procedure to be followed
to consider
the reform proposals submitted by the
Secretary-General.
the
proposal to consider the item on United Nations reform at
informal meetings reflects the preference of the members
of the General Assembly. I therefore suggest that, under
the chairmanship of the President, and with the assistance
of the Vice-Presidents, open-ended informal consultations
of
the
consideration of the reform proposals.
the plenary should be held to facilitate
97-86188 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
29th plenary meeting
8 October 1997
In the absence of any objection, may I take it that the
General Assembly agrees to continue its consideration of
agenda item 157 in open-ended informal consultations of
the plenary?
this item, the first meeting of the open-ended informal
consultations of
the plenary be held in this room
immediately after the adjournment of this meeting.
I see no objection. We shall
therefore proceed
It was so decided.
accordingly.
The President: I should like to further propose that,
in order to proceed expeditiously with the consideration of
The meeting rose at 3:30 p.m.
2
