United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
22nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 2 October 1997, 3 p.m.
New York
A/52/PV.22
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: The first speaker this afternoon is the
Minister of State, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Senegal
and for Senegalese people living abroad, His Excellency
Mr. Moustapha Niasse.
Mr. Niasse (Senegal) (interpretation from French):
The General Assembly has unanimously chosen you,
Mr. President, to guide the work of the fifty-second session.
This decision is a tribute to your outstanding personal
qualities as a diplomat and a statesman, and at the same
time a tribute to your vast experience in international
relations.
It also shows how much the international
community appreciates the role played by your country,
Ukraine,
in the management of the major issues that
characterize the evolution of world affairs. My country is
pleased to express to you its warmest congratulations and
best wishes for success in the execution of this noble
mission.
I would like to pay tribute to your predecessor,
Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the competence
and open-mindedness with which he guided the work of the
fifty-first session of our General Assembly. We extend to
him our deep gratitude.
I would like to extend to the new Secretary-General
of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, my warmest
congratulations. The election of Mr. Kofi Annan last 17
December was a tribute to the exceptional qualities of a
man who has devoted his entire life to United Nations
causes. I wish him every success in the important mission
entrusted to him. I am convinced that he will do honour
to our continent, Africa, and successfully lead our
Organization into the next millennium.
The world’s family of nations is once again meeting,
as it does every year, to examine the current situation
and, at the same time, to chart the course of progress for
the 12 months to come.
While making its contribution to this exercise in
collective reflection, my country, Senegal, would like to
associate itself with all of those who find hope for a
better future for humankind in our Organization, because
it is based on peace and solidarity.
In fact, the United Nations remains an irreplaceable
instrument for the promotion of peace, security and
progress in the world, thanks to its universal character, to
the international culture and ethics that it expresses and
inspires and to its positive accomplishments.
the United Nations,
Two years ago, on the occasion of the fiftieth
anniversary of
the international
community stressed here, unanimously, the irreplaceable
nature of
reflection, discussion,
synthesis and coordination of international life that the
the framework for
97-86134 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
United Nations provides. In fact, the United Nations has
been and remains a multidimensional symbol. The United
Nations is, first, an indispensable tool for safeguarding
global peace and security. Further, the United Nations is
above all a source of new hope for many men and women
who suffer from exile, hunger, poverty or illness. And
lastly, the United Nations is a tool for the promotion of
democracy, human rights and development — in other
words, of justice among individuals, peoples, cultures and
civilizations.
In this light, we have made it one of our highest
priorities to improve the capacities and the ability of the
Organization to better tackle the challenges of today’s
world. We have done so while affirming that
“In order to be able to respond effectively to the
challenges of the future and the expectations of the
United Nations held by peoples around the world, it is
essential that the United Nations itself be reformed
and modernized.” (Declaration on the Occasion of the
Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, resolution
50/6, para. 14)
We are pleased to note today that this conviction has
led by the
begun to be reflected in deeds.
dynamism of our Secretary-General, the United Nations has
now embarked on a vast reform effort, unprecedented in the
history of this institution.
In fact,
More specifically, on 16 July last Mr. Kofi Annan
submitted to the General Assembly proposals for reforms
that will make the United Nations the cornerstone of an
international system better adapted to the realities of the
twenty-first century.
I would like to express all my gratitude to the
Secretary-General
the
commendable efforts and energy that they have applied to
the development of proposals as bold as they are relevant.
collaborators
and
his
for
Senegal is now examining all these proposals in close
coordination with its fellow members of the United Nations,
the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Non-
Aligned Movement. Senegal will do this while bearing in
mind the political will expressed by all to undertake, within
an appropriate
the necessary reforms,
especially in the fields of development, maintenance of
international
and
promotion of human rights, so that the Organization can
better respond to the demands of our day and to the
aspirations of the peoples for which it was created.
time period,
disarmament
security,
peace
and
2
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
The Head of State of Senegal, His Excellency
Mr. Abdou Diouf, has already provided the necessary
guidelines and resources for this examination.
the reform of
In this framework,
the Security
Council requires the special attention of all Member
States and, at the same time, a common will to be faithful
to the ideal of peace that was inscribed in the Charter in
San Francisco in 1945.
The Working Group charged with examining this
question has made considerable progress, even though
consensus has yet to be found on such fundamental issues
as expansion, composition and use of the veto in the
Security Council.
the many
Nonetheless, we can and must underscore, welcome
support
often
and
complementary proposals that have been submitted and
that have visibly enriched the debates over the course of
the past year.
constructive
and
to take advantage of
We now must stay on track and redouble our efforts
in order
the momentum thus
established and to succeed ultimately in our objective of
restructuring the Security Council while modernizing it,
making it more democratic and giving it greater
credibility and greater transparency — and thus greater
legitimacy.
Africa has a natural role to play in this reform, a
role that must be recognized given Africa’s historical
evolution and its destiny as a continent of the future in
the community of nations.
The reform of the United Nations system towards
greater coherence and greater dynamism is important, but
equally urgent
is the need for the maintenance and
promotion of peace in the world.
It is true that significant progress has been made in
this area in recent years. Thus, the United Nations has
succeeded in substantially strengthening its capacity to
plan, establish and conduct peacekeeping missions
throughout the world. My country, Senegal, is pleased to
have been able to contribute to this progress, through,
inter alia, the posting of officers from its army to the
Secretariat in New York so that the various aspects of
peacekeeping operations could be better rationalized.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
But the desired improvement should not be limited to
procedural matters, even though we must recognize that
these matters are clearly important.
Above all, we must also re-examine the orientation of
United Nations missions in all cases in which peace in the
world is threatened or breached.
The international community must, in particular, be
more realistic in the missions it confers upon the United
Nations Blue Helmets.
In this context, drawing lessons from operations such
as that conducted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we must
recognize something quite clear: by the rules of engagement
established for them, the United Nations forces are not yet
legally equipped to restore peace in theatres of operation
where peace has been broken.
Therefore, it seems to us more appropriate to entrust
such missions to the Members of the United Nations that
agree to conduct
them in the framework of coalitions
placed under the moral authority, but not the command, of
our Organization. We would thus avoid giving mandates to
United Nations soldiers without in turn giving them the
legal, human and material means that are essential to the
accomplishment of their missions.
This choice is all the more desirable since multifaceted
conflicts continue to afflict many regions of the world,
starting, unfortunately, with Africa, our own continent.
in Liberia, which — thanks
There significant progress has been made this year on
the road to restoring peace in a certain number of countries,
in particular
to the
determination of the countries of the Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS) and the support of the
international community — has just emerged from seven
years of fratricidal conflict. But we must recognize that in
the case of other crises, the path towards peace remains
uncertain.
This applies in particular to Sierra Leone, where the
situation remains very disturbing in spite of the initiatives
of the United Nations, of the OAU and most especially of
ECOWAS to restore legitimacy in that country.
In the Congo (Brazzaville), another of our brother
countries, the world witnessed a sudden deterioration of the
political situation in the military confrontation that began on
5 June 1997. Here again it must be recalled that
the
combined efforts of the United Nations and the OAU and
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
the lucid and commendable actions of President El Hadj
Omar Bongo, President of the Gabonese Republic and
also of the international mediation committee, have,
unfortunately, not managed to find a political way out of
this grave internal crisis, the prolongation of which is a
serious threat to peace in the subregion and the continent.
Elsewhere on the continent,
in Angola and in
Somalia, internal conflicts continue to elude resolution.
Faced with all
the dangers posed by all
these
conflicts, Africans have established the OAU Mechanism
for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in
Africa.
it
is clear
Nonetheless,
that pan-African
organization does not alone possess the means to
undertake the many and complex actions required by
peacekeeping operations in Africa.
that
Massive support from the international community
is therefore particularly needed in this area.
This is why I would like once again to commend the
convening last 25 September, on the initiative of the
President of the Security Council, of a special Council
meeting at
level devoted to the
preservation of peace, security and stability in Africa. We
would also like to thank our colleague, Mrs. Madeleine
Albright, Secretary of State of the United States.
the ministerial
That meeting gave eloquent witness to the special
importance that the international community attaches to
African problems.
However, I must emphasize that declarations of
intent alone are not enough. We need concrete action.
Hence, Senegal attaches great importance to the report
that the Secretary-General is soon to submit to us and
which is to contain specifically concrete recommendations
on the causes of conflict in Africa, on the means of
preventing them and, where need be,
the means of
resolving them in full agreement with our partners in the
international community.
In this context, we welcome the increasing assistance
we are beginning to receive from certain major countries
of the northern hemisphere in the framework of the
strengthening of Africa’s capacity to maintain peace and
react rapidly to crises. In this respect, we cannot but
mention France,
the United States of America and
Canada, as well as other countries of the North. Along
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
those same lines, the inauguration in Copenhagen on 2
September by the Secretary-General of a planning centre
for
the new United Nations Stand-By Forces High-
Readiness Brigade was an event of great importance for
conflict prevention throughout the world.
Also in the framework of these concerns for Africa, I
should like to mention the ongoing conflict between the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on the one hand and the United
States of America and the United Kingdom on the other
with respect to the Lockerbie tragedy. We feel that the time
is ripe for the parties concerned finally to successfully
resolve this matter
through dialogue and negotiation
because — and this must be stressed once again — the
people of Libya are suffering greatly from the embargo to
which that country is being subjected.
We welcome the significant progress made in the
framework of efforts to achieve a definitive peace in the
Western Sahara under the auspices of the United Nations
and under the guidance of Mr. James Baker, the Personal
Envoy of the Secretary-General.
The situation in the Middle East continues to be of
concern to peace-loving people. Recent developments in the
occupied Palestinian territories, the expansion of existing
Israeli settlements or the construction of new ones, delays
in negotiations — these all have had, to our great regret, a
negative impact on the peace process. We would mention
also the clear-cut acts of violence perpetrated against
defenceless civilians,
in
Jerusalem. All of
condemned
unreservedly because they do enormous damage to the
peace efforts.
the recent attacks
acts must be
such as
these
It is for all these reasons that we wish here to make a
pressing appeal to the co-sponsors of the peace process and
to the entire international community so that the most
appropriate initiatives can be taken in order to salvage the
peace process. For today, more than any other region of the
world, the Middle East truly needs peace and security for
its own development. This peace can be achieved only
within a framework of mutual trust and the will to live
together with respect for the rights and the dignity of all the
peoples of the region.
Global security also requires arms reduction and the
elimination of certain categories of weapons. That is why,
for more than 50 years now,
the United Nations has
attempted to create a world free of all weapons of mass
destruction. In the pursuit of this objective, significant
progress has already been made. One year ago, we
4
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
welcomed in this very Hall and with deep satisfaction the
conclusion of
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty.
From that point on, the international community was
involved in negotiations for a treaty for the elimination of
anti-personnel landmines. Senegal, which is a member of
the Conference on Disarmament, continues to attach
special
importance to this question, whose settlement
would represent a major step forward towards a world
that would offer greater security for all. In this context,
we hope to see the Ottawa process, in which we are
participants, succeed, by the end of this year, in the
signing of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use,
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel
Mines and on Their Destruction.
Eradicating poverty throughout the world has been
and remains one of the fundamental objectives of the
United Nations. By proclaiming in the Charter their
determination to establish better standards of living in
conditions of broader freedom,
the founding fathers
wanted to make of the United Nations an instrument that
would fight for the social progress of all humankind.
But at the present time, planet Earth is threatened by
global challenges that know no boundaries and that spare
no peoples. The world’s problems — poverty, exclusion,
terrorism, organized crime and drug-trafficking — have
become globalized far earlier than the economy has. That
is why, regardless of the way in which we approach the
future, the problems that exist at century’s end cannot be
resolved except through concerted and integrated action
that can manage harmoniously all of the upheaval that is
accompanying this changing period of history.
It
is in this context
that Senegal welcomes the
successful conclusion of negotiations on the elaboration
of an Agenda for Development. The consensus achieved
in that Agenda, which draws its substance from earlier
commitments in the various plans of action of recent
international conferences, gives evidence of our shared
faith in the virtues of a new global partnership for
development based on the imperative of interdependence
and on mutual benefit. Thus the conceptual framework
has been set and accepted by all, and it remains for us to
move towards action through a mobilization of resources
commensurate with the generous intentions formulated in
the Agenda for Development.
Along these lines, the settlement of the debt crisis,
just remuneration for commodities, the lifting of trade
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
barriers and an increase in official development assistance
are indispensable prerequisites if we are to build a world
that is more welcoming to everyone, so that our global
village can be strengthened, in a spirit of solidarity, in a
lasting way.
In this context, the fight against poverty is of clear
priority, because it is unacceptable, in this era of space
technology and the Internet,
that millions of men and
women the world over, and especially in the southern
hemisphere, still do not have the minimal conditions for a
decent life. They lack water, electricity, medicine, food —
in a word,
they lack security and well-being. The
aspirations of peoples to a better life is an eternal quest that
we cannot neglect, as it is true that human beings must
remain at the very beginning and end of development.
In this quest for lasting solutions to the challenges of
underdevelopment, my country took the initiative, at the
thirty-third Summit of the OAU, held in Harare in June, to
suggest two resolutions through which the Heads of State
and Government of Africa unanimously renewed their
support for the United Nations system in general and for
the action taken by Africa in particular to raise the standard
of living of African peoples. But this need for solidarity
should not cause us to forget
towards
sustainable development
the national
responsibility of States. It requires the definition and
effective application of sound macroeconomic policies
based on transparency, the rule of law, the practice of
democracy, respect for human rights, social justice and the
participation of all in the national development effort: in
other words,
is based on what we today call good
governance.
that any effort
is, above all,
it
As my country sees it, this choice, which must be
supplemented by solidarity at the global level, is the most
certain course towards the shared ideal assigned to us by
the Charter of the United Nations.
By enshrining in our Charter their attachment
to
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the
founding fathers of the United Nations inspired millions of
men and women to take what His Holiness Pope John Paul
II called two years ago “the risk of freedom”. Their
commendable struggle means that today, respect for these
rights and these freedoms is universally considered to be an
essential component of any undertaking whose goal is the
progress and well-being of the individual.
My country, Senegal, which attaches profound
importance to the dignity and value of the human being,
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
would like here to reiterate its commitment to continue to
work alongside those many who are struggling to obtain
or regain their right to freedom, justice and peace. This
solidarity applies to our brothers and sisters in Palestine,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Libya, Afghanistan, Somalia, the
Great Lakes region and elsewhere, who aspire only to
peace in order to build their own future.
I would like, in this framework, to commend the
appointment of Mrs. Mary Robinson to the post of United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We
assure her of our support and wish her every success in
her noble mission.
The universal nature of the United Nations is a
reality that must be consolidated and strengthened. In this
context, we support without reservation the request of the
Republic of China to join again the community of nations
and be admitted to our Organization and its specialized
agencies. Acceding to this request would be a significant
contribution to the consolidation of
the ideal of
universality of the United Nations and do justice to the
esteemed people of the Republic of China. Its economic
and social development, commitment to democratic values
and international behaviour have given irrefutable proof
of its faith in the noble objectives of the United Nations
Charter and of its capacity to assume the responsibilities
of all Member States.
When the Berlin wall crumbled in 1989, great hope
was aroused in the citizens of the world. Hope was born
of rapid movement towards a new international order
which would bring with it peace and justice as well as
solidarity and progress. In this new international order,
the Republic of China has a place, a place recognized by
international law and the demands of a rapidly developing
world.
In conclusion,
I would like to say that
the
international community must do everything in its power
to have hope triumph over
the dangers menacing
humankind. The human race’s God-given intelligence
provides the possibilities and resources to achieve this
end. We have no choice but to help the United Nations
adapt to the new world and play its proper role as a
centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the
attainment of common ends. This is all the more essential
since the great challenges to our future can only be met
in a global framework of solidarity. The only solution —
whether in the struggle against terrorism, drug- trafficking
and organized crime; in the protection of our environment
and our collective health; or in the promotion of security
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
through disarmament or the reduction of poverty — is a
concerted and united global effort.
Together, we have already begun this effort, and my
country urges the international community to continue it
steadfastly. Senegal makes this appeal convinced that, with
the
to
humankind today, there is no challenge that cannot be met.
All we need is the will.
and material
intellectual
resources
available
We can do it. We must do it. Let us do it together, as
brothers and sisters belonging to one family.
The President: I now call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Mohammed Said Al-
Sahaf.
Mr. Al-Sahaf (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): It
gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its
fifty-second session. I am confident that your extensive
experience
competence will positively
contribute to the successful conduct of the proceedings of
this session. I would like to assure you that
the Iraqi
delegation will do its best to cooperate with you and with
your colleagues in discharging your responsibilities to bring
the proceedings of this session to a successful conclusion.
and extreme
I would like also to pay tribute to your predecessor,
Mr. Razali Ismail, for the incessant and sincere efforts
which he made to crown the proceedings of the last session
with success. He has earned our appreciation.
The success of the United Nations in the exercise of
its desired role depends primarily on the proper application
of the principles and provisions of the Charter, because it
is the only instrument that can achieve the goals for which
this Organization was established: the endeavour to achieve
an international community based on respect
the
sovereignty, freedom and independence of peoples and their
empowerment to achieve their goals of economic and social
development.
for
The reform of the United Nations structures and
mechanisms in a proper way that ensures justice to all
Member States and geographical groups will enable it to
discharge its responsibilities in a manner consistent with the
purposes, principles and provisions enshrined in the
Charter.
We believe that the reform process of the Organization
should not be restricted to the management aspect,
6
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
important as it is. More important, there should be a
common political will to redress the real and effective
balance in the work of the Organization and to prevent its
machinery from being used for private political objectives
and purposes of certain super-Powers. Above all, one
should pay attention to the dangers inherent
in one
international pole breaking loose and trying to dominate
the world. In this context, Iraq welcomes the communiqué
issued after the meeting of President Yeltsin of Russia
and President Jiang Zemin of China in Moscow on 22
April 1997, which clearly called for the rejection of
hegemony by any State over the world’s destinies, of the
exercise of power politics or of
the monopoly of
international issues. The Russian-Chinese communiqué
also called for
the establishment of a multi-polar
international system. We in Iraq are proud to note that
our leader, President Saddam Hussain, called 20 years ago
for a multi-polar world.
The United Nations should not be controlled by the
rich, who are a small minority in the world. Among the
basic purposes of the United Nations, according to the
Charter, is the promotion of the economic and social
advancement of all peoples. Based on that, we consider it
necessary to avoid marginalizing developing countries and
denying them the opportunities and potentialities for
economic and scientific development.
While we are talking about
the reform of the
Organization and its mechanisms and the review of its
role, we should not overlook the basic realities of the
evolution of the international community from a small
group of States that are homogeneous in their concepts
and interests to a community of a global nature,
necessarily heterogeneous
its
perceptions and interests. This objective reality makes it
imperative for all of us to employ our common energies
to review the charters and mechanisms that we have
inherited to make them consistent with the objective
reality of the international community in order to achieve
the common and public good, not simply the interests of
the minority. One example that comes to mind in this
regard is the area of human rights.
and varying in all
Finally, we must recognize the need for deliberation,
consultation and extensive negotiation on what reform
steps should be approved. A prerequisite for the success
of any step in this common effort is the presence of a real
consensus among States, not the voices speaking under
pressure and threats to their respective interests.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
For more than seven years, Iraq has been suffering
under an unjust blockade the like of which has never been
witnessed in human history. We have more than once stated
clearly and unequivocally before the General Assembly the
steps that Iraq had undertaken to implement the resolutions
of the Security Council on the so-called Gulf crisis,
particularly resolution 687 (1991), so that the blockade
imposed upon it could be lifted.
Iraq has carried out what was required of it under
these resolutions. In the context of working with the Special
Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) for the implementation of section C of resolution
687 (1991), on proscribed weapons, Iraq has carried out all
the substantive obligations set out therein. Iraq has never
tarried in doing everything possible to emphasize its
keenness to deal even with the very minute details so that
the Security Council could move to carry out
its
corresponding obligations towards Iraq by lifting the
blockade.
Our work in this regard is of special importance. We
should pause to shed light upon it. The full implementation
to date of the substantive obligations imposed on Iraq with
regard to banned weapons is an established fact. Despite all
the rumours, the truth is that Iraq no longer has any banned
weapons, equipment, machinery or materials. The system of
continuous observation established in Iraq by the Special
Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency
is working effectively and has been since August 1994,
covering all the territory of Iraq.
When the new Chairman of the Special Commission,
Ambassador Richard Butler, assumed his office, we
welcomed his statements in which he affirmed that he
would follow an objective, scientific and technical approach
in dealing with what the Commission views as remaining
issues,
in accordance with the requirements clearly
established by resolution 687 (1991). We affirmed our full
readiness to cooperate with Ambassador Butler. We agreed
with him, during his first visit to Baghdad last July, on an
intensive common work programme, which we have
actively carried out. In fact, substantial advances have been
made in this common activity, and we look forward to the
semi-annual report by the Special Commission, which we
hope will be submitted to the Security Council in a few
days. We hope it will equitably reflect
the progress
achieved and will open the door for the Security Council to
start implementing paragraph 22 of resolution 687 (1991),
which means the beginning of the lifting of the blockade on
Iraq.
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
The comprehensive blockade imposed on Iraq is the
most extensive and cruel boycott system ever imposed by
the Security Council throughout its history. It covers and
affects, in theory and in practice, every aspect of life.
From our practical experience, we are convinced that the
insistence on the perpetuation of the blockade against Iraq
is not related to the fulfilment by Iraq of its obligations.
It is rather a systematic plan to inflict severe damage on
Iraq by putting an end to its development potential and by
destroying its basic economic infrastructure to fulfil the
selfish interests of an unjust super-Power.
The whole world has felt the magnitude of the wilful
damage and destruction inflicted on Iraq by the
continuation of the blockade, which is contrary to the
purposes for which the United Nations was established,
which purposes have been emphasized in its numerous
conferences.
International organizations, humanitarian
missions and United Nations agencies have warned of the
dangers besetting the people of Iraq as a result of the
continued blockade, particularly the dangerous effects on
women and children.
The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), for
instance, has confirmed in its latest study in March 1997
that 27.5 per cent of Iraqi children under five years of age
suffer
the most
threatened segment is children under two years old, due
to malnutrition and the incidence of contagious diseases.
from chronic malnutrition and that
Furthermore, the environment in Iraq has suffered
extensive damage because of indiscriminate bombing by
the United States and some of its allies, which was aimed
at power stations, sewage systems and factories, which we
have not been able to rebuild fully because of the
blockade.
Scientific studies and research carried out by foreign
researchers and scientists have unequivocally confirmed
that
the United States used banned weapons and
ammunition enriched with depleted uranium in its military
operations against Iraq. This exposed vast tracts of Iraqi
territory to contamination by deadly toxic materials.
Numerous cases of hitherto unfamiliar illnesses have been
recorded, such as congenital deformities of foetuses, bone
deformities and many cases of leukaemia among children.
We heard many allegations from the representatives
of the United States and Britain before Iraq agreed to deal
with the oil-for-food formula. The representatives of both
countries shed crocodile tears and alleged that they were
concerned about the suffering of the Iraqi people. They
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
said that they had come up with Security Council resolution
986 (1995) to alleviate this suffering. that resolution was
not balanced. We and the United Nations Secretary-General,
in May 1996, were able to reach a memorandum of
understanding to implement the resolution in a balanced
manner. When implementation started — that is to say,
when the implementation of the memorandum started — in
December 1996, the American and the British conduct was
seen for what it really is.
The oil-for-food-and-medicine formula is a temporary
and modest formula that meets only a small fraction of
Iraq’s needs. Nevertheless, this formula has encountered
and continues to encounter many major obstacles and
difficulties, which the United States and Britain in
particular try to impose with a view to impeding the proper
and effective implementation of
the memorandum of
understanding.
The conduct of the representatives of these two
countries in the Committee established pursuant to Security
Council resolution 661 (1990) has led to an accumulation
of contracts which were rejected or suspended on flimsy
pretexts. This has caused a huge break in the smooth flow
of the approval of such contracts and has thereby delayed
the delivery and distribution of materials to the Iraqi
people. To date, despite the fact that the implementation of
the first period ended over three months ago, Iraq has
received only 25 per cent of the medicine required and has
not received any materials at all up to now relating to
agriculture, education, water or sewage, or any spare parts
for electricity-generating power stations.
Now more than ever is the time for the United Nations
to discharge its responsibility with regard to its obligations
under the Charter, not only to the people of Iraq, but to the
international community. The United Nations has a duty to
carry out a professional and objective review of
the
provisions of the blockade imposed on Iraq in order to
implement paragraph 22 of Security Council resolution 687
(1991) as a first
lifting the blockade
completely.
step towards
All the discussions that have taken place in the United
Nations, in specialized working groups and committees, and
in particular in the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the
Organization, have stressed that sanctions should be an
exceptional measure used by the United Nations in special
circumstances and in accordance with the Charter. They
have also stressed that such sanctions should not be based
merely on political expediency, but rather should be firmly
8
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
law;
that
they should be
based on international
implemented according to the principles of justice and
international law; that they should not serve individual or
factional
implementation,
consideration should be given to the human suffering that
they cause; and that a time limit should be set for their
lifting. Such a serious measure should not be imposed
without setting a precise time for its lifting.
interests;
their
that
in
United Nations responsibility does not end there. The
United Nations must put an end to all hostile practices
against Iraq by the United States, which persists in its
continuous attempts to interfere in Iraq’s internal affairs
with a view to causing instability and insecurity and in
carrying out operations to change its nationalist regime;
such practices are considered criminal acts even under its
own domestic law. Statements made by senior American
officials confirm the hostile American policy towards
Iraq.
Members of the United Nations are not unaware of
the article published in the Washington Post on 26 June
1997 or of
the information contained in the ABC
television programme aired on 26 June 1997. This
information confirmed that the United States was involved
in conspiracies against the nationalist regime in Iraq. This
involvement
is an official policy, approved by the
American President, and more that $100 million has been
appropriated for it. The Central Intelligence Agency has
been charged with its implementation. Following that
publicity, the policy was acknowledged by an official
spokesman of the American State Department in a press
briefing on 27 June.
The United Nations resolutions on Iraq affirm that
all States have an obligation to respect Iraq’s sovereignty,
territorial integrity and political independence. The United
States is carrying out a policy of its own making, which
runs counter to the provisions of the Charter and of the
resolutions referred to. I hope that Members of the United
Nations are not ignorant of the fact that among the means
of achieving the declared objectives of this hostile policy
towards Iraq is the imposition of no-fly zones in northern
and southern Iraq. This is an illegal act that is contrary to
Security Council resolutions. It is a unilateral military act
by the Governments of the United States and Britain —
a clear application of brute power politics against our
country. We demand that the United Nations deplore and
condemn unilateral policies based on the logic of brute
force, opportunism, double standards and hegemony.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We are demanding no more than the legal and proper
application of Security Council resolutions in accordance
with the purposes and principles of the Charter. We believe
that there is a collective duty to take joint action to evaluate
in an equitable manner Iraq’s fulfilment of its obligations.
This responsibility rests first and foremost with the
members of the Security Council because collectively they
bear
responsibility for any imbalance caused by the
unilateral positions taken by the United States and Britain.
We are eager to establish excellent relations with
neighbouring countries. We have affirmed on more than
one occasion the importance of dialogue in order to arrive
at the best solutions to problems affecting relations between
the countries of the region. Unfortunately, we have not
received the required response from certain parties, largely
because of interference by external Powers that have
nothing to do with the reality of the interests of the States
of the region.
We note that, unfortunately, our neighbour, Turkey, is
indulging in dangerous policies that run counter to the deep
historical, religious and human relations between Iraq and
Turkey. Turkey has repeatedly continued to violate our
sovereignty, interfere in our internal affairs and invade our
territory, on the basis of flimsy pretexts. We have discussed
the situation with our neighbour, Turkey, on several
occasions in the past. The most recent discussion was with
the Under-Secretary of the Turkish Ministry for Foreign
Affairs, which took place on 15 September 1997 in
Baghdad. During those discussions we explained that the
solution to the Kurdish problem inside Turkey could not be
achieved by committing armed aggression against Iraq, or
by interfering in its internal affairs, in collaboration with
foreign Powers — the United States and Britain — but
rather by fully observing the principle of mutual respect for
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the two countries
and by cooperation between their Governments to ensure
security and stability on both sides of the international
border.
We have warned Turkey of the serious and negative
consequences of its policies for relations between the two
countries and for Turkey’s own interests. Many countries in
and outside the region, and international organizations,
foremost among them the League of Arab States, have
condemned the new Turkish aggression against Iraq, which
began on 22 September 1997. We strongly condemn this
new military aggression, which is a flagrant violation of
Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. We demand that
Turkey immediately withdraw its invading forces from our
country and refrain from repeating such aggressive military
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
practices, which contradict good-neighbourly relations, the
Charter and international
law. We hold Turkey fully
responsible internationally for its acts of aggression inside
Iraq. We reserve our full right to respond to these acts
and to assert our other
rights under
law that arise as a result of Turkey’s
international
responsibility for those acts.
legitimate
respect
We are also keen on establishing good-neighbourly
relations with Iran, based on mutual
for
sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in
internal affairs. On 8 August 1997 President Saddam
Hussain issued a call to the new Iranian Government to
show its good intentions towards Iraq by carrying out its
established obligations, foremost of which is the release
of Iraqi prisoners of war and the return of the aircraft
entrusted to it. He also affirmed that
Iraq would
reciprocate each step taken by Iran in this regard by
taking two balanced steps: one corresponding to the
Iranian step and another in line with our deep sense of
humanitarian, regional and international responsibility to
encourage the taking of successive, continual steps to
ensure that regional security, mutual respect and balanced
interests rest firmly on their proper foundation in such a
way that benefits the peoples of the region.
It is unfortunate that our neighbour, Iran, does not
match our inclination and prefers to continue to exploit
the conditions of the unjust blockade imposed against Iraq
and to exploit the imposition of no-fly zones by the
United States and Britain in northern and southern Iraq to
enable it to violate Iraqi sovereignty, penetrate its airspace
and commit one military aggression after another. The
most recent of such acts was the bombing by eight
Iranian military aircraft of positions inside Iraqi territory,
in the governorates of Diala and El-Kut on 29 September
1997.
Iran and another State are taking advantage of the
illegal air embargo, imposed on northern and southern
Iraq by the United States and its collaborators, to violate
Iraq’s sovereignty, penetrate its airspace and commit
continuous military aggression on its territory. The
continuation of this illegal air embargo constitutes an
ongoing threat to Iraq’s sovereignty and security, not only
from America and Britain, but also from Iran and other States.
This situation,
in which acts of aggression are
repeatedly committed, means that
the explicit United
Nations pledges in relevant Security Council resolutions
to safeguard Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity
have become a mere dead letter. It is time that these
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
pledges be honoured. If it does otherwise,
Nations will have violated its own pledges.
the United
Iraq is an ancient country with a history going back
more than 7,000 years. The Iraqi people, who contributed
immensely to human civilization, will remain in charge of
their own affairs, independent in their choices and able to
overcome these crises. As we stand at the threshold of the
twenty-first century, we look forward to seeing the United
Nations enabled to discharge its basic responsibilities to
carry out the purposes embodied in the Charter.
The President: The next speaker on my list is the
Minister
of
Mozambique, His Excellency, Mr. Leonardo Santos Simão.
I give him the floor.
for Foreign Affairs
and Cooperation
Mr. Simão (Mozambique): On behalf of my
Government and on my own behalf, allow me to
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous
election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-
second session. Your election to this office bears testimony
to your commitment to the cause of international peace and
security. I am sure that with your guidance and wide
experience in international affairs, our work will record a
successful outcome. You can rest
assured of my
delegation’s full support during your term of office.
I would also like to put on record our appreciation of
the manner in which your predecessor, Ambassador Razali
Ismail of Malaysia, presided over the deliberations of the
fifty-first
the General Assembly. His
performance and innovative ideas will indeed help us tackle
the challenges before our Organization in the years to
come.
session
of
Let me pay a well-deserved tribute to the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his
leadership and the commitment to the ideals of international
peace and security demonstrated in his first year of office.
I wish him well and pledge our full support and cooperation
as he discharges his responsibilities in our Organization in
times of change.
Within two days, Mozambique will celebrate five
years of peace and stability. Looking back, albeit to see the
challenges we have encountered, our nation has, without a
doubt, made significant progress in its quest
the
consolidation of peace and tranquillity, democracy and
development, and we are determined further to pursue these
goals.
for
10
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
In the political sphere, we have succeeded in
creating an enabling environment
in which political
discussions are being carried out positively both in
Parliament and by civil society at large. As we deepen
this positive experience within the framework of a
pluralistic society, there is broad consensus among all
Mozambicans that dialogue must continue to be the way
to overcome differences and to address the development
needs of our country. To this end, my Government will
spare no effort
to ensure that Parliament
continues to function normally, for we believe that this
course of action remains a key factor for the consolidation
of peace, democracy and national reconciliation. The next
step will be to hold the country’s first municipal elections,
which will complement the process initiated in 1994 with
the holding of multi-party general elections.
in order
The implementation of the structural adjustment
programme initiated in 1987 has indeed created an
attractive environment
for private investment, both
domestic and foreign, which is gradually and steadily
leading the country to economic and social progress. It is
within this multidisciplinary and global action that
economic reforms are taking place, with results that are
already positive and tangible. Preliminary indications of
the performance of the economy during the first half of
1997 estimate that growth in gross domestic product will
reach about 7 per cent by the end of this year, a figure
which is higher than that originally forecast.
for debt
relief
financial
concerning
institutions
In speaking on this very important subject I would
like to underscore the high importance we attach to the
need for flexibility with respect to the implementation of
initiatives
and sustainability. My
Government is encouraged by recent indications from
international
the
impending decision on the eligibility of Mozambique to
the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. I
would hope that once such a decision is made the time-
frame between the decision point and the completion
point might be as short as possible so as to have the
desired impact on the economy. Without far-reaching debt
relief measures, it will be virtually impossible for the
country to sustain the current growth and stabilization of
the economy. We hope that as soon as possible all least
developed countries may accede to the Initiative.
In this regard, my Government welcomes the recent
admission of Russia to both the Group of 8 and the Paris
Club. It is our hope that those steps will enable that
country to play a more active and constructive role in
matters related to debt forgiveness and relief, particularly
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in relation to countries like Mozambique. For our part, we
will continue to undertake and deepen further our political
and economic reforms, as we have over the past 10 years,
with particular emphasis on the provision of basic health
care and education.
The rehabilitation of the economic and social fabrics,
especially in the rural areas, is seriously hampered by the
scourge of landmines. These horrible weapons have killed
and continue to kill and wound hundreds of innocent
the fourth International
citizens. With that
Conference
on
Landmines, which met at Maputo in February of this year,
my Government approved a resolution that prohibits, with
immediate
commercialization,
utilization and non-authorized transportation of anti-
personnel landmines in the territory of Mozambique.
of Non-Governmental Organizations
the production,
in mind, at
effect,
My Government has been participating fully in the
negotiations within the framework of the Ottawa process.
In this respect, we welcome the results achieved at the
recently concluded Oslo Diplomatic Conference. We urge
all countries to heed the call of the peoples of the world
and to join the majority of nations in signing the
international
treaty on the total ban of anti-personnel
landmines in December this year. We wish to launch a
vigorous appeal to the international community to ensure
that all the provisions of that treaty with respect to, inter
alia, the destruction of stockpiled anti-personnel mines and
those laid within minefields and in areas outside minefields,
and with respect to international cooperation and assistance,
are fully implemented.
In this respect, I wish to highlight the importance my
Government attaches to the question of assistance to victims
of landmines before, during and following mine clearance,
in order to ensure the early and safe return and resettlement
of displaced persons with a view to ensuring a speedy
resumption of economic activity, in particular in rural areas.
I would like to express our deep gratitude to those
countries and organizations that are providing generous
assistance in demining activities, and invite others to join
us in implementing our national demining programme.
a
for
national
launched
In August this year, the Government and civil society
the
jointly
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, which will take place on 10
December 1998. The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, with which my country fully associates itself,
represents the commitment by all peoples of the world to
campaign
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
their faith in human dignity. The nationwide celebrations,
encompassing a variety of activities, will afford a unique
opportunity to all Mozambicans — and, indeed, to other
peoples elsewhere — to review and educate themselves
on such an important issue for mankind. It will be an
opportunity to underscore the importance of the non-
selectivity, indivisibility and universality of human rights.
Within that framework, my Government follows with
keen attention the progress being made in the Preparatory
Committee on the Establishment of an International
Criminal Court. The establishment of such a court, with
the purpose of bringing to justice individuals accused of
committing the most heinous crimes, is an important
contribution to the promotion of human rights and
fundamental freedoms. The court must be entrusted with
clear powers in order fully to discharge its mandate. In
particular,
its competence and jurisdiction should be
clearly defined in conformity with its objectives and
taking into account the principle of complementarity.
In the African continent, we are participating in
discussions for the establishment of an African court of
human and peoples’ rights. It is our hope that the high-
level meeting scheduled for next year at Addis Ababa will
succeed in finding the needed consensus on all
outstanding issues pertaining to the court.
In the past 12 months, the issue of United Nations
reforms has gained new impetus with new developments
which have taken place quite recently. It is a fact that
there is a broad consensus with regard to the need for
such reforms. Nevertheless, in carrying them out it will be
important to find ways and means that will ensure that the
legitimate rights and aspirations of all Member States, and
in particular the developing countries, are safeguarded.
This is particularly relevant with respect to the proposals
for the enlargement of the Security Council.
Similarly, my Government has taken due note of and
welcomes the reform package presented by the Secretary-
General
in his report entitled “Renewing the United
Nations: A Programme for Reform”. The report, the most
comprehensive and far-reaching ever produced in the
annals of the Organization, addresses vital elements that
require in-depth discussion by Member States.
As a country striving to strengthen peace and
security both within its borders and in the regional
context, as well as in the world as a whole, Mozambique
regards preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and post-
conflict peace-building as important elements that must be
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
strengthened in the new international context. In this
connection, we are participating with other countries of the
region in joint efforts aimed at reinforcing our preparedness
for emergencies. We therefore encourage and support the
Secretary-General in his endeavours to enable the United
Nations to deploy peacekeeping operations rapidly.
of
new Office
In the field of human rights, I welcome the proposed
consolidation of the Office of the High Commissioner for
Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights into a
single
the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights. I commend the Secretary-
General for this course of action, which is in line with the
sentiments expressed by Member States not only in the
General Assembly but also within the framework of the
Commission on Human Rights. The merging of the two
bodies will in fact eliminate the duplication of tasks and
expenditures and streamline the work of
the new,
consolidated body.
On behalf of my Government, I wish to take this
opportunity to congratulate Mrs. Mary Robinson on her
assumption of the post of High Commissioner for Human
Rights. We pledge to her our full support, both within the
context of the Commission on Human Rights, of which
Mozambique is a member, and also within the context of
promoting human rights
freedoms
worldwide.
and fundamental
With respect to financing our Organization, I fully
agree with the Secretary-General that the current financial
crisis facing us
“is directly linked to the failure of ... Member States
to discharge their ... obligations regarding prompt and
full payment of assessed ... contributions”. [A/51/950,
para. 82]
We would really hope that the very same countries that so
far have failed to fulfil their treaty obligations, will this
time not only pay their dues but also assist the Secretary-
General by contributing to the proposed Revolving Credit
Fund.
I equally commend the proposed establishment of a
development account resulting from reductions in non-
programme costs over the next few years. We regard the
establishment of
such an account as an important
contribution in addressing the economic and social needs of
developing countries on a more consistent and predictable
basis.
12
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
We also endorse the proposed establishment of the
post of Deputy Secretary-General within the framework
of strengthening the leadership capacity of the Secretariat.
The creation of a Strategic Planing Unit, in our
view, will further enhance the ability of the Secretary-
General to act in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 99 of the Charter. In the light of the new realities,
it is our firm belief that the information gathered by this
Unit will be brought to the attention not only of that body
but also of the General Assembly, in accordance with the
provisions of Articles 10 and 11 of the Charter.
As for the proposed establishment of the “UN
House” under a single United Nations flag, it is important
to ensure that the identity and the vast individual and
unique experience — as well as
the expertise —
accumulated by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA) are preserved. More significantly, the need for
decentralization and flexibility in decision-making at the
country level should be safeguarded and further enhanced
so as to ensure that everyone benefits from the proposed
consolidation. It is my Government’s hope that the new
arrangement will result
in a united, cooperative and
coherent framework at the country level. The experience
of coordination of all of the United Nations programmes
and funds in Mozambique is positive and encouraging.
We have taken due note of the proposal for the
establishment of a ministerial-level commission to
examine possible changes in the Charter with a view to
preparing our Organization for the challenges of the next
century. Given the complexity of the issues to be looked
at, the commission should be established on the basis of
geographic representation, after adequate consultations,
and should be provided with clear and precise terms of
reference in order to guarantee that its views are universal
and as consensual as possible.
It is our hope that the proposed reforms — those
being implemented within the purview of the Secretary-
General, as well as the ones under discussion in the
Working Group — will result in greater focus of the
United Nations in the economic and social spheres. Now
that we have gathered consensus on an Agenda for
Development, we need to ensure that appropriate steps are
taken by a reformed, more efficient United Nations to
realize our goals.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The trends towards the establishment of regional and
continental blocs require deep cooperation and integrated
economies. Only combined unity of purpose and action can
lend greater leverage and capacity to negotiate and make
economies competitive for
investment. This must be
complemented by political stability and an enabling
environment for domestic and foreign investment. We in
southern Africa are joining our efforts towards this goal
within the framework of the Southern African Development
Community (SADC).
These efforts will be further enhanced to a great extent
by the recently established Indian Ocean Rim-Association
for Regional Cooperation
new
organization assembles a variety of countries from Asia and
Africa, plus Australia. Its fundamental principles include
the facilitation and promotion of economic cooperation,
bringing together representatives of government, business
and academia.
(IOR-ARC). The
My Government follows with renewed interest the
efforts towards the mitigation of conflicts throughout the
world. We are conscious of the fact that economic and
social development are possible only when we live in peace
and political stability. Therefore, prevention, management
and conflict resolution constitute a fundamental issue in our
foreign policy.
In this regard, I wish to associate myself with previous
speakers in congratulating most sincerely the establishment
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo following decades
of uncertainty. We hope that the new authorities will play
a positive role in our collective efforts for regional peace
and stability, particularly in the Great Lakes region. The
challenges facing the new Government are indeed immense
and deserve assistance and support from the international
community.
in Liberia, which symbolizes
Likewise, we commend the successful outcome of the
electoral process
the
completion of the peace process in that country. We look
forward to the reinvigoration of a united, peaceful and
prosperous country which is ready to contribute to the
effort
towards the economic stabilization of the entire
region. It is our hope that the international community will
spare no efforts in assisting Liberia to overcome the tragedy
that has fallen on it for so many years.
Mr. Jele (South Africa), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
The Economic Community of West African States
Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) deserves our special
commendation for the role it has played in the resolution
of the Liberian crisis and for its current efforts in the
restoration of peace and respect for the rule of law in
Sierra Leone.
We equally note with satisfaction the recent progress
made for the settlement of the issue of Western Sahara,
and we encourage the parties concerned to continue down
this positive path.
The peace process in Angola continues to face
serious challenges as a result of the failure of UNITA to
comply fully with the agreed commitments under the
Lusaka Protocol. With the recent adoption of Security
Council resolution 1130 (1997), it is now for this body to
ensure that the provisions of all other relevant resolutions
are fully complied with in order to bring the peace
process back on track and to avoid the continued delays
we have been witnessing over the three years of the
implementation of the Lusaka Protocol.
On the other hand, my Government
remains
concerned about the situation in the Congo. We support
the initiative of the heads of State and Government of the
region under the leadership of His Excellency President
Bongo, and we call upon the parties to exercise maximum
restraint
to jeopardize any further those
efforts. All parties concerned must set aside their
differences and work together for the attainment of a
negotiated settlement
to prevent further suffering of
innocent civilians and destruction of property.
in order not
Recent events in the Comoros islands underline the
need for full respect of the independence and territorial
integrity of all States, under any circumstances. We
encourage permanent dialogue among all concerned
parties so as to find a negotiated settlement of the dispute
within the framework of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) peace initiatives.
On behalf of my Government, I would like to
express our solidarity to the people of East Timor. We do
hope that the ongoing negotiations between Portugal and
Indonesia under the auspices of the Secretary-General of
the United Nations, and other initiatives, will finally lead
to a successful outcome of this issue in accordance with
the principles and purposes of the Charter.
On the Middle East, my Government notes with
concern the deterioration of the security situation in that
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
area, which poses great danger to the efforts to achieve a
comprehensive,
just and lasting solution in the region.
Peace cannot be achieved at the expense of other peoples’
interests. The policy of establishing new settlements in the
occupied Arab and Palestinian territories
should be
discontinued. As we have said before, the existence of both
Israel and Palestine is an undeniable reality which nobody
should ignore if we are to reach a final settlement of this
long-standing conflict. Dialogue and compliance with
security Council and General Assembly resolutions are the
instruments through which a solution should be found in the
Middle East.
We are also following with interest the developments
concerning the conflict situations in the Persian Gulf region.
In the highest interests of its peoples, we urge all the
parties concerned to act together with a view to finding an
internationally acceptable solution to all outstanding issues,
in accordance with the purposes and principles of the
Charter.
At the dawn of the new millennium, we bear the
responsibility of preparing the United Nations to save not
only succeeding generations from the scourge of war but
also to provide an Organization that will effectively and
efficiently promote cooperation and development. We in
Mozambique are prepared to work towards this goal.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Chad, His Excellency
Mr. Mahamat Saleh Annadif.
Mr. Annadif (Chad) (interpretation from French): In
taking the floor for the first time before this Assembly, I
feel legitimately proud to be the voice with which the
people of Chad, its Government and its President, His
Excellency Mr. Idriss Déby, convey a message of peace,
hope and wishes for complete success in our work.
I would like to join the eminent speakers who have
preceded me
in reiterating my delegation’s warm
congratulations to the President on his illustrious election to
preside over this session. That choice is both a tribute to his
country, Ukraine — a country resolutely focused on the
quest for global peace — and the culmination of his long
career as a talented diplomat. He can be assured of the
complete support of my country, Chad, in the discharge of
his duties.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express
our gratitude to his predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail,
14
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
who has conducted the work of the fifty-first session with
tact, competence and devotion.
Lastly, I would like to greet our Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, a son of Africa who has succeeded
another great African, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The
election of Mr. Kofi Annan is the culmination of a
brilliant career devoted to the service of the international
community. It is an honour to his country, Ghana, and to
all Africa. I should like to assure him of the firm support
of the Republic of Chad in his efforts to bring about the
necessary and indispensable reforms of our Organization
so as to make it more capable of achieving the purposes
and principles of the Charter in our rapidly changing
world.
The ideals of peace, liberty and development, which
are pursued tirelessly by each and every nation
represented here, are of special significance for my
country and people. Indeed, drawing upon the lessons of
its sad experiences, since 1 December 1990 Chad has
made a firm commitment to the establishment of a state
of law and the tireless quest for peace and national unity
which are the essential foundations for its economic and
social development.
sessions
At previous
the delegation of Chad
regularly referred to positive developments in our country.
Today I have the honour and privilege of announcing that
with the presidential election of 1996 and the legislative
elections held at the beginning of this year, most of our
republican and democratic institutions are in place.
Projects are under way to hold local elections. All this is
taking place in a climate of peace and national harmony.
The ongoing quest for peace between Chadians,
the
necessary consolidation of the achievements of national
unity and the willingness to involve everyone in public
administration have compelled our President, Mr. Idriss
Déby, to practise what we call consensual, participatory
democracy. It follows that all political parties, including
those of the opposition, are represented in all State
structures. By the same token, a national mediator has
recently been appointed.
The fifty-second session of the General Assembly
coincides with the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. This is the proper place to
reaffirm our loyalty to that instrument, which, despite its
imperfections, is, in its own language,
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
“a common standard of achievement”. (Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, resolution 217 (III),
part A, operative paragraph)
In Chad we are getting down to work, and significant
progress has been registered. Thus, our independent press
is one of the freest in Africa; human rights organizations
are proliferating and carry out their activities unhindered;
and organized civil society is fully playing its role.
these
Despite
advances,
noteworthy
insidious
campaigns have been sporadically unleashed against my
country. For my Government the subject of human rights is
not taboo. Thus, I should like once again to reiterate the
invitation that Mr. Idriss Déby, President of the Republic,
extended during his last visit to France to all countries and
human rights organizations that are truly interested in the
fate of the people of Chad: to come to Chad and freely
look into the situation.
and
of
the
With the return to social peace and political stability,
my country is turning a new page in its history, one that
should enable it to face the challenges of the twenty-first
century. To do that, the Government of Chad has adopted
a number of principles that, backed up by concrete actions,
should make it possible to achieve vigorous and sustained
economic growth. The objectives are the following: the
continuation
of
democratizing political and social
the increased
participation of the citizens in political, economic and social
life and in making decisions that concern them;
the
establishment of sound rules of government; the promotion
of the private sector; the development of human resources;
and the restoration and safeguarding of environmental
equilibrium and of the ecosystem, with special attention
being paid to environmental problems related to human
activities.
consolidation
process
life;
This entire development strategy will be presented and
discussed at the round table on Chad to be held in Geneva
in the months ahead. That meeting is necessary to reactivate
and adapt the plan of orientation covering the period 1990-
2000.
I take this opportunity to invite all countries and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to
take part in that important conference on the future of
Chad.
I should now like to touch on a problem that is of
crucial importance for my Government: the environment.
Chad is a Sahelian country, afflicted, moreover, by drought
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
our
common
environment,
and desertification. It is deeply concerned with protecting
the
heritage, whose
exploitation for us is a necessary condition for success in
the struggle against poverty. This is the appropriate forum
in which to express our hope that the results achieved by
the Conference of States Parties to the Convention to
Combat Desertification will meet our expectations.
The prospect of the exploitation of Chad’s oil
resources has led to a systematic disinformation campaign
alleging environmental degradation in the
region
concerned. I should like solemnly to state here that all
necessary measures have been taken by the Government
not only to preserve environmental balance but also to
prevent any risk of accident that could jeopardize it.
Another
territory,
concern indirectly
subject of grave
is that of mines, an
connected with the environment
estimated 1 million of which infest a large portion of the
national
thus precluding any development
activities in that region. We would reiterate in this respect
the appeal for assistance in mine clearance that was made
from this rostrum by President Idriss Déby during the
commemorative meeting on the occasion of the fiftieth
anniversary of the United Nations. My Government, a
victim of the scourge of mines, welcomes the adoption on
18 September last of the Convention on the Prohibition of
the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction.
In Africa, despite the hopes born of
The international situation remains alarming, even if
peace ad security are not gravely threatened at the global
scale.
the
democratization of the political life of many countries,
hotbeds of tension still persist. In Angola, implementation
of the settlement plan advocated by the international
community is
that
jeopardize a final return to peace in this country. We call
again on all parties, particularly UNITA,
fully to
implement the Lusaka Protocol.
running aground on obstacles
Periodic clashes remind us that
the
hatchet has not definitely been buried, despite numerous
attempts at reconciling the fraternal Somali people.
in Somalia,
The Great Lakes region is progressively entering a
relative calm despite sporadic incidents
phase of
stemming from the chain of events that have caused
upheaval in this part of the continent. We welcome the
concerted efforts of the international community and of
the countries of the subregion to help restore a definitive
peace.
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
In Sierra Leone, the situation resulting from the coup
is far from responding to the wishes of the people. Chad,
for its part, strongly supports the consultations held within
the framework of the Economic Community of West
African States, and in particular the conclusions of its last
Summit, held in Abuja, Nigeria.
In Central Africa, closer to Chad, the exacerbation of
the conflict in the sister Republic of the Congo, despite the
appeal made at Libreville by eight Heads of State on 15
September last, is of great concern to us. My country is of
the view that only an immediate and unconditional cease-
fire can make it possible to re-establish dialogue between
the two parties. This in turn would make possible a greater
involvement of the international community, particularly for
the deployment of a multinational force under the auspices
of the United Nations and the Organization of African
Unity (OAU).
The scope of the tragedy of these upheavals on the
African continent can be gauged by the number of
homeless and of refugees who, left to their own devices,
are wandering from country to country, seeking a land to
receive them where they can live in peace. It is urgent for
the international community to take greater notice of these
tragedies, which concern us all, in order to find appropriate
solutions.
This sombre picture of the situation on the continent
does not eclipse the successes of international and, above
all, African mediation in crisis and conflict situations, such
as in the Central African Republic and in Liberia. In the
Central African Republic, the painstaking settlement of the
political and military crisis to the satisfaction of the
political class is, for Chad — a neighbouring, brotherly
country — cause for satisfaction. Likewise, we welcome
the return to peace in Liberia, which has made it possible
to designate a President of the Republic and a Parliament
by means of free and democratic elections.
In both cases, the contribution of Africa was decisive.
We are proud of this, just as we commend the Security
Council for its support of various African initiatives. This
compels me to urge the acceleration of the process leading
to the establishment of an inter-African peacekeeping force.
We also urge the strengthening of existing structures, such
as the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions
in Central Africa;
the Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa at Lomé, in Togo; and the OAU’s
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution.
16
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
With respect to Western Sahara, Chad welcomes the
fresh impetus given the process by both parties and hopes
that the settlement plan will shortly be implemented in
full.
in this
In the Middle East,
the Israeli-Palestinian peace
to the test, given recent
process seems to be put
developments
region. We urge all parties
concerned to respect the Washington agreements. This is
the only alternative if we are to achieve definitive peace
in this region. Neither violence nor extremism, nor,
certainly, intransigence will allow us to arrive at a just
and definitive solution to this crisis, which has gone on
far too long.
In Asia,
the situation in Afghanistan and in
Cambodia can be solved only by political means.
Therefore we urge the protagonists to gather around the
negotiating table and seek to resolve their differences.
Chad welcomes the progress, however slow, that has
been registered in recent years in disarmament. We
denounce, however, the shocking trade in conventional
weapons, which foment so many conflicts that ravage
various parts of the world, including my country. We
therefore support the efforts initiated in western Africa
related to the moratorium on the export,
import and
production of small arms.
My country reaffirms its unswerving faith in the
virtues of dialogue as a means of resolving conflicts
between States. I should like in this connection to refer to
the question of the embargo that has so harshly and for so
many years afflicted the neighbouring and brotherly
country of Libya. Chad is in a good position to gauge the
consequences that affect not only the people of Libya but
also the people of Chad, as that country’s neighbour. That
is why, as a country that is dually cut off and deprived of
its principal means of evacuation and supply, Chad firmly
supports the resolutions of the OAU, the Organization of
the Islamic Conference and the Non-Aligned Movement,
and calls for the lifting of this unjust embargo. We should
like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with
the people of
Iraq and Cuba, who have been
indiscriminately affected by similar measures.
My country has noted with satisfaction the end of
the bipolar world, which has made possible the advent of
a new type of constructive dialogue that will enable us
to meet
together
the twenty-first
century.
In resuming diplomatic relations with the
Republic of China, the Government and people of Chad
the challenges of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
have no intention other than to diversify their relations of
friendship and cooperation with all peace- and justice-
loving countries of the world on the basis of equality and
solidarity. In the name of the principle of universality so
dear to our Organization, we support the return of the
Republic of China to the concert of nations.
report of
While the conflicts and other tensions throughout the
world concern us, so too does the international economic
situation. The justifiable fear expressed by the developing
countries in the aftermath of the cold war has not been
mitigated. The recent
the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development reminds us of this.
Poverty in the developing countries and the impoverishment
of important social strata in the developed countries provide
fertile ground for intolerance, extremism and nationalism,
whose consequences we are all too familiar with. Despite
the numerous dense documents
adopted at major
conferences, the expected concrete action has run aground
on the selfish conduct of the richest. Such an attitude
imposes limits upon the globalization of the economy.
Africa, which has benefited from the sustained
attention of the international community during this decade,
is still, unfortunately, a continent ravaged by poverty,
malnutrition and epidemics of all kinds on a large scale.
It
is therefore urgent
To the perpetual problems of indebtedness and the
deterioration of the terms of trade are added the constant
marginalization of our continent from the international
economic circles.
for concrete
measures to be taken so that Africa can experience
sustained
genuine
development. The terms of the declaration of the Heads of
State and Government of the seven most industrialized
countries and Russia in Denver last May should be made a
reality in this respect so that Africa, whose well-known vast
natural resources can really become part of the world
economy.
growth, which
should
lead
to
The new Chad reiterates its unswerving support of
United Nations action in the sphere of peacekeeping and in
the area of development activities.
Over time, the reform of our institution has become an
imperative. Therefore, in the context of globalization and
interdependence, the United Nations must adapt itself and
become both the instrument and the expression of
multilateralism in which the interests of all are taken into
account and safeguarded. For our part, we consider that the
promotion of development must be at the core of our
renewed Organization.
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
The United Nations deserves more confidence than
ever before, provided that it derives from incontrovertible
legitimacy which the Security Council with its present
composition is far from embodying. It has now been
established that that irreplaceable body should be adapted,
but
its necessary restructuring should not have a
detrimental effect on any part of the world.
An acknowledgement of the legitimate claims of the
various groups that make up our Organization is therefore
indispensable. Chad, for its part, reaffirms the position
stated at
the last Summit of Heads of State or
Government of the Organization of African Unity to
assure the equitable representation of
the African
continent in that body, in which the destiny of peoples is
at stake. This is a requirement if the renewed Security
Council is to be credible and effective in the service of
humanity and if it is not to be a Council of double
standards.
The Acting President: I now call on the Deputy
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, His Excellency Mr. Choe Su Hon.
Mr. Choe Su Hon (Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea) (spoke in Korean; English text furnished by the
delegation): Allow me first of all, on behalf of the
delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
to congratulate Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, the Minister For
Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on his election to the
presidency of the General Assembly at its current session.
We believe that his rich experience and diplomatic skill
in dealing with international affairs will lead this session
to fruitful results.
I also express my gratitude to the former President,
Mr. Razali Ismail, Malaysian Ambassador to the United
Nations, for his great contributions to the successful
conclusion of
the General
Assembly. At the same time, I take this opportunity to
express appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, for his efforts devoted to the activities of the
United Nations.
the fifty-first session of
The fifty-second session of the General Assembly is
now being held just two years before we enter a new
century. The twenty-first century should be different from
the present century, characterized by a history of hot and
cold wars. It is the desire of humankind and the common
task of
the international community to make the
forthcoming century peaceful and prosperous.
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Though we are at the end of the twentieth century, we
facing complex and intricate challenges. A
are still
in
tendency towards domination continues to prevail
international
of
abolition
colonialism. Today the United Nations, which once
contributed to eradicating colonialism, has been placed in
danger of being converted into a tool that would allow
high-handedness and arbitrariness.
relations
even
after
the
Though the cold war has ended, the nuclear stockpiles
remain as enormous as ever before, and the thinking of the
cold-war era dominates international relations. Today such
challenges are clearest
in North-East Asia and, more
precisely, in the Korean peninsula. In the Korean peninsula,
national division, the legacy of the cold war era, continues,
the power and confrontation politics of the cold war era
persist and relations between the North and South of Korea
are ever worsening. The aggressive military alliances,
vestiges of
the cold war, are being rearranged, and
provocative joint military exercises are being conducted
against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea with
annually increased military expenditures amid the tense
situation in the Korean peninsula. In addition to the military
pressures, which have continued since the cold war era,
issues such as human rights, terrorism, economic sanctions,
food aid and so on are also being abused as tools for high-
handedness and interference in our internal affairs. All these
attempts are aimed at stifling our socialist system.
Like all other United Nations Member States, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a sovereign State
with the right to choose its own political system, and it
deserves respect for this. Our style of socialism is the one
our people have chosen by themselves, and it is not a
system doomed to collapse even though others may attempt
to bring this about. The single-hearted unity between the
leader,
the party and the masses is the source of the
invincibility of our system.
On 8 July this year, which marked the third year of
the demise of the great leader President Kim Il Sung, all
our people became mourners and observed the memorial
service. Simultaneously with the end of the mourning
period, we instituted a Juche calendar with the year 1912
as the base year, and designated 15 April as the Day of Sun
in memory of the birthday of the great leader President
Kim Il Sung. This affords a good illustration of the
unanimous will of our people who are determined to hand
down, forever,
the revolutionary life and the immortal
exploits of the fatherly leader who created the Juche idea
and built socialism centred on the popular masses. Today
18
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
is 2 October, Juche 86 in our country, according to our
Juche Calendar.
For our Korean people, the last three years have
been a period of severe trials during which our people
suffered the greatest loss of the nation, confronted the
persistent manoeuvres of the hostile forces to stifle our
socialist system and suffered from a series of natural
calamities.
Nevertheless, our people have been always optimistic
and able to continue their victorious advancement by
overcoming all sorts of challenges, because they hold in
high esteem another great leader, General Kim Jong Il, an
iron-willed and brilliant commander.
Currently, the nomination process is under way in
my country to elect the great leader Comrade Kim Jong
Il as the General Secretary of the Korean Workers’ Party,
and all our people are full of boundless joy and emotion
over their long-cherished desire being realized.
This
clearly demonstrates
firm will and
conviction of our people to carry through the Juche cause,
holding in high esteem forever the great leader Comrade
Kim Jong Il as the head of our Party and our revolution.
the
This is the reality of socialist Korea, where the
people enjoy the blessing of the leadership and the leader
enjoys the blessing of the people through the generations.
I take this opportunity to reiterate our deep thanks to
the Governments, organizations and individuals of various
countries, and to the governmental and non-governmental
international organizations, including the United Nations,
for their deep sympathy and condolences, as well as for
the humanitarian assistance extended to our people who
suffered the deepest sorrow and natural calamities.
Korea’s reunification question is,
in essence, a
question of regaining national sovereignty throughout the
country, which is being trampled by foreign forces and of
abolishing the legacy of the cold war era.
The Government of our Republic regards as its
Three Charters for National Reunification the three
principles of independence, peaceful reunification and
great national unity, the 10-Point Programme of the Great
Unity of the Whole Nation and the proposal for the
founding of the Democratic Confederal Republic of
Koryo.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The great
leader General Kim Jong Il,
in his
programmatic work published on 4 August of this year,
made clear our firm will and determination to clearly
reunify the country, holding aloft the Three Charters of
National Reunification set forth by the fatherly leader. The
three principles of national reunification constitute the great
common reunification programme for the Korean nation,
which was confirmed by the north and south through their
4 July Joint Statement and was supported by the twenty-
eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly as
well.
The 10-Point Programme of the Great Unity of the
Whole Nation for National Reunification is a political
programme aimed at attaining the unity of the whole nation
to strengthen the driving force of national reunification.
This programme indicates comprehensively the objective
and ideological basis, as well as the principles and methods,
for achieving the great national unity.
The proposed Democratic Confederal Republic of
Koryo is the blueprint which gives the full picture of a
reunified State and the ways for its realization as well.
More than half a century has passed since the north
and south of Korea have existed with different systems.
Under such circumstances, the establishment of a unified
national State through the confederation formula — based
on one nation and one State,
two systems and two
Governments — becomes the most reasonable way of
efficiently resolving the issues pertaining to national
reunification.
The emergence of a unified national State —
independent, peaceful and neutral — in the Korean
peninsula will make a great contribution to lasting peace
and stability in North-East Asia, where the great Powers are
contiguous to each other.
No matter how the situation and circumstances may
change in the future, our people will remain unshakeable in
their will, and the Government of our Republic will adhere
to its consistent reunification policy in reunifying the
country, on the basis of the Three Charters for National
Reunification.
requirement
Improved relations between the north and south of
Korea are an urgent
for achieving the
independent and peaceful reunification of the country. If the
south Korean authorities give up their anti-national and
anti-reunification confrontation policies and make a positive
change in practice, we will meet them at any time to have
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
open-minded negotiations on the destiny of the nation and
make joint efforts for the country’s reunification.
For a correct solution to the Korean question, the
countries concerned must also play positive roles with a
sincere attitude about helping Korea’s reunification. The
United States, a State party which is directly responsible
for the Korean question, should make a radical change in
its anachronistic policy towards Korea and refrain from
laying obstacles in the way of the independent and
peaceful reunification of Korea. Japan, which imposed
immeasurable misfortune and disaster upon the Korean
people in the past, must sincerely reflect upon its past,
discontinue its hostile policy towards our Republic and
stop provoking Korea’s division and hindering its
reunification.
It is the consistent stand of the Government of our
Republic to prevent war and to ensure a lasting peace in
the Korean peninsula. This becomes our primary task in
the efforts to reunify the country peacefully, without
recourse to the armed forces. In order to ensure peace in
the Korean peninsula,
imperative to oppose
aggression and war manoeuvres and to remove the danger
of war.
is
it
The prevailing situation in the Korean peninsula is
so tense that a war could break out at any moment, due
to the attempts of the United States, Japan and South
Korean authorities against our socialist Republic. In recent
years alone, the United States introduced over $3 billion
worth of war equipment into South Korea. At the same
time, it has been conducting joint military exercises more
frequently than ever before, and even directing the guns
of the United States forces in Japan and the Pacific fleet
towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Of late, Japan is also accelerating its political, legal
and diplomatic moves with a view to legalizing its
engagement of the self-defence force in a possible Korean
the “revision” of
war under
the
“Guidelines
States-Japan Military
Cooperation”.
the signboard of
for United
In addition, the South Korean authorities increased
their military budget up to $17 billion for this year and
again decided to increase next year’s military budget up
to $19 billion, while bolstering military “cooperation”
with foreign forces against their fellow countrymen.
Such moves, reflecting the policies of the cold-war
era, inevitably provoke self-defensive counter-measures
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
from our Republic,
situation in a vicious cycle of aggravation.
thus maintaining the present
tense
This situation of
the Korean peninsula urgently
requires the establishment of a new peace arrangement. In
order to ease tension and avert the danger of a war in the
Korean peninsula, the United States should, before anything
else, abandon its hostile policy against our Republic and
sign a peace agreement with the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea. The Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the United States are still in a state of temporary
ceasefire. The United States is in direct confrontation with
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, maintaining
tens of thousands of its troops in and around South Korea.
Removing the danger of war and ensuring peace in the
Korean peninsula presupposes the withdrawal of the United
States troops and the conclusion of a peace agreement
between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and
the United States. Hence, the resolution of the major issues
pertaining to the maintenance of peace and security in the
Korean peninsula falls under the responsibilities of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United
States. We recognize that these issues should be the top
priority on the agenda to be considered at the proposed
four-party talks if the talks are to be held to discuss the
issues of ensuring peace and security in the Korean
peninsula.
If the United States is sincerely interested in ensuring
peace in the Korean peninsula, it should, inter alia, show
its credibility by taking practical steps to discontinue
military threats and lift economic sanctions against the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
The countries concerned should refrain from any acts
that would be likely to impede the withdrawal of the United
States troops from South Korea and the conclusion of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea-United States peace
agreement.
The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea will continue, as in the past, to make every effort
to ensure peace in the Korean peninsula and to bring about
the peaceful reunification of the country, thus contributing
towards peace and security in North-East Asia and the rest
of the world.
In order to prepare itself for the demands of the next
century, the United Nations should make an early departure
from outdated structures that serve the interests of only a
and high-
few countries,
allowing them privileges
20
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
handedness. First of all, international society should be
democratized through the democratic reform of the United
Nations. The United Nations should be restructured so as
to reflect the will of developing countries, which make up
the majority of United Nations Members, and to enable
them to exercise their sovereignty on an equal footing.
The General Assembly, in which all United Nations
Member States are equally represented, has been
democratized, compared to the Security Council. Yet its
authority has been severely restricted. On the other hand,
the Security Council lacks democracy to a great extent,
although it enjoys powerful authority. The present
composition of the permanent membership of the Security
Council does not fully represent the developing countries,
which form the overwhelming majority of Member States.
Neither does the non-permanent membership reflect
geographical representation.
The end of the cold war has provided possibilities
for channelling more resources
into the field of
development cooperation, but the present structure of the
United Nations system does not correspond to this
situation.
At
this session of
the General Assembly the
delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
will exert constructive efforts to resolve such problems
and seek active cooperation with other Member States,
including the non-aligned countries.
Despite the end of the cold war, the arms build-up
continues unabated in different parts of the world. The
United Nations has long called for comprehensive and
complete disarmament, especially nuclear disarmament.
However, some nuclear and military Powers are still
boosting
qualitative
modernization of military strength under cover of calls for
selective disarmament. As a result,
in most cases
disarmament is now being replaced by the process of
replacing with more sophisticated weapons those that
have become obsolete
technical
developments.
result of
efforts
as
a
their
aimed
at
the
Today, after the conclusion of the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the nuclear Powers are resorting
to subcritical nuclear tests to further modernize their
nuclear arsenals.
International society, and the non-nuclear-weapon
States in particular, should give due attention to taking
measures to overcome this phenomenon. It is in this
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
context that we support the proposal to convene the fourth
special session of
the General Assembly devoted to
disarmament.
In recent years there have been ample discussions on
human rights at
the United Nations and in other
international forums. However, the desired results have not
yet been achieved. This is mainly attributable to the fact
that United Nations Member States are pursuing different
ends in their deliberations on human rights and have
conflicting views with regard to standards for human rights.
As long as human rights issues continue to be abused
as a political means to put pressure on and interfere in the
internal affairs of others, any deliberations on human rights
will only have adverse effects upon international relations,
as is the case today. Furthermore, the application of double
standards has not ceased with regard to other crucial issues
such as disarmament and terrorism.
to
In
order
eliminate
and
arbitrariness, and also to ensure fairness and justice in
resolving international issues, international society should
be democratized at the earliest possible date.
high-handedness
The twenty-first century should be a century devoted
to development and cooperation. Development is directly
linked to international peace and security.
for Social Development,
In recent years major conferences, such as World
Summit
the United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements and the World Food
Summit, were convened under the auspices of the United
Nations. These conferences made significant contributions
to elaborating action programmes and providing guidance
for international society with regard to cooperation in the
field of economic and social development.
The role of the United Nations should be further
strengthened to translate these documents into tangible
results. The United Nations has an important role in
persuading developed countries fully to implement their
commitments concerning official development assistance
and should pay due attention to resolving the issue of
external debt.
We are of the view that the ongoing reform process of
organizations dealing with
United Nations-affiliated
economic and social
issues and of the United Nations
Secretariat should be carried out in such a way as to enable
them to make the best use of
for
development and cooperation.
their potential
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
Developed countries are urged to be wise enough to
foresee that replacing the present unfair international
economic relations with new ones that are more fair, will,
in the long term, be beneficial to them, and they should
cooperate fully with other Member States in enhancing
the role of the United Nations in that direction.
We appreciate and support the joint efforts of the
countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America to expand
and
political
sovereignty and socio-economic development in a spirit
of collective self-reliance.
cooperation
strengthen
regional
for
We support Syria and other Arab countries in their
just struggle to seek a fair and comprehensive solution to
the Middle East problem based on the principle of land
for peace, and hold that Israel should withdraw from all
occupied Arab territories.
The Government of
the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea adheres to the main ideal of our
foreign policy of independence, peace and friendship in
conformity with the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter, and will continue to do so in the future.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea will make every sincere effort for the success of
deliberations on all agenda items that are before the
General Assembly at this session.
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire and former President
of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Amara
Essy.
Mr. Essy (Côte d’Ivoire)
(interpretation from
French): The illustrious election of the President of the
General Assembly of the United Nations at its fifty-
second session is not only a well-deserved tribute to his
country, Ukraine, in recognition of its important role on
the international scene, but an acknowledgement of his
own human and professional qualities and, above all, his
rich experience in international relations and in the United
Nations system. Furthermore, as his former colleague
when I was Permanent Representative of my own country
here for many years, I am personally delighted at this
well-deserved demonstration of
the confidence the
international community has in him. It is therefore a
pleasure for me, on behalf of the delegation of Côte
d’Ivoire, to address to him and to the other members of
the Bureau our sincere congratulations and to assure him
of our full support in the accomplishment of his mission.
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
I also extend my heartfelt thanks to his predecessor,
Ambassador Razali Ismail, for his remarkable efforts to
give decisive impetus to the process of the reform of our
Organization.
I
Finally,
should like to extend my warmest
congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan, a worthy son of Africa,
on his illustrious election as Secretary-General of the
United Nations, and I pay heartfelt tribute to him for the
great competence that he has unfailingly demonstrated at
the head of the United Nations. In less than a year he has
been able to instil our Organization with a new dynamism
through actions that bear witness to his firm will
to
strengthen the effectiveness and credibility of the United
Nations and to improve its operations in facing the many
complex demands of the world at the dawn of a new
millennium. We assure him of the support of the delegation
of Côte d’Ivoire in his noble and exhilarating task.
I also take this opportunity to extend my warm
congratulations to Mrs. Mary Robinson on her appointment
to the post of United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights. We consider her strong personality to be a
guarantee of success in the delicate and important mission
with which she has been entrusted. We assure her of our
complete support in the exercise of her new functions.
Today, regardless of what our assessment of the work
of the United Nations may be, it is necessary to recognize
that it remains a unique and irreplaceable tool for dialogue
among nations at the service of international peace and
security.
Clearly, it is unanimously held that the United Nations
is useful and that it must exist; with equal unanimity we
call for its revitalization. The question of the reform of the
United Nations is thus at the heart of this session, which
strikingly demonstrates how necessary and urgent it is. The
Secretary-General
rightly proclaimed this session the
session of reform.
Adapting the United Nations to make it better able to
enter the next millennium seems to be the great challenge
of the reform to which we all aspire.
But before expressing my delegation’s observations on
the Secretary-General’s proposals for reform, I should like
to share some of our major concerns, which I believe must
be taken into account if the continent to which my country
belongs is to experience real development commensurate
with its immense potential. I wish to speak about conflict
22
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
management in Africa and international cooperation for
the economic and social development of Africa.
One cannot fail to note that over 60 per cent of the
agenda of the Security Council is devoted to situations in
Africa, and that of the 48 least developed countries, 35
are in Africa.
In respect of conflicts in Africa, our continent has
taken charge of its own destiny. To this end, it established
legal instruments at the Organization of African Unity
(OAU) summit in Cairo in 1993, in the form of the
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution. If this venture is going to work Africa needs
above all the support of the international community in
the framework of a partnership with the United Nations,
in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter.
Thus in Liberia, at the end of a seven-year fratricidal
war which devastated that fraternal country and caused
enormous damage to neighbouring countries such as
Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire that had to deal with massive
flows of refugees and displaced persons, the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) was able
to broker a peace process which led to the election of
Mr. Charles G. Taylor as President of the Republic on 19
July 1997 in elections that the OAU and the United
Nations recognized as just and democratic.
In the context of
the meeting to support
the
reconstruction of Liberia which will take place tomorrow,
I would like to make an urgent appeal to donor countries
and international and non-governmental organizations to
be generous, because a reconstructed and prosperous
Liberia can only benefit our entire subregion.
While we are delighted at the positive development
of the situation in Liberia, a military coup d’état on 25
May 1997 put an end to the constitutional order in Sierra
Leone by overthrowing a democratically elected President,
Mr. Ahmad Tejan Kabbah. Côte d’Ivoire immediately
condemned the coup d’état, which belongs to a bygone
era.
The thirty-third meeting of heads of State and
Government of the OAU, held in Harare from 2 to 4 June
1997, by its decision 356 also condemned the coup d’état,
as did the Secretary-General of the United Nations and
the Presidents of the Security Council on 27 May, 11 July
and 6 August 1997, who all demanded the immediate and
unconditional restoration of constitutional order.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Unfortunately, the negotiations initiated by the group
of
the
five States mandated by ECOWAS with
representatives of the junta in power in Freetown have so
far not succeeded in achieving the objectives of
the
international community. Therefore, the heads of State,
during the last ECOWAS summit, in Abuja on 28 and 29
August 1997, were obliged to take a certain number of
measures which we hope will be endorsed by the Security
Council to allow the Committee of Five to resume, with the
complete support of the international community, new
negotiations for a return to constitutional order in Sierra
Leone, a country whose instability remains a serious threat
to the fledgling Liberian democracy and the entire
subregion.
In the view of the OAU, ECOWAS and the Security
Council, the Abidjan peace agreement of 30 November
1996, signed by President Kabbah and the leader of the
Revolutionary United Front (RUF), Mr. Foday Sankoh,
remains the best framework for finding a definitive solution
to the crisis in Sierra Leone. Once constitutional order is
restored, Côte d’Ivoire is prepared to organize, together
with the other guarantors of this agreement and the parties
concerned, a conference aimed at reactivating the many
organs of that agreement in order to find a lasting solution
to this crisis.
In Central Africa, we remain profoundly concerned by
the fratricidal battles now taking place in the Congo. In this
respect, we wish to express our sincere appreciation to
Mr. Omar Bongo, President of the Gabonese Republic, for
his patient and courageous mediation in the inter-Congolese
conflict. While urging him to continue his noble efforts, we
regret the deterioration of the situation and above all the
fact that no cease-fire has been accepted by the warring
parties, which has prevented the establishment of an
African interposition force.
In the Central African Republic, we welcome the role
of the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the Implementation
of the Bangui Agreements (MISAB), which has helped
stabilize the situation.
In respect of the crisis in the Comoros, we urgently
appeal to all parties to give priority to dialogue and to
respond favourably to the OAU initiative with a view to
holding a conference in Addis Ababa to find a solution. We
invite the international community to support the efforts of
the OAU and to give the Comoros all the economic and
financial assistance it needs to confront the difficulties it is
facing, which are the root cause of the crisis.
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
With regard to Angola, we take note of the recent
Security Council resolution 1130 (1997), which was
adopted unanimously. While we welcome the recent
measures taken by UNITA in response to the Council’s
appeal, we hope that it will persevere in that direction in
order to meet all its obligations pursuant to the Lusaka
Protocol.
Finally, in respect of the question of Western Sahara,
we applaud the progress made during the series of
meetings under the auspices of the Special Envoy of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations for Western
Sahara, Mr. James Baker III, with a view to holding a
referendum on self-determination.
Given the renewed upsurge of instability and conflict
in many parts of Africa, we fervently appeal to the United
Nations to organize a regional conference in collaboration
with the OAU and ECOWAS to deal with the illicit
circulation of small arms in the West African subregion,
in accordance with General Assembly resolution 51/45.
In the same context, we are delighted with the
results of
the Oslo conference on anti-personnel
landmines, and in view of the human disasters that this
type of weapon continues to cause in Africa and the
world over, we urge all States to adhere to the results and
respect the terms.
My delegation believes that the present state of our
continent requires a concerted policy of international
security and implementation of preventive strategies, and
Côte d’Ivoire intends to be actively involved. This is why,
in defining recently new missions for Côte d’Ivoire’s
armed forces, President Henri Konan Bédié specified that
they can henceforth participate in peacekeeping operations
and that they stand ready to carry out possible protection
and security missions which might be conferred upon
them by the international community.
More specifically,
it seems to us increasingly
necessary to have a standing African interposition force.
In western Africa, for example, ECOWAS, drawing from
the experience of
the ECOWAS Monitoring Group
(ECOMOG) in the settlement of the Liberian conflict,
could envisage the reorganization of this force in order to
make it a genuine subregional force. In this context,
consultations for the establishment of a peacekeeping
force are under way in the framework of the Agreement
on Non-Aggression and Assistance in Matters of Defense
(ANAD) which includes Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal, Burkina
Faso, Benin, Niger, Mali, Mauritania and Togo.
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The elements of the ANAD peacekeeping force would
logistical
be coordinated in predetermined tactical or
modules in a state of operational
readiness on their
respective territories and could be sent into action at short
notice. These stand-by elements could be regrouped at the
request of ECOWAS, the OAU or the United Nations.
However effective our rapid-reaction capacity may be,
we will have to seek, above all, to strengthen the effective
rule of democracy and the rule of law in each of our
countries in order to avoid crises turning into armed
conflict.
Above all, every country must seek to achieve political
stability and to promote social progress by establishing
reliable democratic institutions based on freedom and
justice and which guarantee the protection of the citizen and
individual rights. We must develop the elements of good
governance and promote the emergence of responsible
society.
For its part, Côte d’Ivoire under the leadership of
President Henri Konan Bédié, is endeavouring day by day
to strengthen democracy and the rule of law by resolute
action towards a peaceful democracy.
Recent measures
including the forthcoming opening of
in this connection have been
announced,
the
Government to the opposition, the granting of status to the
leaders of the opposition parties represented in Parliament;
the creation of a Senate whose President will be acting
Head of State in the event of a power vacuum; and the
creation of a National Commission for monitoring and
arbitration of elections. It will be presided over by a judge
and made up of personalities and representatives of the
leading political parties, along with international observers
from the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the United
Nations, the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS),
the European Union and the Canadian
Electoral Committee. All of those elements are contributing
to speeding the progress of democracy in Côte d’Ivoire.
Lastly, our people remain profoundly committed to the
culture of peace, and it is to that commitment that Côte
d’Ivoire owes its unquestioned political stability, based on
the constancy of social dialogue and on the desire for
shared progress that strengthens social unity. That is why
my delegation, along with a number of co-sponsors, intends
to submit to this session of the General Assembly, as it did
at the summer session of the Economic and Social Council
held last July at Geneva, a draft resolution proclaiming the
year 2000 as the international year for the culture of peace.
24
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
My second subject of concern relates to the effects
of globalization on African economies with respect to
access
the volume of official
development assistance and favourable treatment for
foreign debt.
to foreign markets,
to
access
to
With
regard
foreign markets,
globalization, carried out in the name of liberalization and
competitiveness, has led to the erosion and even the
eradication of preferences that allow the goods of our
countries to gain access to the markets of developed
countries. We must be given time to adapt, or be
compensated in some other way, if our countries are to
participate in international trade to their full potential. We
commend the recent United States initiative, “Growth and
opportunity in Africa”, which is aimed, inter alia, at
promoting the access of African goods to the American
market.
trend towards
With regard to the effect of globalization on the
volume of official development assistance, we note that
for all the enthusiasm for the development of the private
sector — development which we welcome, recognizing
that private investment is the driving force of economic
growth — a
in official
development assistance, despite its importance in the fight
against poverty in our countries. That trend concerns us,
because official development assistance is essential in
supporting our domestic efforts, above all
in sectors
related to the development of human resources. We
therefore urge the donor countries to redouble their efforts
to achieve the target of 0.7 per cent of their gross
domestic product.
a decline
Lastly, with regard to the question of foreign debt,
there is now broad agreement that without favourable
treatment for the stock of African debt, particularly in the
most heavily indebted countries, no economic recovery
programme can produce the desired long-term positive
effects. We must therefore insist that serious consideration
be given to measures in this regard. We welcome the
measures recently taken in favour of Uganda, Bolivia and
Burkina Faso within the framework of the debt-alleviation
Initiative of the International Monetary Fund, the World
Bank and the Paris Club. I am delighted to learn that my
own country, Côte d’Ivoire, along with Mozambique and
Guyana, will be the next to benefit from that Initiative. I
would also note that my country is involved in a
satisfactory dialogue with the London Club with a view
to a significant restructuring of our commercial debt.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
Turning to the question of United Nations reform,
which lies at the heart of this session, we must distinguish
between two aspects that dovetail to form a single coherent
and logical unit. We have on the one hand the reforms
being set in motion by Member States and on the other the
programme of reforms proposed by the Secretary-General
in his report (A/51/950) of 14 July 1997.
towards the United Nations fully, on time and without
conditions. Similarly, we express our complete support for
the principle of capacity to pay as a basis for the scale of
assessments. We believe it is necessary to deal with those
questions courageously and responsibly in order
to
provide our Organization with a viable, sound and solid
financial base.
With regard to the reforms being driven by Member
States, I would refer to the activities of various open-ended
Working Groups of
the General Assembly. Having
personally been privileged to conduct the consultations that
led to the establishment of three of those Groups during my
own term of office as President of the forty-ninth session,
I am pleased to note the relatively positive results of two of
them: the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group on An
Agenda for Development and the Open-ended High-Level
Working Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations
System. The States participating in those Groups have
shown a magnificent spirit of solidarity.
nations
The Agenda for Development, adopted last June by
the General Assembly, is an important stage in the dialogue
between
for
development. It establishes the consensus framework within
which developed and developing countries can work to
establish on a more solid basis a renewed and strengthened
partnership for development based on mutual advantage.
international
cooperation
on
the new configuration of
the recent Summit Meeting of
Turning to the important question of Security
Council reform, our position is that of the African Group
as defined at
the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) at Harare, which
stressed that
the Security
Council must reflect the realities of today’s world through
a geographically equitable representation of all the regions
of the world. In that connection, my delegation, while in
favour of
the admission of Germany and Japan as
permanent members of the Security Council, is of the
opinion that Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, as
well as Asia, should also be represented as permanent
members of the Security Council.
The new permanent members should have the same
prerogatives as the present permanent members,
in
particular as regards the right of the veto, which, if not
done away with entirely, should be restricted to the
conditions set forth in Chapter VII of the Charter.
and
The Open-ended High-Level Working Group on the
Strengthening of the United Nations System, which has had
to deal mainly with the revitalization of the General
Assembly
produced
recommendations that are part of the dynamics of the
reforms proposed by the Secretary-General, inter alia, to
rationalize the work of the General Assembly and its
subsidiary bodies. My delegation is pleased with those
positive results.
Secretariat,
has
the
With regard to the High-Level Open-ended Working
Group on the Financial Situation of the United Nations and
the Open-ended Working Group on the reform of the
Security Council, we cannot help but feel frustrated that
they are apparently bogged down and have not made the
expected progress.
We are all aware of the crucial importance of the
financial situation of the United Nations. The success of the
entire reform process depends on a solution to that
question. We should like to reaffirm here the need for all
Member States to fulfil their obligations under Article 19 of
the Charter, namely, to honour their financial obligations
I want
Turning to the reforms proposed by the Secretary-
General,
to express my delegation’s sincere
congratulations on the work accomplished. These reforms
are the broadest and most profound that we have ever
seen. My
them
enthusiastically.
delegation
therefore
supports
less developed Member States,
It is our expectation that this reform process will
the economic and social
lead to the promotion of
development of
the
strengthening of multilateralism and an increase in the
o
United Nations effectiveness and credibility.T
accomplish that, we must see to it
the reform
exercise is not confined to an obsessive desire purely and
simply to reduce costs.
that
In fact,
The measures aimed at increasing the Secretary-
General’s guidance and management capacity seem to us
amply justified.
the presence of a Deputy
Secretary-General, a Senior Management Group and a
Strategic Planning Unit will provide the Secretary-General
with an internal support mechanism that will considerably
strengthen his authority and his overall control system-
wide.
25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in its objective of effectiveness. Nonetheless,
The new configuration of the Secretariat organizational
chart is attractive in its concision and coherence, but above
all
the
comprehensive measures aimed at regrouping 12 entities
and administrative units into five services should not result
in either a decline in the programme level of operational
activities for development or in a decrease in the quality of
technical cooperation services due to a reduction of staff.
In the
same
the
context,
establishment of
a
the United
Development Group composed mainly of
Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
the United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA) should not affect the dynamic
nature of their activities in the field.
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
have the distinguished honour to lead in the work of this
session of the General Assembly, and on our own behalf,
allow us first and foremost
to extend the friendly
greetings of the President of the Republic of Burundi,
Mr. Pierre Buyoya, as well as those of the Government
and all the people of Burundi.
is delighted at
The delegation of Burundi
the
unanimous choice of the President of the fifty-second
session of the General Assembly. His lofty, moral and
intellectual qualities, his
long and rich diplomatic
experience and his in-depth knowledge of the current
concerns of the planet no doubt augur well for a ringing
success in his term of office. Our country offers him its
full support.
Lastly,
the proposals of the Secretary-General
to
refocus the work of the General Assembly on high-priority
questions and to reduce the duration of its sessions reflect
a concern for rationalization that we fully support.
We agree with the Secretary-General’s statement that
reform is a continuous process and not a one-time event. In
fact,
this reform is the result of an entire series of
reflections that began in the 1970s within and outside the
United Nations system to adapt it to the changes that have
taken place since 1945. I have in mind the report of the
Ford Foundation,
the work of the
Carlsson group and the work of many universities in the
United States and in Europe, whose research clarified many
aspects of our debates, especially during the work of the
working groups on the different aspects of reform.
the Bertrand report,
Nonetheless, any reform is above all part of a certain
logic aimed at achieving an objective. But its success in the
final analysis will depend on the quality of the individuals
who are going to implement
it, and above all on the
political will of the States that will be called upon to work
together to respect the spirit of compromise that made it
possible to arrive at the package.
For its part, Côte d’Ivoire is prepared to participate
actively with other delegations when the time comes in the
constructive
the Secretary-General’s
proposals for reform. Their consequences involve all of us.
consideration of
The Acting President: I now call on the Minister for
External Relations and Cooperation of Burundi, His
Excellency Mr. Luc Rukingama.
Mr. Rukingama (Burundi)
(interpretation from
French): On behalf of the delegation of Burundi, which we
26
At the same time, we would like to extend our
sincere congratulations to his predecessor, Ambassador
Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who so brilliantly conducted
the work of
the General
Assembly.
the fifty-first session of
We would also like to pay enthusiastic tribute to
Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
for his continuing tireless efforts to promote the ideals of
this world Organization.
system, millions of
Thanks to the institutions and bodies of the United
Nations
refugees and persons
displaced or scattered in the wake of internal conflicts,
national disasters and other emergency situations have
benefited from substantial humanitarian assistance,
particularly in Africa. The Great Lakes region has
received special attention in this regard.
Aside from peacekeeping and humanitarian relief
operations on the African continent, it is important to
underscore and welcome the United Nations System-wide
Special Initiative on Africa. I would like to take this
opportunity to launch an appeal to all our bilateral and
multilateral partners to mobilize the necessary resources
for the financing of this Initiative, whose fundamental
importance for the development of Africa is obvious.
For four years Burundi has been going through an
unprecedented crisis that has been marked by numerous
crimes and acts of genocide. Aside from the blind
extermination of hundreds of thousands of human lives,
armed groups have attacked the economic, health,
educational and administrative infrastructures of
the
country. In short, the political change that occurred on 25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
July 1996 took place just in time to save the country from
genocide and nightmare.
Contrary to what a certain sector of international
public opinion would have us believe, the vast majority of
the population of Burundi welcomed the new direction of
the country with great enthusiasm and relief. New hope was
born with this change of political regime.
The results in the area of security were immediate.
Aside from certain areas of insecurity related to sporadic
attacks by armed groups, peace and security have returned
to almost the entire national territory. But the population
remains vigilant because terrorist bands have not yet
disarmed. Essentially, they use the territory of Tanzania to
launch massacres against women, children, men and the
elderly.
and
regrouping
These repeated attacks are at
of
the source of
the
displacement
populations. The
Government has never decreed any regroupment policy.
While the camps of displaced persons have not attracted
particular attention, the so-called regroupment camps have
stirred controversy in certain circles of international opinion
that have been exploited and misinformed by terrorist
groups such as the National Council for the Defence of
Democracy (CNDD).
Today these centres of the dispossessed are gradually
being closed. Day by day, people who have been displaced
or regrouped are returning to their villages of origin when
security conditions permit. A recent report indicates that in
less than a month there will practically be no regrouped
persons in the country’s central provinces, which were the
most affected.
We must, however, recognize that problems persist. At
the humanitarian level the afflicted people live in deplorable
conditions. Overcrowding, lack of sanitation, malnutrition,
lack of health care and all sorts of epidemics are the daily
plight of the dispossessed.
My Government wishes to place on record its real
appreciation for all
the support of our bilateral and
multilateral partners to relieve the misery of these deprived
populations. We
international
community to increase humanitarian assistance to the
afflicted populations in order to meet their food, health and
clothing needs. In order to ensure the reintegration of the
victims,
for assistance for
reconstruction and economic recovery.
the Government appeals
again to the
appeal
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
In the context of its vast social reintegration effort,
the Government of Burundi invites all Burundi refugees,
wherever they may be,
to return voluntarily to their
country. It is prepared to welcome them with open arms
and in conditions of complete security and dignity. I
would like to take this opportunity to request
the
assistance of neighbouring countries,
in particular
Tanzania, as well as of international organizations such as
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, to facilitate the return of our exiled brothers. In
the past year more than 160,000 Burundi refugees have
voluntarily returned to their home provinces.
Since the political changes of 25 July 1996, the
principal objectives of the Government of the Republic of
Burundi have been to ward off the spectre of genocide, to
restore State authority, to organize a peace process based
on dialogue, to reintegrate afflicted people, to rebuild and
revitalize the economy and to democratize institutions.
At present
the great majority of
the Burundi
population is determined to work to restore peace. This is
why the widespread genocide that was foreseen, and
began, has been contained and stopped. I can today affirm
in all certainty that this danger has been averted. To the
dismay of certain prophets of doom and apocalypse, the
Burundi nation has not fallen apart either. The peace
process under way in Burundi is aimed precisely at laying
the foundation for a lasting peace.
Since the beginning of this year the Government has
initiated throughout the country a series of workshops in
preparation for a genuine national debate, with the goal of
leading the Burundi people to discuss frankly all the
country’s problems. The governmental
team is now
engaged in speeding up the peace process, and several
initiative have been taken in this regard. A round table
bringing together all the internal actors has just taken
place in the centre of the country. It is in this context as
well that the Burundi peace conference, originally planned
to take place in Geneva under the auspices of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) from 30 June to 2 July 1997 was held at
UNESCO headquarters from 26 to 28 September 1997.
Some 50 Burundi political actors, along with about 30
international observers, took part in those meetings.
That conference was designed to involve all the
Burundi people, at home and abroad, in political dialogue,
taking into account different political
and socio-
professional leanings. Even those who chose the route of
violence participated in that forum in great numbers. That
27
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
event thus marks an important step in the Burundi peace
process.
Despite the visible difficulties, the Government of
Burundi is determined to negotiate with the various actors
in Burundi — including the armed factions — without
exception. Thus, the phase of the peace negotiations that
could not be held in Arusha on 25 August 1997 as
originally planned — as a result of difficulties connected to
the mediation arrangements — are going to be resumed
very shortly. Consultations are under way on this matter,
and, true to its programme, the Government will participate.
In this context,
I would like to recall
that my
Government asked for a postponement of the 25 August
1997 meeting only so that it could better consult with its
partners, improve the mediation arrangements and find a
location more amenable to dialogue, outside of Tanzania.
After that postponement the President of the United
Republic of Tanzania called for a summit of the Heads of
State of the region in Dar es Salaam, which was held on 3
and 4 September 1997.
The Government of the Republic of Burundi, which
was not invited, expresses its regret that it had no role in
that summit. It considers that at these meetings devoted
entirely to the Burundi conflict its presence is indispensable
so that it can provide information and explanations that will
enlighten the Heads of State of the region, in the interest of
peace in Burundi.
The Burundi peace process must involve dialogue and
negotiation among the Burundi people. At the conclusion of
the talks, a negotiated transitional government will be put
in place to lead the country in the direction pointed by the
Burundi people themselves. The ultimate objective is to put
in place democratic institutions that all can trust.
The Government of the Republic of Burundi again
expresses its concern regarding the mediation arrangements
and the host country for the mediation. No process can lead
to peace in Burundi if it is not developed in cooperation
with the Burundi people and carried out with their complete
agreement. It
there be greater
consultations between the mediator and the Burundi people
— in particular with the Government that is charged with
leading the country and that has the weighty responsibility
of extracting it from crisis.
is thus imperative that
To increase the confidence of all the parties in the
mediation and to follow the universally recognized rules for
28
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
such undertakings, the Government of the Republic of
Burundi believes that the mediator must be supported by
other personalities and by experts in the techniques of
conflict resolution — people who have no personal stake
in the Burundi problem.
The Burundi peace process will remain stalled, if
Tanzania — the mediating country, the host country of
the mediation — having taken over the Burundi Embassy
in Dar es Salaam, continues to play the triple role of host
country for
the
genocide in Burundi, promoter of sanctions against
Burundi and overweening mediator.
the armed factions responsible for
The objection of the Government of the Republic of
Burundi to the holding of the talks in Tanzania is thus
easily understood. It is based essentially on the tension
that has been created by the refugee camps that Tanzania
has set up all along its border with Burundi. Many of
them are armed, and from them deadly raids are regularly
launched on Burundi territory. This tension has been
exacerbated by the hostile campaign waged by the
Tanzanian authorities in several African capitals precisely
on the eve of the opening of the talks, originally set to
take place in Arusha on 25 August 1997.
Further, the Government of the Republic of Burundi
does not understand why the fifth summit of the Heads of
the State of the region requested it to halt the process
now under way. Such a halt would unleash disorder and
public insecurity in the country. No Burundi citizen would
be able to understand how the judicial system could
punish minor infractions while at the same time it was
unable to try cases of political assassination and acts of
genocide. The halting of legal proceedings under way and
scheduled is thus unacceptable. The ideal is to assure
each defendant a just and fair trial in which the right to
a defence is guaranteed. The Government has already
made a commitment to do all it can to that end, and we
thank the United Nations for its assistance in this area.
In this regard, the establishment of an international
criminal tribunal for Burundi, which the Government of
Burundi has requested of the United Nations, is now
urgently needed, both to combat impunity and to give the
peace process now under way a chance. Under no pretext
whatsoever should any criminal, nor anyone responsible
for genocide, be shielded.
It is clear that the Burundi peace process is being
held back by numerous constraints.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
My Government’s efforts to restore peace and security
have been compromised by the completely unjust and
illegal blockade that has been maintained by neighbouring
countries since 31 July 1997. Paradoxically, the supporters
of these inhumane economic sanctions claim that they wish
to restore peace in Burundi. However, those who know my
country know that it is poor and landlocked and has been
beset by almost four years of war.
To support sanctions by word and by deed is
tantamount
to killing more children and more disaster
victims through hunger, disease, poverty and war. No
neighbouring country should adopt such a stance, especially
when we take account of the concern that my country has
always shown for its neighbours when they were confronted
with the same problems.
The measures to mitigate the economic sanctions
agreed in Arusha last 16 April have not been implemented
in their entirety. Difficulties remain, particularly in respect
of air transport and the supply of humanitarian fuel. How
then, under these circumstances, can we speak of mitigation
when the released goods cannot reach their beneficiaries?
From this rostrum, my delegation calls once again on
the neighbouring countries in the subregion responsible for
the blockade to please lift these inhumane and degrading
sanctions immediately. It strongly urges the international
community to do everything in its power to make these
countries understand the pressing need to lift these unjust
sanctions, which only impoverish the poorest and enrich the
richest — measures that ravage the most vulnerable sectors
of society.
I should like to remind the Assembly that my
Government has already met all the demands made by the
countries of the subregion, which served as a pretext for the
imposition of the sanctions. These include the restoration of
the National Assembly and of the political parties and the
commencement of negotiations with the rebel army.
Unfortunately, at the risk of hampering the process, each
summit gives rise to new conditions. That is why the quest
for peace in Burundi often resembles the movement of
Sisyphus’ stone.
My country, moreover, continues to be confronted
with repeated border attacks by armed terrorist groups that
are based in a neighbouring country, Tanzania. These
criminal bands recruit in camps housing Burundi refugees
along the common border,
in flagrant violation of the
Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees.
Some of the rebels are based 15 kilometres from the
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
Burundi-Tanzania border. From there, it takes but a step
to infiltrate Burundi. In that one little step, they can
massacre — as they did last April — several innocent
Burundi people.
In the face of this situation, my Government urges
the United Nations firmly to condemn these terrorist
organizations and to bring pressure to bear on those
countries receiving them to separate genuine refugees
from tribal terrorist groups.
In order to promote the necessary communication in
the context of a political dialogue, we ask Tanzania once
again to liberate the Embassy of Burundi
in Dar Es
Salaam in order to facilitate diplomatic relations current
negotiations and the settlement of
the question of
refugees.
The Great Lakes
region is
experiencing an
unprecedented crisis. One of the main reasons for this
upheaval is doubtless the problem of refugees. The spiral
of violence that is engulfing our subregion has prompted
a vast trans-border movement of peoples fleeing warfare
and insecurity in their country or origin. Some are
innocent people who fear for their physical security, but
some belong to criminal groups. Faithful to its policy of
the
dialogue and concertation,
Republic of Burundi will spare no effort
to initiate
contacts with its neighbours in order to explore together
appropriate ways and means to resolve this situation. The
goal of this endeavour is to work together to restore a
climate of security on our common borders, in keeping
with our tradition of good-neighbourliness.
the Government of
Africa is currently facing numerous challenges. A
intense demographic
low rate of economic growth;
pressures; a decline in agricultural production;
the
continuing decrease in bilateral and multilateral aid — the
result of new alliances; the burden of debt servicing; and
socio-political conflicts — these are the many pitfalls
along the path to Africa’s development. Our continent
will never achieve its development if it does not meet
these challenges, which is why my country resolutely
favours consolidating regional and subregional entities,
which would represent a crucial stage for progress in
Africa. In this connection, we welcome the System-wide
Special Initiative on Africa, launched officially on 15
March 1996. We firmly support and encourage this
ambitious programme, which was set up to support our
continent in its development efforts.
29
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Our continent, Africa, is doubtless one of the most
turbulent areas on the planet. The efforts to democratize
political institutions on which so many hopes were pinned
have, regrettably, experienced dramatic setbacks as a result
of factors linked with ethnicity, a lack of preparedness and
a lack of flexibility.
With respect
to the Great Lakes region, Burundi
welcomes the positive changes occurring in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, as they can contribute to improving
the political situation and promote trade throughout the
region. We can therefore only encourage this friendly and
brotherly country to move ahead. We also urge the
international community to support it.
Rwanda, our neighbour, is making a great effort at
stabilization and reconciliation. International solidarity vis-
à-vis this country should also be encouraged.
At the same time, it is deplorable to note that Congo
(Brazzaville), a brotherly country, has also been the site of
fratricidal confrontation. In that context, we welcome the
efforts made by the President of Gabon, His Excellency
Mr. Omar Bongo; by the Special Representative of the
Secretaries-General of
and the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), Mr. Mohamed
Sahnoun; and by other mediators, national and international,
in their efforts to find a negotiated settlement to the Congo
problem.
the United Nations
My Government encourages our Angolan brothers and
sisters to complete the implementation of the Lusaka peace
agreements.
a
protracted
Following
has
successfully organized democratic elections with the support
of the international community. We wish that country peace
and stability.
conflict, Liberia
In the Middle East, the deadlock of the peace process
between Israel and Palestine can be overcome only if hard-
liners on both sides show greater flexibility.
My Government has taken note of the report of the
Secretary-General on the reform of
the Organization.
Insofar as it seeks greater efficiency and strives for
mobilizing means not to maintain a hefty administration but
rather
international solidarity,
particularly in the area of development, my Government
supports that reform.
to achieve the goal of
30
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
My delegation shares with the Secretary-General his
concern for efficiency and economy: efficiency in an
administration that is streamlined, and efficiency in efforts
to combat poverty as well as in efforts at capacity-
building, particularly in the area of development.
With respect
to Security Council
the last OAU Summit, which met
reform, my
Government supports the provisions taken in the context
of
in Harare,
Zimbabwe. The terms of the common African position
have recently been communicated by the Chairman of the
OAU in this forum. Moreover, the developing countries
must be properly represented in the Council. Beyond the
question of representation, my delegation is convinced
that reform of the Security Council must above all
involve its methods of work and its adaptation to the
requirements of today’s realities.
In keeping with our position as stated during this
session of the General Assembly, my Government firmly
supports the establishment of an international criminal
court
that would be entrusted with prosecuting and
punishing persons
responsible for genocide, crimes
against humanity and war crimes.
Despite the many difficulties that my country,
Burundi, has faced since the national tragedy of October
1993, it has always sought to be present at the annual
sessions of the General Assembly of our Organization.
This assiduous presence attests
to our unfaltering
attachment to the lofty ideals promoted and defended by
the United Nations. Despite the political and economic
crisis exacerbated by the blockade abusively imposed
upon my people, the Government of the Republic of
Burundi has been able to remit an amount of $116,000
dollars since April 1997 as its contribution to the regular
budget of
the United Nations. Despite the difficult
economic climate, Burundi will do its utmost to continue,
to the extent that it is able, to honour its commitments
and to support our Organization.
Before concluding, I should like once again to recall
is resolved to emerge from this crisis
that Burundi
affecting our country, and will do so through dialogue.
The sooner the next session is programmed, the better.
We hope that the obstacles that prevented the meeting of
25 August 1997 will be overcome.
My country supports the principle of expanding the
Security Council, but the methodology which will be
adopted to that end is of decisive importance. We hope
that all this reform will imbue the United Nations system
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
shortcomings of
with the youthful vitality and energy necessary to redress
the
the
achievements of the present and to lay solid and promising
foundations for the beginning of the next millennium.
to consolidate
the past,
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
As several representatives have requested to exercise
their right of reply, may I remind members that statements
in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
for the first intervention and to five minutes for the second
intervention and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
I now call on the representative of the United States
of America.
Mr. Burleigh (United States of America): The United
States objects to the remarks of the Foreign Minister of
Iraq. For Iraq to rejoin the family of responsible nations,
the path is clear. Iraq must comply with all relevant
Security Council resolutions. Iraq must abandon efforts to
develop weapons of mass destruction. Iraq must cease
efforts to conceal evidence of its programme for weapons
of mass destruction from the United Nations Special
Commission. Iraq must cooperate fully with the Special
Commission in accordance with all relevant resolutions.
Until today, Iraq has failed to do this. Iraq must return the
properties and archives it stole from the Government and
people of Kuwait. Until today Iraq has failed to do this.
Iraq must cooperate with the International Committee of the
Red Cross and with Red Crescent Societies and must fully
account for the more than 600 Kuwaiti, Saudi and other
prisoners of war and missing in action. Until today, Iraq
has failed to do this. In order to purchase the humanitarian
supplies provided for under Security Council resolution
1111 (1997), Iraq should have begun selling oil on 8 June
1997. Iraq failed to do this. So the Security Council was
obliged to act on behalf of the Iraqi people.
We remind the Foreign Minister that the United States
and its coalition partners will continue to enforce no-fly
zones in northern and southern Iraq in support of United
Nations Security Council resolutions 678 (1990), 687
(1991) and 688 (1991). The United States repeats its call on
the Government of
full
compliance with all relevant Security Council resolutions.
Iraq to follow the path of
The Acting President:
I
now call
on
the
representative of Kuwait.
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
Mr. Abulhasan (Kuwait)
(interpretation from
Arabic): At
the outset, I express my regret at being
obliged once again to take the floor in right of reply,
especially after Kuwait,
in its statement before the
General Assembly last Monday, enumerated in full —
enumerated in full — the legal obligations of Iraq which
are stipulated in Security Council resolution 687 (1991),
as well as other relevant resolutions.
Despite the fact that the Foreign Minister of Iraq did
not mention Kuwait by name in his statement, his
allegation that Iraq has implemented all its obligations in
accordance with the Security Council resolutions prompts
us now to set the record straight before the Member
countries here and to reveal that these allegations are
false. The responsible Iraqi officials base their practices
with their people and with the other countries on a saying
which is very well known to all: “Continue lying until
you believe your lies”. My reply would be that “You can
fool some people once, but you definitely cannot fool all
of the people all of the time”.
The representatives of the Iraqi regime attempt to
obliterate from the record of their responsibilities all the
obligations related to Kuwait which are stipulated in the
Security Council resolutions that were accepted by Iraq
with no conditions or restrictions. The Security Council
and the international community attach great importance
to these obligations, which have not yet been
implemented — first and foremost, the question of the
Kuwaiti detainees and prisoners of war, as well as
citizens of third countries; the return of the Kuwaiti stolen
properties; cooperation with the Special Commission; and
also the demonstration of peaceful intentions by the Iraqi
regime vis-à-vis Kuwait, as well as neighbouring
countries.
Iraq implement
All the members of the Security Council, without
any distinction, demand that
these
obligations in every statement made when the Council
periodically reviews the subject of sanctions against Iraq.
Last November Council members instructed the President
to express, in a presidential statement, the Council’s grave
concern at the lack of any progress on the question of
prisoners of war and properties.
this
presidential statement is the best evidence of the falsity of
Iraq’s allegations
its
obligations.
implemented all
it has
I
think that
that
The representatives of the Iraqi regime strive hard to
limit the remaining responsibilities to only one particular
subject — the elimination of all weapons of mass
31
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
destruction. Elimination of weapons of mass destruction
undoubtedly is very important. However, and definitely, is
not the one and only remaining obligation by Iraq. Despite
this, even when we deal with this subject in particular, the
record of Iraq is very far removed from any full compliance
vis-à-vis the demands that were made. The many reports by
the Special Commission on the destruction of
these
weapons are perhaps the best indicator in that regard. The
representatives of the Iraqi regime attempt and strive hard
to project their problem as if it is a problem between them
and a member or a couple of member States of the Security
Council. However, it is no secret that, as a matter of fact,
the problem of the Iraqi regime is with all the members of
the Security Council. Consequently, its problem is with the
international community, through the United Nations.
There is only one very short road leading to the
alleviation of the suffering of our brothers, the Iraqi people.
However,
it consists in the
implementation of all
the relevant Security Council
resolutions, without selectivity or conditions.
is a one-way street:
it
Mr. Simonovic (Croatia): On behalf of my own
delegation and the delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Slovenia, I would like to make certain
clarifications with regard to the comments made earlier
today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic
of Belarus, His Excellency Mr. Ivan Antonovich,
concerning the status of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
in the United Nations.
According to resolution 47/1, adopted by the General
Assembly, the General Assembly
that
“Considers
the Federal Republic
of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) cannot continue
automatically the membership of the former Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the United Nations;
and therefore decides that the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) should apply for
membership in the United Nations and that it shall not
participate in the work of the General Assembly.”
On the basis of that General Assembly resolution, as
well as other resolutions of the General Assembly and the
Security Council, it is evident that the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia should, as a new State, apply for membership
of the United Nations in accordance with the established
procedures regarding the admission of new Members to the
United Nations.
32
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
the independence,
Mr. Çelem (Turkey): We
listened with
disappointment to the remarks of the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Iraq with reference to Turkey. To set the record
straight, I state once again Turkey’s commitment to the
preservation of
sovereignty and
territorial integrity of Iraq. The current situation in the
north of Iraq, however, is well known to the international
community. We have to reckon that
the continuing
inability of Iraq to exercise its sovereignty over the
totality of its territory is the result of the dangerous and
aggressive policies that Iraq chose to follow in the past
against its neighbours.
it
Iraq cannot blame any country but itself for the
difficulties that
is encountering at present. Other
countries of the region, including mine, are also suffering
from the consequences of Iraq’s past aggressive policies.
The existing de facto vacuum created in northern Iraq has
made it possible for armed terrorist elements to establish
a presence in the area and launch armed attacks into
Turkish territory. These terrorist elements pose a major
and unacceptable security threat to my country and to the
lives and property of our people in the bordering areas.
This is certainly not a flimsy pretext, as purported by
Mr. Al-Sahaf.
The Iraqi Foreign Minister contended in his
statement that Turkey, through measures of self-defence,
has been interfering in the internal affairs of Iraq. I wish
to leave it to the discretion of Member States to judge the
seriousness of this contention, given the fact that Iraq has
never complained about the presence of armed terrorist
groups operating from Iraqi soil against Iraq’s neighbours.
Under the prevailing circumstances, and until Iraq is
again in a position to re-establish its control in the north
of
the relevant
resolutions of the Security Council, thereby satisfying the
international community, the Turkish Government will not
hesitate to take all appropriate and necessary measures to
remove this threat, directed from northern Iraq at the lives
and property of its people.
its country by complying with all
Mr. Gomersall (United Kingdom): The version of
events which we heard this afternoon from the Foreign
Minister of Iraq is another reminder of his Government’s
inability to accept any blame for all
the misfortunes
which have befallen the Iraqi people, and the facility with
which Iraq finds ways to lay blame at the doors of others.
It is impossible to have any confidence in Iraq’s
professed keenness to establish good relations with its
neighbours when the word “Kuwait” does not appear
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
anywhere in the Foreign Minister’s statement. The Foreign
Minister seems to forget that sanctions were first imposed
following Iraq’s unprovoked aggression against a fellow
Member State of the United Nations. Even now there are
responsibilities to Kuwait under Security Council resolution
687 (1991) which remain unfulfilled — the accounting for
missing Kuwaiti citizens and the return of property, among
other items.
In claiming that
The Foreign Minister also seems to have forgotten to
mention that sanctions remain in place only because of the
Iraqi Government’s failure to comply with relevant Security
Council resolutions, in particular, its failure to meet the
obligation to provide full and definitive accounting for
Iraq’s programme of nuclear, chemical and biological
weapons.
the
requirements of Security Council resolution 687 (1991), the
Foreign Minister chooses to ignore the very clear reports of
the Chairman of the United Nations Special Commission
(UNSCOM). The
continuing pattern of UNSCOM
inspections, with three more incidents in the last few days,
has intensified already strong suspicions that
the Iraqi
Government is concealing elements of its weapons of mass
destruction programmes, in violation of the obligation to the
United Nations.
Iraq has fulfilled all
The Iraqi Foreign Minister also spoke of the suffering
of the Iraqi people, implying that this was the fault of
anyone except his own Government. He failed to mention
that it was his Government’s prevarication that led to delays
of over a year in implementing the oil-for-food scheme in
Security Council resolution 986 (1995). His Government’s
decision to delay by more than two months the export of oil
under Security Council resolution 1111 (1997) would have
deprived the Iraqi people of the benefits due to them under
this resolution had not the Security Council adopted an
additional decision in Security Council resolution 1129
(1997), co-sponsored by the United Kingdom, to protect the
Iraqi people once again from the folly and indifference of
its Government.
The responsibility for Iraq’s problems rests with the
Iraqi Government. It knows what needs to be done to
remove sanctions, and yet it consistently refuses to do it.
Therefore, my Government’s view is that the sanctions
must remain until Iraq’s obligations are fulfilled.
Mr. Samadi (Islamic Republic of Iran): The Foreign
Minister of Iraq today made a number of unwarranted
claims and baseless allegations against my country. The
essence and the lack of seriousness of the old contentions
are known to the Assembly, and I will not take up its time
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
at this late hour to respond to them. However, I wish to
set the record straight with regard to the latest incident to
which he referred.
In the early hours of 29 September 1997,
two
heavily armed groups belonging to a terrorist organization
based in Iraq crossed international borders and infiltrated
the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran from Iraq.
One group began its offensive operation from the Jelola
base in Iraqi territory, moved forward through the Iraqi
city of Khaneqein, crossed the international border and
took up a position near the Iranian city of Ghasr-e-Shirin.
At the same time the second terrorist group began its
offensive operation from the Kut base in Iraqi territory,
moved forward through the Iraqi city of Hisan, crossed
the international border and took up a position near the
Iranian city of Mehran.
In an immediate response to these attacks by heavily
armed terrorist groups against Iranian territory, and in
exercise of the inherent right of self-defence recognized
in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, the air force
of the Islamic Republic of Iran took a limited and
proportionate measure against the invading terrorists and
the two bases in Iraq from which they had planned,
mobilized and initiated their armed cross-border attack
against the Islamic Republic of Iran.
the Islamic Republic of
This limited defensive measure by the Iranian air
force began at 7 a.m. on 29 September 1997 and
concluded shortly thereafter. The Islamic Republic of Iran
emphasizes that this defensive operation was aimed solely
at the terrorists and their bases and was not intended to be
against the Republic of Iraq. The cross-border attacks
from Iraq against
Iran by
organized subversive teams, such as the above-mentioned
terrorist operations, are not incidental or infrequent, and
have recently increased significantly. Based on the public
admission of the terrorist organization on 31 August 1997,
they had carried out 294 such cross-border attacks against
the Islamic Republic of Iran in the preceding seven
months. They have taken a human and material toll on
Iranian border towns. It is regrettable that these attacks
have been organized in collaboration with the military and
intelligence establishment of Iraq in terms of planning,
logistics, financing and even the escorting of terrorist
infiltrators to the Iranian border.
While reiterating its commitment to the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of Iraq, the Islamic Republic of
Iran underlines that such behaviour on the part of the
Government of Iraq, helping in or allowing its territory to
33
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
be used for launching subversive activities against Iranian
territory,
international
is
responsibility.
unacceptable
and
entails
Mr. Mwakawago (United Republic of Tanzania): In
the light of the speech of the head of the delegation of
Burundi this evening and, particularly, references made to
my country in that speech, I would like to use the right of
reply to clarify the situation and set the record straight.
However, my delegation wishes to exercise this right
of reply at a later date.
Mr. Al-Hitti (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): At
the outset, I would like briefly but collectively to respond
to all
the remarks that were made and the criticisms
levelled at us by a number of representatives of countries
here. Allow me to begin with the question of weapons. All
the world knows that more than 400 inspection teams have
visited Iraq in the last seven years and that the inspection
is very strict, now and in the future. This system allows
nothing to go through it undetected. If the allegations made
by the United States of America and the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland were correct and
valid, I would like to ask them what this army of inspectors
was doing. What was this army of international inspectors
that came and inspected all Iraqi territories, north-east,
west, central and south, doing then? They were even taking
samples of air, water and soil at random and at different
times. Is it reasonable that they can keep whole peoples, 22
million of them, as hostages until one country is convinced,
that same country that is now explicitly and arrogantly
stating through all its officials that even if Iraq implements
all the Security Council resolutions, the United States will
still use the power of veto to prevent the blockade from
being lifted. Thus, it is totally indifferent to the death of
hundreds of thousands of elderly people, women and
children — all those who have died as a direct result of the
blockade.
that
Does the international community need any more
evidence of what Iraq has consistently said,
the
Security Council resolutions are simply not the issue? The
resolutions are merely a cruel trick used by some countries
that do not like the nationalist regime in Iraq to keep Iraq
constantly weak and under a blockade. We would like to
ask a question. What issue requires the death of more than
1 million children, elderly people and women and destroys
the presence and the future of a whole people? All this
comes at a time when the question of human rights has
become one of
the
community of humankind at this time.
the very important objectives of
34
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
There are no illusions here. Even if we assume that
there are technical loopholes related to this document or
others concerning the disarmament of Iraq, do we have to
implement machiavellian law which says that the end
justifies the means, however brutal and inhuman the
means might be? In line with this, is it permissible to
have more than 1 million innocent Iraqi people die for
this purpose and to have 4 million people fall sick
through malnutrition and lack of medicine, not to mention
the other millions of people who lack electricity, a basic
education or other basic humanitarian necessities? Is this
not a gross violation of human rights? Is this not a
collective genocide as measured by any international
standard? Is it not true that the blockade thus imposed is
a weapon of mass destruction? This is a silent and lethal
weapon, more lethal than the American nuclear bombs
that fell on Hiroshima and Nagasaki because it has
claimed more victims than those bombs.
Here, we would also like to ask how the officials of
some of these countries, when they lecture us and preach
to us in this hall about human rights, can at the same time
be at peace with themselves, having taken part in killing
these vast numbers of innocent people. Or are they
burying their heads in the sand like an ostrich, so as not
to hear the moans and the sound of suffering of the Iraqi
people?
Allow me, in conclusion,
to call once again on
whoever holds a grudge against Iraq or its people to
purge themselves of that evil, to let the logic of justice,
peace and wisdom prevail, and to abandon the ideology
of vengeance so that all our peoples can enjoy peace,
prosperity and security.
Before concluding my statement, I would like to
remark on two important subjects that were raised by the
representatives of Member States.
As far as the Kuwaiti detainees and prisoners of war
are concerned, to use the description of the representative
of Kuwait, I would like to confirm that there are no
prisoners of war or people missing in action in Iraq. We
have said this several times before. As we all know, in all
wars and conflicts there are always people missing, as in
Viet Nam, for example. The representatives of Kuwait use
this case as a pretext to prolong the unusual economic
blockade against Iraq. I would like to confirm once again
that my country is ready to cooperate in a spirit of
goodwill with the International Committee of the Red
Cross and the Red Crescent and with the Tripartite
Commission to solve this humanitarian problem.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
If Iraq had prisoners of war or persons missing in
action from Kuwait as Kuwait claims, we would have
released them after the end of the conflict, if for no other
purpose than to deny this pretext to the Government of
Kuwait.
With reference to Security Council resolution 986
(1995), it could not satisfy the basic requirements of the
Iraqi people. Even if it were to be fully implemented, it
would amount to some 26 cents per day per person. That
resolution is not being implemented fully or in good faith,
because the United States representative has continued to
refuse to act upon or
to suspend implementation of
contracts to purchase food and medicine. That fact can be
readily proved by anyone wishing to review the matter by
studying the records of the Committee established pursuant
to Security Council resolution 661 (1990) to monitor the
sanctions against Iraq. The small amelioration which the
Iraqis have experienced in their
lives as a result of
implementing Security Council resolution 986 (1995) has
consisted only of a small increase in their monthly rations
of rice and flour. I am sure that you will agree with me that
that does not solve the problem of the shortage of medicine
and foodstuffs in Iraq.
Turning to Iran and Turkey,
the pretexts are not
acceptable in accordance with the standards of international
law, especially those governing the inviolability of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of States Members of
the United Nations. The representatives of both Iran and
Turkey have claimed that their military forces have attacked
the bases of Iranian and Turkish opposition in Iraq. Imagine
how the world would be were every Member State to
follow such perverted logic. The world would thus become
subject to the law of the jungle. I would ask Iran and
Turkey the following question: in accordance with the logic
which they have just used, would they be willing to allow
Iraqi military aircraft to raid the opponents of the Iraqi
Government who are sheltered by the Governments of Iran
and Turkey on their respective territories?
I apologize for speaking at such length, but I have a
number of replies to make, and I would ask for one more
minute. The statement of Turkey in particular is fallacious.
Iraq cannot exercise its sovereignty over the whole of its
territory, not because it lacks the capability but because of
the no-fly zones that have been imposed on us in northern
and southern Iraq. The correct course for Turkey would be
for it to refrain from becoming the pawn of a super-Power
or a base for foreign troops which engage in acts of
aggression against Iraq and its people until the central
Government of Iraq can re-establish its authority in the
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
north to ensure the return of security and stability at the
borders between Iraq and Turkey.
Mr. Çelem (Turkey): It
is not my delegation’s
intention to engage here in a pointless argument with Iraq.
The primary responsibility of each and every State is to
protect and defend the lives, property and well-being of
its citizens. This is all the more important when the threat
comes from another country with or without the explicit
consent of its Government.
We do not have to remind the Assembly that Iraq is
the sole party responsible for the undesirable situation in
which it finds itself today. Turkey is not ready to pay for
the sins of others, in this case for those of Iraq. The
prerequisites for enabling Iraq to exercise its authority
over every inch of its territory are clearly stipulated in the
relevant resolutions of the Security Council. Turkey,
together with other Members of the Organization, has
been encouraging Iraq all along to comply with the
expectations of the world community to ensure a return to
normalcy in the region and in our bilateral relations.
To conclude, I would like to underline once again,
in the hope that it will be understood by our Iraqi friends,
the determination of the Turkish Government to defend
the sanctity of its borders as well as the safety of its
citizens. My Government will not
to take all
appropriate measures with a view to safeguarding its
legitimate security interests and protecting its people
against terrorism.
fail
(Kuwait)
Mr. Al-Otaibi
(interpretation from
Arabic): I am sorry to have to ask to speak once again in
exercise of the right of reply, but I must answer to what
Iraq has said.
First, I would like to reconfirm the commitment
expressed by our first response, given by our Permanent
Representative. The representative of Iraq has alleged that
35
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
22nd plenary meeting
2 October 1997
Kuwait is exploiting the question of prisoners of war and
detainees as a pretext for the sanctions against Iraq to
continue. Our position is that the prolongation of sanctions
or
is within our
competence. It is a responsibility which is solely within the
competence of the Security Council.
lifting is not something that
their
As for Iraq’s saying that it is prepared to cooperate
with the International Committees of the Red Cross and
Red Crescent, we have been hearing that year-in and year-
out without anything actually happening on the ground. I
have therefore limited my reply to the question of prisoners.
(Iraq)
that
Mr. Al-Hitti
(interpretation from Arabic):
Excuse me for having to ask to speak a second time, but it
will not be for too long. I would merely like to mention the
most recent comments of the representative of Turkey to
the effect
the no-fly zones in both northern and
southern Iraq are something imposed in accordance with
Security Council resolutions. That is not the case. The
imposition of no-fly zones in Iraq is a unilateral act on the
part of
to
international law and the Charter of the United Nations.
There is no Security Council resolution imposing no-fly
zones against Iraq.
the United States alone and is counter
The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m.
36
