United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
52nd plenary meeting
Monday, 24 November 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.52
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
The President: The General Committee further
decided to recommend to the General Assembly that the
additional item be allocated to the Fifth Committee.
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work:
reports of the General Committee
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
allocate this item to the Fifth Committee?
Second
report
(A/52/250/Add.1)
of
the General Committee
It was so decided.
I
The President: This morning,
first draw the
attention of representatives to the second report of the
General Committee, which is contained in document
A/52/250/Add.1, concerning a request by Guyana and
Jamaica for the inclusion in the agenda of an additional
item entitled “Admission of
the International Seabed
Authority to membership in the United Nations Joint Staff
Pension Fund”.
In paragraph 2 of the report, the General Committee
decided to recommend to the General Assembly that the
item entitled “Admission of
the International Seabed
Authority to membership in the United Nations Joint Staff
Pension Fund” be included in the agenda of the current
session.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to
include this additional item in the agenda of the current
session?
It was so decided.
The President: The Chairman of
the Fifth
Committee will be informed of the decision just taken.
Agenda item 16 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and
other elections
(c) Election of nineteen members of
the United
Nations Commission on International Trade Law
The President: The General Assembly will now
turn to the election of 19 members of the United Nations
Commission on International Trade Law to replace those
members whose term of office expires on 31 May 1998.
The 19 outgoing members are Argentina, Austria,
Chile, Ecuador, Hungary, India, the Islamic Republic of
Iran, Italy, Kenya, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Spain,
the Sudan, Thailand, Uganda, the United Republic of
Tanzania, the United States of America and Uruguay.
Those members are eligible for immediate re-election.
97-86569 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
I should like to remind members that, as of l June
1998, the following States will continue to be represented
on the Commission: Algeria, Australia, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Cameroon, China, Egypt, Finland, France,
Germany, Japan, Mexico, Nigeria, the Russian Federation,
Singapore and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland. Therefore, those 17 States are not eligible
for election, since they are members of the Commission.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure,
the election shall be held by secret ballot and there shall be
no nominations.
However, I wish to recall paragraph 16 of General
Assembly decision 34/401, whereby the practice of
dispensing with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary
organs when the number of candidates corresponds to the
number of seats to be filled should become standard, unless
a delegation specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that the
Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that basis?
It was so decided.
The President: Regarding candidatures, I have been
informed by the Chairmen of the respective regional groups
that, for the four vacant seats from among the African
States,
the four endorsed candidates are Burkina Faso,
Kenya, the Sudan and Uganda.
From among the Asian States,
four seats are Fiji,
candidates for
Republic of Iran and Thailand.
the four endorsed
India,
the Islamic
From among the Eastern European States, there are
four candidates for three seats. The candidates are the
Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania and Romania.
the
endorsed candidates
As for the four seats from among the Latin American
and Caribbean States,
are
Colombia, Honduras and Paraguay. The group has also
endorsed Argentina and Uruguay for the fourth seat on the
understanding that Argentina and Uruguay will alternate
representation on an annual basis, starting with Argentina.
is within the power of the General
This arrangement
Assembly, which
and
determined its composition by General Assembly resolution
2205 (XXI) of 17 December 1966.
established
the Commission
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
For the four seats from among the Western European
and other States,
there are five candidates, namely,
Austria, Greece, Italy, Spain and the United States of America.
Since the number of candidates endorsed by the
African States, the Asian States and the Latin American
and Caribbean States, with Argentina and Uruguay
alternating on an annual basis, corresponds to the number
of seats to be filled in each group, may I therefore declare
those candidates elected for a six-year term beginning on
l June 1998, bearing in mind that Argentina and Uruguay
will alternate representation on an annual basis, starting
with Argentina?
It was so decided.
The President: With regard to the Eastern European
States and the Western European and other States, the
number of candidates exceeds the number of vacancies
allocated to those regions. Therefore, the Assembly will
proceed to a vote by secret ballot to elect three members
from the Eastern European States and four members from
the Western European and other States.
I should like to inform the Assembly that
the
number of candidates not exceeding the number of seats
to be filled, receiving the greatest number of votes and
not
less than the majority required, will be declared
elected. In the case of a tie vote for a remaining seat,
there will be a restricted ballot limited to those candidates
which have obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: Ballot papers marked “C” and “E”
will now be distributed. I request representatives to use
only those ballot papers and to write on them the names
of the three States from among the Eastern European
States and the names of the four States from among the
Western European and other States for which they want
to vote.
A ballot paper containing more names from the
relevant region than the number of seats assigned to it
will be declared invalid. Names of Member States on a
ballot paper which do not belong to that region shall not
be counted.
2
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the invitation of
(Venezuela)
At
(Myanmar), Mr. Contreras
Mr. Buhera (Zimbabwe) acted as tellers.
the President, Mr. Nyein
and
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
1 June 1998: Austria, Burkina Faso, Colombia, Fiji,
Honduras, Hungary, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran,
Italy, Kenya, Lithuania, Paraguay, Romania, Spain, the
Sudan, Thailand, Uganda and the United States of
America.
The meeting was suspended at 10.35 a.m. and
resumed at 11.30 a.m.
Argentina and Uruguay were elected to alternate
representation on an annual basis, starting with Argentina.
The President: The result of the voting is as follows:
Group C — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Lithuania
Hungary
Romania
Czech Republic
Ukraine
Slovakia
Group E — Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Italy
Spain
Austria
United States
Greece
164
0
164
2
162
82
133
111
110
106
2
1
164
0
164
1
163
82
140
138
136
115
96
Austria, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Romania, Spain
and the United States of America, having obtained the
required majority and having received the greatest
number of votes, were elected members of the United
Nations Commission on International Trade Law for
a six-year term beginning on 1 June 1998.
The President: The following 18 States are therefore
elected members of the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law for a six-year term beginning on
I congratulate the States which have been elected
members of
the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law, and I thank the tellers for their
assistance in this election. And I apologize for the long
delay in counting the votes.
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (c) of
agenda item 16.
Agenda item 42
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/374)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.8)
The President: I call on the representative of
Zimbabwe to introduce draft resolution A/52/L.8.
Mr. Enkhsaikhan (Mongolia), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
Mr. Mapuranga (Zimbabwe): This morning I shall
be wearing two caps as I address the General Assembly
on cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity (OAU). In the first part of
my statement, I shall be introducing the draft resolution
on United Nations/OAU cooperation, and I shall do so on
behalf of member States of the OAU. In the second part
of my statement, I shall be speaking as Head of the
delegation of Zimbabwe, and I shall signal
to the
Assembly when I make the transition.
It is my honour, as the representative of the current
Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, His
Excellency Mr. Robert Gabriel Mugabe, to introduce draft
resolution A/52/L.8 on cooperation between the United
Nations and the Organization of African Unity, a
relationship which has spanned three decades. This
cooperation has involved the United Nations Secretariat
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
and the various specialized agencies of the United Nations
system.
and Resolution
The establishment of an OAU Mechanism for Conflict
Prevention, Management
the
determination of the organization to become proactive,
especially in the areas of preventive diplomacy, conflict
resolution and post-conflict peace-building, has made that
cooperation not only more important but more urgent in
terms of achieving the desired objectives.
and
The manifested desire of the Secretary-General of the
United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan,
to
strengthen that cooperation has resulted in intensive and
extensive consultations, exchange of
information and
periodic meetings between him and the Secretary-General
of the OAU, Salim Ahmed Salim. They have for the first
time agreed to institutionalize their meetings and to meet
alternately in Africa, when the OAU summit convenes, and
in New York during the annual session of the General
Assembly.
This draft resolution on cooperation between the
United Nations and the Organization of African Unity is
being submitted in the wake of two important events that
took place, first in Harare, Zimbabwe, in June this year,
and here at the United Nations on 25 September this year,
when the Security Council met in a special meeting at the
ministerial level. At each of those meetings, the Chairman
of the OAU spoke on behalf of the people of Africa about
the issues of democratization, peace and security and, most
importantly, development.
The draft resolution before the Assembly outlines both
the political and economic challenges facing Africa and the
urgent need for the international community to respond in
practical terms and in the spirit of the appeal the Secretary-
General of the United Nations made before the special
meeting of the Security Council, when he said:
“We — and I speak not only of this Council but of
the United Nations and the international community
generally — must respond promptly and effectively to
Africa’s call. We must do so with specific measures
and clear proposals for action.” [S/PV.3819, p. 5].
The draft
resolution on cooperation between the
United Nations and the Organization of African Unity
outlines specific measures and clear proposals that require
urgent action on the part of the United Nations Secretariat
in particular and the international community in general.
4
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
It would be remiss of the OAU not to express its
appreciation for the generous support and assistance that
it has so far received from a number of countries and
international organizations.
I conclude with the words of the United Nations
Secretary-General himself, when he said in relation to
Africa during the ministerial meeting of the Security
Council:
“We have dissected and debated Africa, and
studied and summarized its challenges, for decades.
Now is the time for action.” [supra, p. 5]
I therefore have the honour to submit draft resolution
A/52/L.8 for consideration and adoption by the General
Assembly.
It is now my wish to make a few remarks on behalf
of the delegation of Zimbabwe. Let me express my
delegation’s deepest appreciation to the Secretary-General
for his report on cooperation between the United Nations
and the Organization of African Unity (A/52/374). My
delegation welcomes this report, as it demonstrates the
practical working relationship between the United Nations
and the Organization of African Unity in such areas as
exchange of
information, peace and security, and
economic and social development.
This debate comes at an opportune time, when
cooperation between the United Nations
and the
Organization of African Unity, a cooperation which was
born 32 years ago,1 in 1965, has substantially expanded
in scope. Not only has the OAU been actively involved in
the work of strengthening cooperation and unity among
African countries,
considerable
contributions
the United Nations,
particularly in the sphere of the maintenance of peace and
security, in line with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the
United Nations Charter on the
regional
organizations.
to the work of
also made
it has
role of
and political
The past year has been eventful in Africa’s social,
economic
spheres. Africa’s political
successes in the area of decolonization have been
tarnished by the prevalence of insecurity and civil strife
in some parts of the continent. Fighting has been going on
in varying degrees in Sudan, in Somalia and in the Great
Lakes region. Zimbabwe welcomes efforts to promote
peace through regional organizations as well as through
good-neighbourliness. The OAU mechanism for
the
prevention, management and resolution of conflict was
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
created in 1993 to serve this purpose. We count on the
continued support of the United Nations, particularly in
technical, logistical and material terms, to ensure that these
regional arrangements are strengthened and sustained. My
delegation welcomes the initiative of the United Nations to
train and familiarize staff from the Southern African
Development Community’s (SADC) Organ on Politics,
Defence and Security and the OAU Conflict Prevention
Division with the United Nations Department of Political
Affairs.
It
is our belief that cooperation between the two
organizations should go beyond peace and security. The
thirty-third session of the OAU Assembly of Heads of State
and Government, which my country hosted, convened the
inaugural session of the African Economic Community.
Cooperation between the United Nations and subregional
economic groupings
the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the
Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa
(COMESA) should be established, and, where they exist,
should be strengthened. My delegation is of the hope that
such efforts will continue to enjoy the tangible support of
the international community and the United Nations system
as a whole.
such as SADC,
My delegation is convinced that the United Nations
Special Initiative on Africa, if scrupulously implemented,
could help create an enabling environment for the much
needed economic growth and prosperity of the African
continent. It should further strengthen ongoing efforts by
the United Nations and the OAU towards eradicating
poverty and achieving sustainable development.
Finally, cooperation between the OAU and the United
Nations should buttress the resolve of African countries to
overcome the present obstacles and to launch the continent
on the path of economic recovery and growth. The Africa
of the mass media has been one of monumental human
tragedy, but today we are witnessing an African renaissance
which needs to be supported by the United Nations and by
the entire international community.
Mr. Wolzfeld (Luxembourg)
(interpretation from
French): I have the honour to be speaking on behalf of the
European Union. The Central and Eastern European
countries associated with the European Union — Bulgaria,
the Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Romania,
Slovakia and Slovenia — and the associated country of
Cyprus align themselves with this statement.
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
the particular
The European Union thanks the Secretary-General
for his exhaustive report on cooperation between the
United Nations and the Organization of African Unity
(OAU). The European Union considers that regional
organizations have a growing role to play in today’s
world and stresses
importance of
cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU.
The role of regional organizations may prove particularly
effective given that those organizations represent member
States in their individual capacities. The importance which
the Union attaches to Africa is based on common
interests, values and objectives: the desire to help Africa
to achieve peace, stability and sustainable development in
order to improve the quality of life of its peoples.
by
role
played
The Organization of African Unity and subregional
organizations in Africa provide an appropriate framework
for dialogue and cooperation to that end. We welcome the
important
the Southern African
Development Community (SADC) and by the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) — and in
particular
in Liberia by its
Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). Likewise, the European
Union welcomes the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the
Implementation of the Bangui Agreement in the Central
African Republic. In East Africa, we have noted the
interesting initiatives
taken by the East African
Cooperation body and by the Intergovernmental Authority
on Development (IGAD).
the efforts carried out
For those reasons, the European Union encourages
the regular contacts and dialogue it holds with regional
organizations in Africa, and in particular its continuing
dialogue with the OAU. In this context, the European
Union welcomes the first ministerial meeting between
troikas of the OAU and of the European Union, held at
New York on 23 June 1997. The purpose of the meeting
was to take stock of the process of regular political
consultations at senior-official level between the OAU
and the European Union initiated in 1994 and to pave the
way for future cooperation. On 26 and 27 June 1997, the
European Union
the European
Commission visited Addis Ababa to discuss how to
finalize a plan for expanding the ability of the OAU to
process
information necessary for preventive
diplomacy. Similarly, the European Union has been in
contact with the members of SADC to set a date for a
meeting of senior officials planned for December 1997 at
Lusaka.
presidency
and
the
On 16 and 17 June 1997, at the Amsterdam meeting
of the European Council, the Council stated that it looked
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
forward to a year-2000 summit meeting of Heads of State
or Government of the European Union and of Africa. The
Union attaches great importance to the preparations for that
summit with a view to achieving tangible results. The goal
of the summit will be to establish a broad political dialogue
at
level between the European Union and
Africa, which will make it possible to develop a more
effective and better integrated relationship between our two
continents.
the highest
held in Addis Ababa in early December 1997, to define
specific measures for strengthening and widening that
cooperation.
The European Union also welcomes the Security
Council meeting at ministerial level on the situation in
Africa, which took place on 25 September 1997. We look
forward to the Secretary-General’s report on this matter
to be presented in February 1998.
the
We welcome
establishment of
the OAU
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution in Africa; we are convinced that this will be
particularly useful in helping to resolve conflicts and reduce
tension. It is for Africans first and foremost to take the
initiative to restore peace on the continent and to take the
principal responsibility for that peace. It is important for
African countries to have the capacity to participate in
peacekeeping missions authorized by the Security Council.
In this respect, we welcome the efforts of countries that
wish to shift from direct or bilateral military cooperation to
active support towards African countries in the framework
of a multilateral approach in liaison with the United
Nations, the OAU and other partners.
subregional
The European Union provides concrete assistance in
this respect. On 2 June 1997 it adopted a common position
on the prevention and resolution of conflicts in Africa. The
European Union will strengthen its dialogue with the OAU
and with
concrete
opportunities for backing their efforts in the fields of early
warning, preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping and in
promoting awareness of the importance of respect for
human rights,
law, a pluralistic society,
democratic institutions and practices and a culture of
tolerance and peaceful coexistence.
organizations
the rule of
on
In that context, the European Union welcomes the
initiative and action by the Secretaries-General of the
United Nations and of the OAU to cooperate and consult
with one another regularly on major African issues. Since
January 1997 they have together examined the need to
strengthen their association in order to boost their mutual
ability to prevent and resolve conflicts in Africa. The
appointment of Mr. Mohammed Sahnoun as joint United
Nations-OAU Special Representative for the Great Lakes
region, a mandate subsequently extended to the Congo,
represents significant progress in that direction.
The European Union is pleased that
the two
Secretaries-General will henceforth meet twice a year, and
it welcomes the meeting between the two Secretariats, to be
6
The European Union recognizes the pre-eminent role
of the United Nations in peacekeeping matters. It
is
convinced of the need for the closest possible cooperation
between the United Nations and the OAU. In this regard,
we note that Article 52 of the United Nations Charter
recognizes the special role which should be played by
regional organizations.
When we look at the African continent today, we
can see that
there are grounds for confidence in the
future. Democracy is taking root in an increasing number
of States, and in a number of countries healthy debate is
being conducted on the best way of adapting that
democracy more directly to the needs of the population,
encouraging the people to participate more fully in the
conduct of public affairs and enabling them to have a
more direct influence on their own future. The OAU has
an
course, means
responsibilities — and should encourage and endorse such
debate.
the international community, and
particularly the United Nations, to support the OAU in
this task. The European Union encourages intensification
of the dialogue and cooperation between the United
Nations and the OAU in these fields.
role — which,
influential
is for
of
It
While congratulating Africa on the substantial
progress it has made in its efforts to establish more
widespread democracy and to deal with the problems
arising within its borders, the European Union takes due
note of the serious concerns expressed by Africans
themselves over events occurring in a number of regions
of their continent and over the anti-democratic trends
noted in some countries.
The European Union feels that it is its duty to speak
out against attacks on democracy and to promote a
peaceful settlement of disputes. There are therefore
occasions when we consider
it necessary to make
public — in the United Nations or elsewhere — our
concern over events occurring in certain countries, in
Africa and elsewhere.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
There is still not peace in the Great Lakes region, and
the adjacent countries have been affected by the conflict.
The European Union continues to lend its full support to
efforts by the United Nations and the Organization of
African Unity, as well as by leaders in the region and other
eminent persons concerned, to restore peace there. The
European Union’s Special Envoy for the Great Lakes
Region, Mr. Aldo Ajello, will continue to collaborate
closely with them.
still
in favour of
The European Union is
the
convening, under the auspices of both the United Nations
and the OAU, of an international conference to deal
comprehensively with the situation in the Great Lakes
region. The Union would also emphasize the role that the
international community can play in helping the countries
of the region to resolve their problems.
the Congo,
In the Democratic Republic of
in hand without delay the electoral process,
the
European Union will continue to urge President Kabila to
put
to be
carried out within the two-year period announced, and to
honour his agreement
the
humanitarian organizations which aid and repatriate
refugees. It is imperative that the United Nations be able
freely to conduct its investigation into the alleged massacres
and other violations of human rights in Congolese territory.
to facilitate the work of
the
that
As to the Republic of the Congo, the European Union
profoundly regrets
international mediation
undertaken by President Bongo of Gabon and Mr.
Mohamed Sahnoun,
the Special Representative of the
Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the OAU, did
not succeed, and express our disapproval of the fact that the
political crisis turned into an armed conflict which resulted
in a change of government without the people of the Congo
having an opportunity to express their opinion in free
elections. The European Union asks the authorities to restart
the democratic process and to as soon as possible prepare
free, transparent and fair democratic elections, which should
take place under international supervision. The European
Union condemns all external interference in the Republic of
the Congo, especially the intervention of foreign forces, in
violation of the United Nations Charter, and asks that all
foreign forces,
including mercenaries, be withdrawn
immediately.
The European Union is concerned about the situation
in Sierra Leone and welcomes the peace efforts made by
the States of the region. We express our concern over the
worsening of the humanitarian situation in that country, and
hope that Security Council resolution 1132 (1997) will
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
allow for the speedy restoration of the democratically
elected Government and a return to constitutional order.
The European Union calls upon ECOWAS to ensure that
sanctions against Sierra Leone are imposed in full
compliance with resolution 1132 (1997) and with
international law on humanitarian aid. We welcome the
ECOWAS peace plan for Sierra Leone published in
Conakry on 23 October 1997, and await with interest the
evaluation
Secretariat
reconnaissance mission.
the United Nations
of
As regards Angola, we are extremely concerned over
the continued atmosphere of tension and the impasse in
the peace process. It is imperative that UNITA comply
with all its obligations under the Lusaka Protocol, which
it voluntarily signed. For that reason, the European Union
appeals to UNITA to comply without delay with the
provisions of Security Council resolutions 1127 (1997)
and 1135 (1997). The European Union is taking all
measures to impose sanctions in accordance with those
resolutions, and encourages all other States to do likewise.
Economic development continues to be the major
challenge to be met by Africa. The European Union is
well aware of this. It is encouraging to see that many
African countries have undertaken sweeping reforms of
their economic policies and their public sectors, thereby
enabling growth to recommence. They have also made
significant and praiseworthy progress in essential sectors
such as health, education and the provision of basic
services.
At the same time, the fact remains that half the
population of sub-Saharan Africa lives below the poverty
line. That poverty reminds us that economic and social
progress has not yet been achieved there. We feel that to
should, with
reduce poverty the African countries
encouragement and support
from the international
community, achieve and maintain a stable rate of per
capita income growth. Development programmes should
also have the objective of ensuring that the poorest groups
of the population are their first beneficiaries.
The European Union will continue to play a decisive
role in helping Africa achieve these objectives. The
framework for our aid is already in place by virtue of the
Lomé Convention, which is the cornerstone of our efforts.
Aid granted by the European Union under the Lomé
Convention and the assistance that it gives through other
sources make the European Union today the largest aid
donor in the world. The contribution of the European
Union represents more than 60 per cent of the total aid
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
from the
given to sub-Saharan Africa by countries
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) zone. We reaffirm our determination to continue
our effort to help African developing countries and to
strengthen our cooperation with them in order to better
ensure their future well-being and prosperity.
This is the essence of the consideration that we and
our partners in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific have
given to the future of the Lomé Convention. The European
Union is determined to preserve the specificity of this
unique partnership, which links it
to many African
countries.
For its part, Africa must accept its responsibilities so
that development may be sustainable and prosperity
ensured. Each Government is above all responsible for
ensuring that
its people enjoy fundamental rights and
freedoms, while
for
economic growth. All States also have responsibilities
towards the other States in their region and for their shared
environment. Those responsibilities go far beyond the need
to respect each other’s sovereignty.
creating conditions
favourable
The Organization of African Unity has played an
role by determining these responsibilities,
important
studying ways of guaranteeing that they are honoured and
helping to define a common vision for the future of the
African continent. The European Union is convinced that
the Organization of African Unity, with the help and
cooperation of the international community, in particular the
United Nations, will take up the challenge of helping Africa
to enter
the next millennium with confidence and
determination.
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): My delegation welcomes
the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between
the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity
(OAU). The world community is cognisant of the fact that
Africa is a continent that has not only been faced with the
difficulties of economic and social development, but has
also suffered a large number of conflicts between and
within its nation States. The origins of the conflicts are
complex, encompassing economic, political, cultural and
social parameters. Among the international factors, conflicts
have been manifested as a consequence of the end of the
cold war and its aftermath, as well as of the globalization
and liberalization of the world economy, which have
generated a sense of political and economic insecurity in Africa.
A host of problems in Africa result from these
conflicts. One such problem is the question of Africa’s
8
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
refugee crisis, which is not diminishing. Millions of
African refugees and displaced persons, representing the
highest numbers in world refugee flows, have brought
about a potential source of further tension within and
between States. As such, refugee assistance and the
protection of
refugee rights are a priority in the
prevention and management of conflict and the building
of peace and security in our region.
My delegation supports the view that, as stated in
the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization, in document A/52/1, it is a primary aim of
the United Nations to expand the domain of peaceful
change to ensure that Member States do not resort to
violence, by providing means through which conflicts
may be contained and resolved and by dealing with their
root causes. In this regard, it is encouraging to note that
the United Nations is committed to cooperating with
regional organizations. This strategy offers great potential.
The appointment of a joint United Nations-OAU Special
Representative is a commendable effort, aimed at
enhancing close contact between the Secretariats of the
United Nations and the OAU. It is our hope that the
Special Representative will
the
coordination of the efforts of both the United Nations and
the OAU,
in close consultation with the Secretaries-
General of the two Organizations, so as to build upon the
capabilities of the two Organizations in their joint effort
at preventing and resolving conflicts in Africa.
enhance
further
One of the major aspirations of the Organization of
African Unity is the development of a peaceful Africa,
which would contribute to the achievement of the broader
aspirations for a peaceful world. Africa’s perseverance in
the pursuit of preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and
peace-building, including post-conflict peace-building, is
articulated by the efforts of the Central Organ of the
OAU Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management
and Resolution and the OAU Conflict Prevention
Division.
My delegation is encouraged by the cooperation of
the United Nations Department of Political Affairs with
the OAU at various levels and in different ways,
including the invitation to the focal point of the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) Organ on
Politics, Defence and Security and also to the OAU
Conflict Prevention Division for familiarization visits to
the Department of Political Affairs. Exchange of
information and visits of relevant staff members within
the Organizations will improve the coordination of the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
implementation of agreed programmes of cooperation
between the United Nations system and the OAU.
The Kingdom of Swaziland is encouraged by the
continuing cooperation between the United Nations system
and funds and programmes in the field of economic and
social development. It is common knowledge that, despite
a large natural resource base and the adoption of a series of
structural adjustment programmes, African economies are
still characterized by low economic growth rates, stemming
mainly from internal and external
low
productivity in agriculture, skills shortages and high
population growth rates, as well as education and health
problems. The new transnational threats, in the form of
transnational networks of crime, drug trafficking, money
laundering and terrorism, also have a very significant
negative impact on the already fragile economies of our
continent.
imbalances,
The efforts of the United Nations and the international
community to avert
these difficulties faced by African
countries are displayed in the initiatives that have been set
up, such as the United Nations programme of action for
African Economic Recovery and Development, the United
Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the
1990s (UN-NADAF);
the United Nations System-wide
Special Initiative on Africa; and the Tokyo Declaration and
programme for action. These initiatives have been launched
over the years because of the deteriorating socio-economic
situation of the African continent. The implementation
approaches, work programmes and resource mobilization
strategies that have been established should be closely
followed to ensure that the goals for which these initiatives
were established do not remain merely visionary.
countries
It will be recalled that, in supporting UN-NADAF and
the Tokyo Declaration, donor
committed
themselves to assist Africa in four main areas: official
development assistance, external debt alleviation, market
access and foreign direct investment. The same commitment
has been made in the various conferences and summits on
issues of development held in the 1990s. However, only a
few donor countries have lived up to their commitment, and
we are grateful to them. Otherwise the situation continues
to remain bleak, as official development assistance is on the
decline and African countries are yet to benefit significantly
from the recent international trade expansion and growth in
foreign direct
investment. The important question is
“when”? Swaziland and most African countries have
committed themselves to the establishment of sound
political institutional structures. The approach of adherence
to the principle of accountability has widely increased in
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
the continent. All these are a clear indication that the
climate for trade and investment would be right and
rewarding to foreign entrepreneurs. For these reasons, my
delegation believes that it is morally correct for developed
countries to fulfil their obligations.
The donation by UNDP of $3 million towards
capacity-building in the OAU Mechanism for Conflict
Prevention, Management and Resolution will benefit the
organization, as it will strengthen its financial capacity to
carry out the earmarked projects in this area. Swaziland
is particularly encouraged to note that approximately 10
per cent of the budget of this project will be devoted to
conflict prevention activities involving women. It is to be
borne in mind, though, that the budgetary allocation to
this important area of activities involving women is far
from sufficient, as more than half of the 20 million
refugees fleeing conflicts in Africa are women and
children.
I
financial
conclude by reaffirming my Government’s
commitment to its membership in the United Nations and
the OAU. Swaziland believes in the importance of the
purposes and goals for which these two bodies were
the Security Council has devoted
established. Whilst
substantial
to the
maintenance of peace and security throughout the world,
the OAU, for its part, has shown commitment to peace
and security in the region by the establishment of its own
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution.
and human resources
Furthermore,
the Economic and Social Council,
through its subsidiary organs, has established numerous
programmes aimed at assisting Member States in their
development efforts. Likewise, the OAU at its thirty-third
Assembly of Heads of State and Government held in
this year adopted a number of
Harare, Zimbabwe,
resolutions aimed at
the promotion of the economic
growth and social development of Africa.
There is a strong political will on the part of African
countries to resolve the problems in Africa. What Africa
lacks is the financial strength and human resources. It is
for this reason that the OAU would rather concentrate its
efforts on preventive action, as it is a less expensive
priority. It
is also for this reason that Africa seeks
strengthened and broadened cooperation with the United
Nations, including the enhanced support and assistance of
the international community.
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Konishi (Japan): The importance of cooperation
between the United Nations and regional organizations,
particularly in addressing issues of economic development
and conflict prevention, cannot be over-emphasized. Japan
heartily welcomes the emphasis which the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) places on its cooperation with the
United Nations in these areas, as reflected in the draft
resolution introduced by the representative of Zimbabwe.
As
Japan’s Foreign Minister mentioned in his
statement at this session of the General Assembly:
“Development and peace are, so to speak, two sides of
the same coin. Without development, the causes of
conflicts will not be eliminated, and without peace the
conditions for development will not be met.” [Official
Records of
the General Assembly, Fifty-second
Session, Plenary Meetings, 8th meeting, p. 7]
Indeed, underlying many of the regional conflicts we have
witnessed in recent years are social and economic factors
that must be addressed in order to achieve and maintain
durable peace.
In the recognition that peace and development are
inextricably related, Japan is taking two initiatives which it
hopes will strengthen the cooperative efforts of the United
Nations and regional organizations, and particularly the
OAU, in both of these areas.
First,
this coming January, Japan will convene in
Tokyo an International Conference on Strategies for
Conflict Prevention, to which it has invited international
experts as well as representatives of interested Member
States. In preparing for the conference, Japan intends to
consult with the OAU as well as with various countries,
especially those in Africa. We anticipate that
the
conference, focusing mainly on the African region, will
produce concrete proposals as to how to resolve conflicts
through cooperation between the United Nations and the
OAU.
Secondly, the fundamental solution of conflicts in
Africa requires that development is set firmly on track and
that poverty is eradicated. Bearing this in mind, Japan has
been focusing its efforts on African development issues and
is planning the second Tokyo International Conference on
African Development (TICAD II), to be convened at the
ministerial level next year. The framework of an agenda for
action was worked out at a preparatory meeting held in
Tokyo last month.
10
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
Many of the issues which the United Nations, and
particularly the Security Council, is called upon to address
are African problems. Therefore, it was fitting and proper
that the Council met at the ministerial level in September
to discuss the situation in Africa. We are now looking
forward to the report of the Secretary-General on the
sources of conflict in Africa early next year. As a non-
permanent member of the Security Council, Japan will
continue to work actively in order to contribute to this
process. At the same time, Japan is working to foster a
greater cooperative relationship between the OAU and the
international community in the effort
to tackle the
complex causes of conflicts. Japan is consulting closely
with the OAU in order to determine how, in addition to
its contributions to the OAU Peace Fund, it can provide
assistance in the areas of development cooperation,
conflict prevention and post-conflict peace-building in
Africa.
I should like, on behalf of the Government of Japan,
to commend the initiatives and coordinating efforts of the
OAU in the area of conflict prevention, peace-building
and economic development in Africa. We trust that its
evolving cooperative relationship with the United Nations
will serve as a model for other regional and subregional
organizations as they address the issues of peace and
development.
Mr. Petrella (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): In this brief statement, Argentina would like to
express its gratitude to and support for the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) for its efforts over so many
years to promote peace, democracy and development in
Africa.
These efforts are bearing fruit. Most African
countries are successfully strengthening their democratic
institutions, promoting human rights and reforming their
economies. Through its cooperation machinery, the OAU,
has been gradually creating the conditions for achieving
these objectives.
In the same way, Argentina after decades of political
instability, legal insecurity and a closed economy, has
made sacrifices in finding its way back to the path to
democracy and is consolidating its political, legal and
economic institutions. This is why we can well understand
and firmly support the determination of the peoples of
Africa and their leaders to live in peace in States based
on the rule of law.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Argentina has benefited and is benefiting from the
trend towards a change in the democratic framework in
Africa. Not only has Argentina been able to strengthen its
bilateral relations with many countries, it has also bolstered
extremely fruitful trading links.
Alongside these positive developments, some countries
of
the continent have suffered political crises. These
situations have also arisen and exist in other regions and
have been overcome. The OAU has responded actively and
supportively, again showing its commitment
to finding
peaceful solutions to disputes and defending the rule of law
and its concern at the plight of refugees and internally
displaced persons.
and
and has
assistance
humanitarian
contributed constructively
Within the limits of its resources, Argentina has been
to
working in
electoral
peacekeeping,
monitoring. It has taken part in peacekeeping operations in
Angola, Mozambique and Western Sahara and, through
“White Helmets” missions or directly, has provided
humanitarian assistance to various countries of
the
continent. Argentina also provided electoral observers for
the first free and universal elections that marked the end of
apartheid in South Africa,
the referendum on self-
determination in Eritrea and the legislative elections in
Algeria last June.
On the occasion of the meeting of ministers for
foreign affairs of the States members of the Security
Council on 25 September 1997, which was chaired by the
Secretary of State of the United States of America, Mrs.
Albright, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Di Tella,
reiterated Argentina’s commitment to cooperate actively in
efforts
In this
connection, Argentina has some 70 cooperation programmes
with Africa currently under way. They cover areas as
diverse as training in agriculture and cattle-breeding, control
of epidemics, computer science, reform of the State and
privatization.
to promote development
in Africa.
In this auspicious context for cooperation, it is worth
recalling what the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, said on
20 November on the occasion of Africa Industrialization
Day:
time in 20 years, Africa
“In 1996, for the first
experienced growth exceeding 4 per cent. More and
more countries are experiencing remarkable economic
expansion. The private sector is beginning to play its
role in powering the economy. Everywhere, civil
society is creating the institutions it needs in order to
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
be heard.” [See Official Records of the General
Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Plenary Meetings,
50th meeting]
To conclude, we feel that this is a fitting opportunity
for us to pay tribute to Africa, which forms a very
significant component of the United Nations. Without the
such as
African initiative, no changes
decolonization,
the
environment and development would have been possible.
We would like to reiterate our support for the aims and
purposes of the OAU, namely those of peace and progress
for its members.
disarmament,
in areas
human
rights,
Mr. Mohammed (Ethiopia): May I begin my
statement by thanking the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the comprehensive report he
has submitted to the General Assembly in document
A/52/374 on “Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Organization of African Unity”. My Government
highly appreciates the efforts made by the Secretary-
General
to revitalize cooperation between the two
organizations.
The end of the 1970s and the 1980s were lost
decades for Africa. Today, Africa has emerged from the
stagnation of the 1980s, and the 1990s can be described
as the decade of renaissance and hope.
Many African countries have taken far-reaching
measures to promote good governance, democratization,
popular participation and political pluralism. Collectively
and individually, they have now grappled with socio-
economic development challenges by introducing bold
economic reform measures, which are often painful.
Economic structures are being strengthened and an
environment conducive to private investment has been
created. These efforts by African countries require a
supportive
succeed.
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) should be seen in
this context.
international
environment
to
The United Nations system has a special role in
promoting Africa’s socio-economic development and the
peaceful settlement of conflicts that affect the continent.
It is encouraging to note, as illustrated in the Secretary-
General’s report, that the support of the United Nations
system to Africa through various initiatives has increased
over the past year.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Consultations between the Secretaries-General of the
United Nations and the OAU on key African issues over
the past year, and the steps taken to build closer ties and
coordination between the two organizations have set the
right direction and momentum for enhanced United
Nations-OAU cooperation. The appointment of Ambassador
Mohammed Sahnoun as joint United Nations-OAU Special
Representative for the Great Lakes region has been a most
welcome step that further highlighted the new spirit of
cooperation and coordination between the United Nations
and the OAU.
between
My delegation notes with appreciation that
the
cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU in
the areas of peace and security has entered an important
phase. In particular, we are pleased that measures are being
taken to enhance contacts and exchanges of ideas and
information
two
Organizations on critical issues of common concern. The
invitations
that have been extended to subregional
Organizations, such as the Southern African Development
Community (SADC) and the Intergovernmental Authority
on Development (IGAD) are also welcome steps, and such
contacts with
subregional
be
strengthened and expanded.
the Secretariats
organizations
should
the
of
One of the most important areas of coordination and
cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU is
that of enhancing the capacity of
the OAU and its
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution to deal with conflict situations in Africa. In this
connection, my delegation recalls
the
Secretary-General on improving preparedness for conflict
prevention and peacekeeping in Africa, document A/50/711,
and the subsequent resolutions of the General Assembly and
recommendations
on
Peacekeeping Operations. In this regard, my delegation
looks forward to the Secretary-General’s report
to be
submitted as requested by the Special Committee on
Peacekeeping Operations at its 1997 session.
Special Committee
the report of
the
of
the
has
While
the United Nations
primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security, regional organizations such as the OAU can also
play an important role in the prevention, management and
resolution of conflicts in their respective regions. The
second meeting of the Chiefs of Defence Staff of Member
States of the OAU Central Organ, held in October this year
in Harare, Zimbabwe, highlighted this important role of the
OAU, and the need for enhanced cooperation between it
and the United Nations. To this end, my delegation believes
that greater attention should be given to cooperation
12
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
between the two Organizations with a view to enhancing
the OAU’s capacity in conflict prevention, management
and resolution.
role that
In the economic and social fields, my delegation
notes with satisfaction the important
the
Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) continues to
in cooperation with the OAU and the African
play,
Development Bank (ADB),
in the
establishment of an African Economic Community
(AEC). The ECA’s cooperation with the OAU in other
important fields also demonstrates the indispensable role
and contribution of this regional Economic Commission
in promoting Africa’s economic and social development.
in particular,
Cooperation between the OAU and the various
United Nations agencies and programmes, such as the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the
World Food Programme (WFP), the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO),
the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the World
Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and others
over the past year has been encouraging. The UNDP has
given valuable assistance in support of Africa’s economic
integration and to strengthen the capacity of the OAU
Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and
Resolution. The UNDP’s assistance for peace efforts in
Africa and the planned fund-raising campaigns and donor
conferences to increase the financial resources of the
OAU Peace Fund are very commendable.
While we commend the encouraging trend in the
cooperation between the OAU and the United Nations
system, we wish at the same time to point out that such
cooperation should aim at ensuring the support of the
United Nations system and the international community
at large for the implementation of programmes adopted by
African Governments. In this connection, we wish to
highlight in particular that both the Lagos Plan of Action
and the document “Relaunching Africa’s economic and
social development: the Cairo Agenda for Action” remain
valid as Africa’s long-term development strategy, which
requires the full support of the United Nations system.
The challenge facing Africa in the political field is
essentially the achievement of the necessary political
stability for economic integration and socio-economic
development. Needless to say, the establishment of such
a conducive environment requires first and foremost
democratization, good governance, peace and justice, as
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
well as the prevention, management and resolution of
conflicts. While achievements by African countries in these
areas have been encouraging in the past few years, the
contribution of the United Nations system in cooperation
with the OAU to the efforts of African countries is also
indispensable.
In
of
the
areas
economic
cooperation
and
development, the challenges are those highlighted in the
Cairo Agenda For Action. However, activities that could be
undertaken through United Nations-OAU cooperation are
expected to implement various
sectoral programmes
conducted within the framework of regional integration to
address Africa’s external debt problem, food security and
the restructuring and transformation of the African economy
parallel to current trends in the global economy.
In the
areas of
social development
and the
environment, the United Nations-OAU cooperation should
emphasize capacity-building, as well as the implementation
of the various declarations and strategies adopted by the
OAU Heads of State and Government.
The Organization of African Unity and the United
Nations system constitute indispensable instruments for the
maintenance of peace and security, and the promotion of
the economic, social and cultural development of the
African continent. The judicious use of these instruments
through cooperation and the concerted rationalization of
activities
the
implementation of development strategies and plans adopted
by the higher organs of the OAU for the benefit of the
continent and the attainment of the objectives set out in the
Abuja Treaty
the African Economic
Community.
considerably
establishing
contribute
could
to
In conclusion, I wish to thank the representative of
Zimbabwe for introducing, on behalf of the member States
of the OAU, draft resolution A/52/L.8, on cooperation
between the United Nations and the OAU. It is our hope
that the Assembly will adopt the draft resolution without a
vote.
Mr. Rubadiri (Malawi): My delegation associates
itself fully with the remarks made on behalf of the Group
of African States by the delegation of Zimbabwe on this
agenda item, entitled “Cooperation between the United
Nations and the Organization of African Unity”.
Malawi welcomes the report of the Secretary-General,
contained in document A/52/374, which gives an outline of
the activities that have taken place, as well as those that are
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
scheduled, aimed at strengthening cooperation between
the two Organizations.
session
fifty-first
My delegation is pleased to note that since the
adoption of resolution 51/151 by the General Assembly at
its
increasing
cooperation between the United Nations
and the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) have continued. I
would therefore like to pay tribute to the Secretaries-
General of the two organizations for their commitment to
advancing collaboration in the various areas.
towards
efforts
We welcome increased consultations and exchange
of information as one way of enhancing the mutual
capacities of the two Organizations to prevent and resolve
conflicts in Africa and to coordinate efforts in that regard.
The appointment of Mr. Mohammed Sahnoun as joint
United Nations-OAU Special Representative for the Great
Lakes region, a mandate which was later expanded to
encompass the Congo, cannot go unnoticed.
The African continent continues to pursue the issues
of governance, peace and security with determined vigour
and commitment. We are therefore encouraged by the
continued participation of the United Nations in Africa’s
efforts towards democratization and peace-building. My
delegation has taken particular note of the proposed
establishment by the United Nations Department of
Political Affairs of a liaison office at OAU Headquarters
in a continuing effort to strengthen further cooperation
between the United Nations and the OAU.
My delegation would further like to recognize the
ongoing cooperative efforts by the United Nations,
through its various agencies, in the areas of economic and
social development. We welcome this and urge the
various actors to spare no effort in lending support to the
continent as it strives towards economic betterment. The
effective implementation of the United Nations New
Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-
NADAF) and the United Nations System-wide Special
Initiative on Africa will be a step in the right direction.
In conclusion, I should like to second the delegation
of Zimbabwe, which so ably introduced the draft
resolution before us. I should also like to thank the non-
African delegations that have spoken today in favour of
the draft resolution and, indeed, those who have kept
silent in order to save time as well. My delegation fully
welcomes draft resolution A/52/L.8, whose thrust is the
strengthening of cooperation between the United Nations
and the Organization of African Unity.
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Aass (Norway): The Norwegian Government
welcomes the Secretary General’s report on cooperation
between the United Nations and the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) and supports the draft resolution before us.
We believe that there is a need to strengthen further
the cooperation and coordination between the United
Nations and its various agencies and the Organization of
African Unity in the fields outlined in the Secretary
General’s report. The United Nations has a special
responsibility to assist
the countries on the African
continent, and we therefore also appreciate the initiative
taken by the Security Council last September to organize a
ministerial meeting on the situation in Africa.
We all know that development and peace are closely
interconnected, in Africa as everywhere else, and it is a
tragic fact that many parts of Africa in recent years have
been the scenes of a number of serious conflicts, with grave
consequences in terms of both material destruction and
human lives.
and the
the United Nations
Because of the internal nature of many of these
conflicts,
international
community have often not been able effectively to intervene
in order to prevent such conflicts from escalating and
developing into major and destructive civil wars, as we
have seen recently in the case, for example, of the Republic
of the Congo.
The international community cannot and should not
avoid its responsibility in such situations, or limit itself to
assisting with relief to repair the damages and scars caused
by conflicts and wars. We therefore would like to underline
the importance of enhancing the capacity of the OAU and
other African organizations and institutions to play a more
active role in preventing, managing and resolving conflicts
on the African continent. Only peace arrangements that
have the support and ownership of the countries and parties
concerned will prove to be viable and stable.
The international community,
through the United
Nations, should at the same time do its utmost to support
and assist the regional efforts in this field, and that is why
it is essential to strengthen the cooperation and coordination
between the United Nations and the OAU.
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
financial and administrative resources must be made
available.
We also believe in the need to strengthen and
develop further the cooperation and coordination between
the OAU and subregional organizations such as the
Southern African Development Community (SADC), the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development
(IGAD), especially with regard to conflict prevention and
regional development schemes. Efforts should be made to
ensure that there is full coordination between the United
Nations
subregional
organizations, and the OAU should play a key role in this
respect.
agencies
and
its
and
these
The Norwegian Government believes that experience
has shown that respect for human rights, democratic
institutions and good governance are important and
essential contributions to conflict prevention, to political
stability and to social and economic development. We
greatly appreciate that this view is today shared by the
and by the African
majority of African States
organizations and institutions. Norway will
therefore
continue to give the highest priority in its development
cooperation to assist African countries in this field, both
bilaterally and through the United Nations and its
agencies, with the aim of promoting and strengthening the
cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU and
other regional African organizations.
of African Unity
Mr. Amehou (Benin) (interpretation from French):
Since cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization
(OAU) was
institutionalized in 1965, it has steadily evolved. At first
it centred on specific fields of activity. Then it became
more general, spreading through the two organizations,
the specialized agencies and other relevant bodies, before
focusing on the prevention and peaceful settlement of
conflicts,
the maintenance of international peace and
security, and the management of hot spots in Africa.
This evolution reflects the dynamism of relations
between the two organizations, but more particularly their
ability to adapt their joint activities to developments in
the continent.
We believe that the appointment of a joint United
Nations-OAU Special Representative for the Great Lakes
region is a commendable new initiative in this respect, but
in order to make such joint efforts successful, the necessary
This cooperation, which Bénin welcomes, has
achieved encouraging results in the area of conflict
resolution. These include the return of peace to Liberia in
West Africa and the progressive normalization of the
14
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
situation in the Central African Republic and in the Great
Lakes region.
These results have been achieved thanks to the efforts
and goodwill of the parties to the disputes and thanks to the
many initiatives that the OAU has undertaken with the
support of the United Nations.
As recent developments on the world scene have
shown, achieving the goal of preventing conflicts requires
adopting an integrated approach, which must encompass all
questions relating to development and the full flowering of
humankind. These questions — I cite just a few — include
the restoration of economies ruined by these conflicts, and
hence rehabilitation, reconstruction and development; and
the establishment of systems for the rapid prevention of
State-level conflicts.
In this regard, my delegation welcomes the initiatives
undertaken by some countries, including the United States
of America, Great Britain and France,
in the area of
strengthening African peacekeeping capacities.
The experience of recent years has confirmed that
peace — that is, the absence of conflicts — cannot in and
of itself guarantee a climate of economic and social
prosperity.
In addition,
successful
the measures I have cited must be
accompanied by the
resolution of other
problems: debt and debt servicing; economic and social
growth;
the promotion of
sustainable development; and so on.
the elimination of poverty;
These are the different elements that, among others,
were the subject of the most recent summit meeting of the
Heads of State or Government of the Organization of
African Unity, which took place in June of this year in
Harare, Zimbabwe. At
the Security Council’s special
ministerial meeting on the situation in Africa and also
during the general debate at this General Assembly session,
President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, in his capacity as
President of the Organization of African Unity, brilliantly
presented all these different aspects of the question of the
development of Africa.
This is the only way that Africa’s development, which
has been the object of so many initiatives, can finally be
achieved.
My delegation remains confident that, despite all the
apparent obstacles, our collective determination will prevail.
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
Mr. Hachani (Tunisia) (interpretation from French):
The General Assembly’s consideration of the item on
cooperation between the United Nations
and the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) provides Member
States with the opportunity to assess the present state of
that cooperation and to go more closely into ways of
developing it. Such a review is all the more important
because it is taking place at a moment when we are
witnessing growing interest in the situation in Africa on
the part of the international community. The holding last
25 September of the Security Council’s special ministerial
meeting on the situation in Africa was certainly a sign of
that interest.
is essential.
That meeting underlined the importance of the role
of the international community in helping Africa meet the
challenges it faces. To this end, cooperation between the
two organizations
In the presidential
statement adopted during the meeting [S/PRST/1997/46],
the Council called for a stronger partnership between the
United Nations and the OAU in the area of conflict
prevention and the maintenance of peace. My delegation
welcomes this greater awareness by members of the
Security Council, which reflects the need for greater
cooperation between the two organizations in this area.
Strengthening the partnership necessarily calls for the
establishment of effective mechanisms through which the
two organizations can consult and exchange information
on a continual and regular basis, and benefit from their
respective experience.
In his report to the General Assembly presented in
document A/52/374, the Secretary-General took note of
the various mechanisms that have been established for
strengthening relations between the two organizations and
coordinating their work in areas related to security. In that
context, my delegation supports the proposal to establish
a liaison office within the OAU to facilitate coordination
and the exchange of
information between the two
organizations.
On another level, it is important to emphasize the
need to strengthen the OAU’s capacity in the area of
conflict prevention and peacekeeping by increasing
assistance to the pan-African organization’s Mechanism
for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution. In
that regard we welcome the fact
the Secretary-
General recently sent a technical mission to Addis Ababa
to study how the United Nations could best help the OAU
secretariat
to establish an operations centre so as to
strengthen the capacity of its unit dealing with questions
related to peace on the continent.
that
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in the
subregional organizations
In that context, it is appropriate to note the growing
role of
area of
peacekeeping and conflict prevention in Africa, as well as
the development of bilateral cooperation as a way of
enhancing the capacities of African States in this area.
These trends are salutary for two reasons. On the one hand
they reflect Africans’ desire to organize themselves better
to protect against conflicts and to preserve peace on their
continent. On the other hand, they affirm the growing
awareness at the international level of the need to support
the activities of the African States in this connection. My
delegation supports all efforts and initiatives that can make
the work being done to preserve peace on the African
continent more effective. We believe that coordination
between the Organization of African Unity and the United
Nations in this area, together with continuous consultations
among African States, are essential to ensure the success of
this work. My delegation welcomes the attention given by
the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan,
to the situation in Africa. It is apparent in his constant
efforts
two
organizations, particularly in the area of conflict prevention,
which is a key priority in the OAU’s work.
to strengthen cooperation between the
It has become widely recognized that security and
development go hand in hand and are interdependent in the
sense that there can be no sustainable security without
sustainable development and vice versa. It is acknowledged
that the causes of conflicts that break out everywhere in
other parts of the world are often rooted in economic and
social problems. In other words, the best way to prevent
conflicts that is to promote development.
Despite some resumption of economic growth in a
number of African countries, it remains true that Africa as
a whole continues to face multiple constraints that prevent
many countries of the continent from being able to achieve
sustained economic growth. The major challenge to African
countries today, in a world characterized by globalization,
is how to become integrated into the world economy and
become a viable partner in it.
Such a perspective will remain a pious wish unless the
international community provides the assistance that the
African States need in order to overcome the difficulties
they face in their attempts to develop. For several years, the
African States have been carrying out economic and
political
their eagerness to open
themselves to the world economy and to adhere to the
global principles of democracy and human rights. These
efforts must have the consistent support of the international
community if they are to enjoy continued success.
reforms that
reflect
16
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
In this respect, particular attention should be paid to
the debt burden that continues to weigh heavily on the
African economies. Efforts must also be made to reverse
the current trend towards decreased official development
assistance. In this context, cooperation between the United
Nations and the Organization of African Unity is an
essential means of
supporting the African States’
development efforts and of mobilizing Africa’s partners
to that end.
In his July report on renewing the United Nations,
the Secretary-General proposed the creation of an office
of development financing to mobilize new and additional
financial resources for development projects. We believe
that this proposal should be studied thoroughly and we
would emphasize the crucial contribution that donor
countries can make in mobilizing additional financial
resources.
Moreover, multilateral cooperation and economic
integration among African States,
to which Tunisia
attaches particular importance, are imperative to the
promotion of development in the continent. The United
Nations role in cooperating with the OAU is essential to
that effect. Action in this respect should include the
drafting of specific programmes aimed at strengthening
regional cooperation in Africa and at facilitating the
attainment of the objectives of the Treaty establishing the
African Economic Community.
It
is clear that any solution to the problems of
African development, both within and outside the
framework of the OAU, must include the establishment of
a new partnership between Africa and the international
community. This would require the increased commitment
of the international community to helping the continent
and global measures to respond effectively and adequately
to its needs.
In this regard, Tunisia reiterates the appeal made by
our President, Mr. Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, for a global
economic plan to ensure Africa’s expansion on a healthy
and lasting basis. This plan should help to strength
Africa’s own capacities by mobilizing financial resources,
intensifying technical
and strengthening
industrialization through partnership, direct investment,
trade and the search for a lasting solution to the problem
of debt.
assistance
In conclusion, I would recall
the Security
Council, in its presidential statement of last September on
the situation in Africa, stressed that the challenges facing
that
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Africa require a more global response. To that end, it
requested the Secretary-General
to submit a report
containing concrete recommendations to the Council by
February 1998 regarding the sources of conflict in Africa,
ways to prevent and address these conflicts, and how to lay
the foundation for durable peace and economic growth. We
express the hope that, when the report is submitted, it will
contain recommendations that will serve as the starting
point of a new era of effective cooperation and fruitful
partnership between the international community and
Africa.
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider the draft resolution
contained in document A/52/L.8. I should like to announce
that, since the introduction of the draft resolution this
morning, the Netherlands has become a sponsor of the draft
resolution.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
the Assembly
resolution A/52/L.8. May I take it
decides to adopt the draft resolution?
that
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
members about my intention to convene a meeting of the
Working Group on Tuesday, 25 November 1997, at 3
p.m. in the Trusteeship Council Chamber.
On the subject of agenda item 59, entitled “Question
of equitable representation on and increase in the
membership of the Security Council and related matters”,
I should like to inform the Assembly that, as scheduled,
we will have a debate on this item on 4 December.
After having held intensive consultations, it is my
understanding that we will not be taking any decisions on
the item regarding Security Council issues at this stage of
its consideration. I have received assurances to this effect,
and I am satisfied with these assurances.
In this connection,
I should like to take this
opportunity to inform the Assembly that it is also my
intention to convene a meeting this week of the Open-
ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the
Security Council and Other Matters Related to the
Security Council
its Vice-Chairmen. An
announcement to this effect will be made in the Journal.
to elect
Draft resolution A/52/L.8 was adopted (resolution
52/20).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration
of agenda item 42?
It was so decided.
The Acting President:
I should like to inform
members that, in view of the lateness of the hour, the
consideration of the last item scheduled for this morning —
agenda item 20 on humanitarian assistance and its sub-
items (a), (b), (d), (e) and (f) — is postponed to this
afternoon.
The President in the Chair.
Programme of work
The President: First, I should like to inform Members
that I have received a letter from the Secretary-General, in
which he requests the convening of the High-level Open-
ended Working Group on the Financial Situation of the
United Nations.
I have already held
extensive consultations and have also requested the
Chairmen of the regional groups to inform their respective
In this regard,
I would like also to draw the Assembly’s attention
to paragraph 7 of General Assembly resolution 40/243,
which states,
“no subsidiary organ of the General Assembly may
meet at United Nations Headquarters during a
regular session of the Assembly unless explicitly
authorized by the Assembly”.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees with
my proposals — that is, to convene a meeting of the
High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial
Situation of the United Nations tomorrow, and to convene
a meeting of the Open-ended Working Group on the
Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in
the Membership of the Security Council and Other
Matters Related to the Security Council this week, at a
time to be announced in the Journal?
It was so decided.
The President: I should like to announce that the
High-level Open-ended Working Group on the Financial
Situation of the United Nations will hold its first meeting
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
52nd plenary meeting
24 November 1997
tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Trusteeship Council Chamber.
The agenda for that meeting will be as follows: the election
of Vice-Chairmen, a statement by the Secretary-General and
a
for
Administration and Management.
the Under-Secretary-General
statement
by
As far as the meeting on Security Council reform is
concerned, this will include only the election or nomination
of two Vice-Chairmen.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
18
