United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
18th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 30 September 1997, 3 p.m.
New York
A/52/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I call first on the speaker Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Niger and for Persons of Niger
Nationality Living Abroad, His Excellency Mr. Ibrahim
Assane Mayaki.
Mr. Mayaki (Niger) (interpretation from French): On
behalf of the delegation of Niger, I should like Sir, to
express my warm congratulations on your unanimous
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its
fifty-second session. We regard your election as a just
tribute to your country, the Republic of Ukraine, whose
commitment
to the ideals of our Organization is well
known.
I would also like to congratulate the other members of
the Bureau, who I am convinced will help you in the
accomplishment of your delicate mission.
In addition, I wish to express to your predecessor,
Mr. Razali Ismail, our deep appreciation for the remarkable
work he did during his presidency.
To Mr. Kofi Annan,
the Secretary-General of our
Organization, may I express my Government's full support
and brotherly encouragement for the commendable action
he is carrying out in order to promote greater cooperation
between our peoples and nations in order to build a world
of peace and progress.
Once again, Niger is pleased to take part in a session
of the General Assembly, which is an ideal framework for
the Member States of our Organization to debate, in a
spirit of partnership, complex matters affecting the destiny
of humanity.
We must all agree that over its 52 years of existence
the United Nations has gained a more than honourable
record in achieving its purposes, especially in the areas of
peacekeeping, decolonization, and the promotion of, and
respect for, human rights, as well as in the search for
global solutions to the major problems of our times —
development,
the environment, population and the
protection of women and children, to mention just a few.
The immense work accomplished so far is above all
the result of our capacity to work together in our common
interest and in the interest of future generations. Niger
therefore believes that international cooperation, which is
the basis of
these major achievements, must be
strengthened, because it is the source of stability and
progress.
special
a
The maintenance of international peace and security,
the primary purpose of our Organization, deserves
everyone's
time when the
international community, with the cold war finally ended,
is getting down to establishing a new world order that
strictly respects the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter.
attention at
97-86110 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Niger welcomes the report presented by the Secretary-
General last July on the reform of our Organization. We
support this process and hope that it will provide synergy,
giving the means and flexibility indispensable for the
Organization if it is to meet the numerous challenges it
faces at the dawn of the third millennium.
My delegation believes too that the Security Council
must be reformed in order to make it more effective, given
its responsibilities in the sphere of collective security. In
particular, such reform must address the expansion of the
Council on the basis of
the principles of equitable
geographical distribution and of the sovereign equality of
States.
In the same vein, we consider that better handling of
the emergencies that constantly arise in so many places
must include an improvement in the Organization's capacity
to deploy peacekeeping forces in a timely fashion wherever
necessary.
Let me express Niger's deep concern at the conflicts
and tensions in Africa and in the Middle East. Turning first
to Africa, we note with distress that internal confrontations
and disruptions are the main cause of
the political
instability in some countries and of the massive movements
of refugees that are at the root of a tragic humanitarian
crisis. Niger has a deep commitment to peace, and must
once again urge the warring parties in the States concerned
to renounce violence and engage in productive dialogue to
find solutions to their disputes, thus restoring stability to
their respective countries.
I take this opportunity to pay a well-deserved tribute
to the people of Liberia, who after seven years of cruel war
accepted the peace plan proposed by the States members of
the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS). The Liberian people's will for peace is clearly
reflected in their respect for the ceasefire and, above all, in
the 19 July national elections, which were conducted in an
atmosphere of calm and openness. I am pleased to pay
tribute to the valuable role played by our great brother
country, Nigeria,
in the process of restoring peace to
Liberia.
In Congo (Brazzaville), we hail the tireless efforts of
neighbouring African countries, of the Organization of
African Unity and of the United Nations to calm the
situation. More than ever, that crisis highlights the urgent
need to create an African peacekeeping force. I can today
assure the Assembly that my country is fully prepared to
2
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
contribute to the establishment of such a force, as it did
in the cases of Rwanda, Burundi and Liberia.
Turning to the situation in Western Sahara, my
country welcomes the recent agreement by the two
parties; we hope that the referendum will take place in
conditions of peace and calm.
To promote peace and security in the Middle East,
the international community must pay sustained attention
to the tension in the occupied Palestinian territories,
Israeli
which has been steadily rising since
Government decision to build a new settlement
in
occupied East Jerusalem. That Israeli decision endangers
the peace process that began in Madrid on the basis of
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and
425 (1978) and on the basis of the principle of land for
peace.
the
In the face of that Israeli Government position, the
international community has no choice but to redouble its
efforts to secure dialogue and, above all, justice — which
form the foundation of a peaceful future in the Middle
East, along with the necessary exercise by the Palestinian
people of its inalienable rights, including the right to the
establishment of an independent State, and scrupulous
respect
for agreements reached between the Israeli
Government and the Palestine Liberation Organization on
the basis of the relevant Security Council and General
Assembly resolutions.
Since its creation, the United Nations has always
given high priority to disarmament, and in particular to
the elimination of nuclear weapons and other weapons of
mass destruction. There has been good progress on this
issue with the conclusion of a number of international
instruments, the most notable of which, in our view, are
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
the
the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Niger is deeply
convinced that disarmament is an essential element in the
maintenance of international peace and security and has
acceded to those important agreements, which are aimed
at preventing the development of nuclear weapons and of
other weapons of mass destruction.
Chemical Weapons
Convention
and
My country is keenly aware also of other, no less
important, issues relating to illegal trafficking in small
arms and to a complete ban on the anti-personnel mines
that constitute a harsh scourge that continues to inflict
unspeakable human suffering.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Civil wars and political upheaval
in Africa have
fostered the proliferation of illicit weapons. To collect and
monitor weapons illicitly held by individuals, Niger has
joined the United Nations and several neighbouring
countries to take wide-ranging action against this scourge.
On the domestic level, we created in 1994 a national
commission for the collection and monitoring of illicit
weapons.
My country is genuinely pleased also at the existence
of regional disarmament initiatives, some of which have led
to the conclusion of arrangements such as the Treaty on the
Denuclearization of Africa.
In our view, it is essential to benefit from the climate
of confidence and cooperation now prevailing on the
international scene to give new impetus to multilateral
negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament. That is the
only way to make progress towards building a safer world,
which is a legitimate aspiration of all our peoples.
The tragic effects of poverty in a large number of
countries merely exacerbate instability in the world.
economic
fields,
and social
Despite the remarkable progress made in recent years
following the
in the
implementation of structural economic reforms, Africa
remains in many respects a region where poverty has
increased spectacularly. On this continent are found the
majority of countries with the lowest indices with respect
to human development.
For this reason, as a Sahelian country, we feel that the
reform process proposed by the Secretary-General must
strengthen the role of the United Nations and its functions
in development matters, making priorities of reducing
poverty and strengthening the participation of more
countries in an expanding world economy. The remarkable
contribution made by the development institutions, such as
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the United
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), in our country must be
highlighted. We encourage the Secretary-General to ensure
that in the reform process there will be respect for the
autonomy of
to preserve their
effectiveness.
these bodies in order
We welcomed the United Nations New Agenda for the
Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted in 1991,
which has been supplemented by the United Nations
System-wide Special Initiative on Africa launched by the
Secretary-General in March 1996. Their purpose was to
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
help Africa in its recovery efforts. Today it is more
urgent than ever that the industrialized countries grant
broad support to these programmes, and establish funds
for diversification to allow African countries to obtain a
better return for their commodities and thus assure vital
resources for their populations. This support in particular
must take the form of resources to be invested in priority
sectors, such as basic education, health and security of
food and water supplies, sectors capable of laying down
solid bases for sustainable development in Africa.
Africa certainly needs assistance. But my country
remains convinced that the resources the continent needs
for its development efforts can be generated by increasing
trade with the developed countries. African countries are
waiting for the industrialized countries to implement the
measures adopted as part of the Final Act of the Uruguay
Round negotiations, supplemented by specific preference
provisions in the Marrakesh Agreements, to mitigate the
negative effects the reforms envisaged in the negotiations
could have on countries which are net importers of food
products.
Similarly, the external debt of African countries is a
problem requiring viable and fair solutions, going beyond
the measures taken in the Paris Club framework. The new
initiative taken recently by the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund to significantly reduce the
multilateral debt of the poorest countries, should extend
to all those countries, without any eligibility conditions or
deadlines.
Nonetheless, the cancellation of all the debt is the
most appropriate solution in order to ensure accelerated
development by the least developed countries. Such
actions, in my delegation's view, will make it possible to
reduce poverty noticeably.
These recommendations are set out in the Agenda
for Development, adopted during the last Assembly
is up to the international community to
session.
effectively implement
this programme to bring about
development and growth in our countries.
It
Because of its lack of resources, successive droughts
and high population growth, Niger is part of the group of
African countries where poverty is omnipresent. In the
light of
its high level of poverty, His Excellency
Mr. Ibrahim Maïnassara Baré, President of the Republic
of Niger, and the Government decided that for society to
progress we needed stable and democratic institutions
guaranteeing respect for and the promotion of human
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
rights. It was also decided to make all our development
actions part of our battle against poverty.
In liaison with its development partners,
the
Government of Niger has therefore agreed on a plan to
combat poverty, with policies to stimulate sustainable
growth, improve rural income, give better access to social
services and slow population growth, in particular. We
would like to take this opportunity to invite bilateral and
multilateral donors to play an active part in implementing
this plan to combat poverty in Niger.
of
our
economy,
Our Government is firmly committed to ensuring good
management
the
democratization process and bringing about the participation
at all levels of those who would benefit from the execution
of
this plan, which is based on principles of good
government. That commitment undoubtedly guarantees its
success.
deepening
Moreover, I am particularly pleased to inform the
Assembly, and thus to reassure the my country's backers
and partners
that peace in Niger has become an
unquestioned reality. Indeed, since the signing of the peace
agreement of 24 April 1995 in Niamey between the
Government of the Republic of Niger and the Organization
of the Armed Resistance,
the peace process has made
remarkable progress. For example, action has been taken
with respect to decentralization, the return of refugees, the
celebration each year of a day of harmony and the
implementation of an emergency programme for
the
rehabilitation of our agricultural region. I solemnly appeal
to the international community to contribute to the
completion of the peace progress already begun.
the
protecting
Before concluding,
environment, whose
I would like to reaffirm the
complete commitment of a Sahelian country such as Niger
to
continuous
degradation is a source of real concern. Niger welcomed the
recent holding in New York of the nineteenth special
session of the General Assembly, devoted to a review of
the implementation of Agenda 21 and the establishment of
new policies for the future.
The special session showed us that while notable
progress has been made with respect to climate change,
biodiversity, combating desertification and the use of
renewable sources of energy, that is not the case with
regard to no less important questions, such as access to
drinking water, which is a real problem for humankind, the
unbridled exploitation of the oceans and deforestation.
4
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
Thus, we have to recognize that, at the conclusion of
its proceedings, the special session did not live up to the
hopes placed in it. In particular, it failed to create new
levels of international cooperation or to establish a basis
for
legally binding codes of conduct on improved
environmental protection.
respect
In that context, my delegation confines itself here to
recalling Principle 7 of
the Rio Declaration, which
emphasizes the concept of common but differentiated
responsibilities for the entire international community
The
with
complementarity
and
environmental questions obliges all our countries to
acknowledge the need for solidarity and joint action to
reach the goals laid down in Agenda 21. We owe this
solidarity to future generations.
environmental matters.
social
economic,
between
to
The President: I now call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, His Excellency Mr. Alvaro
Ramos.
Mr. Ramos (Uruguay) (interpretation from Spanish):
Allow me first of all, Mr. President, to congratulate you
on your election to preside over this new session of the
General Assembly. We are sure that the experience you
have gained in your years of activity in the Organization,
together with your personal qualities and technical skills,
will, under your mandate, contribute to the strengthening
of this most important body of the Organization.
Allow me also to express our congratulations to the
outgoing President, Ambassador Razali, for the work he
performed, which
the
strengthening both of the presidency and of the role the
General Assembly is called on to play in the United
Nations.
contributed
certainly
to
Undoubtedly, the central focus of our attention will
continue to be the issue of the reform of the Organization,
the essence of which is now contained in the document
submitted by the Secretary-General.
Mr. Tello (Mexico), Vice-President, took the Chair.
My country fully supports and has every confidence
in the appointment and endeavours of the Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan. We have thus paid the greatest
attention to the package of reforms he has submitted, and
we are prepared to promote deliberations on them so that
they can be concluded as soon as possible.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
of
equipping
the Organization with
We understand that the document is aimed at the
objective
an
administrative structure that will permit more flexible
management, prevent duplication of functions and secure
coordination among its organs and programmes, all of
which will result
in an improvement in terms of both
economy and management.
is one of the most
Within the overall issue of reform, the specific topic
of the Security Council
important
because of the political significance that organ has had and
will continue to have within the structure of the United
Nations. Uruguay endorses an enlargement of the Council
because it believes that its structure should be adapted to
the new realities in the world, which differ substantially
from those that existed when the Organization was
established, since at that time account was taken of the
power structure resulting from the Second World War.
In this regard, we support an increase in the number
of both permanent and non-permanent Members of the
Council, to a total of not more than 25, so that efficiency
is not
impaired. Our country particularly supports an
increased presence of developing countries to ensure a
better balance in the membership of this singular organ of
our Organization. We believe that the newly created seats
should be occupied on the basis of
real equality of
opportunity for all States.
However, my country believes that the reform of the
Council should not be confined to the topic of
its
membership. Equally important is ensuring that its activities
are transparent and that
information provided to and
communication with the States that are not members of the
Council flow freely and are up to date.
The Eastern Republic of Uruguay has expressed strong
support for progressively limiting the right of veto, and to
that end we have submitted a proposal to the effect that on
certain subjects, the right of veto could be suspended by the
General Assembly by a majority to be determined. That
mechanism, essentially democratic in nature, would thus
help reduce the absolute power of the right of veto as
currently provided for in the Charter, while at the same
time it would strengthen the competence of the General
Assembly.
Nonetheless, our country will be ready to analyse any
other proposal that might be submitted aimed at limiting the
absolute individual veto.
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
While the reform of the Security Council and the
possible revision of the scale of assessments have recently
been, and continue to be, the focus of political attention,
we should also study the question of strengthening the
General Assembly. A calm and dispassionate analysis of
the organizational structure and respective areas of
responsibility of our Organization shows that the forum
where the principle of juridical equality of States reigns
supreme is undoubtedly the General Assembly.
There has been and still
is much discussion
regarding the composition of the Security Council and the
exercise of the right of veto, in the context of the new
parameters of international realities. That is all well and
good, but at the same time, we need to find practical
ways of revitalizing and invigorating the activity of the
Assembly.
The General Assembly is a unique body in
international institutional machinery. In it, representativity
is practically universal. States participate on an equal
footing without regard for their size or power, and the
ideal of
international democracy attains its clearest
expression, at least in formal terms. The decisions of this
body have great moral and political force and accordingly,
it is essential to formulate them better and make them
more timely.
For these reasons, the General Assembly not only
needs to function more flexibly and utilize its resources
more rationally, but also, and essentially, requires greater
substance. Only thus will we be able to give its
resolutions greater operative force.
Consequently, we should take a new approach and
open a new chapter in the reform process, not confining
our reflections and aspirations to reforms of the Security
Council or to reforms of a financial nature, but extending
them to the organ that brings together the international
community as a whole, namely, the General Assembly.
After 52 years of the Organization's existence, the
maintenance of international peace and security continues
to be one of
functions. Peacekeeping
operations, to which my country is proud to have been a
contributor from the outset, must be fully maintained
while adapting to new kinds of conflicts.
its essential
Uruguay is prepared for this, and, accordingly, we
reaffirm here once again our commitment not only to
continue to make our traditional contribution but also to
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
diversify it in order to adapt it fundamentally to peace-
building.
In this connection, we welcome the signing, with the
Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations, of
a memorandum of
our
contributions to the United Nations standby arrangements
system. This will contribute to facilitating the planning of
future peacekeeping missions in the shortest possible time.
understanding
regarding
The General Assembly's recent adoption of
the
resolution putting an end to the use of “gratis personnel
provided by Governments and other entities” fulfils one of
my country's long-standing aspirations and does justice to
the principles of equitable geographical representation and
the equality of Member States, both enshrined in the
Charter.
Similarly,
the recent General Assembly resolution
adopting uniform and standardized rates for payment of
awards in cases of death or disability sustained by troops in
the service of the United Nations peacekeeping operations
seems to us an important step that puts an end to an unjust
situation.
We fully support
the Middle East peace process
initiated at Madrid in October 1991 and continued at
Washington, and the Government of the Eastern Republic
of Uruguay continues to encourage the necessary holding of
direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian National
Authority. It is essential for both parties to respect in good
faith the commitments entered into in the Madrid and
Washington declarations.
Our Latin American continent does not want an arms
race;
to be free of nuclear
it wants, on the contrary,
weapons and of other sophisticated weapons of mass
destruction that can create instability. We want to work in
peace, allocating the largest possible amount of resources
to our economic and social development.
However, this should not be an obstacle to limited
purchases of arms by our armed forces solely for the
purpose of replacing their obsolete equipment, thereby fully
discharging their constitutional mandates.
We must work to ensure a continuation of the mutual
confidence and security that prevails in the region today,
without third countries weakening and taking advantage of
our continent through the sale of sophisticated weapons.
6
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
Uruguay will continue to support with firm
conviction all disarmament processes, and, accordingly,
we recently signed in Oslo the Convention on the
Prohibition of
the Use, Stockpiling, Production and
Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines, those lethal weapons
that have caused not only death and serious injury to
soldiers but also the loss of thousands of innocent lives.
Protection of human rights has been and will
continue to be one of the priority objectives of both our
domestic and international policies. Without full exercise
of human rights, there can be neither peace nor security,
neither economic prosperity nor social equity, and the
existence of a democratic system of government will
therefore also be impossible.
In addition, there can be no full exercise of human
and
rights without
educational base, and my country will be prepared to
contribute to ensuring the existence of such a base.
a minimum economic,
social
In this connection, we fully support the restructuring
proposed by the Secretary-General while at the same time
endorsing the philosophy on which it is based, embodied
in his idea that the question of human rights should be
part of all the substantive spheres of the Secretariat's
programme of work: peace and security, economic and
social affairs, development cooperation and humanitarian
affairs.
The financial crisis the Organization is experiencing,
which has no counterpart in its history, stems primarily
from the failure to pay assessed contributions. While not
intending to justify any delay in payment, Uruguay
believes that the current scale of assessments requires
adjustments to make it fairer, more transparent and better
based on the capacity of States to pay. That should not,
however, mean that developing countries would assume
new and additional commitments today; that would, in our
view, be unjust and unacceptable. The system of
contributions should be based on objective criteria of
financial responsibility. We agree that there is a need to
correct and manage the budgets of the Organization in
order to reduce expenditures and increase efficiency, thus
striking a balance between expenditure on peace and
security and expenditure on development, each of which
is a cornerstone of the other, without weakening operating
and information activities.
We cannot but express our public satisfaction at
seeing the importance the Secretary-General attaches to
development, which he regards as one of the priorities
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
and essential functions of the Organization. There can be no
peace without development.
On the threshold of a century that is already taking
shape and that, unfortunately, seems to be marked by
growth without equity, uncertainty in employment and a
proliferation of crises and conflicts, good management of
development assistance is today more necessary than ever
before. At a time when human concerns seem to be alien to
us,
to support an
Organization that holds that people must be placed at the
very heart of the development process if we want growth to
be compatible with the human condition and development
to be conducted by and for people.
in Uruguay's view,
is essential,
it
In this context, we consider it very important
to
maintain unconditionally the principle of universality and
the right of all developing countries, without exception, to
benefit
from international cooperation and to receive
technical assistance with a view to achieving sustainable
human development.
Uruguay considers international technical cooperation
essential for consolidating the processes of development and
integration in the various regions. It is a fundamental tool
for attaining greater economic growth.
We
the
tool
support
development
of South-South
cooperation as an important
for promoting the
improved development of nations. We believe that a new
concept of technical cooperation will have to respond to
traditional demands, such as humanitarian affairs, as well
as others associated directly with the process of integration
into the international economy, such as, for example, the
redefinition of the role of the State, its modernization and
its decentralization.
We believe that a positive contribution to political and
democratic stability and to economic growth is made by
processes of regional and subregional integration. In our
case, the Southern Cone Common Market — composed of
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and our country — is a clear
example of democratic stability and expansion of trade,
within and outside the region, compatible with the rules of
the World Trade Organization.
Uruguay continues to assign to international law a
primordial role as a regulator of relations among States.
Respect for and compliance with international
law are
essential for peaceful coexistence. For this reason, we
support the holding of an international conference to discuss
a draft convention establishing an international criminal
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
seriousness,
court for autonomous and independent hearings on certain
crimes, such as genocide and others which, because of
their
roundly condemned by the
international community. We also support the work of the
Ad Hoc Committee on the elaboration of a convention for
the suppression of terrorist bombings.
are
In times of change, which we all see as appropriate
and inevitable in order to revitalize the Organization, we
nevertheless identify more than ever before with the
essential purposes and principles established 52 years ago.
These bind the Organization together and, despite the time
that has elapsed and the important changes that have since
taken place in the world, continue to constitute and must
continue to constitute, today as yesterday, the goal and
objective of all the changes the United Nations will have
to face at the dawn of the twenty-first century.
People, simple people, call for us to be effective and
efficient in our activities and bold in our decisions in
preventing conflicts, and to act on their behalf
in
rebuilding civil societies. The citizens of every nation, of
every country of the world, call on us today to be firm in
our commitment to the Charter and to adapt our new
activities to the changing times.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Indonesia, His Excellency Mr. Ali Alatas.
Mr. Alatas (Indonesia): It gives me great pleasure
to offer Foreign Minister Hennadiy Udovenko of Ukraine
the felicitations of my delegation on his assumption of the
presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-second
session.
that, under his experienced
leadership, we will achieve substantive progress in our
work.
I am confident
I should also like to pay tribute to his predecessor,
Mr. Razali Ismail, for the skilful manner in which he
guided our deliberations during an extraordinarily busy
year. His purposeful and decisive stewardship secured the
success of the fifty-first session of the General Assembly.
I join other members in commending our Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his report “Renewing the
United Nations: A Programme for Reform”. His initiative
deserves our praise and the recommendations in the report
merit our serious consideration.
Since we met last year, world developments have
continued to show a mixture of bright promise, new
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
challenges and pervasive uncertainty. The post-cold-war era
has opened up new possibilities for
the solution of
persistent problems and conflicts and the pursuit of a global
agenda for peace and development. In various parts of the
world, protagonists have shown a desire to resolve their
differences through dialogue and negotiations. Globalization
has raised the hopes of mankind for equitably shared
prosperity.
significant
Yet, intra-State conflicts continue to rage in many
parts of the world even as the international community
faces a multitude of new and unpredictable threats and
challenges. Despite
limiting
armaments,
the destructive power of nuclear weapons
continues to pose a threat to all life on Earth. Poverty and
backwardness hold dominion over vast areas of
the
developing world, while the developing countries are
increasingly marginalized
economic
decision-making.
international
strides
in
in
We cannot hope to rid the world of these systemic
problems unless we can devise an effective system of
global governance capable of managing the impact of
globalization and interdependence, fulfilling the interlinked
demands of peace,
and
reconciling the competing interests of a constantly widening
range of actors in international affairs. For that system of
global governance to be effective and universally accepted,
it must have for its central mechanism and source of
legitimacy a United Nations revitalized through a process
of judicious reform and democratization.
security and development,
that
reform package
My delegation has therefore welcomed the United
Nations
the Secretary-General
presented to the General Assembly last July. We support
the endeavour to transform the leadership and management
structure of the Organization so that it can address the
challenges of the new millennium with a greater sense of
purpose, effectiveness and efficiency. We commend the
proposal to promote sustained and sustainable development
through,
the creation of a “development
dividend” by shifting resources to development activities,
especially those for poverty alleviation.
inter alia,
We attach great importance to the proposed measure
to overcome the financial crisis of the Organization through
the creation of a revolving credit
fund pending the
attainment of a permanent solution to the crisis. Just as
crucial is the idea of enhancing the effectiveness of the
United Nations in disarmament activities by establishing a
new department for disarmament and arms regulation, to be
new
headed
an Under-Secretary-General. That
by
8
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
should squarely address
the
department, however,
question of nuclear disarmament as a priority issue and
not only the non-proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction.
We also welcome the efforts to improve the
Organization's ability to deploy peacekeeping and other
field operations more rapidly, enhance the United Nations
capacity for post-conflict peace-building,
strengthen
international efforts to combat drugs, crime and terrorism,
and bolster international response to global humanitarian
needs. The reorganization and restructuring of the human
rights secretariat is also timely and appropriate. However,
the idea of extending human rights activities by
integrating them into all United Nations activities and
programmes entails careful study. Hence, Indonesia stands
ready to participate constructively in the detailed
discussions on the proposed reform package which will
take place during this Assembly.
Of equally vital concern is the question of the
reform and expansion of the Security Council so as to
reflect the realities of today and to accommodate the basic
interests of the developing countries which comprise the
overwhelming majority in the Organization. On the
expansion of membership of the Council, our view is well
known: that new permanent members should be chosen
not only on the basis of
equitable geographic
representation, but also on the basis of a set of criteria
such as political, economic and demographic weight; their
capability and their track record of contributing to the
promotion of peace both regionally and globally; and their
commitment
to
permanent membership. And we should first discuss and
agree on this set of criteria before we determine who
represents which region or which group of Member
countries. We should not put the cart before the horse.
to assume responsibilities
inherent
and
distort
restrict
unduly
possibly
In this regard, predetermined numerical limitations
would
the
representative value of the expansion of the Security
Council. The African Member countries have indicated
that
they would like to have two permanent seats
representing their region. By the same token, we believe
the new composition of the
that
Security Council
should have two new permanent
members from among the developing countries of the
Asian continent.
is legitimate that
it
As emphasized by the Ministerial Conference of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held last April in
there should be no partial or selective
New Delhi,
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
expansion of the membership of the Security Council to the
the developing countries, and efforts to
detriment of
restructure the Council should not be subject
to any
imposed time-frame, for although the issue is urgent it
should not be decided before there is general agreement.
The Foreign Ministers of the Non-Aligned Movement also
stressed that the use of the veto should be curtailed with a
view to its eventual elimination, and that the improvement
of the working methods of the Council should be given
equal importance.
While we are deeply engaged in this process of reform
we must not
lose sight of the fundamental goals that
impelled us to undertake it in the first place: to enhance the
Organization's ability to foster development and to address
the root causes of poverty and conflict. Reform should not
become a euphemism for budget slashing or an excuse for
certain Member States
financial
obligations to the Organization. When reforms are in place,
they could indeed ensure optimum use of resources and
generate savings. But they could become meaningless if,
due to insolvency,
the United Nations were rendered
incapable of fulfilling its mission.
to renege on their
Much of the insecurity in the world today stems from
the fact that the international community has not been able
to abolish nuclear armaments. The Non-Proliferation Treaty
has been indefinitely extended, but without any guarantee
that
to nuclear disarmament will be
honoured. We are also dismayed that the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty does not effectively prohibit
nuclear testing in all environments and for all time, without
loopholes or exceptions.
the commitment
Nevertheless, we signed the Treaty in the hope that the
nuclear Powers on their own would refrain from testing
through simulation. That hope has been shattered by the
sub-critical tests announced recently by a nuclear-weapon
State. Although these sub-critical tests do not legally violate
the CTBT, they make a travesty of the spirit of the Treaty.
The nuclear Powers should desist from conducting such
tests, as they could lead to the resumption of the nuclear
arms race and its attendant risk of global disaster.
Meanwhile, in South-East Asia, the South-East Asia
Nuclear- Weapon-Free Zone Treaty came into force earlier
this year. We hope that the nuclear-weapon States will also
contribute to regional security by their timely accession to
the relevant Protocol of the Treaty.
In the Middle East we are witnessing a continuing
escalation in Israeli provocative acts. Israel's encroachments
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
on East Jerusalem, especially in Jabal Abu Ghneim, have
plunged the peace process into deeper crisis and triggered
unrest and tension on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Israel persists in its illegal construction activities,
in
blockading Palestinian territory and besieging Palestinian
cities and towns and in withholding funds belonging to
the Palestinian Authority.
The imposition of a harsh regimen of collective
punishment contravenes all international legal norms and
principles and violates the fundamental rights of the
Palestinian people. We must therefore vigorously support
all efforts to restore the momentum of the peace process
and to bring about the resumption of negotiations based
on the provisions of the Declaration of Principles and the
principle of land for peace. And we must continue to
press for progress on the Syrian-Israeli and Lebanese-
Israeli
tracks of the peace process, for without such
progress a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East
question is not possible.
In Cambodia, the recent regrettable turn of events,
which resulted in a significant change in the governmental
set-up and political situation has threatened to plunge the
country back into factional strife and instability. The
interests of the Association of South-East Asian Nations
(ASEAN) and Cambodia are inextricably linked, and the
stability of Cambodia is essential to the stability of the
South-East Asian region. Therefore, while ASEAN
reaffirms its commitment
to the principle of non-
interference in the internal affairs of other States, it stands
ready to contribute its efforts to help restore political
stability in Cambodia. Accordingly, ASEAN has proposed
the immediate cessation of all armed hostilities and acts
of violence throughout Cambodia and called on the
conflicting parties to resolve their differences amicably.
Indonesia believes that a principled solution can only
be reached through dialogue, with the aim of preserving
the coalition Government that reflects the power-sharing
arrangements resulting from the elections of 1993, held
under the auspices of the United Nations. Furthermore,
free and fair elections should be held as scheduled next
May, with the participation of all Cambodian parties and
political forces as an important element of its success.
Indonesia welcomes the convening of the four-party
talks among the Republic of Korea,
the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, the United States and the
People's Republic of China. We believe that a positive
outcome to these talks will pave the way for
the
establishment of a permanent peace mechanism and that
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization
(KEDO) will
facilitate endeavours towards a lasting
solution to the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula.
crushed overnight in the anarchy of the globalized market
place. Globalization should, therefore, be managed so as
to soften its impact on vulnerable economies.
the Agreement
In Bosnia and Herzegovina the implementation of the
Peace Agreement has entered a critical phase. Key
provisions of
remain unimplemented.
Refugees and displaced persons continue to be denied their
right
to return to their pre-war homes. Freedom of
movement has not been restored fully, and discrimination
and harassment are still prevalent. Challenges remain in the
functioning of the common State institutions that are so
vital to unity and reconciliation.
The unravelling of the Peace Accord would have
devastating consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina and
its neighbours. All concerned should therefore join ranks
and work together to ensure the irreversibility of the peace
process and the full implementation of the Peace Accords.
It is encouraging to note from the World Economic
and Social Survey and other authoritative sources that the
global economy is basically healthy, that growth rates have
risen for the third consecutive year and that such progress
has been more widespread than before. However, we have
no illusions that the global economy has fully recovered
from a protracted period of decline during the past decade.
The echoes of
the recession in the 1980s are still
reverberating. Millions in the developing world are still
languishing in wrenching poverty. And this new growth has
had little impact on rates of unemployment and under-
employment. In fact, it would take another 10 years of
similar growth just to recover the gross domestic product
per capita levels of the early 1980s.
Indonesia welcomes the adoption by the General
Assembly of An Agenda for Development, a major
initiative designed to restore the theme of development to
the centre of the operations of the United Nations. The
Agenda provides
framework of
principles and measures designed to promote development
as a vital preoccupation of the international community.
It also seeks to restore the centrality of the United
Nations in the pursuit of international cooperation for
development.
comprehensive
a
Perhaps the greatest constraint to development today
is the dearth of financial resources for development.
While there is an increased emphasis on foreign direct
investment, and this is welcome, the fact remains that
official development assistance constitutes the principal
source of development financing for the majority of the
developing countries. Regrettably, official development
assistance is in sharp decline, and has today reached its
lowest level since target levels were adopted in 1970.
Because many developing countries are unable to attract
adequate volumes of
the
constriction of official development assistance has taken
an enormous
and economic
development, particularly in their efforts aimed at
reducing hunger,
illiteracy and child mortality. We
therefore support the proposal in the reform package
submitted by the Secretary-General for the creation of an
Office of Development Financing that will pursue this
endeavour
full-time in tandem with the proposed
“development dividend”.
toll on their
foreign direct
investment,
social
has
about
indeed
brought
Globalization
an
unprecedented surge in international trade, investments and
information flows, but it has also accentuated the inequities
and imbalances of international economic relations. Only
the developed economies have fully benefited from it. The
developing countries as a whole continue to suffer its
negative impact while being marginalized from international
economic decision-making processes in which they could
otherwise seek redress from the inequities weighing down
their development efforts.
Even developing economies that have attained some
measure of dynamism are not immune to the perils of
globalization and liberalization. Given the sharp fluctuations
of international financial flows and currency manipulation
by speculators, economies built through years of patient,
sound and solid fiscal and monetary policies could be
10
entails
a
that
another
approach
reduction
debilitating
impediment
The problem of chronic external
indebtedness
constitutes
to
development. Despite various debt relief initiatives in the
past, many developing countries remain crippled by their
debt overhangs. My country has always advocated a once-
and-for-all
of
indebtedness to a level that will allow resumption of
development. We therefore support the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries Initiative of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, as it would help some
of the poorest countries escape the vicious cycle of
indebtedness and deprivation and once again take the road
to development. In this context, Indonesia has pledged, as
a concrete expression of this support, $10 million to the
World Bank's Trust Fund for the debt relief of the heavily
these
indebted poor countries. We also urge that
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
be
implemented
initiatives
flexibility, and that
countries that are also in dire need of development.
and with
they cover other heavily indebted
expeditiously
are
finding their
and countervailing duties. Moreover,
attempts of developed countries
In this era of trade liberalization, and in spite of the
presence of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the
developing countries
comparative
advantage rendered meaningless by an array of non-tariff
barriers, preference-erosion and the misuse of anti-dumping
measures
the
persistent
to link
international trade issues with extraneous issues, such as
labour standards, amount to a new form of protectionism.
Such insidious obstacles to free and open trade have to be
done away with so that the global economy can benefit
from an equitable, transparent and rule-based multilateral
trading system, with the World Trade Organization as its
embodiment.
Our common aspirations for global economic and
social development will never be realized until all forms of
discrimination are removed from society and opportunity is
afforded equitably to all humanity. The Programme of
Action for the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination (1993-2003) should be the vehicle of our
endeavours
racism and racial
discrimination. The Beijing Declaration and Platform for
Action, adopted at
the Fourth World Conference on
Women, must be vigorously implemented at all levels.
Likewise, implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration
and Programme of Action is essential for the attainment of
a positive environment for enhancing the human condition.
to end all
forms of
revealed that
As to the environment, it is regrettable that the special
session of the General Assembly devoted to the review of
the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development and Agenda 21 has
the
commitments to the Rio Conference and to the Agenda
have not been substantially fulfilled. The international
community, particularly the countries
that have the
technological and financial resources, must summon the
political will to bring positive action to support Agenda 21.
Vigorous measures should also be taken in defence of
our human resources and social values against the thrusts of
international crime, drug trafficking and drug abuse. We
therefore remain committed to support the mechanisms of
the United Nations anti-crime and anti-drug programmes.
We look forward to the convening of a special session of
the General Assembly in 1998 to assess the situation and to
develop further ways and means of combating these
international social evils.
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
In the area of human rights, the United Nations
should continue to strengthen its role as the architect of
a common plan based on a holistic approach toward the
promotion of, and respect for, the inherent dignity of the
human being. At all
levels, we must work with all
interested parties, maintain constructive relationships and
foster dialogue and cooperation as the most effective
means of advancing human rights.
In this regard,
Indonesia stands ready to cooperate with the High
Commissioner for Human Rights. We also support all
initiatives promoting a more balanced approach to human
rights. In this context, we note with interest the 19-point
Universal Declaration
on Human Responsibilities
proposed by the InterAction Council. We agree with
former Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, the
InterAction Council Chairman, that, if adopted by the
international community,
the Declaration on Human
Responsibilities, together with the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, could serve as twin pillars providing an
ethical base for a just world. Indeed, freedom without
acceptance of responsibility can destroy freedom itself,
whereas when rights and responsibilities are balanced,
freedom is enhanced. We have always held that although
the individual should not be sacrificed in the name of
society, neither should society be allowed to disintegrate
to accommodate the individual. Without this fine balance,
neither rights nor responsibilities can meaningfully exist.
Allow me to take this opportunity to express the
gratitude of my Government
to the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) for the singular honour
it recently bestowed on Indonesia by formally citing
His Excellency President Soeharto and the people of
Indonesia for
“outstanding accomplishments and commitments to
the significant reduction and continued eradication of
poverty in Indonesia and for making poverty
eradication
national
development efforts.”
overriding
an
theme
of
in spite of
This is an honour that Indonesia holds in trust for all
developing countries endeavouring,
their
constraints and adversities, to attain a better life for their
peoples while still contributing to the making of a better
world. With developed and developing nations working
together within the framework of a revitalized United
Nations, we can indeed before too long achieve the final
conquest of the most formidable and tenacious enemy of
humankind, poverty.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
President
The Acting
from
Spanish): I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Bahrain, His Excellency Shaikh Mohammed Bin Mubarak
Al-Khalifa.
(interpretation
(Bahrain)
(interpretation
Mr. Al-Khalifa
from
Arabic): I have the pleasure at the outset to extend to the
President and his friendly country, Ukraine, my sincere
congratulations on his election as President of the fifty-
second session of the General Assembly. In wishing him
success in conducting the proceedings of this session, I
would like to assure him of my delegation's readiness to
cooperate with him in making his task a success and in
achieving the desired objectives of the session.
It is also my pleasure to commend the dedicated
efforts of the President's predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, in
presiding over
the General
Assembly, and to express the thanks and appreciation of the
State of Bahrain to him and to his friendly country,
Malaysia.
the fifty-first session of
I would like to take this opportunity to express the
State of Bahrain's appreciation for the tireless and sincere
efforts that the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has
made since his appointment and of the great attention he
pays to international
to the reform of the
Organization and strengthening its role in the maintenance
of
international peace and security. By virtue of his
extensive experience in the United Nations, he has gained
expertise in both international politics and the management
of the Organization.
issues and,
I would be remiss in this connection if I did not
express appreciation for the endeavours of the former
Secretary-General, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and for his
efforts and accomplishments with regard to reform of the
Organization.
We do not believe there has been in the history of our
modern world a period more harmonious with the spirit of
the United Nations or more expressive of its orientation
than the current period. Had the Organization not been
established half a century ago by a farsighted initiative of
the founding Member States, it would have been incumbent
upon the international community to proceed to create it
now, at this important juncture in history. This is because
current
to various
aspects of human life require the existence of such an
Organization, which, by its composition and nature, and
guided by its Charter, is equipped to handle world affairs,
international developments relevant
12
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
in the spirit of one great family. Not a single international
issue is now beyond the scope of the Organization.
in
our
reflect
thoroughly
conviction,
The impression that the role of the United Nations
has become marginal or marginalized in the wake of the
cold war — true as it might be in certain isolated and
limited situations and cases of international action — does
not,
and
comprehensively the current stage of our world's history
or the aspirations of all its States. Such aspirations require
the existence of a world organization that is active and
effective, not only in political and security affairs, but
also, and increasingly so, in civilizational, developmental,
economic, environmental, cultural and intellectual affairs.
For increasingly, now that they have become the focus of
attention of all nations, big and small, those non-political
matters influence world affairs and the life and direction
of peoples much more than political matters do.
invaluable efforts
We have followed with interest the work of the
General Assembly's Open-ended High-level Working
Group on the Strengthening of the United Nations System
and carefully studied the Secretary-General's report
(A/51/950) to the General Assembly, “Renewing the
United Nations: A Programme for Reform”, which he
submitted on 14 July. We express our appreciation for the
Secretary-General's
regarding the
reform process, and the measures and recommendations
contained in his report, and we would also welcome any
General Assembly actions that would reflect the general
attitude of Member States vis-à-vis the reform process
that meets the current
requirements and desires of
Member States. My country is both interested in, and
appreciative of, the work of the Open-ended Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on
and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council
and Other Matters Related to the Security Council, in
view of
increase in the United Nations
membership. It should also be pointed out that it is in the
interest of the reform process that
the work of the
Security Council be transparent so that all other Member
States which are not members of the Council are aware
of the latter's proceedings with regard to the reform
process.
the great
Bahrain has presented its candidacy for Security
Council membership for the period 1998-1999 in the
elections that will take place during this session, based on
the provisions of the Charter that allow participation for
all Member States. The history of civilization has shown
us that a number of smaller countries and peoples have,
not less than the larger nations, taken the lead in progress,
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
development and creativity. The independent policy which
the State of Bahrain has pursued throughout the 26 years
that it has been a Member of the United Nations, has
qualified its candidacy as meriting the support of the Group
of Asian States for the non-permanent seat allocated to that
Group.
Moreover, Bahrain has a long record of constructive
participation in support of United Nations activities and in
support of the rights of peoples to independence, freedom
in opposing apartheid and in
and self-determination,
supporting decolonization.
It has also been actively
involved in the work of the United Nations system and
organs dealing with the fields of disarmament and
economic and social development. In addition, Bahrain has
bolstered Security Council
field of
international peace and security, particularly in the Arab
Gulf region, which prompted the Secretary-General to pay
tribute to that role to which he referred in paragraph 816 of
his 1996 annual report on the work of the Organization. He
said:
in the
efforts
[the United Nations
“The Government of Bahrain's support for the
Commission's
Special
Commission] Field Office has been outstanding and
remains essential to the continued logistics lifeline to
the activities of the Commission” (A/51/1, para. 816).
Furthermore, the State of Bahrain hosts a number of
United Nations regional offices, including, in addition to the
United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) Field
Office, the offices of the United Nations Development
Programme, the United Nations Environmental Programme,
and the United Nations Information Centre.
The State of Bahrain welcomes the endorsement its
candidature for Council membership has received from the
Asian Group, the Group of Arab States and the member
States of the Gulf Cooperation Council, to which it belongs.
Bahrain, noting the overwhelming support of the Member
States, will have the pleasure to declare, when elected to
the membership of the Council, that it will do its utmost, in
cooperation with other Member States, to fulfil its duties
towards the achievement of international peace and security
and the upholding of the principles embodied in the Charter
of the United Nations.
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
consolidating the bases of an advanced civil society — a
pioneering role to which any objective historian of the
development of civilization in the Gulf region will attest.
The question of regional security remains of crucial
importance to the State of Bahrain,
in view of the
dangerous ramifications and impacts it has on the
security, stability and safety of peoples and nations. The
situation in the Gulf region, which has witnessed in recent
years two devastating wars that have upset the region's
peace and stability and delayed the implementation of
numerous development and construction projects, requires
that all the States of the region and the world Powers
with vital interests in the region promote and strengthen
relations among the States of the region on the basis of
good neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in
the internal affairs of others and recognition of every
State's national sovereignty.
and
accepted
traditionally
The territorial and boundary claims currently
region, aim at changing the
witnessed in the Gulf
boundaries,
established
disturbing the security and stability of the region. We
believe that the optimum and most judicious course to
avoid that prospect is to respect the status quo; to refrain
from any claims,
total or partial; and to settle any
consequential disagreements by peaceful means acceptable
to the parties to the dispute.
that
Insofar as the situation between Iraq and Kuwait is
concerned,
the State of Bahrain, being keen on the
maintenance of security and stability in the Gulf region,
stresses
Iraq should fully comply with the
requirements of international legitimacy and uphold its
commitments under relevant Security Council resolutions,
including those relating to the release of prisoners and
detainees of Kuwaiti and other nationalities. Bahrain is
also keen on ensuring the unity and territorial integrity of
Iraq and opposes any interference in Iraqi internal affairs,
as any such interference is considered a violation of the
sovereignty of a Member State of the Organization.
The State of Bahrain also expresses its satisfaction
that
the oil-for-food agreement between the United
Nations and Iraq is alleviating the suffering of the
brotherly Iraqi people.
Through its experience in its region and larger area,
my country has played, since the early years of the
twentieth century, a significant and leading role in the
development of civilization, culture and society,
in
modernizing management and the economy, and in
In the same context, the continued occupation by the
Islamic Republic of Iran of the three islands, Greater
Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, all of which belong to
the United Arab Emirates, constitutes an important cause
for anxiety and concern to the State of Bahrain and the
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
other member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council, in
view of the occupation's serious consequences for the
security and stability of the region and the effect it has on
good-neighbourly relations among the States of the region.
Consequently, the State of Bahrain calls upon the
Islamic Republic of Iran to respond urgently to the calls of
the United Arab Emirates to resolve the question of the
islands through serious bilateral negotiations or through any
other available peaceful means for
the settlement of
disputes through reconciliation among States.
The ominous setbacks and impediments that have
beset the Middle East peace process which threaten that
process and pose dangers to the entire region are but the
result of Israel's non-adherence to the basic premises
underlying the process since the Madrid Conference in 1991
and to the agreements which emerged from the negotiations
that followed between the parties concerned. Only through
compliance with those commitments, which are based on
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and
425 (1978),
the land-for-peace
principle, and refraining from any actions that contravene
those commitments, can there be a viable basis for getting
the peace process back on its proper
track and the
achievement of progress on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks
as well. A just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the
region is not conceivable without the return of the occupied
territories to their owners and the recognition of the
Palestinian people's right to have their own independent
state on their own national soil, with Jerusalem as its
capital.
the implementation of
For a just and comprehensive peace to be attained, it
is essential that Arab rights be restored, in accordance with
the relevant United Nations resolutions, which call for the
complete withdrawal of Israel from the occupied Syrian
Golan, southern Lebanon and the occupied Palestinian
territories, including, most importantly, Jerusalem.
The State of Bahrain has endorsed the peace process
since its inception in Madrid in 1991. It has participated in
all the committees that have been established in connection
with the process and has hosted a meeting of
the
environmental
in support of
endeavours to achieve a just and comprehensive peace in
the region, which should be the strategic option of all States
of that region. A just peace which can guarantee that
people's legitimate rights are restored is what will ensure
security, stability and prosperity for the region's peoples.
committee. This was
14
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
The continued strife in Somalia has brought
destruction and devastation to the Somali people. We
reiterate our appeal to all warring factions to implement
all agreements reached so far and to exert concerted
efforts with a view to reaching a genuine and durable
solution to the problem in order to preserve the unity,
sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence
of Somalia. With respect to the situation in Afghanistan,
we call for an immediate end to the fighting among the
sons who belong to the same homeland, for support of the
efforts being made to this end, and for the achievement of
national reconciliation with a view to preserving the
sovereignty,
integrity and independence of
Afghanistan without any external interference.
territorial
It
for
calls
The State of Bahrain reiterates its support for the
Dayton Agreement concerning peace in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
complete
implementation of that Agreement and for the creation of
conditions that allow for the voluntary return of refugees
and displaced persons in complete safety and security.
Such steps would enhance national reconciliation and help
preserve peace and stability in the region as a whole.
and
full
for
support
As we
reiterate our
the unity,
independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of
Cyprus, we welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General
aimed at
the achievement of a just and practicable
settlement in accordance with relevant Security Council
resolutions.
the world order,
The international arena has witnessed terrorist acts
whose repercussions have gone beyond the boundaries of
the countries concerned. Violence has become so rampant
and ferocious that it is possible to say that terrorist acts
constitute crimes against
the vital
interests of nations, the peace and security of humanity
and the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals.
The spread of terrorism has caused the death of hundreds
of innocent people and the destruction of public and
private property,
thus shaking internal stability and
impeding the normal development of relations between
States. Consequently, my country calls upon the
international community to seek the best possible ways
and means for the elimination of all serious crimes of a
terrorist nature.
for
In this connection, the State of Bahrain expresses its
support
the provisions adopted by the General
Assembly in its relevant resolutions 49/60 and 51/210,
and hopes that the international community will cooperate
in the elaboration of a strategy for cooperation between
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
States with a view to combating terrorism and not providing
havens to terrorist organizations. Furthermore, States should
allow neither their territories nor their media to be used, nor
their civil liberties systems to be exploited, to the detriment
of other States.
should
achieve
universality without
Bahrain, being a party to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, is of the view that the
Treaty
any
considerations or exceptions restricting it. At the same time,
it would like to stress that the Treaty, as a vital pillar for
the maintenance of international peace and security, should
be upheld, its provisions respected and its purposes pursued
till fulfilment. It considers Security Council resolution
984 (1995), albeit limited in terms of safeguards, a first
positive step towards the achievement of comprehensive
security safeguards for all non-nuclear-weapon States.
Because it believes that international cooperation is
essential for ridding our world of all weapons of mass
destruction, the State of Bahrain ratified last April the
Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and
on Their Destruction. Convinced of the importance of
peace, stability and mutual confidence in the Middle East,
it has also endorsed the initiative aimed at establishing the
region as a zone free of nuclear and all other weapons of
mass destruction.
this year. An observer of
The world economy is currently experiencing a period
of growth which, according to the estimates of this year's
World Economic and Social Survey, is expected to reach
3 per cent
the economic
conditions in developing countries, however, can perceive
the extent of the difficulties faced by those countries in
their endeavours to raise their economic level to the bare
minimum and so enable their citizens to live with dignity.
The close link between economic development and social
development has become a cornerstone of the security and
stability of societies, both in developing and developed
countries. Yet the rising social tensions that we witness in
numerous societies in developing countries, emanating from
economic problems, underlines the need to address and deal
with that phenomenon at the international level.
countries
to
When
contribute
developed
the
the economic systems in developing
development of
countries they do not, in so doing, merely assist those
countries; they also enable the developing countries to
become an effective economic partner, which can assist the
developed countries
scourge of
unemployment, inflation and economic stagnation.
in combating the
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
It
is
therefore imperative that
The inability to strike a balance between social and
economic issues and the preservation and management of
the resources needed for development, coupled with an
increasing emphasis on environmental protection, has
undermined development, a cornerstone of Agenda 21,
which was adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in
1992.
international
agreements reached and commitments made during that
Conference be implemented, and that measures to speed
up the implementation of
the Agenda be identified
without any need to reopen discussions on matters already
agreed upon. The issues addressed by the nineteenth
special session of the General Assembly last June, in
which Bahrain took part, for the purpose of an overall
review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21,
were more detailed and specific in so far as poverty
eradication and environmental protection are concerned,
although the desired results have not been attained.
The destructive effects on humanity of drug and
psychotropic substance abuse, production and illicit traffic
are among the most serious challenges we face. We
therefore welcome the convening of a special session of
the General Assembly in 1998 to be devoted to this
question and related crimes and to the achievement of
tangible results in relation to the objectives envisaged in
resolution 51/64 concerning the negative and destructive
implications of drug abuse, on the basis of the principle
of joint responsibility in confronting the illicit drug trade.
Collective measures should also be taken to solve this
problem, which constitutes a common threat
to the
international community.
In the light of the new world realities, the United
Nations should play a more effective role in providing
organizational frameworks and appropriate forums to
enable various Member States to contribute within their
capacities and capabilities to the reshaping of our modern
world, tending towards increased closeness and interaction
on various planes of human activity.
The current period, characterized by cascading
changes, requires a joint intellectual vision on the part of
all Member States of the Organization and their peoples
with respect to what should be done for the common
good of mankind and to prepare for it. Such a vision
should transcend visions of conflicting ideologies, which
characterized the world of the cold war as well as the
predictions of future clashes of civilizations.
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
It
that
is also vital
the United Nations create a
favourable climate and appropriate management whereby it
can provide, in addition to the basic functions it undertakes,
a veritable forum for world thought, into which will flow
a variety of opinions, emanating from various regions,
civilizations and experiences. Thus, the Organization may
help crystallize an overall human vision conducive to
understanding, peace and cooperation,
than a
situation in which new adversaries and enemies are sought
for one side or another.
rather
The current period also requires us to bring about
cohesion and integration among the various elements in the
flow of information and satellite transmissions from every
corner of the Earth. The volume of this information is
enormous, its sources diverse and its objectives conflicting;
it has deluged societies. It is difficult to absorb all this
information, and perceptions of it are often confused.
Unless a common, comprehensive and inclusive vision
is found to restore cohesion and compatibility to this great
mass of information, the world will be threatened with
intellectual chaos that could take it back to a time when
disorder and contradictions held sway in mankind's vision.
No global mechanism is better suited to be the proper
means and the appropriate international forum for this
universal intellectual task than the United Nations. It should
at this stage provide direction and guidance for all aspects
of international cooperation, both within the framework of
the Organization and at the regional and national levels.
While we look forward to such a comprehensive
vision for our modern world, we must stress that it would
be prudent not to let globalization — which is a natural and
acceptable phenomenon in the context of
technology,
science, production, economic and information systems and
the related material components of our common human
civilization — be imposed, especially through coercion or
pressure, on special spiritual, religious, cultural and political
attributes. If it is, the world will fall into the abyss of futile
ethnic, cultural and religious feuds. Development of the
moral aspects of civilizations and systems can only occur
gradually, through inner conviction, and in tandem with the
logical internal development of each structure and system
rather than through technological development that spreads
rapidly from civilization to civilization. Coerced imposition
of globalization on any spiritual or moral facet of a society,
especially through external sources, would constitute a
wrongful revival of political and cultural colonialism,
whose cumbersome legacy and adverse effects the world
has barely eradicated. It is our hope that if it builds on the
remarkable role it played in the elimination of the old form
16
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
of colonialism, the United Nations will be able to play a
positive part in steering the process of globalization in the
right direction and in preventing the unilateral takeover of
a world of diverse spiritual cultures and civilizations.
In view of the Organization's contribution to the
preservation of world peace and security and the role it
continues to play in support of the causes of peace and
justice and in the implementation of the principles of
international
its activities in the field of
preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping operations, and
its constructive role in resolving numerous questions and
crises, it is incumbent upon us to make available to the
United Nations all possible moral and material support
and to cooperate with it and with its specialized agencies.
legitimacy,
Hence the importance, in our view, of formulating
within the framework of the United Nations a balanced
intellectual vision which,
in addition to bringing out
elements which are common to all peoples, would be
based on respect for legitimate pluralism as it relates to
special spiritual, moral and political attributes. In the
absence of such a balanced vision, our world is apt to
continue to be threatened with imbalance, instability and
a lack of security.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
on His Excellency Mr. Alexander
the
for Foreign Affairs of
call
next
I
Arzoumanian, Minister
Republic of Armenia.
I
begin
(Armenia):
Mr. Arzoumanian
by
congratulating Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko on his election as
President of the General Assembly at its fifty-second
session. I am confident that the skills and vast experience
he has acquired throughout his distinguished diplomatic
career will provide the guidance we need to guarantee the
successful outcome of the session.
I must also recall the remarkable diligence of his
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Razali Ismail, and his
valuable contribution to the work of the fifty-first regular
session and the nineteenth special session of the General
Assembly.
As the twentieth century comes to an end, it is
that all countries in the world, advanced,
evident
developing and transitional, will be substantially affected
by globalization. Further specialization, the widening of
markets through trade, a broader division of labour and a
more efficient and more diversified allocation of financial
resources should increase overall productivity and raise
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
living standards. However, no country will benefit from this
trend spontaneously or automatically. The major tasks that
Governments face today are development and the pursuit of
sound policies and appropriate structural adjustments to
meet the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities
of globalization.
Economic reforms, which Armenia began immediately
after its declaration of independence, have changed all key
sectors of the economy, particularly agriculture, enterprises,
the banking industry and the fiscal,
prices and wages,
foreign trade and exchange systems. Concurrently,
the
country began the institution of secure property rights and
a judiciary strong enough to protect them.
After a devastating fall
in real output from 1991
through 1994, macroeconomic and structural
reforms,
combined with privatization, have stabilized the country's
economy while bringing down inflation, and allowed
Armenia to achieve significant growth in 1996. Armenia's
gross domestic product, which dropped 25.3 per cent on
average from 1991 to 1993, has turned around and has
averaged 6.3 per cent annual growth since then. This is
despite a disastrous earthquake in 1988,
the conflict
between Nagorny Karabakh and Azerbaijan, which caused
the inflow of more than 300,000 refugees, and continuing
problems in obtaining stable energy and industrial supplies
because of a blockade imposed by neighbouring Azerbaijan.
The drastic changes were coincident with the adoption
of a medium-term macroeconomic reform programme
supported by the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund. The major objectives for the 1997 period
are: to maintain a real annual growth rate in gross domestic
product of about 6 per cent;
to continue curbing the
inflation rate for the whole year and keeping it under 10
per cent; and to augment
the level of gross foreign
exchange reserves to the equivalent of 2.8 months of
imports.
Also, the Government of Armenia will go on to take
several measures during the programme period aimed at
continuing to refine the targeting of social safety-net
benefits
in average
consumption levels and improve income distribution.
sharp decrease
to alleviate
a
For Armenia and countries with economies
in
transition as a whole, the move towards world market
prices brought severely deteriorated terms of trade. The
introduction of currency convertibility and a notable
increase in external borrowing began to cause frequent
unsustainable external debt positions. The resources which
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
are urgently required to modernize the industrial structure
to internationally competitive levels and to improve the
general infrastructure immensely exceed domestic saving
capacities. This situation underlines the necessity of
addressing more thoroughly the needs of countries in
transition by the international donor community, though
this should not cause a decrease in official development
assistance flows to the developing world.
In this context, Armenia welcomes the adoption of
the Agenda for Development by the General Assembly
earlier this year as one of the major documents which
should be among the guidelines for actions of the United
Nations system and affiliated institutions to strengthen
international cooperation for development. We also
support
least
developed countries, small island developing States and
landlocked developing countries as “Critical situations and
special problems” within the Agenda for Development,
and we hope that
international
community will pay more attention to these issues of
prime concern.
the appraisal of conditions in Africa,
the post-cold-war
institutions
The interaction between the United Nations and
other multilateral development institutions, including the
Bretton Woods
and the World Trade
Organization, should be intensified, involving the field
level in particular. Joint efforts could be concentrated
especially on those areas where private investors need
encouragement,
general
institutional support they would hesitate to commit long-
term capital. Proper intergovernmental follow-up and
implementation of the corresponding General Assembly
and Economic and Social Council
resolutions and
decisions are capable of facilitating this process.
and where without
such
Sustainable development and related environmental
issues are other areas of strategic importance where the
United Nations must further strengthen its credibility. We
acknowledge the outcome of
the nineteenth special
session of the General Assembly for the purpose of an
overall review and appraisal of the implementation of
Agenda 21 as an important
step to enhance the
implementation of the major international global and
regional environmental agreements.
and
reforms
Economic
democratic
are
complementary and heavily interdependent. Political and
economic
freedom means more predictable, more
transparent, more constitutional, less discriminatory and
less corruption-prone law-making and enforcement.
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We recognize democracy and respect for human rights,
universal access to knowledge and information and a high
level of public awareness as preconditions for sustainable
social development. We welcome the Secretary-General's
efforts to strengthen the role of human rights within the
United Nations system.
Armenia
considers
self-determination to be
an
inalienable human right. In this respect,
the Nagorny
Karabakh conflict continues to occupy the Government of
Armenia. Despite concentrated negotiations of the past
several years, the maintenance of a ceasefire for more than
three years, and the intensified efforts of the international
community, the Nagorny Karabakh peace process continues
to suffer from a lack of serious progress. The Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Lisbon
Summit of December 1996, which was expected to reflect
on the peace process, to consolidate the ceasefire and to
provide impetus for a possible breakthrough this year, failed
to serve its intended purpose. Instead, by attempting to
predetermine the final status of Nagorny Karabakh,
it
unnecessarily stiffened Azerbaijan's position and minimized
the possibility of a mutually acceptable compromise
solution. We believe that
the final status of Nagorny
Karabakh should be negotiated between the parties directly
involved and not dictated by outside interested parties.
Armenia appreciates the most recent efforts of the
Minsk Group Co-Chairmen to reach a compromise solution,
which were also manifested in the Denver statement of the
Presidents of the three co-chairing countries. Armenia has
provided a detailed response to the proposal of the Minsk
Group Co-Chairmen,
insisting on securing commonly
recognized freedoms for the Nagorny Karabakh population,
as well as guaranteeing their security so that their physical
existence and control over their territory and destiny are
never threatened.
Armenia believes that a resolution acceptable to all
parties involved is key to establishing durable peace and
stability in the region and to stimulating economic growth
and prosperity in Armenia, Azerbaijan and Nagorny
Karabakh. My country remains committed to a negotiated
settlement of the conflict and will continue to engage
constructively in the peace process. However, we urge
Azerbaijan to negotiate directly with the elected officials of
Nagorny Karabakh, for we strongly believe that no final
solution can be achieved without Karabakh's direct
participation in the deliberations on its own political status.
The Republic of Armenia has been actively
participating in the fields of arms control and disarmament.
18
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
We reaffirm our commitment to full implementation of
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT) objectives. To that end, Armenia welcomes the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) programme
on strengthening the effectiveness and improving the
efficiency of the safeguards system. We have already
expressed our readiness to conclude a supplementary
protocol to the safeguards agreement with the IAEA.
Last year the overwhelming majority of United
Nations Member States
signed the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We join the international
community in calling upon all States to sign and ratify
this Treaty to ensure its early entry into force.
accomplishment
The Chemical Weapons Convention was another
historic
global
disarmament. As a founding member of the Organization
for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, Armenia will
advocate the full and effective implementation of the
Convention.
field
of
in
the
Armenia also supports the complementary efforts —
through the Ottawa process — aimed at achieving a
complete ban on anti-personnel landmines. We realize the
importance of developing technological solutions to mine
detection and clearance, and we fully support programmes
on assistance to mine victims.
The reform of the Security Council should become
another important component of the overall reform within
the United Nations. Armenia supports
the current
discussions on improving the representative character of
the Security Council. We are in favour of expansion in
both categories, permanent and non-permanent. However,
while strengthening the capacity of the Council, such an
increase should also safeguard its decision-making
efficiency. We believe that five new seats should be
allocated as permanent for the Security Council to better
reflect present political and economic realities. This
arrangement should include improved representation for
the countries of Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the
Caribbean. We also support the desire of Germany and
Japan to acquire the status of permanent members of the
Security Council.
As regards the non-permanent seats, it is our view
that the expansion should take into account the legitimate
interests of
the Eastern European Group, whose
membership has more than doubled in recent years.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Government of Armenia welcomes the proposals
by the Secretary-General for the reform of the United
Nations. We fully support his commendable efforts to refine
the structure of this Organization and to streamline the
operations of its system, to make it more flexible and
capable of adequate, timely responses to the challenges of
today's world. These proposals are a sound basis for
immediate actions, further negotiations and deliberations by
the General Assembly. There is a strong need to consolidate
the ongoing attempts of the United Nations system and
Member States to alter and develop the Organization. At
the same time, we should avoid reducing the evaluation of
these reforms to a purely financial or managerial approach.
Reform must enable the United Nations to attain more
effectively the mandates and priorities enshrined in the
Charter.
In conclusion,
let me assure the Assembly that
Armenia, keenly aware of the importance of an effective
and active United Nations, is committed to contributing its
share in the strengthening of this Organization.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Tunisia,
His Excellency Mr. Abderrahim Zouari.
to
by
begin
Mr. Zouari (Tunisia)(interpretation from Arabic):
Allow me
expressing my warmest
congratulations to the President upon his election. We are
confident
that his experience, know-how and broad
understanding of international issues will be invaluable in
carrying out the noble mission that has been entrusted to
him and will provide the best possible assurance of the
success of this session. His election to the presidency
reflects the very special respect the international community
has for his friendly country, Ukraine, because of its wise
policy, based on moderation and a sense of proportion and
also because of the efforts it is making to consolidate the
principles of peace,
the
foundation of relations between States.
justice and cooperation as
I also wish to express our warmest
thanks and
gratitude to last year's President, His Excellency Mr. Razali
Ismail, who throughout his term in office distinguished
himself by the dedication and loyalty with which he carried
out his functions, playing a remarkable role in the reform
of the United Nations and its restructuring and adaptation
to the changes occurring in the world, and in preparing it
to enter the twenty-first century with greater efficiency.
Reform of the United Nations and its restructuring are
undoubtedly in the forefront of the issues on this session's
agenda, particularly since Secretary-General Kofi Annan
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
has kept the promise he made when he took office and
has submitted a report on reform of the Organization that
contains numerous measures and recommendations that
are important for the Organization's future. It is with
pleasure that I pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi
Annan for all the initiatives he has taken and the bold
proposals he has made since taking office a short while
ago with a view to reforming the Secretariat and
rationalizing its functioning.
to underscore
Tunisia, which took an active part in the discussions
held in the various working groups entrusted with the
reform process, wishes
the prime
importance of the issues raised in the Secretary-General's
report, both those that
fall within his competence
regarding coordination between the different Departments
of the Secretariat and between the United Nations and its
specialized agencies and those reforms that concern the
United Nations activities and fall within the competence
of the General Assembly, in connection with which the
Assembly will adopt relevant resolutions.
There is no doubt that the international community
is motivated by a sincere will to give a powerful impetus
to the reform process to enable the United Nations to
accomplish the tasks provided for in the Charter, whether
with regard to achieving security and peace in the world
or to establishing conditions for sustainable development,
two closely related, complementary goals.
the most
In our view,
important priority of the
reform process is to focus on strengthening the United
Nations role in achieving development and in reducing
and eradicating poverty, mobilizing the means required so
that developing countries can achieve economic and social
development and meet the crucial challenges imposed
upon them by globalization and by the market economy.
Notwithstanding the well-being and prosperity that
technological progress and globalization of the economy
have brought to certain countries, while others have been
excluded, the world's economy continues to suffer from
imbalances that hinder growth in developing countries and
endanger international stability. We consider it essential
to give priority to these situations in United Nations
programmes and activities in order to narrow the chasm
that exists between States, give new impetus
to
international cooperation in the field of economic and
social development and strengthen the United Nations
capacity for effective and efficient action in this regard.
Tunisia stresses the need to strengthen the role of the
United Nations in the field of development in order to
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
consolidate the General Assembly's prerogatives with regard
to preparing cooperation policies and monitoring their
execution. The United Nations continues to be the ideal
forum for this within the framework of the international
community. That also requires that Member States honour
their financial commitments to the United Nations in order
to provide the necessary means required for successful
reform,
the realization of the United Nations various
programmes and rational, judicious use of resources.
In this connection Tunisia once again reaffirms its
support for the restructuring of the Security Council to
ensure a fairer representation of Member States and to
guarantee the interests of developing countries within the
framework of equality for all Member States, consecrating
the spirit of the Charter and giving concrete expression to
its principles. In this regard, my country would recall the
legitimate claim of the African States, as expressed at the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) Summit Meeting held
at Tunis in June 1994 and reaffirmed at the recent OAU
Summit at Harare, calling for
two
permanent seats on the Security Council to be occupied by
African States on a rotating basis.
the allocation of
It is also important to continue to improve the working
methods of the Security Council and to implement fully the
procedures stipulated in the Council's rules of procedure to
ensure the effective participation of United Nations Member
States and their collective responsibility for maintaining
international peace and security.
The maintenance of international peace and security
and the elimination of the hotbeds of tensions, conflicts and
wars that still rage in many regions of the world are today,
in addition to the problems of development, at the forefront
of
the international community's concerns, and they
continue to require determined and consistent action by the
United Nations.
In this context, Tunisia emphasizes the importance of
the role the United Nations must play with regard to the
situation in the Middle East in the light of the dangerous
developments that are taking place there. The United
Nations has followed the Palestinian problem since the very
beginning and has had a special responsibility to the
Palestinian people from the adoption of the resolution on
the partition of Palestine until the formulation of the basic
principles of a pacific settlement of
the Arab-Israeli
conflict.
Tunisia has stood by the Palestinian people in their
struggle to recover their legitimate rights and for 12 years
20
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
was home to the Palestine Liberation Organization. It has
followed, from a position of neutrality, the Middle East
peace process and played, at the behest of its of President,
a historic role in triggering that process. It has supported
the process at every stage, beginning with the initial
contacts between the conflicting parties, at the Madrid
Conference, and in the Oslo, Washington and Cairo
agreements. Tunisia was also a party to the multilateral
negotiations. As such, Tunisia wishes here to express its
profound concern and indignation at the obstruction of
this process and at the freezing of the agreements that led
up to it, as well as at the renewed dangers of conflict,
violence and instability in the region.
its failure to respect
We denounce the Israeli Government's policy of
fait accompli,
the international
agreements that have been signed and the unilateral
measures it has taken in building colonies inside and
outside Al Quds, destroying houses, confiscating identity
cards, inflicting collective reprisals against the Palestinian
people, seizing their financial assets, continuing to besiege
them and taking all sorts of other arbitrary measures. We
call emphatically for a return to the basic references that
have been part of the peace process since its inception,
particularly the principle of land for peace, and for
respect of international legality on the basis of Security
Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425
(1978) and the relevant General Assembly resolutions.
Furthermore, we call for the implementation of all the
provisions of the agreement pertaining to the transition
stage, including the second redeployment, the opening of
a secure road between the West Bank and Gaza, the
the release of
opening of the airport and the port,
final
prisoners
status
negotiations,
agreed-upon
schedule.
the
in accordance with the
and the beginning of
and the
the Security Council
The international community, particularly in the
meetings of
three
consecutive meetings of the tenth emergency special
session of the General Assembly, has already condemned
the current
Israeli Government's policy of building
settlements in Al Quds and in the occupied Palestinian
territories. This policy has greatly discouraged the
Palestinian community and international opinion in
general, particularly since it has given rise to acts of
violence for which Israel bears sole responsibility, given
the profound despair that has replaced the relief that had
been felt throughout the entire region.
Tunisia exhorts the international community, and
especially the two sponsors of peace, to act expeditiously
and firmly to save the peace and avert the dangers that
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
its
legitimate rights
threaten the region so that the Palestinian people is able to
recover
to the creation of an
independent State on its own soil with Al-Quds Al-Sharif
as its capital, and to ensure the restoration to Syria and
Lebanon of the territories which Israel has occupied.
We note with satisfaction the United States'
resumption of efforts to save the peace process, notably the
meeting held yesterday in New York between the parties
concerned. We also welcome the efforts being made to
restore confidence among the parties concerned with a view
to helping them overcome the current crisis and achieve an
equitable settlement of the Palestinian problem and the
Arab-Israeli conflict as a whole. We feel
that actions
undertaken to date to mitigate the risks of tension and
conflict in the region remain far below what we had hoped.
Tunisia regrets
the deterioration of
the current
financial situation of the United Nations Relief and Works
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA),
which hinders its mission to alleviate the suffering of the
Palestinian people. While reaffirming the international
community's responsibility for the question of Palestinian
refugees, we urge it to continue to provide assistance to
UNRWA in order to allow it to carry out its mandate fully
and resume its work. We urge all donors countries to
maintain and honour their financial commitment and to
increase their contribution to the Agency budget, taking into
account the natural growth in the number of Palestinian
refugees, in order to allow the Agency to overcome its
severe financial crisis.
Tunisia's awareness of the importance in today's world
of economic and geographic groupings to meeting the
challenges of globalization and the changes we are currently
witnessing encourages us to be firm and consistent
in
pursuing our efforts to complete the construction of the
Arab Maghreb Union. The Union represents a particular
claim made by the peoples of our region and one of the
goals that we, together with the leaders of our brother
Maghreb countries, are striving to attain.
the impetus of President Ben Ali,
This strategic option for the future of the peoples of
the region and their cooperation with their immediate
environment is strengthened by the efforts our country is
making, under
to
construct a Euro-Mediterranean area that will serve as a
framework for cooperation among the Mediterranean
riparian countries, for solidarity among their peoples and
for cultural and social dialogue in the context of the noble
values and principles in which we all believe. Our country
has already assumed a distinctive role in ensuring the
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
success of the various meetings and conferences held to
this end, from the preparatory meeting of the region's
Ministers for Foreign Affairs held in Tabarka, Tunisia, to
the Barcelona conference and the meetings that followed.
Our country gave concrete expression to this option in
1995 by signing an association agreement with the
European Union.
We believe that it has become imperative to respond
favourably to the willingness of
the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya to settle the Lockerbie question in a fair and
honourable manner in the framework of proposals made
by the League of Arab States, the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) and the Non-Aligned Movement. These
proposals can help to achieve a peaceful solution based
on international legality and thereby hasten the end of the
suffering being endured by the brother Libyan people
under the embargo. They would also strengthen stability
in that part of the Mediterranean.
We also take this opportunity to call for an end to
the suffering that has been inflicted upon the Iraqi people
for a number of years now. We hope that relations among
the States of the Gulf region will be based on respect for
the sovereignty of all
their
territorial integrity and the inviolability of their borders,
in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security
Council. In this context, Tunisia once again reaffirms its
solidarity with the United Arab Emirates in the peaceful
efforts they are making to recover the islands of Greater
Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa.
the States of the region,
The success of the United Nations in achieving
international peace and security does not rest only on
peacekeeping operations, preventive diplomacy and the
peaceful settlement of conflict. It also requires progress
and accomplishments in the field of disarmament. Despite
the end of the cold war and the achievement of a number
of positive results, particularly in limiting the proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction,
these weapons —
particularly nuclear weapons — continue seriously to
threaten all mankind.
Tunisia, which has ratified all
the international
conventions on the subject, reiterates its appeals for the
establishment of a denuclearized zone, free of all weapons
of mass destruction, in the Middle East. This appeal has
been supported by the accession to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of all the countries
of the region with the exception of Israel, which has
neither ratified the Treaty nor placed its nuclear facilities
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the system of
thereby
under
endangering the security and integrity of the entire region.
international controls,
There are many regions of the world that continue to
be torn by war and conflict and whose populations are
confronted with tragic situations as a result of instability,
insecurity, famine and destitution. We nonetheless note with
satisfaction that, despite the persistence of hotbeds of
tension and instability in some of these regions, the African
continent is beginning truly to awaken to the possibility of
restored security and renewed economic growth in a
number of its regions and countries.
Tunisia welcomes the development of the situation in
Africa and the sincere determination of member countries
of the Organization of African Unity to pursue the reforms
that have been undertaken to restructure economies and
consolidate democracy. At
the same time, my country
reiterates the appeal made by President Ben Ali many times
to the international community for increased attention to be
paid to the continent's problems in order to eradicate once
and for all the hotbeds of tension that remain in Africa, so
that security and stability may be instituted throughout the
continent, enabling all its peoples to devote themselves to
work and to economic development.
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
maintaining peace. Numerous African States, including
Tunisia, have declared their willingness to participate in
the standby arrangements for peacekeeping,
thereby
demonstrating their determination to contribute to United
Nations efforts to improve the methods of organizing
United Nations peacekeeping operations. There is no
doubt that the promotion of international cooperation,
particularly in the field of training and logistics, can
ensure the success of the standby forces, thereby making
it
the basic formula for the establishment of United
Nations peacekeeping forces. In this regard, we reaffirm
Tunisia's unswerving desire to make a real contribution to
the efforts of the United Nations to preserve international
peace and security.
Our country has contributed both military and
civilian contingents to many United Nations peacekeeping
operations — from the Congo in the early 1960s to other
similar operations in a number of African countries; in
Cambodia; in Bosnia and Herzegovina; in Croatia; and
recently in Haiti — thus giving concrete evidence of its
faith in international action and cooperation carried out by
the Organization. Tunisia will continue to support and
assist United Nations peacekeeping operations whenever
necessary.
and
assumes
challenges
difficulties
In this context, the role to be played by the United
Nations in assisting the countries concerned to overcome
these
primary
importance. It is a role that should be seen in the context of
the prime responsibility that our international Organization
assumes in preserving peace and security and in confirming
the fact that the United Nations is irreplaceable in these
endeavours. However,
this in no way minimizes the
importance that should be given to the action of regional
organizations, whose role has grown in recent years,
making their influence visible and palpable.
to meet
In order
the challenges generated by
globalization and openness in the world economy, Tunisia
has introduced substantial and coherent reforms in the
political, economic and social fields to ensure society's
equilibrium and integrity and the solidarity of
its
members, thereby eliminating the negative factors that
could hinder this: exclusion, neglect of the human aspect
in development, and the creation of chasms between
social categories resulting from disparate levels of
development within a given society.
Our country emphasizes the importance of the role
devoted to the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention,
Management and Resolution, which was set up by the
Organization of African Unity for all issues related to
security and stability on the African continent. This clearly
does not prevent us from supporting any international
initiative that is consistent with this essential principle and
that
reinforces African efforts to preserve peace and
security on our continent.
We applaud the efforts of
the United Nations
Secretariat
to stimulate cooperation and to promote
consultation with the Organization of African Unity to
strengthen its capacity for preventing conflicts and
We are convinced that global development can be
achieved only when the vulnerable sectors of society have
been assured the conditions for integration with economic
dynamics. This requires uprooting the causes of poverty,
destitution and marginalization, which is consistent with
the commitment
to promote solidarity and mutual
assistance between the members of society on the national
level, and efforts being made in that direction on the
international level.
The fiftieth anniversary of
the United Nations
afforded the leaders of Member countries an opportunity
to confirm their determination to revitalize the role of the
United Nations and to confer upon its actions greater
security,
dynamism at a time when problems of
22
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
development and environment multiply, requiring joint
efforts and shared determination to face them with a view
to achieving progress, prosperity and well-being for all.
The success of the United Nations remains contingent
upon action in accordance with the goals and principles
enshrined in its Charter. It
is also conditioned by the
commitment of all countries, large and small, to implement
decisions which uphold the values of liberty, dignity and
justice. In so doing we will respond to the aspirations of
our peoples who are the essential guarantors of the United
Nations vitality and of its capacity for renewal, durability
and ability to meet the challenges which humanity will
confront during the next century.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
The next speaker is the Vice-Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan, His Excellency
Mr. Boris Shikhmuradov, on whom I now call.
Mr. Shikhmuradov (Turkmenistan) (interpretation
from Russian): Allow me to congratulate Mr. Udovenko,
the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on his election
to the post of President of the General Assembly. His
election signifies recognition of Ukraine s great prestige in
the world, respect for and confidence in the country s
foreign policy, and the personal and professional qualities
of the new President.
We are sincerely grateful to Ambassador Razali Ismail
talent
and efficient
functions during the
for his
performance of
previous session of the General Assembly.
remarkable diplomatic
the President s
First of all, allow me to express our satisfaction with
the report presented by the Secretary-General. It
is an
innovative and specific document devoid of many of the
weaknesses typical of similar documents in the past.
Turkmenistan supports the Secretary-General s programme
to reform the entire United Nations system and the
functioning of its bodies — in particular the Secretariat —
and to tailor the financial resources of the Organization to
its planned activities.
We share the conclusion in the report that the reform
of the United Nations should be radical and not gradual.
However, we believe that the reforms should not be carried
out as a revolutionary overhaul, especially when it comes,
it
for example,
becomes more representative should still
remain an
effectively functioning body that should not supplant the
General Assembly.
to the Security Council, which after
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
In our view, a rational increase in the number of
permanent members of the Security Council primarily
calls for the inclusion of such States as Japan and
Germany — vested with all corresponding rights and
powers — because they can make a constructive input
and have greater political objectiveness with respect to the
work of the Security Council.
involved
Turkmenistan was
There is an issue of special interest and concern for
Turkmenistan, as well as for all the countries of the
region: the question of Afghanistan. We are glad to note
that this question finds an increasingly prominent place in
the agenda of the United Nations and in the activities of
its agencies, ad hoc bodies and the Security Council. We
feel special gratitude for the Secretary-General for his
continuing efforts to give a new impetus to the intra-
Afghan settlement. In this context, we attach particular
significance to the efforts of the Secretary-General s
special envoys Mr. Norbert Hall and Mr. Lakhdar
Brahimi.
the
implementation of peacemaking programmes in the region
by hosting a series of inter-Tajik talks and by organizing,
together with the United Nations, a major international
conference on humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan.
Turkmenistan resolutely supports and will support to the
utmost the earliest possible convening of an international
conference on Afghanistan with the participation of all its
immediate neighbours and, in the future, the holding of
conference with the participation of the Powers vested
with special international authority and capable of making
a practical contribution towards the settlement. The
President of Turkmenistan, Mr. Saparmurat Niyazov,
maintains constant contact regarding this matter with Mr.
Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, and with the leaders
of the neighbouring States of Iran, Pakistan, Uzbekistan
and Tajikistan. Turkmenistan pins great hopes on the
forthcoming summit meeting of the Organization of the
Islamic Conference (OIC),
to be held in Tehran in
December this year, which will give the Muslim world an
opportunity to determine at
the
guidelines for the resolution of the prolonged Afghan
crisis, which has today become a bleeding wound for the
Afghan people and an obstacle preventing the region from
implementing major economic programmes. Turkmenistan
has always believed, and still believes,
that conflict
situations emerging in the OIC s geographical area
should be resolved through its joint efforts with the
United Nations.
in
the highest
level
We are happy to be witnessing today a greater
display of restraint with regard to simplistic attempts
aimed at associating extremism and other negative
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
phenomena with the world of Islam. The Muslim world like
any other — for example, Christianity — is multifaceted
and diverse. It confronts a whole complex of universal
problems of development, and it is being mobilized to
overcome conflicts and combat manifestations of uncivil
social behaviour. The need for this was emphasized by the
Secretary- General in his report to the current session of the
General Assembly. While it is a secular and democratic
State in Asia, Turkmenistan also considers
itself a
traditional oriental society that, by virtue of its geopolitical
destiny, finds itself at the juncture of two regions, involving
it simultaneously in Asian and European international
affairs. Against the backdrop of the global energy potential
of our State, this factor forms the basis of the United
Nations-supported strategy of Turkmenistan s neutrality,
which today acquires practical
the
Organization.
significance for
that,
All our political efforts today are aimed at creating a
favourable atmosphere for economic development, both of
the entire region and of every country in particular. At its
summit meeting held last May in Ashgabat, the regional
Economic Cooperation Organization, which
today
comprises 10 nations, formulated a strategic programme for
the development of
transport, energy, pipeline and
telecommunication infrastructures. Its implementation not
only corresponds to the interests of the participating States
but also creates opportunities for the delivery of energy
carriers, oil, gas and oil products to international markets in
Europe and Asia from the enormously rich deposits in the
Caspian Sea basin and the entire Central Asian area.
Turkmenistan believes
in the intensification of
international cooperation, the resolution of crises in Central
Asia and the use of preventive measures aimed at
precluding their recurrence because of conflicting claims of
States to ownership rights over natural resources,
is
necessary to take into account the global challenges of the
twenty-first century, which call for the early development
of additional and alternative means for
the rational
distribution of energy-producing raw materials on world
markets. Turkmenistan possesses the world s third largest
gas deposits, and it has huge oil reserves and other mineral
resources. It is ready to take part in open and broad-based
international cooperation in this endeavour. This approach
has been confirmed by the recently issued international
tender for the development and exploration of oil and gas
deposits in the Turkmen zone of the Caspian Sea. We
cannot but express our satisfaction at the lifting of artificial
barriers to the gas pipeline from Turkmenistan through Iran
to Turkey and Europe. We consider this a good sign from
the United States, a sign that it is ready to support our
it
24
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
efforts to strengthen our sovereignty and independent
national economy.
the disappearance of
and principled approach to this
In this context, allow me also to express our
satisfaction at the fact that the Secretary-General s report
and other recent documents of the Organization have at
last more clearly defined the notion of Central Asia,
which includes many more States as compared with the
old central Asian part of the former Soviet Union. During
the past several years Turkmenistan has maintained a
consistent
issue,
emphasizing that
the southern
borders of the former Soviet State gave rise to the
formation of a new region unified by the common
purpose of accelerating economic development and
strengthening its political and State structures. Today it is
inconceivable that Turkmenistan should exist without
equally close ties within this region — with Iran, Turkey,
Pakistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Azerbaijan
and other neighbours. We are firmly convinced that the
former Soviet “Central Asian 5” have quite logically been
transformed into the “Central Asian 10” and that the
United Nations and its different agencies should bear in
mind this objective reality when formulating their
approaches to the region.
to
attention
I believe it
Turkmenistan s
is highly important
to draw the
Assembly s
sincere
commitment to the efforts of the international community
to bring about the complete banning of the production and
proliferation of all types of weapons of mass destruction.
Turkmenistan fully subscribes to the Ottawa process for
the elimination of anti-personnel landmines. In 1996 and
1997,
together with Canada, Turkmenistan actively
participated in international forums in Vienna, Bonn,
Oslo, Brussels and Ashgabat, which have been major
milestones on the road towards the signing of the treaty
banning anti-personnel landmines, which is to be signed
in December this year in Ottawa. Coming from a region
that
so-called
indiscriminate type of weapon, Turkmenistan is convinced
that it is a timely and highly relevant treaty.
suffered
horrors
this
has
the
of
is
of
that
choice
enjoyed
At the end of the twentieth century international
relations are characterized by one specific feature: the
right
an
unprecedentedly large number of independent nations and
States. This right is becoming an increasingly stable trend
strengthened by greater
tolerance and patience in
international relations. Participation or non-participation
in one or another political or economic grouping is no
longer considered, nor can it be considered, through the
today
by
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
prism of the formula “If you are not with us, you are
against us”. Turkmenistan does not object to the idea of the
existence of the great Powers regional interests. This is
the right of every State. However, we, like our partners in
the Non-Aligned Movement, unequivocally object to the
existence of zones of unilateral domination. We stand for
the principle of open land as well as that of open skies.
While building its relations with all States on the basis of
the principles of equality and mutual respect, neutral
Turkmenistan does not divide its partners into categories of
close or remote, big or small, because that runs counter to
the political logic of our times.
Today, during my meeting with Mr. Kofi Annan, the
Secretary- General of the United Nations, I delivered to him
a personal message from the President of Turkmenistan,
Mr. Saparmurat Niyazov which, in particular, states, first,
that our political philosophy and all our actions are free of
any self-serving interests and are primarily aimed at
strengthening peace and raising the economic well-being
and cultural and educational level of its peoples; secondly,
that
the United Nations can be fully convinced that
Turkmenistan is prepared to give the Organization its
maximum possible assistance; and, finally, that the United
Nations can count on Turkmenistan in all its initiatives and
endeavours in the region.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria,
Her Excellency Mrs. Nadezhda Mihailova.
Mrs. Mihailova (Bulgaria): I would like, first of all,
on behalf of the Bulgarian delegation to congratulate
Mr. Udovenko on his election to the presidency of the fifty-
second session of
the General Assembly. His vast
experience and knowledge will be of great importance for
the
facing the
Organization today. I would also like to express our
appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his
competence in presiding over the fifty-first session.
fulfilment of
successful
the
tasks
The statements of previous speakers have proved the
importance of the necessity for an efficient overall reform
of the United Nations. I would like to declare Bulgaria s
support for the position of the European Union, as stated in
this general debate by the Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Luxembourg, Mr. Jacques
Poos.
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
reforms advocated by numerous politicians. If I take the
liberty of sharing the Bulgarian experience, it is because
in early 1997 my country lived through its genuine
reformist resurrection. Hundreds of thousands of citizens
walked in the streets of Sofia and other Bulgarian cities
and towns to demand opportunities, not well-being. Their
voice precipitated early parliamentary elections and
brought a disastrous rule to an end.
Obviously, three things are needed for the success of
reform: vision, strategy and courage. The vision about
where we want to go, the strategy for getting there and
the courage to begin.
I hope that the fifty-second session of the General
Assembly will be remembered for decisive progress in
designing and carrying out
the reform of the United
Nations. We have already heard the profound analysis and
the valuable proposals put forward in the report of the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. It is now the turn of
the representatives of Member States to commit their
vision, sense of strategy and courage.
Let me briefly present our views on the main aspects
of the reform of the United Nations. The Bulgarian
Government has thoroughly studied the proposals and the
report of the Secretary-General. In principle, we support
and approve of these proposals.
The Republic of Bulgaria considers the ongoing
discussion within the United Nations on the reform and
enlargement of the Security Council to be positive and
substantive. In our view, the decisions on these important
matters should be reached by consensus. We believe that
the enlargement should reflect the increased number of
United Nations Member States. On the other hand, the
growing economic and political potential of
some
Member States may attest to their ability and maturity to
successfully assume the responsibilities and meet
the
challenges of permanent members of
the Security
Council.
A fair decision on the enlargement of the Council
should preserve the balance between the permanent and
non-permanent members, as well as among the regional
groups. Such a decision should also include the allocation
of an additional non-permanent seat for the Group of
Eastern European States.
The word “reform” has been used so much today in
different parts of the world that I would be afraid of
classifying United Nations reform with the various other
We support the efforts aimed at further improving
the early warning system of the Organization. The new
challenges to international peace and security demand an
25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in Bosnia
enhanced role for United Nations peacekeeping operations.
As an active participant in United Nations peacekeeping
operations
and Herzegovina, Cambodia,
Tajikistan and elsewhere, Bulgaria welcomes the growing
efficiency of the Security Council and also supports an
enhanced role for the Secretary-General in the field of
preventive diplomacy.
should encompass
Bulgaria shares the view that future peacekeeping
operations
the whole complex of
political, humanitarian and military aspects of peacekeeping
in order to achieve maximum efficiency. Close cooperation
with the regional security organizations and other relevant
bodies is of key importance to the success of future United
Nations peacekeeping efforts as well.
For years now the United Nations has been operating
under the burden of a serious financial crisis. Bulgaria
supports the initiatives contained in the report of the
Secretary-General
and
mechanisms for stringent financial discipline, strict control
and accountability. Such an approach could contribute to
the successful implementation of the administrative reform
and reorganization of the Secretariat.
elaborating criteria
aimed at
to
regular
the United Nations
We believe that a new scale of assessments for
contributions
and
peacekeeping budgets would allow greater account to be
taken of the financial potential of individual Member States.
Bulgaria shares the ideas expressed by the Secretary-
General that the reform should be implemented within the
framework of a complex approach that would not neglect
the specific needs of the countries in transition and the
smaller States.
We support
the efforts aimed at restructuring the
governing institutions of the United Nations in the socio-
economic field; at raising the operational capacity of the
Economic and Social Council and of the specialized funds
and
from
management and administration to social and economic
programmes.
programmes;
transferring
funds
and
at
As Assembly members are probably aware, 1997 was
a difficult but successful year for Bulgaria. The beginning
of the year was marked by an acute economic, financial and
political crisis, which resulted in the appointment of a
the dissolution of the Bulgarian
caretaker government,
Parliament and early elections. At
the
civilized, peaceful and constitutional way in which
Bulgarian society overcame the political crisis is a very
important sign of the maturity of democracy in the country.
the same time,
26
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
At
financial
the elections held last April
the Union of
Democratic Forces won an overwhelming majority for
their agenda:
stabilization, market-oriented
structural economic reform and speedy privatization; the
strengthening and modernizing of State administration;
rule of
law and combating organized crime and
corruption; and the integration of Bulgaria into the Euro-
Atlantic community of nations.
to implement
We have made every effort
this
strategy, and today we already have the first positive
results. In the political sphere, the transition to the rule of
law, political pluralism and respect for fundamental
human rights and freedoms has been completed. The
democratic institutions are stable and enjoy the broad
support of more than 50 per cent of the people. In the
economic sphere, a currency board was successfully
introduced as
a means of guaranteeing financial
stabilization and of
the
international financial institutions and business circles in
Bulgaria. This has resulted in a radical decrease of the
inflation rate and an increase in foreign investment and
the country s currency reserves. The results of
the
crackdown on crime and corruption have re-established
respect for law and order.
restoring the confidence of
Here I would like to point out that Bulgaria attaches
great importance to the concerted efforts of the world
community in the fight against organized crime and
terrorism. We look forward to contributing to the efforts
to elaborate the future international convention for the
suppression of terrorist bombings and for the drafting of
a widely accepted text of the statute of the international
criminal court.
We are also committed to draft regional programmes
for preventing organized crime, international terrorism,
illicit drugs and arms trafficking, illicit trade in nuclear
materials and the trafficking of people.
The desire of the Bulgarian Government to join the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the
European Union underlies our foreign policy and is
overwhelmingly supported by the Bulgarian nation. For
us, accession to these institutions is an expression of the
European identity of Bulgaria and an integral element of
the political and economic transformation of the country.
It
interest and
strategic priority, a matter of choice of civilization; and
not an issue of politics of the day.
immediate national
is a question of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Bulgaria considers the decisions reached at the NATO
Summit in Madrid as a historic opening of the alliance to
the new European democracies. We feel strongly that the
enlargement should continue as a geographically balanced
process aimed at achieving equal security and stability in
different regions; thus the risks of new dividing lines or
grey zones in Europe would be avoided.
Our Government is making great efforts to intensify
its preparations for accession to the European Union, with
a view to meeting the requirements for membership in the
nearest possible future. We strongly hope for a political
decision by the European Union to start the negotiations
with all associated countries at the beginning of 1998. This
would be a confirmation of the position that all candidate
countries have equal chances of becoming members.
Bulgaria considers these integration processes as a
significant contribution to the strengthening of regional
stability and security in south-eastern Europe. The
Bulgarian Government is making every effort to promote
European standards of international conduct in this part of
the continent. Our approach has been backed by a number
of
level. The
cooperation between NATO members and partner countries
in the area is an important element in this process, and
Bulgaria has advanced ideas for an enhanced Euro-Atlantic
cooperation on the security of south-eastern Europe and the
Black Sea.
initiatives
important
regional
the
at
Bulgaria will also continue to work actively along the
lines of
its 1996 initiative for security, stability and
cooperation in south-eastern Europe. We attach great
importance to the coordination of our efforts with the other
initiatives for cooperation in the region, especially with the
Royaumont process launched by the European Union and
the South-east European Cooperative Initiative, sponsored
by the United States.
Our aspiration to non-permanent membership of the
Security Council for the 2002-2003 period demonstrates our
readiness to assume responsibilities for peace and security
both in the region and in a wider international context.
As members know, Bulgaria has suffered tremendous
implementation of the
losses as a result of the strict
the
sanctions imposed by the Security Council against
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).
Combined with the disadvantages caused by the sanctions
against Libya and Iraq, the total amount of the direct and
indirect costs to Bulgaria is comparable to the country s
the Republic of Bulgaria will
foreign debt. Therefore,
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
continue to attach particular importance to the work being
done within the United Nations system to address more
effectively problems related to the implementation of
Article 50 of the Charter.
We welcome the provisions of the General Assembly
resolutions urging the organizations within the United
Nations system, international financial institutions and
other international bodies to continue to address more
specifically and directly the issue of economic assistance
to third States affected by the implementation of the
sanctions. I should like to draw the Assembly s attention
to the possibility of granting certain exemptions from
sanctions or creating a preferential regime for the most
gravely affected third States. Naturally, these exemptions
and preferences should be in accordance with the Charter.
We believe that the burden of the specific economic
problems created by the sanctions should be fairly
distributed among all third countries and not borne by
neighbouring States only.
We strongly believe that while negotiating with
sanction-affected
international
financial institutions should take account of the need to
compensate them indirectly.
countries,
third
the
It
is our understanding that
the United Nations
specialized agencies play an important role and provide
valuable support to countries in their efforts to achieve
sustainable development. The reforms which are under
way in these agencies need the support of the Member
States. The reform processes in the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and other
organizations give us hope of success.
Bulgaria believes that the activities of international
forums and bodies for human rights should be aimed at
ensuring the effective exercise of these rights by every
human being. The implementation of
international
standards could be achieved by improving existing
mechanisms and by a constructive and open dialogue on
the most sensitive issues. This approach is not directed a
priori against any country or group of countries. In this
context, Bulgaria attaches high importance to the
guarantees for the human rights of Bulgarians living
abroad and is closely watching the situation of Bulgarian
minorities. We consider
the rights of
Bulgarians
in neighbouring States and the related
implementation of international human rights standards as
an important factor in the promotion of bilateral relations.
respect
for
27
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The monitoring and the effective control of
the
implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms
remains of critical importance, and Bulgaria reiterates its
support for the efforts of the High Commissioner for
Human Rights. I should like at this point to welcome the
appointment of Ms. Mary Robinson to this high post and to
wish her every success in her activities.
The Bulgarian Government regards the possible spread
of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery
as one of the major concerns of the 1990s. The existing
regimes of multilateral treaties, such as the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
the Chemical
Weapons Convention and the Biological Weapons
Convention, provide for basic restrictive norms in this field.
The Republic of Bulgaria supports all
international
endeavours to meet
the goals of non-proliferation and
stands for a further strengthening of these regimes.
The Conference on Disarmament is an appropriate
forum for negotiations on the elimination of certain types
of conventional weapons. A long-lasting solution should be
found to the problem of anti-personnel landmines, the ban
on which has humanitarian and disarmament aspects and
needs a verification regime. We believe that the text of a
new Convention that would ultimately ban all anti-
personnel
the Oslo
Diplomatic Conference this month, could well serve as a
basis for achieving a comprehensive and widely accepted
international agreement. We also hope that the Ottawa
process and the negotiations
in the Conference on
Disarmament will be mutually supportive and will result in
an effective ban on anti-personnel landmines.
landmines, which was agreed at
In conclusion, finding an adequate solution to these
problems will be impossible without the successful reform
and restructuring of the United Nations Organization and of
all its bodies. Therefore, we expect a decisive breakthrough
in this direction at
the present session of the General
Assembly. I am personally convinced that by the end of
this session the United Nations will have changed, and that
this change will be for the better.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the last speaker in the general debate for
this meeting.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
speak in exercise of the right of reply.
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention and to five minutes
the second
intervention and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
for
Sir John Weston (United Kingdom):
In his
statement to the General Assembly this morning, the
Permanent Representative of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
referred to the bombing of Pan American flight 103, a
terrorist incident in which, together with that perpetrated
against UTA flight 772, 441 people from 27 separate
Member States of the United Nations were murdered —
441 people from 27 separate Member States. I should like
to
the British
Government s position.
restate
opportunity
to
take
this
As the British Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, made
clear during the Security Council debate on 25
September, this question is not a dispute between the
Libyan Government and a number of other countries. It
is about the need for the international community to
respond to acts of international terrorism and about the
consistent failure of the Libyan Government to comply
fully with Security Council resolutions 731 (1992), 748
(1992) and 883 (1993). Compliance with Security Council
resolutions adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter is an
obligation for all Member States of the United Nations.
The United Kingdom seeks no more and no less than that
Libya should demonstrate its respect for the United
Nations and the international community by complying
fully with the relevant resolutions.
These resolutions make it clear that Libya must hand
over the Lockerbie accused for trial in Scotland or the
United States. These provisions are for Libya to comply
with, not
to negotiate over. We reject utterly the
imputation that a trial in Scotland would be unfair. There
are comprehensive safeguards in the Scottish judicial
system to ensure fairness. These were set out in a British
letter to the Secretary-General in September 1993, and
were then accepted by Libya itself. In order to provide
further reassurance, however, let me repeat the offer made
by the British Foreign Secretary last week. The United
Kingdom would be prepared to make special provision for
international observers
the
Organization of African Unity or any other such body to
attend a trial
in Scotland to monitor its impartiality.
Additional facilities would also be provided, including
daily access to the accused if the latter so wished.
from the Arab League,
May I remind members that,
in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 34/401, statements in exercise
This offer demonstrates our genuine wish to see an
end to this impasse and to be flexible within the
28
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
parameters set out by the Security Council to achieve this
end. It remains for the Libyan Government to meet its
responsibilities and to abide by the Council s decisions in
full.
Mr. Burleigh (United States): On behalf of the United
States, I would like to exercise my right of reply to the
Libyan representative s
intervention to the General
Assembly earlier today.
The Libyan representative made numerous references
to my country, many of which were gratuitous in nature.
Nonetheless, I would like only to address one of the issues
raised:
the lack of Libyan compliance with the world
communities desire to seek justice for the victims of the
Pan Am and UTA bombings. In this regard, allow me to
quote a point made by the Secretary of State during the
Security Council ministerial meeting last Thursday. She
said that we
“must reject the culture of impunity that has protected
those guilty of gross violations of human rights or the
export of terror to other nations. In this regard, ...
there can be no compromise with Libya when it
comes to terrorism.” (S/PV.3819, p. 29)
The statement made today by the head of the Libyan
delegation is yet another example of Libya s constant
attempts to turn its international obligations into an issue
between States. This is not an issue between States. This
issue is about Libya s obligations to the international
community. There can be no negotiation between Libya and
the Security Council regarding fulfilment of Chapter VII
obligations. Libya s refusal to meet its obligations amply
demonstrates its disdain for the United Nations, and the
Libyan Government, not
the Security Council, bears
responsibility for the plight of the Libyan people. The
Government of Libya knows what needs to be done to
bring an end to sanctions: full compliance with the relevant
Security Council resolutions. To do less is to insult the
memory of those who died so tragically and to deny the
victims families the demands of justice.
(Libyan Arab
Mr. Muntasser
Jamahiriya)
(interpretation from Arabic): I requested the floor
to
respond to the statements just made by the representatives
of the United Kingdom and the United States with regard
to the facts, the unquestionable facts, that were contained in
the statement made before this Assembly this morning by
the head of our delegation with regard to the question of
Lockerbie.
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
I would first like to state that the representatives of
the United States and the United Kingdom were not able
to refute any of the facts contained in our statement. They
have not been able to answer the questions raised in it,
which in itself is testimony to the arrogance of both and
the invalidity of their positions.
Secondly, the two representatives denied that the
dispute was between Libya on one side and the United
States and the United Kingdom on the other. They also
alleged that it was a dispute between Libya and the
Security Council. To prove the invalidity of
that
allegation, I would only recall the intense deliberations of
the Security Council on 10 June during the review of the
sanctions imposed on Libya. That review lasted for more
than two hours and the dispute was between these two
countries and the rest of the membership of the Council.
Libya is not a member of the Security Council and was
not called to attend. Neither Libya nor any other countries
were invited. All the members of the Council were on
one side and the representatives of the United States and
the United Kingdom were on the other side. The members
of the Security Council with whom we have been in
contact have always told us that the difference is not with
the Security Council; rather, it is with the United States
and the United Kingdom. In this context, and to prove the
validity of what I say and the falsity of their allegations,
I would like to recall what took place in the Security
Council meeting on 25 September 1997 with regard to the
situation in Africa. President Robert Mugabe,
the
President of Zimbabwe and the current Chairman of the
Organization of African Unity, said that it was necessary
“to find a solution to the dispute between Libya, the
United States of America and the United Kingdom
over the Lockerbie tragedy. ... Now that Libya has
agreed that the two accused Libyans can be tried
under Scottish Law, by Scottish judges but in a third
country or at the International Court of Justice, we
this offer should receive your serious
feel
consideration
can move
forward.”(S/PV.3819, p. 4)
that matters
that
so
All other States members of the Security Council
have endorsed President Mugabe s statement and only
the United States and the United Kingdom rejected it. Can
we, after all this, claim that the difference is between
Libya and the Security Council? Of course, we cannot.
The Security Council, in accordance with the Charter, acts
on behalf of the Member States and not on behalf of the
United States and the United Kingdom. The Security
the international
Council must express the will of
29
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
community and not that of those two countries, which
regrettably enjoy permanent membership and enjoy the right
of veto, and impede the Security Council from responding
to the international will.
The United States and the United Kingdom claim that
their rejection of a trial in a neutral country is based on
their domestic laws, which do not permit this. At the same
18th plenary meeting
30 September 1997
time, they demand that other countries turn suspects over
to them for trial. Do they not know that there is domestic
legislation preventing the surrender of suspects to them?
Do they think that their domestic law is superior to that
of other countries?
The representative of the United States spoke of
terrorism. If I were to reiterate all the acts of terrorism
committed by the United States world-wide, I would
never be able to finish within my 10-minute limit. Suffice
it
to remind the international community of a very
important episode: the United States has, more than once,
perpetrated against my country more grave acts. Using its
naval and air forces, it committed a brutal raid on 15
April 1986 against the President of my country and his
office and against
residential areas in Tripoli and
Benghazi. Dozens of women, children and elderly people
were martyred as they slept at night.
The United States cannot provide one proof of what
it calls Libyan terrorism, but there is testimony and proof
by the dozen of United States terrorism against Libya.
The 15 April 1986 raid is not a mere suspicion, as in the
case of the United States with regard to two Libyan
citizens, but a reality that took place and whose effects
persist in the form of graves and the remains of buildings.
The effects of the bombs and the rockets are still there.
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
30
