United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
15th plenary meeting
Monday, 29 September 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.15
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 120 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/52/350/Add.1)
the Secretary-General
The President: In a letter contained in document
A/52/350/Add.1,
the
President of the General Assembly that, since the issuance
of his communication dated 16 September 1997,
the
Republic of Moldova has made the necessary payment to
reduce its arrears below the amount specified in Article 19
of the Charter.
informs
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note of
this information?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by His Excellency The Honourable Denzil
Douglas, Prime Minister and Minister for National
Security, Foreign Affairs, Finance, Planning and
Information of Saint Kitts and Nevis
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for National
Security,
and
Information of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Foreign Affairs,
Finance,
Planning
The Honourable Denzil Douglas, Prime Minister
and Minister for National Security, Foreign Affairs,
Finance, Planning and Information of Saint Kitts
and Nevis, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming
His Excellency The Honourable Denzil Douglas, Prime
Minister and Minister for National Security, Foreign
Affairs, Finance, Planning and Information of Saint Kitts
and Nevis and inviting him to address the General
Assembly.
Mr. Douglas (Saint Kitts and Nevis): The fifty-
second anniversary of the United Nations is yet another
historic moment for us all. Our shared presence here is
evidence that as Members of this great institution we have
an opportunity to realize our collective aspirations and
expectations. It is necessary therefore for the Organization
to ensure that the concerns of Member States, particularly
those in the developing world, are not compromised or
seen as secondary to the process.
It is essential that the United Nations become a
catalyst for improving the quality of life of our citizens
and a champion of our fundamental rights and freedoms.
Such challenges will require much commitment and
strategic thinking. I believe that if we succeed we will
have laid the foundation for peace and international
security for generations to come.
With our nations and peoples standing at
the
crossroads of tremendous change, and with heightened
97-86080 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
expectations in the fields of human development and
poverty eradication, the United Nations must be allowed to
assume an even greater
role. Saint Kitts and Nevis
maintains that
the United Nations has the necessary
institutional capacity to encompass our collective ambitions
and simultaneously to resolve many of the problems facing
nation-States.
In the light of the fundamental importance which my
Government attaches to a reformed, more functional United
Nations, we welcome the appointment of His Excellency
Mr. Kofi Annan as Secretary-General. His commitment to
and wide experience in this institution will help provide the
United Nations with the crucial leadership it needs at this
critical juncture in the Organization s history.
As we march into a new millennium, with its
the United
increasing uncertainties and complexities,
Nations and its membership will have to recommit
themselves
facets.
Otherwise we will have failed in this decade to accomplish
our mandate of poverty eradication.
to human development
in all
its
The growing reduction in much-needed aid and
technical assistance to the developing world threatens the
further marginalization of our poor countries. This means
that countries will grow to depend more on the United
Nations. We therefore urge the United Nations to work
more closely with developing countries to devise new ideas
and pragmatic approaches to improve the standard of living
of the world's poor. This reality, we think, lends greater
urgency to the Secretary-General's proposals for reform. In
this regard,
the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis
encourages wide discussion of the extensive and far-
reaching reform proposals with the aim of arriving at
consensus.
it
is vital
We believe that
to restructure and
consolidate some of the different areas of services that the
United Nations provides. However this must herald real
change and increased benefit for Member States. We cannot
support a mere transfer of resources from one organ to
another without proper safeguards to ensure efficiency and
accountability. In the same vein, we hope that development
and
reforms will
the
distinctiveness of existing organs.
the
developing world to achieve sustainable growth, we need
the expertise, we need the resources and we need the
institutional capabilities of existing United Nations funds
and programmes.
effectiveness
In order
for
sacrifice
not
2
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
it
refrain
services,
States must
As we work towards greater efficiency in the
management and administration of
is
important not to undermine positive past achievements.
Member
from marrying
conditionalities to the process of reform, especially when
these very conditionalities hinder substantial progress in
the reform process itself. Saint Kitts and Nevis therefore
suggests that in order for reforms to work they must of
necessity balance and protect the interests of Member
States, not simply appear to reward or benefit a privileged
few. Reform is not about creating mechanisms that
merely restructure the obligations of States to the
Organization. Reform should not be used as an
opportunity to compensate current economic strength.
Decisions on permanent and non-permanent membership,
as part of the reform process, should be the result of a
process of debate and consensus-building.
on
and
correcting
representation
My delegation expects to see greater emphasis on
geographic
old
inequalities that continue to plague us today. Saint Kitts
and Nevis appeals to all States to be careful not
to
confuse the need for genuine systemic reforms with
legally assessed financial obligations to the Organization.
Nations demanding reform should also be willing to
reform incongruous attitudes and perceptions of the
United Nations. We must honour all our responsibilities
to the Organization. Progress will require that we all work
more closely together
to confront
the multitude of
complicated problems, old and new.
To this end,
let us challenge ourselves to find
common ground and assist
the United Nations in
developing the appropriate ideas and strategies that
promote our common agenda. This may not be easy;
hence the Organization will need to establish a mutually
beneficial
in
Government and the business community.
relationship between
policy makers
On this note, I should like to acknowledge the
magnificent contribution of Mr. Ted Turner to this
Organization. He has shown himself to be an exceptional
international citizen. We trust
this humanitarian
gesture of support for the Organization and its work will
make a noticeable impact on the areas designated, and
that it will challenge others of like mind to demonstrate
their support for the Organization as well.
that
This show of support is a reminder that only the
United Nations can provide the kind of impartial and
comprehensive leadership that Member States want. Only
the United Nations, with 50 years of successes and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
failures as a world institution, has the unique experience to
develop essential capabilities to serve its membership. The
United Nations has the competitive edge. A United Nations
reformed to deal with the modern challenges of a modern
era can work, but only if it is allowed to work.
I appreciate well the power of national imperatives and
individualism. I also understand well the concerns about
supranational institutions. Nevertheless, we have come too
far
and
misconceptions.
to surrender our global destiny to fear
When we speak of the development of the human
person yet fail to appreciate that economic rights are as
fundamental to human dignity as are human rights, we do
great disservice to the cause of human rights. However,
when we acknowledge these rights then we give more
substance to social stability and the process of
true
democracy.
Democracy is not new to the Caribbean region. It is a
way of life, a tradition for our region. We see it as the most
practical and useful system of government to advance our
people. However, democracy is not
simply about
institutions or processes. It is about creating an enabling
government and an enabling environment in which the
ordinary person — the impoverished, the disillusioned, the
educated and the rich — feels included and feels that he or
she can participate in the decision-making process and feels
that his or her dreams can be truly realized.
Because we regard democracy as the most efficient
and viable vehicle for sustainable human development, it
must deliver and be seen to deliver. The people must be
reassured that
they can and indeed will rise from the
quicksand of poverty through the promise of development.
If we fail to deliver on the promise, then democracy will
fail. If democracy fails, poverty becomes entrenched and
chaos becomes inevitable.
The condition of poverty has for too long been linked
with the destiny of small States. The apparent ease with
which both are dismissed is a source of grave concern to
the Government and the people of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Too little attention is being paid to the economic hardships,
political disruptions and social dislocations which we are
forced to endure as small developing States. Instead of
seeing crucial support from the developed world, we are
witnessing increased tendencies towards isolationism and
neglect.
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
In the current wave of globalization, economic
stability has become the soft underbelly of Caribbean
security, democracy and prospects
sustainable
development. If these economies are not strengthened and
given appropriate assistance, one lays waste to the
tremendous intellectual
talents in these countries and
exposes the political and social fabric to the nefarious
forces that lurk in the region.
for
Our small countries need institutional support and
partnership to help in preparing our youth to adapt their
knowledge and skills to changing world circumstances.
Such preparation will help make them self-sufficient and
more responsive to the unpredictable changes taking place
around us.
Additionally, we must create jobs on a continuous
basis to inspire our young people and put life's basic
needs within reach of their parents. We must not overlook
the crucial link between economic growth and long-term
political and social stability. Sustainable development in
the Caribbean is in everyone's best interest.
My Government does not subscribe to conspiracy
theories, but it is acutely aware of the ease with which we
can all fall victim to the conspiracy of silence and the
conspiracy of neglect. Our economies are under siege; our
way of life is threatened; the growth of our countries and
people is undermined by forces which are better able to
exploit globalization and trade liberalization.
No one in good faith can accuse us of complacency.
Our countries have worked hard to keep pace with current
economic trends. We have tightened fiscal and monetary
policies, and we are monitoring them very closely. We
have run the gauntlet of social and economic measures
supposedly structured to ensure the economic growth and
survival of our various economies.
The road we have travelled has been a difficult one,
and we have learned valuable lessons. Still, we continue
to suffer exclusion from developed countries' markets for
our various products. As a direct consequence, the private
sector has become sceptical of its very survival and
profitability.
Our banana-producing countries in the region have
suffered a tremendous and potentially devastating blow in
the wake of the recent panel ruling of the World Trade
Organization (WT0) on the banana regime of the African,
Caribbean and Pacific group of States (ACP). It
is
important
inconceivable
insignificant but
that
the
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
percentage in access that ACP countries share in this
market can pose any meaningful threat to the collaborative
interests of multinational producers.
Our banana and sugar industries are major employers
and foreign exchange earners; yet, without regard for our
survival,
they are being challenged with the ultimate
objective of dismantling them completely. At the same
time, we still do not have ready access to essential
technologies vital
to making our industries and human
resources more competitive and more efficient.
We contend that
trade liberalization, without
the
proper mechanisms to protect the small and the weak, does
not promote fair trade. Where is the fairness of fair trade?
How, therefore, will our small island developing States find
new and sustainable ways to respond to the growing needs
of our population? How will we be able to stem the brain
drain, the migration of human resources searching for a
better standard of living?
Our countries have undertaken to diversify our
economies despite the obvious dislocations within our
societies. We remain committed to democratic institutions,
and we continuously allocate scarce resources to human
development. Our Governments in the Caribbean have been
working more closely with the private sector as true
partners in development. We have enacted legislation to
facilitate
and to
encourage foreign direct investment and domestic savings.
increased investment opportunities
Nonetheless, with every step we seem to fall prey to
the perpetual and constantly evolving demands for more
extensive changes without any regard for the effects on our
countries and our people. Globalization, with its insatiable
appetite, and the ravenous forces of unrestricted free market
and trade liberalization are forever famished. Why must the
rules which are always in a state of constant flux be to the
detriment of small resource-poor States?
In the coming years, not only will we still be
the concepts of
struggling to combat poverty, but
seriously
sovereignty and governance will
challenged as we endeavour to cope with the complex
implications of forces that face our societies and menace
our democracies. The transnational nature of information,
of capital, of labour and of technological advances will not
spare our tiny countries the trying consequences unleashed
by globalization.
also be
Despite these difficulties, Saint Kitts and Nevis will
not become a nation of mendicants. We will give priority
4
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
to the right of our citizens to economic well-being. For
what good would it do if our people achieve their human
right to exist but are denied the right to live dignified
lives?
The Labour Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis
has undertaken to build 1,000 new, affordable homes by
the end of this century. We believe that all our citizens
have the right to live in dignity and to have access to the
basic necessities of life. We have already turned over 100
new houses, and by the end of this year we expect 300
families to be moving into new homes in Saint Kitts and
Nevis. This is the commitment of the Government of
Saint Kitts and Nevis to the development of its citizens.
I have said in the past, and I maintain now, that we
must abandon the practice of using gross national product
per capita to measure standards of living for people in the
developing world. How can the developed world and
multilateral agencies deny assistance to countries on the
basis that such a country has reached this artificial
threshold? Are people in the developing world not entitled
to a higher standard of living, or must
they always
straddle the boundaries of poverty and exist only at levels
which the developed world considers acceptable indicators
of human progress?
It is important for us to dedicate our energies to the
logic of prevention. In Saint Kitts and Nevis we believe
strongly that prevention is better than cure. We believe in
enabling our peoples to have a life free of poverty and
despair. The Secretary-General has called for greater
efficiency in management, greater resource mobilization
and redeployment of potential savings to the development
fields. This is long overdue.
It is also the duty of Member States to ensure that
new resources are targeted at development. Such a
process will have to be guided by and nourished with
vision, political will and an appreciation of the global
imperatives of sustainable development and poverty
eradication. It will involve foresight, profound analyses,
and a willingness to look beyond national self-interest.
Working together to shape our collective destiny could
enable us to reduce the risks of future political and social
conflicts.
I believe firmly that the special circumstances and
vulnerability indices of small States must be at
the
forefront of international debate. If there were ever a
question as to the vulnerability of small States,
I
challenge the Assembly to recall the unfortunate situation
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
it
on the Caribbean island of Montserrat. This reality clearly
demonstrates that
takes only one disaster, only one
violent act of nature, only one volcanic eruption to dislocate
an entire population, decimate an entire economy and
destroy the entire social
fabric of a people. The
Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis, like other Caribbean
Community (CARICOM) countries, has extended a willing
hand of health and social support
to the people of
Montserrat. We continue to provide employment and other
business opportunities to those who have come to our
shores in Saint Kitts and Nevis from the island of
Montserrat. I urge the international community to join the
Caribbean in taking prompt, decisive and tangible steps to
assist the people of Montserrat.
Montserrat is a microcosm of our precarious existence.
Hence, we urge the international community to fulfil its
promises under the Barbados Programme of Action and
other commitments to the developing world. Our survival
as a region is intimately interwoven with our environment,
and our physical and economic limitations should not be
further burdened by the transshipment of hazardous waste
through our waterways. Such actions are a flagrant violation
of our human rights and an affront to our sovereign dignity.
As we work to fulfil the dreams of those who came
before us, I trust
that we will succeed in developing
confidence in the capabilities of the United Nations and
entrust it with realizing our common objectives. At the
same time, there will be occasions when we must challenge
ourselves to appreciate that some problems in international
affairs require indigenous approaches and remedies. We
must, therefore, yield to such imperatives.
One case in point
is the Middle East, where the
current crisis calls for a nurturing of mutual trust and a
clear willingness to understand the need for all the parties
to come to the bargaining table. Saint Kitts and Nevis
believes that durable peace and security are the common
desires of the nations involved. Success requires boldness
and commitment. Genuine progress will come not from
violence, recrimination and mistrust, but through partnership
and dialogue. Saint Kitts and Nevis urges both sides to use
negotiation and creative confidence-building measures in
addressing their differences
Saint Kitts and Nevis also urges the Chinese people on
both sides of the Taiwan Strait to commit their collective
energies to the pursuit of common approaches to resolving
the current impasse that divides them. The Government of
Saint Kitts and Nevis maintains that progress on this issue
requires sustained dialogue, political will and the goodwill
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
of all. We also believe that the remarkable strides the
Chinese people on Taiwan have made in the last two
decades should not be squandered. The international
community can benefit, and stands to benefit significantly,
from the economic, technological and social advances of
Taiwan.
I hope,
therefore,
In conclusion, fulfilling the expectations of our
citizens is not a simple task, but we cannot and must not
become discouraged.
that as we
endeavour to accomplish our goals Member States will
not continue to make unreasonable demands on this
Organization while refusing it the requisite tools and
resources for appropriate action. Our world needs a
stronger United Nations. Our countries and our peoples
need its
for
impartiality. Let us not try to relegate it to the periphery,
lest we risk serious consequences in the future. Let us
commit to writing a history of which we can be proud,
lest history should hold us in contempt for squandering
our children's heritage. Let this session of the General
Assembly be a watershed when collective efforts were
translated into appropriate action and well-deserved
results.
supervision and potential
intellectual
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the Prime Minister and Minister for
National Security, Foreign Affairs, Finance, Planning and
Information of Saint Kitts and Nevis for the statement he
has just made.
The Honourable Denzil Douglas, Prime Minister
and Minister for National Security, Foreign Affairs,
Finance, Planning and Information of Saint Kitts
and Nevis, was escorted from the rostrum.
The President: I now call on His Excellency Mr.
Chong Ha Yoo, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
Republic of Korea.
Mr. Yoo (Republic of Korea): I congratulate you,
Sir, on assuming the presidency of the fifty-second
session of the General Assembly and pledge to you our
full support and cooperation. I also pay tribute to your
predecessor, Ambassador Razali Ismail, whose devoted
efforts enabled the fifty-first session of the General
Assembly to come to grips with some of the core issues
affecting the future of the United Nations.
We meet at a time when a number of profound
the
questions
international community possess the necessary will and
loom large over humankind. Does
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
means to make the twenty-first century an era of wider
peace, deeper justice and greater prosperity? Can we
eradicate poverty and protect the environment? Are we able
to ensure that fundamental human rights are respected and
promoted throughout the world? Can we reinvigorate the
United Nations so that it can be the means to advance these
ends? To each of these questions we can and must respond
in the affirmative.
The Secretary-General,
through his recent reform
proposals, has provided the international community with
a timely compass to help guide the way. In the view of my
delegation, the Secretary- General's latest proposals contain
a wide spectrum of reforms designed for the overall
enhancement of
the United Nations system. We are
confident that many of the Secretary-General's ideas can be
translated into action through open-minded deliberation,
with the full participation of Member States at this session.
In this respect, I wish to recall the statement of 10 August
by the Group of 16, including the Republic of Korea, which
expressed support
reform
initiatives.
the Secretary-General's
for
it
While institutional reform is a prerequisite for a more
efficient United Nations,
is clear that without more
reliable financial support the Organization cannot make an
efficient transition into the twenty-first century. Only when
Member States discharge their financial obligations in full,
on time and without conditions will the United Nations
safely and smoothly reach its ultimate destination of
ensuring a better future for humankind.
scale of
assessment
It is in this spirit that Korea has made it a firm policy
to pay its assessed dues in full and on time. We will
actively participate in concerted efforts to adopt a more
equitable
session. My
Government will consider a gradual move from the
contributors' Group C to which Korea presently belongs, to
Group B in terms of peacekeeping assessment. This is a
reaffirmation of our enduring commitment towards both the
financial viability of the United Nations and its efforts to
maintain international peace and security.
this
at
Another crucial task before us is the reform of the
Security Council. At the last session, my delegation actively
participated in deliberations on the issue, on the basis of
our own experiences as a Council member. We share the
view that the profound changes in international relations
over the past several decades fully warrant expansion of
Council membership. Given the diverse and sensitive
concerns of all Member States, however, this issue must be
handled with the utmost prudence and seriousness. Every
6
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
effort should be made to work out a consensus formula,
while bearing in mind that haste makes waste.
One of
the most
significant
and promising
developments in international relations over the past half
century has been the emergence of a considerable number
of medium-power countries with the capability to make a
meaningful contribution to the cause of international
peace and security. Any plan to reform the Council
should provide those countries with opportunities to serve
on the Council with reasonable frequency, commensurate
with their capabilities and contributions.
We also believe that Council reform should be based
upon consideration of the problems and shortcomings
associated with the Council's operations
far,
particularly with respect
to the system of permanent
membership and the right of veto. Convinced that more
can be done to make the Security Council a more
representative, efficient and democratic body, we will
remain open-minded and flexible with regard to any
proposals that can move this important process in the
right direction.
thus
As a member of the Security Council for the 1996-
1997 period, the Republic of Korea has made its due
contribution to the cause of international peace and
security. We have actively participated in reaching
important decisions to enhance peace and stability in the
countries of some parts of the third world that have been
plagued by civil conflicts over the past several years. We
also organized, during Korea's presidency of the Council
last May, an open debate on the refugee issue. The debate
resulted in the adoption of a presidential statement in June
on protection for humanitarian assistance to refugees and
others in conflict situations. This clearly reflects the fact
that the Security Council has come to recognize that
security applies to people as much as to States in an era
of intra-State conflicts.
Despite many positive developments in the security
landscape of the post Cold-War era, the non-proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction remains a priority concern
to people and Governments alike. My Government
believes that universal adherence to the existing non-
proliferation regimes represents an essential step towards
realizing that common objective. In this regard, we
welcome the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons
Convention, and urge those States which have not yet
acceded to the Convention, including North Korea, to do
so at the earliest date.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The proliferation and indiscriminate use of anti-
personnel
landmines has been the cause of enormous
human suffering and injury, particularly among civilians.
Given the magnitude of the scourge of anti-personnel
landmines, the Republic of Korea has decided to extend for
an indefinite period its moratorium on the export of anti-
personnel landmines, which was to expire at the end of this
year. We believe, however, that each country's legitimate
security concerns should be given due consideration in
addressing this matter.
I wish to reiterate that, while we fully support the
noble crusade to protect
innocent civilians from anti-
personnel
landmines, a sweeping ban cannot be a
satisfactory answer for a country like the Republic of
Korea, which faces the real and present risk of a recurrence
of all-out war, and whose heavily populated capital is only
25 miles from the military demarcation line. In our view,
the draft convention adopted in Oslo two weeks ago does
not
have
consistently expressed, or the exceptional nature of the
security situation on the Korean peninsula.
concerns which we
accommodate
fully
The
has
community
international
consistently
endeavoured to wipe out all forms of terrorism from the
face of the earth. However, terrorism still persists as one of
the major threats to international peace, exacting a heavy
toll on innocent
lives. The Republic of Korea has
experienced many barbaric and cowardly acts of terrorism
and still lives under its constant threat, including recent
open threats aimed at our free press. We strongly support
international efforts to combat terrorism and underline the
importance of upholding the principle of zero tolerance.
Given the global spectrum of terrorism, we also believe that
the United Nations can play a central role in strengthening
the international anti-terrorism regime. In this regard, we
look forward to an early adoption of the convention for the
suppression of terrorist bombings.
the previous session of
In this era of interdependence among States,
the
international community cannot remain indifferent to the
under-development of much of the world. My delegation
therefore welcomes the adoption of
the Agenda for
Development at
the General
Assembly and the Secretary-General's reform proposals
designed to enhance the United Nations economic and
social initiatives as well as its development activities. For
that reason, we support the Secretary-General's suggestion
to enhance the coordinating role of the Economic and
Social Council and to strengthen cooperation between the
United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. We
expect that the various proposals for a funding modality for
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
United Nations development activities will be discussed
fully at this session.
Korea, now a member of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, will participate
more vigorously in South-South cooperation projects with
a view to playing a bridging role between developed and
developing countries. In an effort to expand assistance to
the least developed countries, we have participated in
bilateral
cooperation projects with the Economic
Commission for Africa since 1995, and we plan to
undertake a programme for the development of Africa for
the period 1998 to 2000.
My Government, jointly with the United Nations
Development Programme, established in Seoul this past
May the International Vaccine Institute. This Institute is
devoted to the research and development of vaccines for
children around the world, particularly those
in
developing countries. The inaugural meeting of its board
of trustees is scheduled to convene in Seoul next month.
We look forward to generous support from Member
States for this worthy goal of keeping our children free
from debilitating diseases.
Turning
now to
environmental
issues, my
Government welcomes the adoption of the Programme for
Further Implementation of Agenda 21 at the nineteenth
special session of the General Assembly and stands
committed to participating faithfully in its implementation.
In particular, we are pleased that Korea's proposal to
conduct a feasibility study on the transfer of publicly
owned technology was supported by developed and
developing countries alike and was included in the
Programme. The results of the feasibility study, which is
being funded by my Government, will be presented at the
sixth session of
the Commission on Sustainable
Development next April. Through these efforts, we hope
to expedite the transfer of environmentally sound
technologies and to promote international cooperation for
environmental protection.
During the special session, there was also an in-
depth discussion on the safe management of radioactive
waste, an issue of serious concern to many countries. My
Government attaches great importance to the fact that the
special
set of
arrangements on the environmentally sound management
of these dangerous wastes. We strongly urge that these
arrangements be firmly and strictly adhered to and
respected.
session adopted a
comprehensive
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
With regard to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change, we hope that a realistic and
achievable outcome will emerge at the Kyoto Conference
to be held in December this year.
Next year marks the fiftieth anniversary of
the
adoption and proclamation of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. In 1998, we are also to undertake the five-
year mid-term review of the implementation of the Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action adopted in June
1993.
In the view of my delegation, human rights is an area
where the United Nations has made significant contributions
over the past half century, not just as an international forum
for discussion, but also as a centre for coordinated action.
Seen from this perspective, the consolidation of the Office
of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the
Centre for Human Rights, as proposed in the Secretary-
General's report, should certainly inject new vitality into
United Nations efforts to enhance the coordination of its
activities in the area of human rights. I wholeheartedly
welcome Mary Robinson's assumption of the post of High
Commissioner.
My Government also welcomes
the remarkable
progress made by the Preparatory Committee on the
Establishment of an International Criminal Court, which we
believe will serve as an effective deterrent against violations
of international humanitarian law. We expect
the
forthcoming conference in Rome will adopt the statute of
the court, paving the way for its establishment at
the
earliest possible date. From a historical perspective, the
creation of a permanent international criminal court will set
a benchmark for the attainment of international criminal
justice in the coming century.
that
As rightly pointed out
in the Secretary-General's
report, the developments in the present decade have clearly
strengthened the argument that respect for human rights is
a precondition for political stability and socio-economic
progress. One of the United Nations' most compelling
responsibilities is to further promote universal respect for
human rights and deter gross human rights abuses and
political oppression.
In this context, we are gravely
concerned at
the dire human rights situation in North
Korea. We truly hope that, in the not-too-distant future, our
compatriots in the North will come to enjoy basic human
rights and freedoms, as other peoples do around the world.
Let me now turn to the situation on the Korean
Peninsula. In April last year, the Republic of Korea and the
8
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
United States jointly proposed four-party talks, involving
the South and the North of Korea, the United States and
China, which aim to establish a permanent peace
mechanism on the Korean Peninsula and build mutual
trust between the two sides of Korea. The four-party
talks, when realized, will offer rare chances of facilitating
peace and security on the Korean Peninsula and
throughout North-east Asia.
If inter-Korean relations are to move forward and the
outstanding problems of the Peninsula are to be resolved
peacefully,
there is no alternative to dialogue and
reconciliation between the South and the North of Korea.
We sincerely hope that North Korea will realize the
importance and value of improved inter-Korean relations
through its participation in the four-party talks. While the
talks are in the interest of all concerned, no one stands to
benefit more than North Korea itself. The construction of
a solid and durable peace structure on the Korean
Peninsula will also produce generous dividends which can
help North Korea in addressing a host of domestic
challenges it faces, including its economic difficulties.
It is regrettable that the recent preparatory meetings
for the four-party talks ended without any tangible result.
Nevertheless, we will continue our patient effort
to
engage North Korea in a process of dialogue. We
appreciate the continued support of the international
community to this end.
In the meantime,
is a matter of
serious concern for
the Republic of Korea will
continue to provide humanitarian assistance to North
Korea. The plight of innocent civilians in the North and,
in particular, vulnerable groups such as malnourished
children,
the
Government and people of the Republic of Korea. As a
matter of priority, my Government will provide assistance
to the vulnerable children in North Korea in close
cooperation with the United Nations Children's Fund and
other interested countries. In this connection, we would
like to stress the vital importance of transparency in the
distribution process. We hope that such transparency can
be enhanced through more effective monitoring by the
international organizations concerned.
This year has seen some positive developments in
international efforts to resolve the long-standing North
Korean nuclear
issue. The 1994 Geneva Agreed
Framework has now entered the implementation stage,
with the ground-breaking ceremony for the light-water
reactor project
in North Korea last month under the
auspices of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Organization (KEDO). For the first time in nearly five
decades, over 100 engineers and technicians of both sides
of Korea are working together on the construction site. We
hope that this welcome development will be a harbinger of
a new era in inter-Korean relations. My Government takes
this opportunity to express its appreciation to all those
countries which
financial
have
contributions to KEDO.
extended
generous
While
the ongoing light-water
reactor project
undertaken by KEDO is an important step forward in
eliminating the threat of nuclear proliferation in the Korean
peninsula, it must be emphasized here once again that the
ultimate resolution of the North Korean nuclear issue is
possible only when North Korea complies fully with its
safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy
Agency, as well as with the Joint Declaration on the
Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula signed by the
South and North Korea in 1991.
When the United Nations was founded in 1945, who
to which international
could have foreseen the extent
relations would develop during the next half-century? No
doubt, a number of geopolitical structural changes will
occur in the coming century as well.
At
the threshold of the twenty-first century,
this
session of the General Assembly could well prove to be a
turning point by providing a forum for reconfiguring the
architecture and priorities of the Organization. Facing a new
array of challenges,
the way
towards a brighter future and a renewed sense of optimism.
Together, we can forge a stronger United Nations and,
through it, the foundation for a century of peace, prosperity
and justice. The Republic of Korea stands ready to do its
due part.
this session should point
The President: I now give the floor to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Singapore, His Excellency Mr. S.
Jayakumar.
Mr. Jayakumar (Singapore): Let me congratulate
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-
second session of the General Assembly. I also thank our
outgoing President, Mr. Razali Ismail, for his untiring
efforts. He catalysed a change in our approach to Security
Council reform and set a new trajectory for it.
For
several years, we have all
recognized the
imperative of United Nations reform. Today, the issue of
the moment is still reform. This summer, the Secretary-
General challenged us with a package of reforms that he
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
accurately described as the most extensive and far-
reaching in the 52-year history of this Organization. This
is, of course, not the first time a Secretary-General has
attempted to remake this Organization. But now that the
more extravagant of post-cold-war hopes for the United
Nations have faded, I believe that this package represents
a more focused, realistic and practical approach. We
congratulate the Secretary-General for his initiative.
The Secretary-General's objective clearly is to enable
the United Nations to do better what we all require it to
do. We all
take the United Nations importance as
axiomatic. Therefore, his intention to reconfigure the
United Nations management and strengthen the United
Nations ability to perform its core functions should be
generally acceptable to the majority, even if every
particular element of his proposals has not been fully
elaborated or may not be entirely to everyone's taste.
In the larger interests of this Organization, we should
the Secretary-General's
all welcome the thrust of
take issue with too many details.
proposals and not
Singapore adopts such an approach. We have,
for
example, questions about some specific details of his
proposals to place the United Nations finances on a
sounder footing and to streamline its operations. But we
have nonetheless contributed actively to the effort
to
streamline budgetary and administrative procedures in the
Secretariat and will continue to do so.
By taking a pragmatic and eclectic approach, we
hope to help move the reform process forward, even if we
may have questions on specific aspects. We will continue
to work with the Secretary-General and other Member
States to make the United Nations a more efficient and
effective Organization — one that will serve the interests
of all its Members, big and small, developing as well as
industrialized.
The Secretary-General's proposals on the United
Nations management, administration and structure have
sometimes been directly or
indirectly linked to the
ongoing effort by Member States to prepare the United
Nations political leadership for the twenty-first century
through Security Council reform. We are not confident
that this is the correct approach. We have been engaged
in this broader effort for almost four years. It is a fact
that the process has been difficult. Progress has been
slow. We have reached the conclusion that the prospects
for further progress are not good.
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We have arrived at
this conclusion with great
reluctance and without rancour. Progress has not been slow
because of the ill will of one State or another. Prospects for
further progress are dim not merely because one country or
another has lacked the will to cut through the web of vested
interests. The reasons are more fundamental. They go
beyond the volitions and intentions of individual countries
and are embedded in the nature and inescapable realities of
international organization in an international system that is
still largely defined by relations between sovereign States.
No great Power, or even a Power with aspirations to
greatness, has ever been willing to submit its own vital
interests to United Nations jurisdiction. This fact of
international life underlies the current reform stalemate. The
necessity of United Nations reform may be widely
accepted. But what the great Powers want is not a strong
United Nations per se. They want a United Nations just
strong and credible enough to serve as an effective
instrument of their will and policies. It
is only small
countries that are more inclined to take the United Nations
on its own terms and in its own right. Small countries are
not necessarily more virtuous — we merely have fewer
options.
This reality has been underscored by our discussions
on Security Council reform. The really crucial decisions
that will allow Security Council reform to move decisively
forward or stall it indefinitely are going to be taken in
Washington, London, Paris, Beijing or Moscow. It has not
been clear that the current permanent members really want
change except on their own terms and in circumstances that
will not erode their current status and prerogatives. Critical
ambiguities in their positions have held up progress and
will continue to do so unless clarified.
One school of thought is that we should decide on
Security Council reform during this General Assembly. I
can well sympathize with the frustrations of those who feel
that the current debate is going nowhere. But precisely
because this is so, we need to ask: What is it that we are
going to decide upon? The answer is far from clear. Indeed,
the entire Security Council reform process is in danger of
being lost in a wilderness of logical contradictions and
ambiguities. Please permit me to spell out some of these
contradictions and ambiguities.
Several permanent members have been categoric only
in their desire to see Japan and Germany as new permanent
members. Many other countries, including my own, would
agree that, when general agreement
is reached on the
expansion of the Security Council, Japan and Germany
10
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
should be new permanent members. But an equally large
number of countries, and I believe Japan and Germany
are among them, would also agree that any general
agreement on expansion must include some developing
countries as new permanent members to reflect new
international realities.
On this point most permanent members have been
far less clear. When challenged, several of them have
recently for the first time conceded that in addition to
Japan and Germany they would in principle be willing to
accept three permanent seats for developing nations from
the regions of Africa, Asia and Latin America. This is
welcome progress. Nevertheless, important ambiguities
still remain.
How will the three developing countries be chosen?
It has been suggested that individual countries be chosen
by a two-thirds vote of the membership as a whole. It has
also been suggested that they could be subject to some
system of rotation within the regions.
outside
the
region? Will
Both, however, are problematic concepts. Can a
is
country really legitimately represent a region if it
two-thirds
chosen
the
really be
membership prescribed by the Charter
sufficiently familiar with conditions outside their own
respective regions to make an informed and legitimate
choice, binding on regions of which they are not
members? Then, conceptually,
inherently
contradictory for a member to be said to be permanent
but nonetheless be subject to rotation? Who will such a
interests or the
member
region's interests? Can it really represent
the latter?
Indeed, what is the regional interest? How will it be
determined?
necessarily
synonymous with the interests of the larger members of
a region? Can a rotational system work for any region
except Africa, where it
is already an established
principle?
its own national
is
it not
represent:
Is
the
regional
interest
None of these questions will be easy to answer.
They have been debated for the last three years without
satisfactory answers. But unless there are clear answers,
my concern is that suggestions for a differentiated
selection process for permanent members from among the
newly industrialized and newly developing countries will
only lead to permanent stress, divisions and conflict for
most regions, or it will lead to a two-stage decision-
making process where the elevation of Germany and
Japan will not for many years, if ever, be matched by any
degree of consensus for the developing nations of Asia,
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Africa and Latin America. Such a discriminatory situation
would be clearly unacceptable to a majority of Member
States, including many of those that aspire to permanent
status.
But even if we could simultaneously reach agreement
on the identity of the three permanent members from
among the developing countries, together with Japan and
Germany,
equal
importance. What will be the status of the new permanent
members?
complexities of
further
there
are
Even those current permanent members that have
strongly supported Germany's and Japan's aspirations have
been silent on whether Germany and Japan should have the
veto. Even treaty allies of Japan and Germany, countries
that have pledged to go to war at their side and for them,
have taken no position on this crucial question. This, in our
view, makes it even more difficult to believe that any
developed country permanent member would ever allow
any developing country to acquire the veto, even though
they have made it clear that they want to retain unrestricted
use of the veto for themselves.
The powers of new permanent members are not
questions that can be deferred to a later date merely to
make it easier to quickly determine the identity of the new
permanent members. They are intrinsic to the very notion
and definition of permanent membership.
Is a new
permanent member really a permanent member if it does
not have the same powers as the original five permanent
members?
Article 27 has been controversial from the very
founding of the United Nations. There is now a wide
consensus that the use of the veto should be curtailed with
a view to its eventual abolition. The reality, of course, is
that this is not going to happen any time soon. Any attempt
to curtail the veto will be vetoed. Undemocratic though it
may be, the veto will be with us for the foreseeable future.
And it is not without a certain utility in so far as it helps
prevent conflicts among the major Powers which could
undermine the United Nations. It has been argued that the
veto acts as a fail-safe mechanism. The veto will prevent
those countries that are so essential to the maintenance of
peace and security and to the operation of the United
Nations that they deserve permanent status from being
compelled to take any action that would lead to conflicts
among themselves.
Now, if this justification for the retention of the veto
by the original five permanent members has any validity,
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
then the question that arises is whether any new
permanent member that is not given the veto is really
deserving of that status? Would such countries really
enjoy the international stature and the capability and clout
to make such a crucial contribution to international peace
and security as to warrant being given permanent status?
And if not, why give them permanent status? Could they
not make financial and other contributions to the United
Nations in some other, way as many countries with no
such aspirations already do? If there is a need for new
permanent members, and I believe there is a need, then
the veto is not a question that can be postponed or
discussed separately from the issue of their identities.
Three out of the five current permanent members
have also been adamantly opposed to the expansion of the
Security Council beyond a total of 20 or 21 members.
This effectively blocks any expansion of the Security
Council.
Let us suppose that agreement is reached on the
identity of the five new permanent members: Japan and
Germany and three from the developing countries,
whichever they may be. But if the current permanent
members that argue against an expansion of the Security
Council beyond 21 members remain firm in their position,
this would mean only one additional non-permanent seat
for the 165 remaining members of the United Nations, all
of which have a desire and a right to serve the United
Nations on the Security Council at least occasionally. This
inequitable arrangement would certainly be rejected by
the majority. Moreover, creating five new permanent
members in a Security Council of 21 will seriously upset
the present balance between permanent seats and non-
permanent seats. This is also a situation which will not be
acceptable to the majority of the Member States. It will
certainly not command the support of the two thirds of
the membership required by the Charter to effect any
change to the Security Council's present composition.
Those that have argued for an expansion of the
Security Council to no more than 21 members have done
so on the grounds that this is the maximum number that
can function effectively and efficiently. These are
concerns that we should all share. Nobody wants an
ineffective or inefficient Security Council. But no one has
yet made a convincing argument that a Security Council
of, say, 26 members, as has been proposed by the Non-
Aligned Movement, would be any less efficient or
effective than a Security Council of 21. This is of course
assuming that effectiveness and efficiency are not
narrowly defined as merely making it more difficult for
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
any of the current permanent members and their allies to
ensure that nobody can prevent them from having their own
way.
In any case, can we really decide on the effectiveness
and efficiency of an expanded Security Council before we
know what the powers of the new permanent members are
going to be? This leads us into a tautological situation. We
cannot know how an expanded Security Council consisting
of an expanded number of permanent members will operate
because, as I argued a moment ago, the definition of what
constitutes a new permanent member cannot be separated
from the question of the veto. And the current permanent
members have refused to pronounce on this. At this point,
effectiveness and efficiency as an argument against a
Security Council of more than 21 breaks down completely.
I could go on with my analysis. But I hope I have
demonstrated that several critical aspects of the positions of
the major countries on Security Council reform need further
clarification before progress can be made. I do not believe
that the ambiguities and contradictions are going to be
resolved soon. They are the natural consequence of
sovereign States pursuing their national interests.
The position of permanent members will have a
decisive influence on whether or not Security Council
reform moves forward. As things presently stand, it seems
clear that what will not evoke a veto from any of the
current permanent members will not command the support
of
the two-thirds membership required to make the
necessary Charter changes. At the same time, what would
attract the support of the vast majority of United Nations
Members is more likely than not to provoke a veto. This is
where, like it or not, we currently stand.
A similar case could be made on the closely related
question of financial reform. This too, has its own deep
complexities; its own intrinsic contradictions between what
would be acceptable to the majority and what the major
Powers want. Not every change is necessarily for the better.
We should therefore make progress cautiously, especially
on such fundamental questions. This is why the Non-
Aligned Movement has wisely decided that efforts at
restructuring the Security Council should not be subject to
any imposed time-frame.
Of course, there has been an evolution in the positions
of the major Powers over the last four years. There will be
further positive changes over time. But it will certainly take
time. No country readily changes the status quo if it
benefits from the status quo.
12
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
My point
administrative
is therefore that, given this reality,
it
would be a historic mistake to artificially link the
Secretary-General's managerial,
and
structural reforms to far more contentious questions of
Security Council or other matters that would require the
support of the two-thirds membership needed to effect
Charter amendments as defined in Article 108. There is
no need to handicap ourselves in this way. Not all aspects
of
equally
acceptable to all Members. But, taken as a whole, it will
be far easier to reach a general agreement on more
aspects of the Secretary-General's proposals if they are
considered in themselves and not
linked to more
politicized and therefore more intractable questions.
the Secretary-General's
proposals
are
This is not to say that Security Council or financial
reforms are unimportant. Of course, they are important.
We should continue to work on them. The issues I have
raised are complex. But there is no avoiding them. I
remain confident that with patience and sincerity we will
eventually find our way out of the thickets of ambiguity
into which we have wandered. I am confident that we will
eventually succeed in our common endeavour to enhance
the ability of the Security Council to exercise leadership
in the management of global affairs and enhance its
legitimacy to do so.
But this is only one facet of United Nations reform.
The Security Council is not necessarily the only United
Nations body that is important, nor even always the most
important. The Security Council is empowered to act on
behalf of the membership as a whole on questions of
international peace and security. It has no direct mandate
to act on behalf of the membership as a whole on many
other urgent international questions. International peace
and security are no longer the only definition of high
international politics. Development and the environment
are two areas that are obvious and of
increasing
importance. Such issues in which the Security Council is
not
the lead United Nations body have risen in
prominence on the post-cold-war international agenda.
They will remain high priorities for the majority. There
can be no legitimate leadership role for the United
Nations that does not deal with such issues.
Herein lies the critical importance of the Secretary-
General's proposals. They can make an immediate and
tangible difference
entire
international community which are beyond the scope of
the Security Council. Action on the Secretary-General's
proposals, therefore, should not have to await general
agreement on Security Council reform. By focusing on
affecting the
to issues
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
his proposals, by subjecting them to a thorough and positive
discussion, I believe we can move urgently needed United
Nations reforms forward at a faster pace than has hitherto
characterized the reform process. And we can still remain
seized of, but not hostage to, issues that may take more
time to command general agreement or that require Charter
amendment.
The President: I now call on Mr. Amre Moussa,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Egypt.
Mr. Moussa (Egypt) (interpretation from Arabic): Mr.
President, to you and your friendly country, I am pleased
to extend my warmest congratulations on your election to
the presidency of this session of the General Assembly.
Your expertise on United Nations and world issues will
undoubtedly assist you in wisely discharging the work of
the General Assembly.
At the same time, I wish to express our appreciation
to your predecessor for the efforts he exerted in connection
with the discussions relating to United Nations reform.
The world is currently passing through highly
interwoven and complicated circumstances, where progress
and its horizons mingle with backwardness and its dangers
while humanity takes pride in such achievements as
economic progress and the development of technology and
informatics,
is still suffering from the practices of
terrorism, drug trafficking, organized crime, the spread of
corruption, the overflow of refugees, the challenges posed
by war criminals, crimes of genocide and mass murder, and
the negative effects of racism and religious discrimination.
it
community
All this gives rise to a situation which requires the
international
become
interdependent in its endeavours in a manner that helps it
live in security and to progress confidently. This cannot
take place unless the United Nations become the focal point
and the centre of its concerted actions.
cooperate
and
to
This prompts us to accord priority in Egypt's statement
to this session to the issue of United Nations reform. The
outcome of this session, and probably subsequent sessions
will constitute a true litmus test of the credibility of
determination and the objectivity of resolve regarding the
present and the future of the United Nations.
Evolution of the United Nations relies on a number of
facts and requisites. The principles of democratization and
multilateralism are widespread, market
economy
mechanisms are growing, and scientific progress and
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
information technology are accelerating. This necessitates
reaching agreement on and drafting new rules for
international conduct.
It has been shown that the end of the cold war in no
way sufficiently guarantees the non-eruption of conflicts,
tragedies and wars. By the same token,
the risks
emanating from the outbreak of rampant international
confrontations have not disappeared. The root causes of
national and international disputes still persist. On the
other hand, weapons of mass destruction are readily
available and are even on the rise. In addition to the
absence of any substantial progress in the field of nuclear
disarmament,
there exist clandestine military nuclear
programmes not subject to any international supervision
in strategically sensitive areas such as the Middle East
region.
a
is
While
rapidly
globalization
growing
phenomenon, and given its impact on the security and
prosperity of various societies, national legislation and
regulations are finding it difficult
to cope with this
phenomenon and to regulate international
relations
accordingly. Most of the developing countries do not
possess the same capacity as the developed ones to
speedily effect the necessary psychological, cultural and
legislative adjustments. Therefore, the United Nations
represents the proper mechanism for the formulation of an
international consensus on the rules governing all these
developments, and the provision of necessary assistance
to the developing countries to meet and regulate their
requirements.
Mr. Karaha (Democratic Republic of the Congo),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
While we agree on the need to change the United
Nations and increase its effectiveness, we might not be as
agreed on the means to achieve that objective. In this
context,
the main
principles and points on which the United Nations reform
process should be based, in addition to a preliminary
comment on some of the Secretary-General's recent
proposals in this respect.
I wish to state Egypt's view of
It is important that the United Nations reform take
place in conformity with the purposes and principles
enshrined in the Charter and the mandates accorded to
each of the United Nations principal organs. The General
Assembly, representing the general membership of the
United Nations, has to adopt clear decisions which reflect
the general consensus with regard to the proposals
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
contained in the Secretary-General's report. Such consensus
should be built through serious intergovernmental dialogue
characterized by maximum transparency and sense of
responsibility.
We concur with the Secretary-General's position that
reforming the United Nations administrative machinery is
not a substitute for the political will of the Member States
to enhance the role of the Organization. Thus, the first step
towards reform is the formation of a clear collective will to
strengthen
a
comprehensive approach in the interest of all.
the United Nations
system through
at
of
While we would
generally welcome merging
departments with similar activities as well as slashing a
number of posts if the General Assembly so decides, we
wish to stress that rationalizing expenditures must not be
the
done
performance.
Administrative
the
Organization's capacity to fully implement the programmes
adopted by the Member States. Nor should it adversely
affect
equitable geographic distribution in the
composition of the Secretariat.
expense
reform should
diminish
efficient
not
the
We are also in agreement with the Secretary-General's
threat facing the United Nations,
diagnosis of the real
namely the non-payment by some major Powers of their
assessed contributions, be they to the regular budget or to
the budget of peacekeeping operations. Since these arrears
are part of the Member States' obligations under the
Charter, their payment should be made in full, immediately
and without conditions. Any attempt to make payment
conditional will only complicate the entire reform process.
The sharp and steady decline in the resources allocated
to development, coupled with the absence of enthusiasm on
the part of some for the fulfilment of their obligations, have
negatively
of many
programmes adopted by Member States. This impels us to
review the funding modalities of
the United Nations
operational activities for development so as to ensure their
effective performance.
implementation
affected
the
We concur with the Secretary-General on the
importance of achieving the system-wide integration of
United Nations programmes that deal with development.
We still look forward to hearing concrete ideas on how to
achieve more comprehensive coordination throughout the
United Nations system as well as on how to decentralize
the working methods
economic
commissions. These commissions play a cardinal role in
regional
the
of
14
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
implementing the Organization's priorities,
poverty eradication.
such as
Lastly, some of the other measures proposed by the
Secretary-General, particularly those relating to how to
address the financial crisis, should be studied further with
a view to reaching arrangements which would enjoy
general consensus and help overcome this crisis.
Therefore, we invite the General Assembly to study
the important proposals made by the Secretary-General.
The Assembly
up with
recommendations
clarify the Member States'
aspirations and the modalities of implementing their
specified priorities in the medium-term plan, together with
means of promoting the vital role of the Organization in
the coming decades.
should
that
come
then
In the course of reforming the United Nations, the
Secretary-General touched upon the elaboration of a new
concept and structure of the Trusteeship Council. This is
a matter that requires extensive discussion and study to
clarify the impact and dimensions of
the proposed
concept, as it is totally different from the current mandate
of the Council. Besides, it is imperative to discuss the
significance of, and the need to put under collective
trusteeship, topics set forth by the world community in
well-established international agreements that express the
will of the international community as a whole. Under
those agreements, mechanisms and organs have already
been set up to oversee their implementation.
is important
the expense of
in line with what
Also, within the context of changing the role of the
Organization, we note that
the Secretary-General's
proposals entrust the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights with many additional responsibilities
and competencies at
the functions
entrusted to the Centre for Human Rights. In our view,
this is not
in the
management of the human rights field. Here we recall
some recent sagacious appeals for updating the approach
and legislation of the international community in the field
of human rights in order to better reflect the diverse
contributions of various cultures and civilizations in our
contemporary world to the promotion and enrichment of
these rights and the protection of
the freedom of
individuals and societies. Although some political
considerations stood in the way of including the valuable
contributions of some of those cultures and civilizations
in the main human rights instruments — foremost among
which is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights —
these sagacious appeals reflect the desire to enhance the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
contribution of various world cultures in the protection of
human rights. Such enhanced and diverse contributions, in
the framework of a world consensus, could spare the
international community any accusation of negligence,
double standards or bias towards a single cultural concept.
In the field of disarmament, I should point out that for
50 years,
the United Nations has given due regard to
disarmament issues. It has given high priority to matters
relating to weapons of mass destruction in general and
nuclear weapons in particular. A consensus on this high
priority emerged in the first special session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament and has been reiterated
ever since. Egypt remains faithful to this high priority.
I now turn to the Security Council. Past Assembly
sessions, especially the fifty-first, witnessed protracted
debates on the reform and restructuring of the Security
Council. Undoubtedly, reaching agreement on this issue is
one of the main pillars on which reform of the United
Nations must be built.
In this regard, Egypt reiterates its emphasis on and
commitment to the key principles adopted at the ministerial
meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement in New Delhi, as
well as the elements adopted by the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) Summit in Harare in connection with the
Council's enlargement and the need for full conformity with
the relevant provisions of the Charter.
the membership of
Therefore, first, there should be no partial or selective
expansion or enlargement of
the
Security Council. Secondly, efforts at restructuring the
Council should not be subject to any imposed time-frame.
While recognizing the importance of treating this issue as
a matter of urgent attention, no effort should be made to
decide this issue before general agreement
is reached.
Thirdly, efforts should be made to rationalize the exercise
of the veto. Fourthly, the improvement of the working
methods of the Council should be given equal importance.
Fifthly, any resolution with possible Charter-amendment
implications as to the size, the composition or the allocation
of the Council seats must be adopted in strict conformity
with the provisions of Article 108 of the Charter. Sixthly,
it is important to study the principle of rotation and to agree
upon the eligibility criteria for it in connection with the
proposed expansion in the permanent-membership category.
Such an agreement could help avoid the divisions and feuds
that have begun to surface. Lastly, if there is no agreement
on the expansion of permanent membership, expansion
should be limited to the non-permanent category.
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
As to eligibility of States for permanent membership
in the Security Council, and with a view to our
commitment to what will be agreed upon within the OAU
in connection with a system of rotation, we propose that
the criteria for eligibility should include the degree of
present and future economic development, historical
weight, geographic location and size of population. They
should also give due regard to the role played by a
country in the maintenance of global and regional peace
and security,
including its ability to contribute to
peacekeeping operations. Further, similar regard should be
given to such a country's endeavours to preserve the
interests of the region to which it belongs.
and
countries
emerging
Egypt's regional and international contributions
within the framework of Africa, the Arab and Islamic
worlds and the Middle East region, as well as among the
developing
economies,
undoubtedly qualify it to shoulder the responsibilities of
permanent membership in a new, expanded Security
Council providing balanced and equitable representation.
However, Egypt will remain committed to the African
consensus in this regard. I listened carefully to the
statement made by the Foreign Minister of Singapore, and
I suggest that the points he raised should be studied and
given due attention by the General Assembly and the
committees working in the field of the reform and
expansion of the Security Council.
The
called
for
of
democracy
countries
that must
non-aligned
a
reconsideration of the veto power, which contradicts the
principles
characterize
contemporary world order and prevail both among and
within States. As a first step towards that goal, we
suggest that the use and scope of the veto power should
be restricted to specific actions such as those which relate
to threats to international peace and security and which
are taken under Chapter VII of the Charter. We can also
agree on excluding specific matters from the use of veto
power,
the
information necessary for exercising its competence;
humanitarian issues, including respect for instruments of
international humanitarian law and ceasefire resolutions;
and the selection of the United Nations Secretary-General.
such as provision to the Council of
Security Council reform and the improvement of its
working methods require a re-evaluation of the sanctions
regimes imposed by the Council, including their routine
periodic review, their lifting and whether the regime in its
current
form achieves the goals for which it was
instituted. If sanctions are intended to influence the
they abide by
behaviour of certain States so that
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
international legality, it would be only logical to amend the
way these sanctions are currently implemented in order to
take into account the related humanitarian aspects and the
sufferings inflicted upon the peoples. And after compliance,
these sanctions must be lifted.
In all cases, it is important to consider setting specific
time-frames for sanctions so that they do not end up being,
in effect, a people's punishment. Discussions in this respect
under “An Agenda for Peace” and the initial agreement
reached thereon can be a viable basis for starting serious
deliberations with a view to effecting positive changes in
the current sanctions regime.
I turn now to the situation in the Middle East, where
the peace process faces a serious crisis. The most apparent
manifestation of this crisis is that the concept, principles
and bases of the peace process are being completely
shattered and squandered. The vision spawned in the
peoples' minds of the sort of peace, as agreed upon at the
United Nations and in Madrid, has started to dissipate.
Trust has been replaced by doubt, and hope by frustration
and despair in a tomorrow where justice will materialize
and peace will prevail.
The peace process is based on governing principles,
namely the implementation of Security Council resolutions
242 (1967) and 338 (1973). At the heart of these principles
are the land-for-peace formula and safeguarding the rights
of the parties according to the balance struck by the
Security Council and affirmed at
the Madrid Peace
Conference. This certainly applies to the three tracks of
negotiations between Israel on the one hand and Syria,
Lebanon and the Palestinians on the other. The Oslo accord
did not deviate from the same principles, nor did it
challenge their terms of reference or binding nature. On the
contrary, it led to the recognition that the Palestinian people
are a people with legitimate national and political rights.
It also recognized that the only way to establish peace
and security in the region is through peaceful coexistence
between the Palestinian and Israeli peoples, based on
equality, justice, and, of course, Israel's withdrawal from
the occupied Arab territories and the establishment of
normal relations between the States in the Middle East.
These principles and concepts gave rise to a process
of building bases for peace and its possibilities. In spite of
the obstacles and the problems which confronted the
process of negotiations, the credibility of the search for a
peaceful solution of the Arab-Israeli conflict still existed.
16
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
This quest for peace had become a strategic choice
characterizing the policies and orientations of the region's
Governments,
impelling the peoples of the region to
envision a future Middle East under a just and
comprehensive peace. Various methods and mechanisms
for cooperation which would enable the region to achieve
the requisite levels of development and progress were
discussed. Despite the frequent diversity of views and
their conflicting nature at certain times,
trend
represented a healthy phenomenon: it indicated that the
peoples of the region are already convinced of the peace
concept. The only thing that remained was how to
reinvigorate the method of achieving it.
that
as
Israel's
Alas, confidence was lost, credibility was shaken and
the peace process lost much of its momentum. For this,
and for the present serious situation, the current Israeli
Government' policy is responsible. Settlement activities,
and
as well
reneging on agreements
commitments reached; making a mockery of
legal
accords; challenging the two sponsors of the peace
process; pushing for confrontation; and giving rise to an
overall
in
frustration and destruction. This will lead to a catastrophe
whose responsibility, we hasten to underline here and
now, lies squarely with the current Israeli policies.
feeling of despair could not but
result
This serious crisis inflicted on the peace process by
the Israeli policies was recently considered by the Council
of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the States members of
the League of Arab States. The Council adopted the
following points, which constitute a unified Arab position
on the current situation.
its evasion of
The first point
is a rejection of
the Israeli
Government policies designed to undermine the peace
process, its denial of the principles and bases of this
process,
the
commitments, undertakings and agreements
reached
within the context of the peace process, and its unilateral
measures aimed at imposing a fait accompli in Jerusalem,
the West Bank and the Golan, along with its aggression
against southern Lebanon.
the implementation of
The second point is the upholding of a just and
comprehensive peace as a strategic choice and objective
on the basis of the principles of the peace process, and in
particular of the relevant Security Council resolutions, the
principle of land for peace and the attainment of the
legitimate political rights of the Palestinian people, and a
reaffirmation of complete Arab solidarity with this
position.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the peace process,
The third point reiterates that Israel's breach of the
principles and the bases of
its
backtracking on the commitments, undertakings and
agreements reached thereon and its procrastination in
implementing these commitments have resulted in the
current setback of the peace process. These Israeli policies
have also led to a reconsideration of the steps taken
towards Israel within the framework of the peace process.
Full responsibility for this lies with the Israeli Government
alone.
Fourth, negotiations on the three bilateral tracks should
be resumed. On the Syrian track, negotiations should be
resumed from wherever they ended. The two parties should
commit themselves to what has already been achieved. On
the Lebanese track, negotiations should centre upon the
implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978).
And on the Palestinian track, negotiations should be
resumed on the basis of implementing the contractual
agreements reached,
including the commitments of the
interim period. Parallel to that, final status negotiations
should start in order to lead to the Palestinian people's
exercise of their right
to self-determination and to the
establishment of their independent state.
Fifth, the Council welcomed the American position as
crystallized during the visit paid by the United States
Secretary of State to the region this month. There was
consensus regarding cooperation with United States policy
as expressed by Mrs. Albright in her statement of 6 August
1997 to the National Press Club in Washington. That
policy, which was reiterated during her recent visit to the
Middle East and contacts with the States of the region,
reaffirms the terms of reference of the Madrid Peace
Conference, in particular the principle of land for peace, the
implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions,
the realization of the legitimate political rights of the
Palestinian people, and the commitment to abstain from
taking unilateral measures that undermine the permanent
status negotiations. We stress the need to build on this
positive position on the part of the United States, and call
on Israel to respond positively to it. In this context, the
steps that the Israeli Government is required to take to
foster the peace process should be within the framework of
key issues, not that of issues of a secondary or formalistic
nature.
Sixth, the European role played in support of the
its
peace process is welcome and the importance of
revitalization should be stressed.
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
Seventh, international legality in the context of the
United Nations Security Council resolutions should be
upheld and implemented.
account of
the
concerns
apprehensions,
A stable and just peace must be built on a strong
basis of comprehensive security arrangements that take
due
and
viewpoints of all parties. This can materialize only when
Israel accedes to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), as it is the only State in the
region that has not yet done so. We should proceed
forthwith with the implementation of President Hosni
Mubarak's initiative to free the Middle East from all
weapons of mass destruction and their delivering vehicles.
It is a source of regret for us that so far no practical steps
have been taken to rid our region of the threat of nuclear
weapons. This might lead to the proliferation of such
weapons. Consequently, I call upon the General Assembly
and the NPT depositories to take the necessary steps to
ensure Israel's accession to the NPT and for the prompt
undertaking of serious negotiations to establish a nuclear-
weapon-free zone in the Middle East, in implementation
of the resolution adopted by the Review and Extension
Conference of the Parties to the NPT held in New York
in April 1995. Such a nuclear-weapon-free zone could be
established as a first step towards ridding the Middle East
of all weapons of mass destruction.
Before concluding my remarks regarding the Middle
East, I would like to refer to the serious situation in Iraq.
I would like to highlight the importance of respecting
Iraq's sovereignty and of ending the suffering of its
people. Furthermore,
the islands of the United Arab
Emirates should be returned, and the sovereignty of the
United Arab Emirates over
these islands should be
respected. The Lockerbie issue should be brought to an
end in conformity with international
legality. The
territorial integrity of the Sudan should be preserved and
respected. A settlement of the problems of Somalia
should be reached. A healthy climate for relations should
be created in the Middle East between States of the
region and neighbouring countries, based upon mutual and
balanced commitments along with a common interest in
maintaining positive relations for the benefit of everyone.
Turning to Africa, I wish to refer to the ministerial
meeting convened by the Security Council last week to
consider the sources and causes of African conflicts and
how to contain and resolve them. As I said in my
statement before the Council, Africa has come a long way
on the road of political and economic reform. What is
to revitalize existing international
needed now is
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
refugees,
initiatives in support of development and stability in Africa.
Such international support is also required to solve the
enhance democratization and
problems of
strengthen regional and subregional
integration. This
requires the fulfilment of promises by the international
community to establish a true partnership between Africa,
on the one hand, and the United Nations system and the
international donor institutions on the other. This also
requires strengthening existing cooperation between the
United Nations and the Organization of African Unity in
conformity with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the
Charter.
Since the dawn of history,
the Mediterranean
dimension has been an important framework for Egypt,
influencing and being influenced by the centres of
civilization and enlightenment in the region. Inasmuch as
Europe — Eastern and Western — has been the main
partner with Egypt in trade transactions, tourist flows and
cultural interactions, so has Egypt been and will continue
to be a major active party in ensuring stability and
regulating a veritable interaction between the European
dimension of Mediterranean security and the Mediterranean
dimension of European security, in the full meaning of the
comprehensive concept of contemporary security.
In this context, President Hosni Mubarak in November
1991 presented to the European Parliament his well-known
initiative of establishing a framework for consultation and
cooperation among the Mediterranean countries. By mid-
1994, this idea was crystallized when the Ministers for
Foreign Affairs of 11 Mediterranean countries held in
Alexandria their constituent session for the Mediterranean
Forum, which convened its fourth session last July in
Algiers, where the ministers unanimously agreed that the
Forum was a unique gathering for frank dialogue and a
mechanism for the formulation and testing of ideas and
coordination of positions.
Through its chairmanship of the cultural working
group of the Mediterranean Forum, Egypt looks forward to
contributing to strengthening cultural cooperation among the
member countries and stressing the common cultural
features of the Mediterranean personality, based upon the
integration and interaction of civilizations, rather than
conflict and confrontation between them.
A similar exercise is currently under way with regard
to Euro-Mediterranean interaction, in the framework of the
Barcelona process. The second ministerial conference,
convened in Malta last April, provided a good opportunity
for frankness and an exchange of views to activate and
18
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
the path of this historic process that brings
correct
together countries of the European Union and those of the
south and the east of the Mediterranean. In so doing, this
process will
truly lead to the creation of a balanced
partnership among all parties, as well as the establishment
of a common zone of peace and prosperity in the
Mediterranean basin.
legality,
international
In this context, Egypt follows with keen interest
current developments in the Balkans, a region closely
linked to the Mediterranean region, especially with regard
to developments relating to the situation in Bosnia. Egypt
believes that the only way out of tension in that region is
that of
the full and speedy
implementation of the Dayton Agreements and the trying
of war criminals, which represents an essential step
towards establishing justice and stability in this region.
Egypt reaffirms its partnership with the international
community, the United Nations system and the donor
institutions in the development and reconstruction of
Bosnia in order to help heal the wounds of years of war
and destruction.
I should not fail to address the concerns of Egypt
and other developing countries regarding a number of
challenges accompanying the process of
trade and
investment liberalization. These challenges are manifested
in the continued pursuit by some of unilateral and
arbitrary policies instead of abidance by the rules and
regulations of the international trading system that we all
worked so hard to adopt within the framework of the
World Trade Organization.
This is in addition to the growing trend we witness
today on the part of some of our trading partners who
resort to covert protectionist practices, which hide behind
noble considerations such as environmental protection,
respect for labour norms and human rights, in order to
serve some narrow self-interests, to justify the restriction
of access to markets and to impose trade sanctions.
On another plane, we should be well aware that the
liberalization of investment is not a panacea for every
malaise besetting our economies. Despite our interest in
attracting investments, and despite our efforts to create a
climate conducive to the flow of investments, the fact still
remains that investment agreements should strike a fair
balance between protecting the rights of the investor, on
the one hand and ensuring the rights and interests of the
receiving States, on the other.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
A year ago, from this rostrum, I called for concerted
efforts against attempts to marginalize the role of the
United Nations.
If we are still awaiting the development of rules of
international conduct under a new world order that is still
evolving, we then urgently need to ensure the survival of a
strong and effective United Nations that can lead the way
for us in this nascent world order.
The Acting President: I now call on the Chairman of
the delegation of New Zealand, His Excellency Mr. Michael
John Powles.
Mr. Powles
(New Zealand): May I begin by
congratulating the President on his election to preside over
the General Assembly at its fifty-second session. We are in
good hands as we begin our work during what
the
Secretary-General has called “the reform Assembly.”
I know, too, that my Foreign Minister, on whose
behalf I am speaking, would want to warmly congratulate
the outgoing President, Ambassador Razali
Ismail of
Malaysia, on his efforts during the past 12 months. It has
been a challenging time, and he has demonstrated the
decisive leadership we all expected of him.
Two years ago, at
the fiftieth anniversary of the
United Nations, world leaders undertook to give the twenty-
first century an Organization equipped,
financed and
structured to serve effectively the peoples in whose name
it was established. With the year 2000 now only 27 months
away, we are still far from that goal. This is a matter of
great concern to New Zealand. We firmly believe in the
United Nations as a vehicle to a better life for the world's
citizens, and not just for those who live now. We have a
responsibility to strengthen the Organization for our
grandchildren and beyond. We must not
them and
ourselves down by allowing an unreformed United Nations
to slide into increasing irrelevance.
let
We do not pretend the process of reform is easy or
finite. As the Secretary-General has said, “Reform is not an
event; it is a process.” [A/51/950, para. 25] Our own in
volvement on the intergovernmental track, including co-
chairing the Working Group on the Strengthening of the
United Nations System and the Working Group on an
Agenda for Development, has given us a good appreciation
of the complexities involved in producing positive outcomes
acceptable to 185 Member States.
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
We know the Secretary-General faces the same
issues with his 16 July package. As with any package, it
is inevitable that some Member States will find fault with
individual elements. But we are firmly of the belief that
the package should be viewed as a whole. This will be
for the greater good of the Organization. Difficulties with
individual elements of the package should not be allowed
to unpick the overall good which is in it. We appeal to
Member States to acknowledge this reality and to give the
Secretary-General
is small
countries like New Zealand, and developing countries,
which, as we see it, stand most to benefit from what the
Secretary-General is trying to achieve.
their generous support. It
To reform and strengthen the United Nations
effectively, we see a need to redistribute resources away
from administration and into areas which are important
for those of us who place a high priority on the United
Nations itself. We support efficiencies, not cost-cutting.
The crucial difference between the two is that one
approach seeks simply to save money without regard to
the impact on the Organization. We cannot support this.
The United Nations is too important to us to allow such
a downgrading.
An approach based on efficiencies allows us to
reinvigorate the United Nations by reinvesting the money
saved from outdated administrative practices. This is
central to the Secretary-General's package. In particular,
the proposal for a “development dividend” channelling
resources
into
strengthening the development activities of the United
Nations is most welcome. We can certify from our own
national experience that the sort of management reforms
proposed in the package do indeed lead to a reduction in
administrative overheads, allowing more to be delivered
in terms of substantive programmes.
freed by administrative
efficiencies
At a time when development funds are diminishing,
the significance of this step should not be lost. New
Zealand is a country that is increasing its overseas aid —
by 40 per cent since the 1992 United Nations Conference
on Environment and Development, the Rio Summit. Our
contributions through the United Nations system have also
increased by nearly 50 per cent over the last five years.
But the global trend is the opposite, particularly among
the larger traditional donors. It is becoming harder and
harder for Governments to meet their Charter commitment
to promote the economic and social advancement of all
peoples. One of the modest outcomes of the last two
years of reform efforts within the United Nations has
been the elaboration of an Agenda for Development
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
reaffirming the primacy of development, setting objectives
and recommending ways of achieving them. But, with the
best will in the world, implementing that Agenda will come
to naught in the absence of adequate funding.
The Secretary-General's reforms are designed to
deliver more for development. Equally important, they are
designed to boost confidence in the United Nations,
confidence which two weeks ago was given tangible form
by Mr. Ted Turner's billion-dollar grant to assist United
Nations agencies in key development activities. That
generous offer has given the Organization a real boost and
could be a catalyst for leveraging further private-sector
funds for development. We must support the Secretary-
General's efforts to make the United Nations the best
vehicle for delivering such assistance.
Member States need to trust the Secretary-General to
fulfil his responsibilities under the Charter: to give effect to
the policy directions which they set. We need to be clear
and realistic in the priorities we set for the United Nations.
We cannot mandate the Organization with more and more
new tasks and somehow expect these to be achieved within
current resources. And, having set the priorities, we must
resist the temptation to micro-manage. This will involve a
sea-change in the way Member States have become
accustomed to operating. The Fifth Committee still makes
decisions about staff numbers and placement within the
Secretariat, administrative decisions that in any modern
organization would be the responsibility of its managers.
in
instituting
public-sector
We know that the transitional process of change will
not be easy for those working in the Secretariat either.
But — and we are conscious of our own experience in New
Zealand
reform — the
managerial and results-based budgeting proposals in the
July package will
improve work performance and will
deliver greater job satisfaction to those working for the
United Nations. The Organization's most important resource
is its people. The package recognizes the vital importance
of investment in staff. If the best and brightest are to be
attracted to and retained by the United Nations, they must
be recruited,
trained, promoted and paid according to
procedures which are as good as the best employed by
Member States.
It is also important to stress here the loyalty owed to
the Secretary-General by those who work for him. He has
the right to expect their full support for his leadership and
for the initiatives he puts forward. Anything less would be
dishonourable, would subvert due process and would
20
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
potentially disenfranchise Member States. It could not be
tolerated.
I referred earlier to the intergovernmental track. It is
worth touching on the key issues of Security Council and
financial reform.
On the former, New Zealand will judge specific
proposals for enlargement of the Security Council by the
yardstick of democracy and the representativeness of the
institution as a whole.
Increasing the proportion of
permanent to non-permanent members runs counter to this
principle. Nor could a package on Security Council
reform be acceptable to us without substantive proposals
opening up and modernizing the workings of the Council.
Sunshine, an American jurist once observed, is the best
disinfectant. Member States must continue to participate
in the debate in the search for a consensus solution.
On financial
reform, New Zealand is strongly
concerned about the crisis facing the United Nations. It is
true that there are problems with the scales of assessments
for both the regular and the peacekeeping budgets. The
present floor has a negative impact on smaller, vulnerable
nations, such as the South Pacific island countries, New
Zealand's neighbours. This is just one example of the kind
of problem that needs to be addressed.
But those who want to see changes made to the
scale need to offer genuine inducements, not threats. We
cannot accept
that any Member State is entitled to
withhold payments unilaterally or that the assessment of
those countries that will not pay their dues should be
picked up by others. All assessed contributions must be
paid in full, on time and unconditionally. It is a violation
of international legal obligations to do otherwise. This
must be regarded with the utmost seriousness by Member
States. It undermines the Organization's ability to operate.
It penalizes, through damage to the Organization, those
Member States that abide by their obligations. When the
State responsible for the largest percentage of arrears
owed to the United Nations is also the richest, and when
that State in addition attaches conditions to the payment
of only a portion of what it owes, it is understandable that
these actions should generate real scepticism in this
Assembly.
This sorry state of affairs must be resolved quickly.
But it can be resolved only on the basis of a credible
commitment that all conditions will be eliminated now
and that all payments will be made on time. And that
means in January each year.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
I would like to raise another reform issue which has
not featured prominently in discussions to date, namely
United Nations regional groupings. It seems to us that this
is an issue that deserves examination. The groupings are in
need of revision to bring them up to date with present-day
geopolitical realities. It is anomalous, for example, that our
Pacific island neighbours, members with us of the South
Pacific Forum grouping, belong to the Asian Group while,
for historical reasons, New Zealand belongs to the Group
of Western European and Other States. The fundamental
importance we accord our membership of the institutions of
the South Pacific Forum, of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council and of the Regional Forum of the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and our
relationship with ASEAN itself, should be able to be better
reflected in the regional groupings. We accordingly see
value in a reconfiguration of New York electoral groupings
to bring them more in line with those used elsewhere in the
United Nations system, where New Zealand in most cases
sits with our South Pacific partners and our East Asian
neighbours.
Developments in other regions will result in further
anomalies in the present structure. We see at a future stage
some long and complex negotiations over regional seat
allocations for a revised system of regional groups. New
Zealand of course will join with others in negotiating new
and equitable allocations of seats. While we look forward
to the outcome of that process, we realize that it will not
come overnight. In the meantime, and as a matter of high
priority, my delegation is working to forge a closer
relationship with the Asian regional group in New York.
I would like to close my statement by focusing once
more on the utmost importance of Member States' giving
positive endorsement to the Secretary-General's package at
this General Assembly, as New Zealand will be doing —
not only because it provides a positive and concrete start to
a reform process, but also because the alternative of not
supporting the Secretary-General will,
in our view,
seriously undermine the credibility of the United Nations.
For two years the United Nations has been involved in
the current reform exercise. But none of us can pretend that
reform is an end in itself, or that
introspection is an
ongoing excuse for inaction. The United Nations exists to
deliver concrete, substantive assistance to the hundreds of
millions most in need. No amount of self-analysis is a
substitute for
that. Moreover, sustained emphasis on
introspection will erode the Organization's capacity, and
possibly also its will, to perform the tasks for which it was
created.
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
The challenge now is
to embrace the bold
programme of reform outlined by the Secretary-General,
to use this General Assembly to begin to implement it,
and then to direct our energy where it rightly belongs, to
taking practical steps to reduce suffering and build a
better and more peaceful world: like drawing up a solid,
practical programme for alleviating poverty in the coming
decade; like establishing an international criminal court
which will ensure that individuals are held responsible for
war crimes; like supporting and enhancing the United
Nations capability for preventive diplomacy; and like
invigorating
for
peacekeeping.
the United Nations
capacity
These are the standards by which the real success or
failure of the United Nations will be judged. New Zealand
is determined that the verdict will be a positive one.
Working together, we can ensure that it is.
The Acting President: The next speaker on my list
is His Excellency Mr. Ali Osman Mohamed Taha,
Minister for External Relations of Sudan, to whom I now
give the floor.
Mr. Taha (Sudan)(interpretation from Arabic): At
the outset I would like to express my congratulations to
the President on the confidence the General Assembly
showed in him by electing him to preside over fifty-
second session. We have no doubt that his experience and
capability in multilateral diplomacy will assist him in
conducting the deliberations of
this session towards
success. We assure him of the cooperation and support of
the delegation of the Sudan.
I would also like to express my gratitude and
appreciation to the President's predecessor, His Excellency
Ambassador Razali Ismail, for his distinguished efforts
and bold initiatives within the context of strengthening the
role of the United Nations and the improvement of its
methods of work.
like
to
extend
Likewise, we would
our
congratulations to the United Nations Secretary-General,
Kofi Annan. In a very short time since the assumption of
his post, he has demonstrated enthusiasm, ability and
patience in leading this Organization. This has been
embodied in his initiative to reform it,
improve its
methods of work and enhance its stature.
We commend the genuine endeavours of
the
Secretary-General to reform the United Nations system.
In this connection, the Sudan will stand by his side until
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the United Nations realizes the purposes for which it was
established, chief among which is the strengthening of
peace and international cooperation for the achievement of
development and the eradication of poverty, particularly in
Africa and in developing countries.
the programme of reform should result
We would also like to affirm the keenness of the
Sudan that
in
strengthening the ability of the United Nations to respond
to humanitarian, social and developmental issues undertaken
by the Organization. Furthermore, the reform should lead
to the consolidation of the participation of developing
countries
equitable
representation in the Secretariat.
the Organization
their
and
in
The Sudan calls for giving the reform endeavours
enough time. The results and recommendations of the
Open-ended High Level Working Group
the
Strengthening of the United Nations System, adopted by the
General Assembly, should be given special attention. My
country reaffirms its intention to participate effectively in
the meetings
to be agreed upon within the proper
framework, with the aim of reaching a consensus on all
aspects of the reform.
on
of
and
permanent
the Security Council
reform of
its
The Sudan attaches special attention and interest to the
through the
issue of
enlargement
non-permanent
membership, and the improvement of its methods of work.
Our interest derives from our deep-rooted conviction about
the importance of enhancing transparency and democracy
in the work of the Council, so as to respond to the
changing realities and the current challenges
facing
international peace and security, in accordance with the
principles and provisions of the Charter which define the
duties of
resolution of
conflict — far from using it as an instrument of peoples'
punishment.
in the peaceful
the Council
equitable geographical
The Sudan, while welcoming the efforts made for the
reform of the Security Council, reaffirms the necessity of
representation and
observing
preserving the principle of state sovereignty.
In this
connection, we would like to reiterate our commitment to
the New Delhi Declaration of the Non-Aligned Movement,
as well as our commitment to the African position taken at
the Harare summit.
We wish to stress the importance of linking the right
of veto to the aspects relating to enlargement of the Council
and improvement of its methods of work, in a way that
would secure a comprehensive consideration through
22
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
deliberate negotiations relative to all aspects, within a
democratic and open-ended membership.
It
is important
to deal with the points that
the
Foreign Minister of Singapore made in his statement this
morning. At this time last year I informed the Assembly
of our efforts to establish peace in the Sudan, which
resulted at that time in the signing of the “Peace Charter”.
Today, it is with honour and pride that I convey to this
distinguished gathering that we have succeeded in
evolving that “Peace Charter” into a comprehensive
“Peace Agreement” signed in April
this year by the
Government and the fighting factions and political entities
in southern Sudan. The Agreement has been endorsed by
the Sudanese Parliament, and thus it has, par excellence,
become one of the most important political events in the
history of the Sudan.
The Khartoum Peace Agreement provides for a
lasting settlement
to the Sudanese problem. The
negotiating parties have reached a formula which
identifies a framework for peaceful coexistence in the
country. In the Agreement, the principle of citizenship
constitutes the basis for rights, duties and equality of
participation of all Sudanese in the responsibilities of
public life, without discrimination as to race or religion.
It
the principle of democratic
evolution in the Sudan. It clearly defines the question of
power sharing between the state governments and the
federal authority within the federal system in the country.
In addition, it provides for the bases and criteria for
wealth-sharing in the country.
further consolidates
With regard to public liberties and human rights, the
agreement guarantees the same liberties and rights
embodied in divine revelation and in the texts of relevant
international instruments and agreements. In that way it
will have a considerable influence in consolidating and
guaranteeing human rights. Furthermore, the agreement
allows for the people of southern Sudan to exercise their
right to self-determination through a free referendum to
be held at the end of a four-year transitional period.
An additional, complementary arrangement was
agreed upon to prevent hostilities and ensure a ceasefire
between the signatory parties with the aim of enhancing
the requisites for peace and stability. Furthermore, in
accordance with the collective will of the people of the
Sudan, a presidential decree granted an unconditional
general amnesty in respect of all crimes committed and
all civil and criminal claims asserted during the 14 years
preceding the signing of the agreement.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
In our quest to enhance the scope of a comprehensive
and lasting peace, an agreement was reached last week with
the only remaining faction that was still carrying arms,
thereby allowing for the resumption of peace talks on 28
October 1997 in the Kenyan capital under the auspices of
the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD).
I am honoured to be able to renew the determination and to
express the eagerness of the Government of the Sudan for
making the forthcoming talks a success.
The courageous steps taken by the Government of the
Sudan towards achieving a just and lasting peace have been
widely commended and appreciated by many States in the
world. One of its early positive results was the beginning
of the voluntary repatriation of displaced persons and
refugees from neighbouring countries.
to
assistance
programmes
We call upon the United Nations, the international
financial
institutions and our development partners to
contribute to the resettlement of the returnees by shifting
from humanitarian
of
rehabilitation and the provision of developmental assistance
needed to consolidate the foundations of peace, which has
been sought
for many decades. This call derives its
legitimacy from the spirit and content of the Security
Council ministerial-level meeting held on 25 September to
discuss the current situation in Africa. The meeting
consolidated the link between peace and development, the
latter being one of the basic human rights.
In the same context, in striving to develop a system of
good and responsible governance, the Sudan has witnessed
important constitutional developments, which have been
manifested in the establishment of a national committee for
preparing the draft of a permanent constitution to be
submitted to the legislative body and then presented to the
people in a referendum.
the public sector,
In the economic field, in support of a market economy
and policies of liberalization, we have taken serious steps
towards the rationalization of public expenditure,
the
privatization of
the abolition of
restrictions on internal and external trade and the promotion
of investment. These policies have led to the reactivation of
the economy and reduced the inflation rate from 114 per
cent at the beginning of this year to 28.5 per cent in August
of this year. Furthermore, we have achieved a positive
growth rate of 5.5 per cent and stability in the rate of
exchange of the national currency. This progress was
commended by the International Monetary Fund mission in
its report to the Executive Council of the Fund last August.
However, the major obstacle to the accomplishment of the
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
to be
continues
reform programme
an
economic
insufficiency of external
resources needed to boost
production. We therefore appeal to the donor countries
and the international financial institutions to provide the
necessary resources for the completion of the process of
economic reform. We also reaffirm that
the Sudan
welcomes and encourages private and joint investments in
all fields.
As for the problem of debt,
is imperative to
address it within a comprehensive international framework
and not on a bilateral basis, so as to make possible the
building of a world economic system based on justice and
equality among all States without distinction.
it
In recognition of
the importance of
regional
economic cooperation, African States have taken steps
towards the revitalization of
the African Economic
Community,
in addition to the subregional economic
organizations, all of which need the support and
assistance of the international community.
We should not fail to stress the aspirations of Africa
with regard to the implementation of the United Nations
Convention to Combat Desertification and the importance
of following up on the outcome of the World Food
Summit in the context of achieving food security for the
nations of the continent and of the necessity to provide
the required resources to the countries concerned. In this
context, the Sudan reaffirms its readiness to effectively
contribute to the programmes and action plans for the
provision of food, with the serious participation of the
international community.
Economic development on the one hand and security
and stability on the other are two sides of the same coin.
In speaking about poverty eradication in the African
continent, we must stress the need for the realization of
peace as a means to guarantee the security of the African
peoples on the one hand and to accelerate the continent's
development on the other hand. In this respect we
commend the positive developments in Liberia and we
hope that
this model will encourage our brothers in
Somalia and Congo (Brazzaville) to stop the bloodshed.
We also hope that in Sierra Leone the endeavours being
led by the countries of West Africa will succeed in
solving the problems facing that country. Africa's need for
security, stability and development requires it to become
a zone free of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass
destruction. Africa needs assistance in clearing anti-
personnel
left behind by civil wars in a
number of its countries, including my own.
landmines,
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Sudan supports the efforts of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) and of its Secretary-General, Mr.
Salim Ahmed Salim, to restore peace and stability in many
African States. With regard to the formation of African
peacekeeping forces, we stress the need to harmonize any
measures taken in this matter with the resolutions and
positions of the OAU. Africa should have the right, through
its regional organizations, to take the initiative and to lead
in this matter.
While addressing the subject of economic hardship in
Africa, it is incumbent upon us to mention the exasperating
effects of the imposition of sanctions, in particular those
imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. We call for the
settlement of this issue on the basis of the proposal
presented by the OAU and the League of Arab States,
supported by the Non-Aligned Movement.
We
support
the proposal of
the Non-Aligned
Movement to lay down specific measures and rules for
sanctions and to strictly observe the provisions of the
Charter. We share the concerns expressed by the Secretary-
General in his report on the work of the Organization for
this year about the negative effects of sanctions on peoples.
We look forward to the proposals he has promised to
present in this regard.
In Asia, we welcome the return of Hong Kong to the
parent country, the People's Republic of China. We are
following with interest the efforts of the Secretary-General's
Special Envoy to Afghanistan. We hope that the parties in
conflict will cooperate with the United Nations so as to
reach a formula for understanding and agreement. We also
call upon the international community to support
the
continuous efforts to establish peace in the Korean
peninsula.
With regard to developments in the Middle East, the
Sudan believes that a comprehensive, just and lasting peace
cannot be achieved without a total commitment to the
principles of justice and the complete preservation of the
rights of the Palestinian people and the Arab States in the
region, or without a commitment to the agreements and
accords reached by the parties concerned. Israel should
abandon its settlement policies and withdraw from the all
the occupied Arab territories on the basis of the relevant
Security Council and General Assembly resolutions, which
continue to be the point of reference for a peaceful
settlement and for the achievement of a comprehensive
peace in the Middle East.
24
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
We agree with what the Secretary-General stated in
his report to the tenth emergency special session of the
General Assembly about the seriousness of the situation
in the region. The Secretary-General warned of the
consequences of the settlement policies in the occupied
Arab territories and the attempts to effect demographic
and legal changes in Al-Quds aimed at its Judaization and
the alteration of
legal, geographical, historical,
religious and civilizational status. The Sudan calls upon
the international community to shoulder its responsibilities
in the face of the deterioration of the situation and the
escalation of confrontation to save the region from the
spectre of war that appears over the horizon as a result of
the unacceptable Israeli practices. Furthermore, the Sudan
is
to impose
collective sanctions on the Palestinian people whatever
the justification or the pretext.
strongly opposed to Israeli attempts
its
In the domain of international relations, the Sudan
follows policies and holds firm positions based on its
commitment to international and regional charters, the
respect of good- neighbourliness and regional cooperation
and the suppression of terrorism and threats to regional
and international security.
The Sudan continues to call for the abandonment of
conflict and for regarding the interest of peoples as a
priority that supersedes transient disagreements.
The application of the slogans of pluralism and
democracy that characterize the present epoch in the
progress of humanity essentially requires respect for the
diverse cultural contexts of the peoples of the world.
Those cultures should be allowed the opportunity of free
and equitable self-expression in order to enrich human
experience and elevate the values of
tolerance and
acceptance of the other. That would lead to the restriction
of recourse to violent and extreme expressions of injustice
resulting from isolation and cultural arrogance.
All religions uphold the principles of tolerance, the
acceptance of pluralism and coexistence with others. The
Holy Koran says:
“Say Ye: We believe in Allah and the revelation
Given to us, and to Abraham, Ismail, Isaac, Jacob,
and the Tribes, and that given to Moses and Jesus,
and that given to all Prophets from their Lord: We
make no difference Between one and another of
them: And we submit to Allah.'” (The Holy Koran,
II:136).
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
In this context, we support
the statement of the
German Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the need to
encourage dialogue between civilizations
to replace
conflicts and rivalry, in order to build a world of tolerance
and cooperation and so that slogans of pluralism and
democracy may not
themselves become a pretext for
cultural hegemony.
important
Madrid, we have achieved a number of
advances with the establishment of full peace between
Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the
signing of
interim accords with the Palestinians.
Nevertheless, the road to full peace is still long, and
negotiations with the Palestinians and with Syria and
Lebanon still lie ahead of us.
The adoption by the United Nations of the idea of
setting up a body to promote dialogue between religions
and civilizations would pave the way for the realization of
that noble objective and would reinstate respect for lofty
moral values. It would act as a strong deterrent to such
social ills as drug abuse, the escalation of violence and
terrorism and family disintegration, thus clearing the way
for a better
future for humanity as it enters a new
millennium.
The Acting President: I now call on the Deputy
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Israel,
His Excellency Mr. David Levy.
the fifty-second session of
Mr. Levy (Israel) (spoke in Hebrew; interpretation
furnished by the delegation): I would like to begin by
congratulating the President on his unanimous election to
preside over
the General
Assembly of the United Nations. It is my hope that at this
session the Assembly will be successful in bringing nations
closer to each other and in finding ways to address the
challenges that face all countries and nations, north and
south, east and west.
I
also wish
to
predecessor,
Ambassador Razali Ismail of Malaysia, for the manner in
which he carried out his duties.
congratulate
his
the late Prime Minister of
We mark this year the twentieth anniversary of the
peace initiative of
Israel,
Menachem Begin, and the late President of Egypt, Anwar
Sadat. Those leaders, with their historic decision and their
courageous leadership, pioneered the way towards the first
peace treaty between Israel and an Arab neighbour, Egypt.
Throughout their entire history, the people of Israel
have aspired to live in peace. Together with our constant
call for peace with our neighbours, we have not spared any
effort to seek, whether through direct or indirect contacts,
a partner in this effort. Today, too, we continue to seek
channels for dialogue and to build bridges to peace.
In recent years, since 1991, after the principles for
negotiating peace in the Middle East were laid down at
Immediately after the last elections, the Government
of Israel accepted the need to continue to advance the
Oslo accords and has acted to implement them. In the
past year we have spared no effort to implement those
accords, but, unfortunately, the trust that is the lifeblood
of the entire process has been undermined as a result of
the failure of
their
commitments according to the agreements they have
signed.
the Palestinians
to carry out
In the past year, while pursuing these efforts, we
have endured many tests and have suffered ongoing
terrorist attacks and bloodshed. Our deep-rooted aspiration
for peace, security and tranquillity has been stained by the
shedding of innocent blood, by the murder of men,
women and children cut down by barbaric terrorist
attacks. Yet despite our deep sorrow and mourning over
the loss of those innocent lives, the hope for peace has
not been extinguished in the hearts of the citizens of
Israel.
The citizens of Israel have taken upon themselves
great risks for peace, but there is none among them who
is willing to continue to pay the bloody price that is being
demanded in the name of peace. We must break this
tragic and violent cycle. It is only through joint action in
confronting the terror that trust will be re-established and
the doubts regarding intentions be removed.
As I stated in my remarks at the fifty-first session of
this Assembly, all Israel is united in its deep desire for
peace and for a life of calm and security. In Israel, both
right and left are united in this quest.
If trust can be restored, if the principle of reciprocity
is honoured, it will be possible for us to proceed. We
have already proved our willingness to do so, through our
decisions and actions since taking office and in the
signing and implementation of the Hebron agreement in
all its aspects.
Peace cannot
live side by side with continued
incitement, hostility, violence and terror. Peace means, in
essence, the unequivocal and irreversible abandonment of
25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
violence. Dialogue, negotiation, compromise and the
honouring of agreements — those are the path to peace.
These principles apply throughout the world and must
apply also in the Middle East. The existence of two parallel
tracks, one on which negotiations are pursued while a
second track of violence, terror and bloodshed continues
unimpeded,
is totally unacceptable. This is a direct
challenge and affront to the very concept of peace.
Terror does not suddenly erupt from nowhere. It is not
a spontaneous phenomenon. Too often we have seen
terrorist leaders and their organizations adopt the facade of
innocent and peaceful organizations, charitable and welfare
organizations, while under this cover they contribute to the
preparation and perpetration of vicious terrorist attacks.
Terror can be likened to a volcano ready to erupt at any
moment, whose boiling lava threatens to destroy all who lie
in its path.
Those who resort to terror are seeking not only to kill
Israelis but also to hurt their own brethren. Terror cannot be
accepted as a legitimate tool for resolving differences. It
must be rejected, absolutely and unequivocally, and it must
be fought unrelentingly. We will not agree to live under its
constant threat.
The words of the President of the United States and of
the Foreign Minister of Russia at this Assembly just a few
days ago are important and should guide us all in this
matter. I quote President Clinton when he spoke from this
very rostrum:
“terrorism is always a crime and never a justifiable
political act.” [See Official Records of the General
Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Plenary Meetings, 5th
meeting]
Thus, the international community bears the responsibility
for ensuring that
terrorism enjoys no political support,
recognition or legitimacy, not even implicitly.
In the 1993 Oslo accords, the Palestinian Authority
and Arafat,
its leader, undertook in the name of the
Palestinian people to fight terrorism. They reaffirmed this
commitment again in the 1995 Interim Agreement, again
one year ago at the Washington summit and again in the
Hebron agreement. Much to our consternation, it has been
proved that
this commitment has not been upheld as
required, thus causing the present crisis of confidence.
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
Israel stands firmly upon its call to the Palestinian
Authority to fulfil its promise to fight relentlessly against
terror. The Authority must act
jointly and in full
cooperation with us against terrorism and violence. We
seek neither to dictate nor to coerce. We seek merely the
implementation of signed agreements. The fight against
terror, in our humble opinion, is also in the Palestinian
interest.
In response to the repeated crises in the process
caused by the failure of the Palestinian Authority to live
up to its commitments, Israel proposes a binding code of
conduct for relations between us. This code should
include, first, the rejection of violence as a means for
achieving political goals; secondly, preservation of the
framework of direct negotiations and agreement to refrain
from attempts to transfer disputes and negotiations onto
the international stage; thirdly, the institutionalization of
permanent channels of communication, including in times
of crisis; fourthly, a cessation of incitement and the call
to violence and jihad, and their replacement with the
language of reconciliation and mutual respect; and, fifthly,
the advancement and encouragement of normalization and
support for regional activities.
The purpose of this code of conduct is to facilitate
uninterrupted negotiations and crisis management, and to
create an atmosphere of dialogue. This code must respond
to the sensitivities and needs of both sides. We believe
that the adoption of the above principles will allow us to
overcome the present crisis and help in preventing future
ones as the negotiations proceed. These rules of the game
will also contribute to renewed trust between the leaders
and greater confidence between the peoples.
In the wake of the visit to the Middle East of the
United States Secretary of State, renewed agreement has
been reached to continue the efforts at restoring the peace
process to its proper track. We have been conducting
intensive talks in recent days, with the assistance of the
United States, both in Washington and here, with a view
to resuming the negotiations and advancing our efforts to
reach a permanent settlement with the Palestinians.
Israel values and appreciates the action of the United
States Secretary of State and her commitment and efforts
to extricate the peace process from its current impasse, to
bring the parties closer together and to ensure the success
of the negotiations. We are fully committed to these
efforts.
26
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
Israel reaffirms its proposal to conduct accelerated
negotiations,
according to an agreed timetable, on
permanent status. We propose conducting negotiations in
which the sides will agree upon the desired outcomes and
the way towards achieving them. This proposal is intended
to hasten the attainment of a peaceful settlement, not to
delay it. This is also our call and our proposal to the
Palestinian Authority.
ago, stand in direct contradiction to the aspirations for
peace and undermine its foundations. The attempts to
prevent normalization with Israel, to freeze the level of
existing relations with it, to close liaison and interests
offices between Israel and Arab neighbours and to
reactivate the Arab boycott add up, in practice, to a
boycott of peace itself. This is a destructive policy which
is reversing the process.
It
The international community can play an important
role in facilitating the dialogue between the sides, which
will make it possible for us to resolve our differences
through direct negotiations.
is only through direct
negotiations that we can bring this process to a successful
conclusion. One-sided international declarations, dictates or
pressures will not help. Attempts to internationalize the
dispute and to transfer the arena of negotiations to the
United Nations and other international forums only serve to
create unnecessary obstacles
already
entrenched positions more rigid.
and to make
The comprehensive peace we yearn for will not be
achieved until we reach peace agreements with Syria and
Lebanon. It
is imperative to reach understandings and
agreement that will enable us to renew negotiations and to
resolve all the matters at issue between us. We expect to
find in Syria and its leadership a partner in the search for
a just peace. If Syria has indeed made a strategic choice in
favour of peace — the “peace of the brave”, as claimed by
its leadership — then we must explore together every
possible avenue, at any place and at any time, for renewing
the talks between us.
terrorist
Israel cannot accept the continued violence and terror
on its northern border. The
activities of
organizations such as Hezbollah and the fear of Katyusha
rockets and attacks upon our cities and towns bear the
threat of ongoing regional tension and continued bloodshed.
There is no territorial dispute between Israel and Lebanon.
We wish to see a sovereign, free and independent Lebanon
acting determinedly against the terrorist organizations that
operate from its territory.
If we are to reach peace, we cannot make do only
with agreements and contracts. The reality of peace means
normalization, open borders,
freedom of movement,
commerce and cooperation for the benefit of the entire
region. These are the soul and essence of peace.
Normalization is not a prize or a gift for Israel alone.
The decisions of the Foreign Ministers of the Arab
League at their recent meeting in Cairo, just over one week
freeze
of
and
intentional
The ongoing
the
multilateral talks also has a deleterious effect on the
entrenchment of peace. The multilateral talks were meant
and should serve as a platform and incentive for building
peace. We must promote the bilateral and multilateral
channels alike and not make one conditional upon the
other, nor create further obstacles and barriers on the road
to peace. The question mark hanging over the regional
economic conference scheduled to take place later this
year in Doha, Qatar, is further evidence of this negative
drive.
The countries of the Middle East that are party to
the peace effort have a common interest
in regional
stability and the advancement of prosperity and well-
being for all the nations of the region. We face together
the growing shortage of water and the ever-expanding
desert. We are also facing dangers from within our region
that threaten to undermine the stability of the regimes of
various nations and to plunge the entire region into
violence, war and bloodshed.
It was only a few years ago that the entire world
was forced into forming a coalition to combat an
aggressive dictator who sought to conquer a neighbouring
country and to terrorize our entire region. Today, we face
new and even more extreme dangers, but the lessons of
recent experience have not been learned and many
countries turn a blind eye to the threat.
The leadership of Iran continues to speak in terms
that threaten the State of Israel and call for its destruction.
Yet the international community continues to remain deaf
and refuses
Iran's policies,
declarations and actions.
to speak out against
Iraq,
Iran's efforts,
like those of
to acquire
operational weapons of mass destruction of all kinds
represent the greatest threat to security and stability in the
Middle East and beyond. The ramifications of Iran's
weapons programme extend far beyond the geographical
confines of our region. They threaten the security of other
27
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Israel
reiterates its call
to the members of
members of the international community and their interests.
the
international family of nations — and at their head the
United States, Russia and the members of the European
Union and of the Commonwealth of Independent States —
to exercise the full weight of their influence and to take
concrete
this development, which
represents a threat to the existence of the State of Israel.
to prevent
steps
After the establishment, as we hope, of peace treaties
between Israel and every country of the region, it will be
possible to create a regional security system that would
provide multilateral and shared solutions to the range of
security problems in the Middle East, including a mutually
and effectively verifiable Middle East free of chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles. These
are our goals and we must act to achieve them.
Israel is an active and responsible member of the
family of nations represented in this body. However, 50
years after the United Nations adopted, on 29 November
1947, the resolution calling for the establishment of the
State of Israel, we are still denied our equal rights in this
Organization.
We attach great importance to the fundamental reform
of the United Nations work. We also share the opinion of
other United Nations Member countries that believe that the
Organization urgently requires greater efficiency and a
redirecting of its valuable but limited resources towards its
truly important tasks. At the same time, we are convinced
that no reform can be completed so long as the question of
Israel's membership of a regional group remains unresolved.
We call upon this Organization to correct this anomaly.
Much to our chagrin, in the last year we have seen an
intensification of the political campaign waged against
Israel at the United Nations. This campaign only impedes
the peace process and further undermines confidence
between the parties. We call upon the Member States to
refrain from lending their support to such resolutions. The
time has come for this Assembly to reduce the number of
resolutions on the Middle East that it adopts each year and
to contribute positively to creating an atmosphere conducive
to direct negotiations between the parties.
Israel's
international
As part of
and regional
commitment and of its credo as a State, we are engaged in
cooperative programmes with many countries, with which
we share the experience and knowledge we have acquired
in various fields. Israel attaches great importance to its
international cooperation programme and to assisting
28
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
various peoples to address the challenges of development
and the hazards of nature, hunger and disease.
the
framework of
Over more than three decades, tens of thousands of
trainees have participated in courses in Israel and in their
own countries within
Israel's
cooperation and assistance programme in the fields of
education, health, agriculture, industry, social affairs and
leadership. We are especially proud of the participation in
recent years of trainees from Arab countries, amongst
them Palestinians. These trainees are emissaries of
goodwill, ambassadors of peace, who bear with them the
message and the great hope of human well-being. As in
the words of the prophet:
“Each shall help his neighbour and make him
strong”.
This year, the Jewish people in Israel and around the
world marks the jubilee of its national revival. Fifty years
ago, the Jewish people restored its national sovereignty in
its ancient homeland. Throughout the dark days of our
2,000-year dispersion, we dreamt of the day that we
would renew our national
life in the land of our
forefathers, the land of Israel.
It is the privilege of our generation to fulfil this
aspiration. The Jewish people has returned and built up its
land. The Jewish people is once again gathering in its
ancient home and has succeeded in building a vibrant
and democratic society, a flourishing economy, science,
research and industry.
For the past 50 years, we have laboured to ensure
Israel's security and independence, while always seeking
peace and good-neighbourly relations in our region. Fifty
years on, the State of Israel is an irremovable reality.
This week, we mark the beginning of the Jewish
new year. At this holy time, every Jew turns his eye
towards the heavens with a prayer in his heart for the
peace of the world, the end of misery and a new dawn of
hope for all. On this day of remembrance, the blow of the
shofar is accompanied by the prayer:
“may the year and its troubles pass and a new year
and its blessings begin”.
The Acting President: The next speaker is the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Moldova,
His Excellency Mr. Nicolae Tabacaru.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Tabacaru (Republic of Moldova) (interpretation
from French): Allow me at the outset to congratulate the
President wholeheartedly on his election to the presidency
of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly of the
United Nations. I am especially pleased at the election of
a distinguished representative of Ukraine, a country which
is a neighbour and friend of the Republic of Moldova, to
this important post. After declaring their independence six
years ago, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine worked to
create prosperous and democratic societies. I am convinced
that the President, with his great skills and with the support
of all the Member States, will be able to discharge with
distinction this lofty mission which has been entrusted to
him during this crucial period for the United Nations.
I would also like to express my appreciation for the
contribution made by Mr. Razali Ismail in his capacity as
President during the previous session. I wish also to express
our gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for
his efforts to reform this global Organization.
It is my honour and privilege to address the General
Assembly for the first time, and I would like to convey a
message of friendship and solidarity from the people of the
Republic of Moldova.
My country, which is very much devoted to the ideals
of the Charter of the United Nations, strongly supports the
reform process of the United Nations. That is why we have
taken note with interest of the reform programme proposed
by the Secretary-General. This package of proposals is
designed to achieve a reform in order to deal better with
the challenges of
the coming millennium. We have
welcomed such initiatives and we support them.
the
financial
crisis of
forward only if
It is clear that the reform of the United Nations can
move
the
Organization is settled. There is no doubt that Member
States must fulfil their financial obligations on time and in
full. At the same time, it is indeed necessary to reform the
system for the payment of contributions in order to achieve
a fair assessment, one that better takes into account the
principle of capacity to pay of each country. For our part,
we will spare no effort to honour our financial obligations.
The Republic of Moldova fully supports the efforts of
the United Nations to maintain international peace and
security. In the five years since our country was admitted
to membership in the United Nations, we have co-
sponsored several resolutions in this important field of
activity.
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
In the field of disarmament, last year the delegation
of the Republic of Moldova likewise voted in favour of
the adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty. Consequently, I am pleased to report that on 24
September I signed this important Treaty on the complete
ban on nuclear
the
implementation of this Treaty can enhance international
security.
testing. We are convinced that
The Republic of Moldova also supports the efforts
of the international community to limit the use of and
ultimately to eliminate certain conventional weapons
which have injurious and indiscriminate effects, including
anti-personnel landmines. We are ready to contribute to
the efforts being made to obtain these objectives.
The positive developments which have characterized
the activity of the Organization in recent years have
brought about certain concepts and the diversification of
mechanisms for action in the field of international peace
and security. Some of
these mechanisms could be
implemented soon. Perhaps I need not stress here the
usefulness and benefits of the United Nations standby
forces, which all Member States welcome. Yet, I wish to
emphasize that the Republic of Moldova would like to
contribute to this
last year our
Government expressed its readiness to take part in the
United Nations standby forces. That is why my country
intends to provide to the United Nations Secretariat as
soon as possible information concerning contingents and
equipment which are available for this purpose.
system and that
taking part
Moreover, the Republic of Moldova is considering
the possibility of
in United Nations
peacekeeping operations. We believe that our country has
already accumulated a certain amount of experience in
this field through its participation in a variety of
international manoeuvres.
Militant separatism has become one of the main
threats to international peace and security after the cold
war period. Totalitarian regimes have engendered ethnic
conflicts and frictions in certain countries of Central and
Eastern Europe. Some conflicts are rooted in age-old
animosities. Others, as is the case in the conflict involving
the Republic of Moldova which broke out five years ago,
are inspired by and supported from the outside, in order
to recreate a form of by-gone domination.
This is the reason why I would like to emphasize the
fact that the recent separatist trends which have appeared
in the newly independent States who are Members of the
29
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
United Nations have nothing in common with the legitimate
aspiration of peoples to achieve self-determination. In our
view, attempts to construe the right to self-determination as
the right of an ethnic or national community to establish its
own government and to splinter off are real dangers to
international and regional security. Moreover, the right to
self-determination is treated in the Charter of the United
Nations as a principle which cannot serve to justify the
violation of the principle of the independence and territorial
integrity of a State. Nevertheless, it is imperative to define
this principle of self-determination more precisely in order
to avoid any subjective interpretations.
It is quite clear that the stability of small and large
States hinges on a number of factors, such as the rule of
law, respect for human rights, democracy and economic
development. Our Government
is therefore striving to
establish an equitable social system based on the respect for
the dignity of the human person. And yet, the process of
economic reform, with all its inherent problems, is retarding
the achievement of these objectives.
The high social costs of transition are felt throughout
society. Despite all of these difficulties, we are nevertheless
determined to continue the process of economic reform. We
rely on the support of developed countries, the United
Nations and other international agencies and organizations
during this decisive moment in the reform of our country.
I take this opportunity to express the gratitude of the people
and Government of my country to those States and
international
supported the
strengthening
and market-economy
mechanisms in our Republic. Furthermore, I note with
satisfaction that my country has made progress in building
its civil society and in establishing democratic institutions.
institutions which have
democracy
of
it
Nevertheless,
is a paradox that under
such
favourable conditions we have not succeeded in achieving
a final settlement of the conflict which broke out in the
summer of 1992. Yet, the authorities of the Republic of
Moldova endeavour to find pragmatic solutions in order to
maintain the integrity of the country.
Following negotiations with the leaders of
the
separatist region, and with the mediation of the Russian
Federation, Ukraine and the mission of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe, an agreement was
reached between the parties involved with regard to the
general principles of the settlement of the dispute. A
memorandum was likewise signed on the normalization of
relations between the authorities of
the Republic of
Moldova and the Transdnestrian region.
30
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
At the same time, the Presidents of Ukraine and the
Russian Federation and the Chairman-in-Office of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE) signed a joint Declaration emphasizing the
importance
the
memorandum to conduct their relations in the context of
the existing borders of the country by granting special
status to the eastern region of the Republic of Moldova.
commitment
parties'
in
of
the
region. To our
the Transdniester
In view of the provisions of the memorandum, an ad
hoc commission was established to negotiate the legal
status of
regret,
negotiations in the Commission are deadlocked because
of the intransigent and highly politicized position taken by
the Transdniester side. Therefore, no mutually acceptable
solution has been found on the key elements for resolving
the dispute, namely, the legal definition of the status of
Transdniester and the powers of the parties during the
transitional period. In opposing the provisions of the
accord,
the Transdniester side insists on a settlement
which runs counter to the Constitution of the Republic of
Moldova and is prejudicial to the principle of sovereignty
over the territory of the country. Despite the commitments
they assumed by signing the memorandum, the separatist
leaders have, exceeding their power, enacted certain
unconstitutional laws establishing a so-called customs
border
the
delimitation of
In
addition, a series of unlawful acts have been committed
in the area controlled by the peacekeeping forces.
in Transdniester and a “commission for
in the region”.
the State border
the separatist
regime in Transdniester
I must therefore emphasize that it is vital to ensure
more active mediation by the Russian Federation, Ukraine
and the OSCE mission, as well as stronger action by the
international community, led by the United Nations. I
should like to say the conflict in Transdniester could
destabilize the political and military situation, and
threatens subregional and regional peace and security. We
know that
is
supported by a powerful paramilitary force having the
most modern weapons, obtained from the equipment
available to forces of the Russian Federation illegally
stationed on our territory. At the same time, the leaders
of those opposed to constitutional authority are trying to
obtain weapons belonging to the Russian military forces,
while opposing the complete withdrawal of the troops of
the Russian Federation and their weapons.
It must
therefore be pointed out that disarming and breaking up
the Transdniester paramilitary groups is as important as
the withdrawal of Russian troops.
Both those processes must be monitored by
international observers. We have reached the conclusion
that an immediate and effective solution to this conflict
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
requires more active involvement by international bodies as
well as the countries of the region and even the major
Powers. We are awaiting such involvement, for our recent
experience demonstrates that all attempts made by the
authorities of the Republic of Moldova to settle the conflict
in the Transdniester
and
negotiations have failed. The interests of the separatist
leaders are subordinate to other interests, entirely political,
going beyond our national context.
region through dialogue
for
reasons of geopolitical
There is a danger that
the conflict will continue
indefinitely. We believe that the problem of the eastern
region of the Republic of Moldova could already have been
resolved by peaceful means and in a civilized fashion if the
separatist regime did not receive strong support from
outside. More often than not such support has been given
deliberately,
interests, but
sometimes the separatists in the eastern region of the
Republic of Moldova have received unintentional, indirect
support through the unlawful trade activities of companies
and firms in developed countries. We hope that
the
Governments of countries where certain undertakings are
giving political and technical support
to the separatist
regime in Transdniester will put an end to such activity.
These actions can no longer be tolerated for they constitute
ipso facto direct interference in the internal affairs of the
Republic of Moldova.
The illegal stationing of military contingents of the
Russian Federation on the territory of my country
continues. The deadline set by the 1994 Moldovan-Russian
Agreement on the withdrawal of Russian troops from the
territory is 21 October 1997. The fact that for three years
the State Duma, unlike our Parliament, has failed to ratify
the Agreement cannot be excused or explained. We have
been assured on several occasions, at the highest level, that
the question of the withdrawal of troops will be settled, and
it is regrettable that this problem remains unresolved.
In
the
accordance with
We understand, of course, that the failure to ratify the
1994 Accord by the State Duma entails legal complications
for the Russian Government. However, we believe that the
time has come to find a solution to the question of troop
withdrawal.
of
international law, no foreign army can be stationed on the
territory of another State without
its free consent. In
addition, international organizations, particularly the OSCE,
strongly support the unconditional, immediate, orderly and
complete withdrawal of Russian troops from the territory of
the Republic of Moldova. Finally, Russia's admission to the
Council of Europe as a fully fledged member, was
conditional on the timely withdrawal of its troops from the
territory of the Republic of Moldova.
principles
15th plenary meeting
29 September 1997
We believe that the political forces in the State
Duma opposing troop withdrawal will also be sensitive to
the legal commitments of the Russian Federation. We
hope that the removal of armaments and the withdrawal
of troops from the territory of the Republic of Moldova
will be speeded up and completed as soon as possible.
This course would certainly serve the interests of both
countries and would properly reflect
the high level
reached in the development of relations between the
Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation.
In conclusion, I express the fervent hope that the
work of the fifty-second session of the General Assembly
will take place in a climate of solidarity, with a realistic
and constructive approach to the complex problems facing
the world at the end of this century. My delegation, like
is ready to make its
those of other Member States,
contribution to achieve the purposes of
the United
Nations.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
31
