United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
31st plenary meeting
Wednesday, 15 October 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Report of the Fifth Committee
The President: This morning the General Assembly
will consider the report of the Fifth Committee on sub-item
(a) of agenda item 142.
I request
the Rapporteur of the Fifth Committee,
Mr. Djamel Moktefi of Algeria, to introduce the report of
the Fifth Committee.
Mr. Moktefi
(Algeria), Rapporteur of
the Fifth
Committee (interpretation from Arabic): I have the honour
to present to the General Assembly the report (A/52/453) of
the Fifth Committee on agenda item 142 (a), entitled
“Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of
the United Nations peacekeeping operations: financing of
the United Nations peacekeeping operations”.
The President: Statements will therefore be limited
to explanations of vote. The positions of delegations
regarding the recommendation of the Fifth Committee
have been made clear in the Committee and are reflected
in the relevant official records.
May I remind members that under paragraph 7 of
decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that
“When the same draft resolution is considered
in a Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a
delegation should, as far as possible, explain its vote
only once, i.e., either in the Committee or in plenary
meeting, unless that delegation’s vote in plenary
meeting is different from its vote in the Committee.”
May I remind delegations that, also in accordance
with General Assembly decision 34/401, explanations of
vote are limited to 10 minutes.
the report,
In paragraph 6 of
the Committee
recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of a
two-part draft resolution. Part I relates to the financing of
the United Nations logistics base at Brindisi, Italy; part II
relates to the field assets control system. The Fifth
Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote.
to
take
action
begin
Before we
the
recommendation contained in the report of the Fifth
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that we
are going to proceed to take a decision in the same
manner as was done in the Fifth Committee.
on
The President: If there is no proposal under rule 66
of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the General
Assembly decides not to discuss the report of the Fifth
Committee which is before the Assembly today.
Agenda item 142
Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations
(a) Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping
It was so decided.
operations
97-86218 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/52/453)
The President: The Assembly will now take a
decision on the draft resolution recommended by the Fifth
Committee in paragraph 6 of its report.
31st plenary meeting
15 October 1997
The Fifth Committee adopted the draft resolution
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to
do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 52/1).
The President: We have concluded this stage of our
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 142.
The meeting rose at 10.25 a.m.
2
