United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
51st plenary meeting
Friday, 21 November 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.51
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 38
Support by the United Nations system of the efforts of
Governments to promote and consolidate new or
restored democracies
The final document of
the Third International
Conference of the New or Restored Democracies on
Democracy and Development, held at Bucharest,
reiterated the great importance of the United Nations
system in helping the new or restored democracies to
meet the challenges before them.
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/513)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.28)
The President: Today we are discussing an important
item relating to ways and mechanisms to enhance support
by the United Nations system of the efforts of Governments
aimed at promoting and consolidating new or restored
democracies. It has become increasingly clear that
the
recent dramatic changes in the international arena have
given a powerful
impetus to the global process of
democratization. Since the first International Conference of
Newly Restored Democracies, held at Manila in 1988, we
have witnessed the emergence of a great number of
countries that have fulfilled their peoples’ aspirations by
joining the family of States that have been following the
path of
justice and democracy for many
decades — or centuries.
freedom,
the second conference,
The Managua Declaration and Plan of Action endorsed
in 1994 at
the International
Conference of New or Restored Democracies, emphasized
the need for active involvement by the United Nations
system in this expanding process.
pursuance
of
the
Today,
in
ever more
document’s
recommendation, we shall discuss new ideas and
suggestions as to the enhancement of the role of the
United Nations system in supporting democracy and good
governance in those States, as well as providing
assistance in the accomplishment of their priority tasks. I
believe that placing the issue of further development of
the new and restored democracies under the broad United
Nations umbrella gains
relevance and
importance in the light of the ongoing process of United
Nations renewal and reform. Particular attention should be
paid to methods of strengthening the mechanisms for
monitoring the formation and development of those States
so that specific assistance can be made promptly available
and deliverable. I also believe that the deeper involvement
of the United Nations in this continuous worldwide
process of democratization will greatly benefit
the
Organization itself in its period of essential structural
transformations
further
and functioning
democratization of
methods.
inter
its procedures
aimed
at,
alia,
I would like to take this opportunity to invite
delegations
to make their constructive contribution
towards forging closer cooperation between Governments
97-86557 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
and the United Nations in the field of promotion and
consolidation of new and restored democracies.
I now call on the representative of Romania to
introduce draft resolution A/52/L.28.
Mr. Gorita (Romania): On the threshold of the year
2000, we have an unprecedented opportunity to live in an
open world — a world of permanent communication and
interaction. Its perpetual movement cannot be stopped.
Globalization cannot be assimilated to its mere economic
dimension. Globalization means, above all, consecration of
universal values and symbolic assets. It means broader
knowledge and, consequently, better understanding and
cooperation.
The world today is no longer a space of cold war,
irreconcilably divided between friends and foes. The
changes that are taking place require that we involve
ourselves in a process of rethinking global society and
inter-human relations. The political sphere can no longer be
conceived as a separate space, governed by rules that are
understood only by professionals and inaccessible to the
majority. Governance should be understood as the best way
of building togetherness — as a set of practices aimed at
uniting all the major components of society around common
projects.
not
only
should
Effective
democracy
allow
participation in decision-making, but
also lead to
development and prosperity for all. Genuine development
does not occur in a political vacuum. It depends on the
empowerment of communities to influence decisions and to
articulate demands. Development without democracy is
impaired if it brings benefits only to a few elites.
That is why the assertion that democracy, development
and respect for human rights are interlinked and mutually
reinforcing is so valid. Their interaction enhances the
impact on their respective societies. The Governments that
foster respect for democracy and human rights and subserve
development efforts to the benefit of the entire society
acquire a higher profile, domestically and internationally.
Many success stories in the developing world stand as
proof.
The international community has started to pay greater
and deeper attention to the role that democratic values can
play in solving long-standing national
issues and in
improving the international environment. These debates are
amplifying and taking a variety of forms. My country has
been involved in many of them.
2
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
entitled
“Progress
This year, Romania had the honour of hosting the
Third International Conference of the New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development. The
Conference enjoyed the participation of almost 80
countries and 47 non-governmental organizations from
Africa, Asia, Latin America and Europe. The political
document
Review and
Recommendations”, circulated as document A/52/334,
which was adopted by consensus, acknowledges the
emergence of new thinking about democratic values and
their potential for making democracy work in the service
of development and prosperity. A comprehensive and far-
reaching analysis of the democratic processes which have
been taking place recently gives special value to that
document. The ministers and representatives of the new
or restored democracies who met in Bucharest reaffirmed
their commitment to the process of democratization in
their societies.
the
They
relationship
acknowledged
of
interdependence and mutual reinforcement
that exists
between democracy, development and good governance.
They concluded that democratization is
a world
movement based on shared values, which embraces North
and South, East and West, and transcends traditional
confrontational lines. The Bucharest document identified
an almost universal recognition that a democratic system
of government is the best model to ensure a framework
of liberties for lasting solutions to political, economic and
social problems. The participants admitted that the real
challenge today is how to strengthen democracy through
the practices of efficient government in order to promote
sustainable development.
and principles
A substantial part of the Bucharest document is
devoted to recommendations addressing the vital areas
that are significant for the consolidation of democratic
societies. These are, in the first place, guidelines for
strengthening policies
addressed to
Governments in the fields of human rights,
judicial
reform, corruption, organized crime, decentralization,
participation in political life, elections, gender equality,
civic education, accountability and transparency, media,
and civil
they include
recommendations related to civil society and the private
sector,
international
community, and to the United Nations system and the
international financial organizations.
reform. Secondly,
countries
service
donor
and
to
the
I will not insist on presenting these realistic and
action-oriented conclusions. They are to the merit of the
ministers and other Bucharest Conference participants
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
who achieved a splendid exercise in political willingness. I
am convinced that the document, entitled simply “Progress
Review and Recommendations”, will provide a useful
benchmark in future discussions on democracy and its
relationship to development.
On behalf of my Government, I would like to reiterate
the
from this rostrum our wholehearted gratitude all
Governments and organizations
that participated in,
supported and made concrete and valuable contributions to
the success of the Conference.
As you are aware, the Bucharest Conference is part of
a series that started in Manila in 1988 and continued in
Managua in 1994. This movement has given a strong
and regional
momentum to the process of global
democratization. Although
intergovernmental
conferences on democracy started quite independently from
the United Nations, since 1994 the Organization has
become more actively involved in this domain.
the
General Assembly resolution 51/31, adopted by
consensus last year, asked the Secretary-General to present
a report at the fifty-second session including, among other
things, innovative ways and means to enable the United
Nations to respond effectively and in an integrated manner
to requests of Member States for assistance in the field of
democratization.
Further to this resolution, the Secretary-General has
submitted an excellent
report, contained in document
A/52/513, that focuses on policies and principles, and gives
a comprehensive account of relevant recent events which
are shaping the emerging framework for intergovernmental
action in support of new or restored democracies.
I wish to express the satisfaction of the Romanian
Government with respect
and
recommendations contained in the Secretary-General’s
report.
to the observations
First, the value of the electoral assistance provided or
coordinated by the United Nations is unquestionable. The
potential of the United Nations in this respect should be
further considered in the new international environment,
where democratization efforts have become more prevalent.
Secondly, we should underline again the important
role of civil society in the democratization processes. As
noted in the report, the proposal of the Third International
Conference that the United Nations should arrange a larger
non-governmental
forum for
representatives
of
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
organizations to discuss democratization and the role of
civil society in order to follow up on the results of the
Bucharest Conference has a bearing on a recommendation
on a people’s millennium assembly contained in the
reform package under consideration at
this Assembly
session. We encourage the Secretary-General to discuss
those ideas further.
Thirdly, we fully agree that the peace-building and
development, democratization and governance efforts of
the Organization are distinct but mutually reinforcing.
This underlines the importance for the United Nations
system to improve its ability to cooperate and to
coordinate its actions. Like the Secretary-General, we
hope that the integration of more effective United Nations
work on democratization and good governance into the
reform process will be possible.
that
the
principle
universal
Fourthly, we welcome the essential conclusion of the
Secretary-General
of
democracy has more practical relevance to United Nations
activities now than ever before. The United Nations is
expected to work with a greater unity of purpose and
coherence. We are happy to ascertain the readiness of the
United Nations system to form a part of the follow-up
mechanism to the Third International Conference. A
reformed Organization oriented to the twenty-first century
should promote democratization, as it will continue to
work for peace, security and development.
On a more general note, I would like to praise the
format and the substance of the Secretary-General’s report
on item 38. The concision, vision and modernity that are
features of the report augur well for the profile of the
Organization in the next millennium.
Romania, in its capacity as current Chairman of the
Third International Conference of New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development, has the
particular privilege to submit to the General Assembly the
draft resolution on agenda item 38, entitled “Support by
the United Nations system of the efforts of Governments
to promote and consolidate new or restored democracies”
[A/52/L.28 and Add.1].
I am honoured to do so on behalf of the following
sponsors: Albania, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech
Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Mali, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia
(Federated States of), Mongolia, Namibia, the Netherlands,
Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the
Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation, San Marino,
Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain,
Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United
States of America, Uruguay, Zambia, and my own country,
Romania.
In its preamble, the draft resolution reiterates the set
of principles agreed upon by the General Assembly at
previous sessions. It takes note of some events relevant to
the subject we are now considering that have taken place
this year. The draft resolution also takes note of important
new documents adopted in international forums, namely the
Progress Review and Recommendations adopted at
the
Third International Conference of New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development and the
Universal Declaration on Democracy adopted by the Inter-
Parliamentary Council.
In the operative part of the draft resolution,
the
General Assembly would welcome the report presented by
the fifty-second session and
the Secretary-General at
express
for
and
recommendations contained in the report.
observations
appreciation
the
The decision of the Third International Conference to
hold the next conference in Africa and the offer of the
Government of Benin to host the Conference would both be
welcomed.
The General Assembly would commend the Secretary-
General, and through him the United Nations system, for
the activities undertaken at the request of Governments to
support the efforts to consolidate democracy.
It would recognize the important
the
Organization has to play in providing support to the efforts
of Governments to achieve democratization within the
context of development efforts.
role that
The General Assembly would encourage the Secretary-
General to continue to improve the capacity of the United
Nations to respond effectively to the requests of Member
States through support of their efforts to achieve the goals
4
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
of good governance and democratization. Member States
would be further encouraged to promote democratization.
The Secretary-General, Member States, the relevant
specialized agencies and bodies of the United Nations
system, as well as other intergovernmental and non-
invited
governmental
to
be
contribute to the follow-up process of
the Third
International Conference
of New or Restored
Democracies.
organizations, would
to submit a report
Finally, the General Assembly would request the
Secretary-General
to the General
Assembly at its fifty-third session, and would decide to
include in the provisional agenda of that session the item
entitled “Support by the United Nations system of the
efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new
or restored democracies”.
represents
The draft
resolution before us
a
reasonable response from the General Assembly to one of
the most promising and challenging changes
that
distinguish the world society at present. The 80 sponsors,
including my own delegation, hope that
the draft
resolution will be adopted without a vote, as has been the
case since the first introduction of this item on the agenda
of the General Assembly.
Mrs. Lucas (Luxembourg)
(interpretation from
French): I have the honour to speak on behalf of the
European Union. The Central and Eastern European
countries
associated with the European Union —
Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia — have aligned
themselves with this statement. The associated country of
Cyprus and the member of the European Free Trade
Association participating in the European Economic Area,
Norway, have also aligned themselves with this statement.
Respect for democracy and the rule of law, human
rights and fundamental freedoms are the three pillars of
our modern societies. We welcome the fact that this
decade has seen many racist, dictatorial and oppressive
regimes replaced by Governments with the avowed aim
of respecting the will of their people. The democratization
process under way must continue until all States members
of
this Organization are governed according to the
principles of democracy.
Democratic systems may take many forms, which
are rooted in the specific conditions of their social
structure. However, be they federal or unitary, presidential
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
they all embody a set of essential
or parliamentary,
common values,
the freedom of citizens to
inter alia,
express themselves through free and transparent elections,
and the active development and strengthening of civil
society. Civil society must ensure that values constantly
change and evolve in a peaceful manner.
Democracy is also synonymous with pluralism, which
nourishes the dynamic interaction of the nation’s actors on
a basis of mutual respect. Peoples must enjoy freedom of
association and the possibility of forming political parties,
and thus of playing an active part in the political life of
their country.
Another key element of a democratic system is the
separation of legislative, executive and judicial powers. Full
respect for human rights and protection of the rights of
ethnic, religious or political minorities are an integral part
of a democratic system, as are freedom of opinion and of
the press. In a democracy, the reality of political life must
be expressed in a process of dynamic interaction between
the people and their representatives. The role of non-
governmental organizations is particularly important in that
respect.
to new or
The European Union welcomes the fact that the report
of the Secretary-General [A/52/513] gives an extensive
the various forms of support which the
analysis of
international community affords
restored
the activities
democracies and a detailed review of
undertaken by the United Nations
to promote and
consolidate the democratization process. The report stresses
that these activities cannot be implemented separately, but
instead should complement the substantial efforts made by
the United Nations to foster human development, inter alia
by creating effective, responsible and transparent systems
of government. By the same token, these activities must be
integrated
and
peacekeeping operations in the field.
into United Nations
peace-building
The European Union supports and stresses
the
importance of United Nations efforts, inter alia, by the
Electoral Assistance Division,
the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Bank, to
promote democratization. In that regard,
it particularly
wishes to commend the efforts of the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in support of the
democratization process.
In the past year, we have attended two international
conferences on democratization and governance. The Third
the New or Restored
International Conference of
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
Democracies on Democracy and Development held in
Bucharest from 2 to 4 September 1997 and the UNDP
International Conference on Governance for Sustainable
Growth and Equity herald a new approach to international
cooperation in the field of democratization.
The European Union feels that the Civil Society
Forum, organized during the Bucharest Conference, is an
important step towards integrating citizens and their
organizations into the democratization process. In this
context, we welcome the organization of
regional
seminars by representatives of civil society in May 1997
at Imatra in Finland and Svetogorsk in Russia, and we
would like to encourage such regional initiatives.
As the Secretary-General of the United Nations
noted in his report, one of the chief questions raised at
the Bucharest Conference, in which 80 delegations took
part, concerns methods of monitoring the progress of
democratization. The European Union is following with
interest the proposal to set up a specific mechanism to
strengthen cooperation between the United Nations system
and the Bretton Woods institutions. The European Union
also welcomes
the Third
International Conference to hold the next conference in an
African country.
the decision taken at
With regard to the International Conference on
Governance held in New York from 28 to 30 July 1997,
the European Union welcomes the fact that, for the first
time, representatives of Governments and civil society
were able to meet together in the General Assembly Hall.
The European Union endorses the conclusions of the
Conference that good governance is synonymous with
governance that is effective, participatory, transparent,
accountable and equitable and promotes the rule of law.
The State, in close collaboration with the private sector
and civil society, must lead the way with regard to good
governance.
The European Union and its member States have
committed themselves
firmly to the promotion of
democratization and the transition towards permanent and
democratic systems of government. This commitment has
taken a variety of forms. Thus, the Union has introduced
a cooperation and development policy emphasizing
positive actions to defend human rights and promote
democracy.
likewise,
implementing numerous projects to support the rule of
law,
the
strengthening of non-governmental organizations and
other institutions which seek to promote the emergence of
European Union
democracy
towards
the
transition
The
is,
and
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
a pluralistic society. It actively and strongly supports the
activities of the Secretary-General and the specialized
agencies
the
democratization process.
the United Nations
promote
of
to
The United Nations must establish both the durability
and the universality of democratic values, while taking
account of the extreme diversity of situations around the
world. The institution of democratic systems is the best way
to prevent conflicts and carries the promise of prosperity
and the affirmation of individual values. That is why the
international community must encourage and promote
efforts to put these aspirations into practice through the
United Nations system.
The European Union endorses the Secretary-General’s
recommendations concerning electoral assistance,
the
strengthening of civil society and the coordination of all
United Nations activities in the field of democratization and
governance. The European Union will continue to give
active support to all these efforts.
Mr. Kasanda (Zambia): Let me begin by thanking the
Secretary-General for his report contained in document
A/52/513 on “Support by the United Nations system of the
efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or
restored democracies”. The report is very informative and
should go a long way towards facilitating our deliberations.
My delegation also expresses its thanks to the
Permanent Representative of Romania for circulating, in
document A/52/334,
“Progress Review and
Recommendations” of the Third International Conference of
the New or Restored Democracies on Democracy and
Development, held in Bucharest, Romania, from 2 to 4
September 1997. Zambia had the privilege of being
represented at that Conference, and it is the hope of my
delegation that the international community will undertake
concrete
its
recommendations.
implement
follow-up
activities
the
to
Mrs. Camara (Guinea), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
The question of democracy is increasingly becoming
an important factor in national and international affairs. In
fact, the Third International Conference of the New or
Restored Democracies noted that democratization is a world
movement. We are, today, seeing democracy expanding
around the world, with a majority of the world’s people
now living under democracies.
6
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
Against this background, the need to promote efforts
to encourage education for democracy and open all future
conferences on democracy to all interested United Nations
Member States becomes cardinal.
In paragraph 27 of his report, the Secretary-General
makes an important observation:
“Democracy is not a model to be copied but a goal
to be attained.” [A/52/513, para. 27]
Many countries that are democratizing face diverse
challenges which no single inflexible model of democracy
can be used to meet. Poverty and inequality, social,
religious, tribal and/or ethnic intolerance, and economic
and political
to
democracy. Meeting these challenges will depend on the
peculiar circumstances of each country that is undergoing
democratization.
instability are major
challenges
Developing countries like mine which have regular
consultations with representatives of the donor community
on democracy and good governance are keenly interested
in this distinction made by the Secretary-General. All too
often, these consultations have tended to lose their value
when donors attempt to micro-manage the process of
democratization in a given country, without due respect
for the peculiar circumstances of the country in question.
the
However, at the end of the day, all of us who are
democratizing agree that basic fundamentals must be met,
among them the promotion of
existence of
representative government elected by the majority of the
population through secret ballot, in regular periodic and
genuine elections, as well as the promotion of party
judiciary, guarantees of
competition, an independent
fundamental human rights and individual
freedoms,
transparency and accountability under the rule of law, a
free and independent press and the growth of civil
society.
My country began its democratization process in
1991. We are now in the phase of consolidating that
process. In this phase, Zambia will look to the United
Nations system to provide concrete assistance in various
areas
related to democracy, good governance and
development. We are, in this regard, happy to note that
the Secretary-General has registered his readiness,
in
paragraph 7 of his report, to provide such assistance to
interested countries.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
I would, however,
The Bucharest Conference came out with important
recommendations, all of which are detailed in document
A/52/334.
like to give particular
emphasis to the recommendation related to the external debt
problems of developing countries. As the Bucharest
Conference noted, the external debt problems of developing
countries continue to be a serious threat to democratization.
It
the international community promote
enhanced debt relief for developing countries so as to
improve their fiscal situation and overall development
prospects. The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
Debt Initiative is a welcome development in this regard.
Improvements in the form of quicker access to the Initiative
and ensuring that HIPC relief is adequately funded are
needed in order to make it more effective.
is critical
that
Related to the question of durable debt relief is the
issue of official development assistance (ODA) flows to
developing countries. Both bilateral and multilateral official
development assistance flows to developing countries are
declining. When we add this to the poor access that the
export products of developing countries have to the markets
of developed countries, and volatile currency markets, such
a state of affairs is a recipe for making the process of
democratization unstable and intolerable. Obviously, the
international community does not want such an outcome. In
order to promote international cooperation for democracy
and development effectively, there is need to establish a
new consensus on the financing of development. In this
connection, my delegation can only reiterate the need to
convene an international conference on the financing of
development, as a matter of urgency.
Let me conclude by stating that as a sponsor of the
draft
resolution under
this item on our agenda, my
delegation hopes and expects that it will be adopted by
consensus.
Mr. Eitel (Germany): Let me first of all state that my
delegation fully associates itself with the statement just
delivered by the Permanent Representative of Luxembourg
on behalf of the European Union.
Germany,
together with some 30 other countries,
attended as an observer the Third International Conference
of the New or Restored Democracies on Democracy and
Development, which took place with great success this past
September
in Bucharest. Yet somehow the category
“observer” does not quite seem to capture the very
particular situation we find ourselves in: Germany is not an
“unconcerned bystander”, merely following the problems,
challenges and hazards of new and restored democracies
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
with interest. Germany itself is — in its eastern part,
where close to a quarter of the German population
lives — a newly restored democracy. And while a
number of circumstances set this situation apart from that
of many other new or restored democracies, there are also
many striking similarities, parallels
and common
experiences.
The German people in its entirety is proud, and I
believe justly so, of the peaceful revolution which took
place in eastern Germany almost eight years ago. The
enduring and inspiring symbol of that revolution was, of
course, the fall of the Berlin Wall, which in turn came to
epitomize the end of the cold war and also the beginning
of another wave of democratization.
Let me say a few words as to where Germany stands
now, seven years after unification. The effects of
unification still determine political life at the level of the
country as a whole,
the federal states, and the local
authorities. For millions of people in the new federal
states, daily life has taken a decisive turn for the better.
Freedom, democracy and the opportunity for material
well-being are no longer restricted to the western part of
the country. In a country that had been divided for more
than four decades, a socialist economic and political
system had to be remodelled according to the principles
of a social market economy. People in the new Länder
found themselves confronted with a transformation
process that for many of them amounted to an abrupt
change of their conditions of life, and a sometimes
painful break with identities, life plans and orientations.
Despite tremendous difficulties,
the process of
economic unification has been largely a successful one,
although a lot remains to be done. For example, in the
new federal states many jobs were initially lost in the
transition from socialist planning to a market economy.
Today, however, there are indications that recovery is
under way. Progress on the other aspect of the unification
process has been slower. Shedding 40 years spent under
a socialist regime is not easy. Information and education
of citizens with regard to the functioning and the values
of a democratic State is one of the basic tasks which not
only the State but other institutions and actors of civil
society as well have to take upon themselves. To become
a conscious and responsible citizen means to know and to
accept the political, legal and moral foundations of the
State.
The Secretary-General has provided us with an
insightful report on the question of “Support by the
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
United Nations system of the efforts of Governments to
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies”
[A/52/513]. My Government has carefully studied the
results of the Bucharest Conference, which have been
circulated as a United Nations document [A/52/334].
Over the past few years, it has been most encouraging
to see a consensus emerge regarding the different
components and factors which aid the establishment of a
democratic system and which in turn benefit from the
existence of such a system. The Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action clearly sets out the most fundamental
of these relationships:
“Democracy, development and respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent
and mutually reinforcing. Democracy is based on the
freely expressed will of the people to determine their
own political, economic, social and cultural systems
and their full participation in all aspects of their lives.”
[A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chapter III, para. 8]
The Agenda for Development states that efforts to promote
democracy and good governance are fundamental to the
consolidation of peace and development.
One of the self-evident but nevertheless important
lessons that we can draw from these different efforts is that
we have to view the various notions and concepts as
interrelated and interdependent — or, as we say at the
United Nations, mutually reinforcing. Good governance, the
rule of law, respect for human rights, development, peace
and democracy do not exist in isolation. They are also the
indispensable requirements
for economic and social
development. People want
to enjoy the benefits of
democratization. It is in this area that Governments bear a
special responsibility. They have to create the conditions for
economic growth through investment, for social justice, and
for offering all sectors of the population education, health
and other social services.
What are the consequences for the United Nations
system? The United Nations and its different programmes
have to contribute to creating the environment for good
governance and democratization. But if one focuses on the
role of the United Nations in a more circumscribed manner,
it is the area of electoral assistance which comes to mind
first.
The report of the Secretary-General rightly points out
that the United Nations system does not endorse or promote
any specific form of government. The report furthermore,
8
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
and in our view again rightly so, states that observation
of elections will not suffice as a yardstick for measuring
democratization. But democratic elections continue to be
the hallmark of a functioning democratic system. The
United Nations, as an impartial actor, should continue to
offer, at the request of States, electoral assistance in the
broadest sense. This evidently includes not only electoral
monitoring, but also capacity-building at the institutional
level, and it will often require long-term efforts. At
present the United Nations, for lack of resources, cannot
comply with many of the requests put to it. We wish to
see
substantially
strengthened in this respect. The task also encompasses
more conceptual work and exchange with other actors in
this area.
the Secretariat
capacities of
the
To reduce democratization to the holding of
elections has variably been termed the “fallacy of
electoralism” or the “free elections trap”. Democracy is
not an “on-off” event, and elections by themselves do not
constitute democracy. Elections which take place without
some essential
institutional underpinnings, without a
functioning judiciary system, without the rule of law, run
the risk of discrediting the very concept of democracy.
This is where we see another important task for the
United Nations: to give expert advice to Governments
regarding the complex, multifold tasks that many of them
face in connection with a democratic transition.
Two years
ago, my Government
its cooperation programmes,
created a
programme to aid democratization processes and to
promote the respect for human rights and the rule of law.
A further component of this programme is financial or
staff support for election observation missions. In the
context of
the German
Government has supported a number of long-term projects
to strengthen an environment which is conducive to
democratization.
towards
democratization in a number of countries have been
effected through German political foundations. Those
projects have addressed a large spectrum of participants,
issues and institutions. They have, on a number of
occasions, been termed crucial
to the success of a
democratic transition by the countries themselves.
contributions
Lasting
Given our history, my country thinks it has a special
appreciation of the problems and challenges facing the
new and restored democracies, and we would like to state
that we want to continue to cooperate closely with those
States.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): I have the honour to take
the floor on behalf of my delegation on the agenda item
under review.
participatory, transparent, accountable and equitable, and
promotes the rule of law.
The Kingdom of Swaziland welcomes the Secretary-
General’s report in document A/52/513, entitled “Support
by the United Nations system of the efforts of Governments
to promote and consolidate new or restored democracies”.
The
a new
understanding of democratization; the role of civil society
and the private
in democratization; gender,
participation and democratization; and recent international
events regarding democratization and governance.
among other
addresses,
issues,
report
sector
We have carefully studied the report and identified the
above as the core issues that deserve the total and
undivided attention of the United Nations — all the more
because of the dynamic nature of the society in which we
live today. Based, therefore, on the four critical issues I
have referred to, my delegation is alive to the fact that a
periodic assessment of the ways and means with which we
achieve and practice democracy is an essential tool towards
peace-building and sustainable development. This
is
significant to developing nations such as the Kingdom of
Swaziland, which, though they have been independent for
a while, still require some assistance to maintain the tempo
of their quest for democratization and good governance.
In its resolutions 50/133 of 1995 and 51/31 of 1996,
the General Assembly mandated the Secretary-General to
continue to improve the capacity of the Organization to
respond effectively to the requests of Member States in
their efforts to achieve the goal of democratization. Acting
on that mandate, the United Nations has been actively
involved in the movement of new or restored democracies,
and has, as a result, convened a number of regional
conferences which brought
together a diverse range of
interested parties. Notable among these conference are the
Third International Conference of the New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development, held in
Bucharest
in September 1997, and the International
Conference on Governance for Sustainable Growth and
Equity, organized by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and held in New York in July 1997.
Both these conferences marked the start of a new way of
thinking about international cooperation in the sphere of
governance and democratization. And from them emerged
a
two key principles of
reaffirmation
for
democratization and reform needs to be tailored to fit into
the broader political, cultural and social circumstances of
each country, and that good governance is effective,
international
considerable
importance:
assistance
that
that
restored
new or
democracies,
My delegation is pleased to further note from the
Secretary-General’s report
the United Nations is
committed to its role as the key player in the field of
democratization and governance. We are heartened by the
Organization’s recognition of the fact that in assisting and
supporting the efforts of Governments to promote and
consolidate
and
democratization in general, the Organization does not in
any way endorse or promote any specific form of
democracy. In keeping with this view, the Kingdom of
Swaziland believes that democracy is not a model to be
copied but a goal to be attained, and the pace at which it
can proceed is dependent on a variety of political,
economic, social and cultural
to the
circumstances of a particular culture and society. Hence
the Kingdom’s belief in analysing its own socio-economic
and political system with a view to constructing a vision
for the future based on our own beliefs and philosophy,
one which reflects the deepest aspirations of the people of
the Kingdom of Swaziland.
factors proper
and
achieve
sustainable
development
This is the blueprint we have laid down for
is one that we are
ourselves as a country, and it
committed to pursue at all costs and with vigour if we are
to
respond
the next millennium.
effectively to the demands of
Addressing the fifty-second session of
the General
Assembly in September this year, His Majesty King
Mswati III mentioned in his statement that for us to
achieve sustainable growth and development, we need the
understanding and support of the international community
in our efforts to address both short and long-term social
and political challenges. In order to meet these challenges,
we realize that we need to create an environment in
which our people can prosper. It is for this reason that
His Majesty called for
the nation’s
Constitution based on the views and aspirations of the
Swazi nation. In essence, His Majesty is anxious to see
the inclusion of the entire Swazi populace in this process.
This, in our view, constitutes the best course of action.
We need a political dispensation that emerges from the
grass roots, and not one “dumped” by external forces.
the review of
Our unique home-grown political system embraces
the key variables and characteristics of democracy.
Election through the secret ballot, direct representation,
transparency and accountability to the electorate are some
of the built-in safety valves the system is proud of. Like
systems, however, ours has had its
all political
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in direct
shortcomings. The initiative by His Majesty,
consultation with the entire Swazi nation, to strengthen our
Constitution is but one of the initiatives that we consider a
desirable answer to the differences we might have as a
nation.
a
clear-cut policy on economic
Every country in the world is today seeking a winning
formula for economic growth, social advancement and
development. In effect, we have realized that we need to
have
and social
development. The private sector as a development partner
has a crucial role to play in the consolidation of democracy
and the promotion of sustainable human development. It
has the ability to distribute economic resources, increase
economic
thus
improving the population’s
living. The
Government, on the other hand, has the responsibility to
create an enabling environment in order to allow the private
sector to become the engine for growth. One of the basic
realities is that if we are to survive economically as a
nation, we must do everything in our power to facilitate the
healthy growth of the private sector. The standards we have
set for ourselves in this regard give us good reason to be
optimistic about the future.
efficiency and provide
employment,
standard of
In concluding my statement, allow me to state that, for
the Kingdom of Swaziland, democracy denotes
the
participation of the people in Government. In a nutshell, it
denotes a process by which a policy of increasing the
involvement of the people in their own Government is
implemented. This process entails the putting in place of
appropriate structures to facilitate the increased involvement
of the people in Government. Our system and philosophy
seek to achieve exactly this participation in Government. To
this end, the system of Government encourages people to
form structures at the local and regional levels in order to
articulate
this
understanding, we have been able to prosper and remain the
peaceful country which, over the years, we have grown and
have been known to be. We look to the United Nations to
assist us in our endeavour to strengthen our rich heritage —
one that we aspire to pass on to many generations to come.
aspirations. With
their wishes
and
I would observe off the cuff that it saddens me, as a
son of Africa, that today we are talking of democracies. We
in Africa appeal to our friends to appreciate our efforts. We
know our problems; we know what we want to achieve. All
we need and want is for the international community to
support our efforts. The bad history that is associated with
us in Africa in particular has never been of our own design,
but is an accident of history that befell the continent of
Africa.
10
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
Africa today suffers marginalization and experiences
the skirmishes of wars that are fought with weapons never
before known to the continent. The question therefore
becomes: Can the international community assist Africa
by applying a dead stop to the trafficking of the arms of
war to our continent? Our economies are today regarded
as grappling with problems. For all this, it is not we who
are to blame, but the accident of history. As a student of
history myself, I am saddened when I think of how our
forefathers, brothers and sisters were pulled out of the
continent of Africa and planted in the regions of the
world where even almighty God had never designed them
to be.
therefore,
My appeal,
is for understanding. The
problems that we have — political and economic — were
imposed on us. I shudder to say that even the so-called
wind of democracy may soon bear some conditionalities
and consequences for Africa. I am reminded of an era
when multipartism became popular in Africa and we
emulated systems from certain quarters of the world that
subsequently dehumanized us.
On the quest for democracy, we are saying: Let the
international community appreciate our cultural values.
For democracy that is devoid of the reflections of our
values will remain foreign to Africa and, indeed, to all the
developing nations.
With these sad remarks, forgive me: I now feel like
bursting into tears because of the ugly history with which
Africa has been associated.
Mr. Erdös (Hungary) (interpretation from French):
My delegation associates itself with the statement made
on this agenda item by the representative of Luxembourg
on behalf of the European Union.
The unprecedented changes that have radically
altered the world’s political landscape have opened the
door to the establishment of the rule of law and to
in an increasing number of
democratic development
countries throughout
the world. Accordingly, new or
restored democracies are characterized by a wide range of
situations.
The region of Central and Eastern Europe, in which
my country is located, has played a special role in the
great changes that we are all witnessing. I would recall
that the epicentre of cold-war ideological and military
confrontation was located precisely in Central and Eastern
Europe. In this context, I note that my country is proud of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the significant role it played in the events that led to the
dismantling of the political and psychological iron curtain
that divided the two parts of Europe for so long.
In recent years,
the profound changes on the
international scene in Europe and elsewhere have made the
worldwide process of democratization irresistible. This
process is, however, far from complete. We must continue
to strive tirelessly to promote democratization and to
consolidate democratic institutions where they already exist.
We must
recognize without complacency that many
challenges remain to be addressed throughout the world,
such as the persistence of oppression and the overt or more
subtle attempts to distort democracy. It is precisely because
the young democracies in some parts of the world are so
fragile that the international community must continue to
help them to confront the dangers awaiting them, within
and without.
In our era of globalization, we must bear in mind that
national objectives can be achieved only if democracy,
political stability and well-being are established and
strengthened not only at home, but among one’s neighbours
as well.
functioning of
democratic institutions,
the positive performance of a
market economy and the conduct of an open and rational
foreign policy are essential if the multifarious problems
arising within our societies and among our States are to be
successfully addressed.
In this context,
the proper
The
depth
and
of
the
process
intensity
of
democratization cannot, of course, be identical in all the
countries where this process is under way. This shows the
great variety of conditions in which this qualitatively new
international situation is coming about. But in any event the
great surge towards democracy in each of the countries
concerned must reflect the universal values that are the
basis of democracy and must reflect
the will of the
people — of which Governments, we must always
remember, are merely the expression.
Even though,
for political and historical
reasons
harking back to another era, democracy does not appear as
a point of reference in the Charter, it is, as the report of the
Secretary-General notes, more essential than ever to United
Nations activities. Today’s goal is to integrate democracy
into the activities of the United Nations in various fields.
We therefore welcome the readiness of
the world
Organization to give practical assistance to Governments in
establishing States based on the rule of law.
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
Hungary is among the sponsors of draft resolution
A/52/L.28, which was introduced this morning by the
representative of Romania. This is because we agree with
its political message and because we are aware that, with
the end of the bipolar world, it is important for us to
ensure
is given the
importance it deserves. We note, however, that the text of
the draft
from editorial
improvements in both the preambular and operative parts,
to avoid redundancies and awkward diction.
that democratic governance
resolution would benefit
The process that began almost 10 years ago brought
together this year at Bucharest, the capital of Romania —
which, I should note, was an ideal and meaningful venue
for such deliberations — many countries that have joined
the great family of democratic nations. We expect not
only that this process will continue, but that the number
of participants in this great enterprise of building
democratic societies will continue to grow.
Mr. Paguaga Fernández (Nicaragua) (interpretation
from Spanish): I am speaking on behalf of the following
countries of Central America: Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Honduras, Guatemala, Panama and Nicaragua.
We thank the Secretary-General for his report,
contained in document A/52/513, submitted in accordance
with resolution 51/31 of 6 December 1996. The report
describes recent international events on democratization
and governance,
including the Third International
Conference of the New or Restored Democracies on
Democracy and Development and the International
Conference on Governance for Sustainable Growth and
Equity, as well as the activities of the United Nations and
the Organization’s suggestions and recommendations to
strengthen and promote the worldwide process of
democratization. These are substantive contributions that
Governments should bear in mind when they formulate
and implement their national policies.
For decades, and especially since the Second World
War,
international relations were subject
to clashing,
divisive and antagonistic forces. But since the fall of the
Berlin Wall a short time ago, we have seen how the
ideological confrontation of the two super-Powers, which
dragged the majority of countries into one or the other
sphere of influence, has — in spite of many difficulties,
in particular the economic difficulties of the developing
countries — given way to acceptance of the democratic
ideal. A global effort is now under way to establish,
strengthen and consolidate democracy.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Democratization, in short, is a worldwide movement
that involves North and South, East and West. Far from
being an abstract concept, democracy is — along with its
inseparable ethical values — incompatible with the illusions
that come about as a result of outdated rhetoric and
discredited utopias. We who have freed ourselves for all
time from totalitarianism and all other forms of hegemony
have learned that democracy is the best model
for
guaranteeing a framework of freedoms that provides lasting
and sustainable solutions to the economic, political and
social problems that beset our societies.
Since the beginning of this decade, the process of
strengthening and consolidating democracy has stood out in
the Central American region, where after many years of
internal conflict
in several countries and of dictatorial
Governments or military regimes, our societies now
participate in the democratic way of life and in its inherent
political pluralism, with the holding of periodic elections
providing: transfer of power in keeping with the will of the
people; open dialogue with civil society; recognition and
protection of fundamental human rights including freedom
of association and of expression; separation of powers,
ensuring in particular an independent judiciary and the
subjection of military to civil authorities; and accountability
of leaders to their people for their actions.
In short,
the sun of democracy is shining daily
throughout Central America. Civilized dialogue has
replaced war; what used to be achieved with bayonets and
machine guns is now being achieved through elections and
constitutional mechanisms; where despots once ruled, we
now have the rule of law. As one of the great teachings of
Simón Bolívar, the Liberator, tells us,
“Nothing is as dangerous as leaving the same citizen
in power
for a long time. The people grow
accustomed to obeying him, and he grows accustomed
to giving them orders, which leads to usurpation and
tyranny.”
The democratic process should be not only political,
but economic, social and cultural as well. It should be a
process with open participation and should include controls
to prevent arbitrary rule based on constant abuse of power.
It must have mechanisms that ensure its validity in the
social, economic and cultural spheres so that democracy is
not a static model but a dynamic, constantly changing
system always open to improvement.
There is no single definition of democracy that can
identify its many and varied complex aspects and features;
12
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
each people must organize itself and structure its political
activities in keeping with its own characteristics, culture,
customs and traditions. Nonetheless, we believe that the
points we have mentioned are essential if a Government
is to act
thus
avoiding corruption.
legally and effectively,
transparently,
Unfortunately, in our world there remain conflicts,
violence, ethnic strife, religious intolerance, terrorism,
drug trafficking, corruption, poverty, unjust international
economic relations and a heavy external debt
that
continues to prove overwhelming. We still have an acute
shortage of
and ongoing environmental
deterioration, scourges that jeopardize world peace and
security and, by extension, the process of democratization.
resources
our
own
countries,
persistently within
Thus, new democracies must look to the future and
face the new challenges arising; they must act steadily
and
and
cooperatively in international relations. This framework of
international cooperation and recommendations within our
societies has been taking shape in the three International
Conferences of New or Restored Democracies. The first
Conference was held in Manila,
the
second in Central America, in Managua, Nicaragua; and
the third from 2 to 4 September 1997 in Bucharest,
Romania, where the heroic events of December 1989 took
place.
the Philippines;
The progress review and recommendations of the
Third International Conference of New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development has been
circulated by the Secretariat in document A/52/334. That
document is a programme of action for cooperation for
new and restored democracies,
in which we reaffirm
commitment to the process of democratization in our
societies, while recognizing the relationship of mutual
support
democracy,
sustainable development and good governance.
interdependence
between
and
Among the issues of greatest importance are those of
determining new ways of consolidating democracy,
eliminating the scourge of poverty, allocating more
resources to the judiciary so as to ensure its independence
and effectiveness and absorbing the social cost of
adapting new structures.
strengthens
The ongoing improvement of our democratic
institutions
fosters
transparency and the full participation of civil society in
the democratic process, together with economic growth
and ongoing social equity. To this end, the Bucharest
governance
and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
document has recommended the establishment of a follow-
up mechanism or a secretariat. This follow-up would
provide information on country programmes and on ways
in which specific issues are addressed and would facilitate
communications and understanding in new or restored
democracies, as well as their cooperation with traditional
democracies and national and international organizations, so
as to enhance the outcome of programmes and to foster
cooperation. The mechanism established should be
impartial, transparent and economical. Until such a follow-
up mechanism is established, the Chairman of the Third
International Conference of New or Restored Democracies
will carry out this function in cooperation with participating
countries. Meanwhile, we hope that this Assembly will
adopt by consensus draft resolution A/52/L.28, which was
introduced by the delegation of Romania and sponsored by
our participating countries and other friendly countries.
For Central America, democracy, with the flaws and
imperfections that characterize any human endeavour, is the
best form of government that humankind has invented to
date. We must therefore give it our constant support so that
it will not falter in any country of the world. We should
bear in mind this quotation from the first paragraph of
chapter 58 of the second part of Don Quixote de la
Mancha:
is
of
one
“Freedom, Sancho,
the most
prefollcious gifts that the heavens have granted man;
it cannot be equalled, even by all the treasures of land
and sea; for liberty and for honour, one can and must
risk one’s life; and, on the contrary, captivity is the
greatest evil that can happen to man.”
If this quotation from Miguel de Cervantes is valid for
individuals, it is even more so for all nations of the world.
Respect for the dignity and inviolability of the human
being, from the very moment of its conception, is the
fundamental principle of democracy, and when we speak of
freedom, we are thinking of it not
just as a political
concept; we are thinking of it, above all, in its social
dimension.
Central America is moving optimistically forward
along the broad avenues of peace, democracy and social
justice, faithfully and persistently, towards the long-desired
goals of sustainable development.
Mr. Mabilangan (Philippines): The coming year,
1998, is of particular significance to my country. It will
commemorate the centennial of
the
Philippine Republic. The year will also mark the tenth
the founding of
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
International
anniversary of
Conference of Newly Restored Democracies, held in
Manila in 1988.
formation of
the
the
In 1986,
the restoration of
the Filipino people arose as one to
peacefully overthrow a dictatorial regime and to effect the
return of democracy. After
its
the Philippines experienced a
democratic institutions,
marked improvement
in its economy, making it a
favoured investment destination and a new “Asian
miracle”. Despite the recent currency problems my
country has suffered, along with our South-East Asian
neighbours, the Philippine economy remains robust and is
successfully weathering this momentary difficulty.
The spirit of the “Peoples’ Power” revolution was to
sweep the world in the 1980s and 1990s. We were elated
and proud to see the restoration or nascence of democracy
in Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America. This
revolutionary whirlwind took the world by surprise and
has altered the contours of the geopolitical landscape.
In order to consolidate these gains, the Philippines
and a handful of countries with like experiences convened
the first International Conference of Newly Restored
Democracies in 1988 and issued the Manila Declaration,
which identified the indissoluble link between democracy,
peace and development and called for mutual support
among both new and old democracies particularly to
safeguard the gains won by the newly restored democratic
regimes against both internal and external threats.
respect
to promote
The next Conference, hosted by Nicaragua in 1994,
produced the Managua Declaration and Plan of Action,
which sought
for democratic
principles, to foster the dissemination of, and to arrive at,
a broader understanding of democracy and to encourage
greater cooperation and coordination among democracies,
the United Nations system and the Bretton Woods
institutions. The name of the Conference was broadened
to International Conference of New or Restored
Democracies to encompass the States which became
democratic for the first time in their respective histories.
of Romania
I wish to take this opportunity to express the most
heartfelt thanks of the Philippines to the people and the
Government
the Third
Conference, held in September in Bucharest, a resounding
success. We also wish to express our gratitude to the
United Nations Development Programme
its
invaluable support, in both moral and material terms. I
the
would also like to thank the Governments of
for making
for
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Netherlands, Switzerland, the Republic of Korea, Sweden,
Germany and Canada and the Agency for the French-
Speaking Community for their assistance.
The Bucharest Conference built upon the previous two
conferences in injecting the participation of civil society.
Academicians and leaders of non-governmental groups
engaged government officials in meaningful and insightful
discussions in the Conference’s first Civil Society Forum.
The Forum came to affirm the invaluable role that civil
society plays in the development and maintenance of
democracy and in the societal
troika which includes
government and the private sector as equal partners.
The Conference’s
“Progress Review and
Recommendations” on safeguarding democracy, promoting
development and improving governance addresses the
international community as a whole, the United Nations, its
Member States and international financial organizations. It
is our hope that the community has been able to study and
give serious thought to these recommendations and views,
among them, first, that penal sanctions should be imposed
on foreign entities and organizations that attempt to corrupt
government officials and institutions; secondly, that gender
balance cannot be achieved as long as gender inequality
exists, and thus countries should examine the status of the
implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Beijing
Declaration and the Platform for Action; and, thirdly, that
the evaluation of a country’s performance on matters of
democracy should be evaluated by the country itself, and
not by other entities.
It is also gratifying to note the growing membership
of the Conference from all regions. It has been decided that
the next Conference will be held in Africa, thus making the
round of regional representation complete. The Government
of Benin has graciously offered to play host
to the
Conference.
and Member States. We
and the United Nations
agencies
The draft resolution before us and the report of the
Secretary-General are direct results of the call for an
enhanced and meaningful working relationship between the
system — the
Conference
Secretariat,
are
particularly grateful to the Secretary-General, and to his
predecessor, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, for their support
for the aims and aspirations of the Conference through
concrete actions and programmes, as well as through their
recommendations, in the areas of electoral assistance, the
strengthening of civil society and the coordination of United
Nations activities in democratization and governance.
14
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
The movement of new or restored democracies is a
growing force in the world today. I believe it is time that
we members of the Conference began to assert
the
strength of our numbers and potential influence and aired
our collective opinions on the vital issues of the day, such
as
and security,
environmental protection and conservation, sustainable
development, human rights and overall economic and
social development.
realm of global peace
in the
In recognition of our growing numbers, may I
reiterate the call made by my Foreign Secretary,
Mr. Domingo Siazon, for us to consider the convening of
a summit of heads of Government of new or restored
democracies at the start of the new millennium.
Mr. Enkhsaikhan (Mongolia): Mongolia attaches
great importance to the consideration by the Assembly of
the agenda item entitled “Support by the United Nations
system of the efforts of Governments to promote and
consolidate new or restored democracies”.
My delegation welcomes the Secretary-General’s
report on this item, contained in document A/52/513. It
also welcomes the outcome of the Bucharest Conference
of New or Restored Democracies on Democracy and
Development, as well as
the International
Conference on Governance for Sustainable Growth and
Equity, organized with the active participation of the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
that of
that
to concentrate,
We agree with the Secretary-General
the
movement of new or restored democracies and its world
conferences have given a strong momentum to the process
of global and regional democratization. The vast
experience of many States in promoting or consolidating
democracy provided rich material for the Secretary-
General
in the fourth report on this
subject, on issues of policy and principles. Thus, the
Subgroup on Capacity-Building for Governance of the
Administrative Committee on Coordination has defined,
in general, 11 concrete principles of good governance,
including an effective public sector, accountability/
transparency of processes and institutions, effective
participation of civil society/political empowerment and
gender equality. As a new democracy, Mongolia believes
that all these principles are essential in promoting or
consolidating democracy.
Mongolia agrees with the conclusion that democracy
is not a model to be copied or imposed, but rather a goal
to be attained, and that the pace at which democratization
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
can proceed is dependent on a variety of political,
economic,
to the
circumstances of a particular culture or society.
social and cultural
factors proper
a
The experience of Mongolia’s democratization shows
the latter can be defined as a move away from
that
totalitarianism/authoritarianism to
democratic/
participatory form of government and consists largely of
two distinct stages: first, a stage of transition which ends
when a new Government is installed as a result of free and
fair elections and its legitimacy is accepted by all political
actors, while the holding of subsequent elections is seen as
part of a political process; and, secondly, a stage of
democratic consolidation, which can be defined as a process
aimed at achieving the long-term sustainability of the
democratic process. Democratic consolidation most often
faces a constellation of challenges and pressures of a non-
normative character, such as socio-economic environment,
lack of adequate resources, support, or lack of it, by the
population of policy changes introduced, quality of civil
society, empowerment of the citizenry, quality of the civil
service, rational choices by political actors, integrity of
leaders, party systems and, of course,
the overall
international environment. All these could amount to a
painful process that requires time, persistent efforts and
willingness to succeed.
The Secretary-General’s report
rightly points out
elections as a vital element or yardstick of democratization.
In the past seven years Mongolia has conducted three
parliamentary, two presidential and two local elections, all
of which have been recognized as free and fair. The degree
of maturity of our democratization can be judged by the
last two elections, parliamentary and presidential, held in
1996 and 1997 respectively. The parliamentary elections
were significant in that they brought to office, in a landslide
victory, those political forces that were newly formed in the
early 1990s to challenge the dominance of the long-ruling,
reformed ex-communist party. The transfer of power was
smooth and orderly. The incumbent President, associated
closely with the new democratic forces,
in fair
presidential elections, and again the transfer of power was
smooth, orderly and dignified.
lost
For Mongolia, as for most other ex-communist
nations, the biggest challenge to democratic consolidation
is posed by pressures of a socio-economic nature. As we
have learned in the past few years, even simultaneous
democratization and economic liberalization can exact high
social costs, while economic hardships can weaken trust in
the viability of democratic institutions. Therefore,
the
efforts to reduce economic hardships and poverty, hence
social hardships and unrest, need perseverance or political
will, adequate resources and international support and
assistance. Convinced that the economic reform should be
further accelerated so as to shorten the painful economic
transition period, the new Government has undertaken in
the past year a number of radical measures. Thus it has
introduced a “zero” per cent import tariff and accelerated
the pace of ongoing privatization. These measures also
represent
foreign direct
investment and expand trade.
to attract
important
steps
Redefining the role of the State constitutes another
imperative, as pointed out
in the Secretary-General’s
report. As practice demonstrates, a vibrant civil society
and private sector are also critical
to the process of
democratization and its subsequent consolidation. Though
civil society in Mongolia is emerging as an important
actor, it has not yet matured as a full-fledged social
partner to fully assume responsibilities or shape the terms
of the debate on national issues. It is especially weak in
rural areas, where political participation is sometimes
confined to casting votes in the elections. As to the
private sector, it is still in the process of consolidation
and needs active legislative and other support of the
Parliament and the Government.
As the International Conference on Governance for
Sustainable Growth and Equity, held in New York last
July, vividly demonstrated, good governance is essential
in properly ensuring the interaction of the State,
the
private sector and civil society. As the report points out,
the State creates a conducive political, economic and legal
environment, while the private sector generates jobs and
income, and civil society facilitates political and social
interaction and mobilizes groups
to participate in
economic, social and political activities.
My delegation would like to take this opportunity to
express its appreciation to UNDP and other organizers of
the Conference for their initiative and efforts that made it
a success. Likewise, we believe that
the Bucharest
Conference was also very useful and productive. The
Progress Review and Recommendations adopted at the
Conference, as reflected in document A/52/334, are a
valuable source of analytical study, while the proposed
guidelines
strengthening policies and principles
addressed to the Governments of the new and restored
democracies are of immense practical importance. We
believe that the proposal to develop some indicators to
assess or monitor progress in democratization is a timely
one that should be pursued. Mongolia is prepared to work
together with others on this question.
for
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mongolia fully supports the convening of such
conferences at regular intervals, seeing in them a valuable
form of exchange of experience and cooperation. We
express our readiness to host one of the forthcoming
conferences in Mongolia soon.
As a sponsor of draft resolution A/52/L.28 on this
item,
introduced this morning by the representative of
Romania, my delegation expresses the hope that it will be
adopted without a vote.
Ms. Cornette (Guyana): The agenda item we are now
considering, “Support by the United Nations system of the
efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or
restored democracies”, has great significance for my
country. Five years ago, in October 1992, Guyana became
a newly restored democracy, after the first free and fair
elections in decades. On 15 December, five years on,
Guyanese will choose the Government that will lead our
young democracy into the twenty-first century. At the last
count, 10 political parties will be vying for that honour.
This is testimony to the commitment of the Government
and people of Guyana to democracy. It is from our efforts
to secure democracy that we recognize the value of external
support for it.
I
Guyana received invaluable assistance from the United
Nations for the electoral process in 1992 and again in 1997.
Consequently, Guyana knows first-hand the importance of
the subject of our debate here today. On behalf of my
Government,
this opportunity to thank the
Organization for the assistance which has been provided to
us. I also wish to thank the Secretary-General for his
informative and analytical report on the matter. We were
pleased to note the nexus established between democracy
and good governance and the importance of these elements
for consolidating peace and development.
take
entities: Governments,
For fledgling democracies such as ours, the United
Nations is the best place to seek support. Since the First
International Conference of New or Restored Democracies,
which took place in Manila in 1988,
the question of
democracy has been subject to much debate and action by
diverse
the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), the World Bank, the
private
and
academia, to mention but a few. The Third International
Conference, convened last September in Bucharest, was
preceded in July by the International Conference on
Governance for Sustainable Growth and Equity, sponsored
by the UNDP. Resulting from all of those discussions
through the years is a general acceptance that democracy is
non-governmental
organizations
sector,
16
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
like culture, a way of life that has to be learned and
nurtured for it to survive and flourish. It is subject to the
social, political and economic peculiarities of each
national environment as much as it
is affected by
international activities. The support offered by the United
Nations system must be designed to deal with these
interlocking actualities.
Poverty,
the external debt burden,
illicit drug-
trafficking and intra-State conflicts are among the many
threats that confront our efforts to consolidate democracy.
These are global issues that require global solutions. This
is another reason why support by the United Nations
system is
focus
specifically on the promotion and consolidation of
democracy, it is obvious that many of the other activities
of the United Nations are indirectly components of any
support that the United Nations system extends. As the
Secretary-General stresses in paragraph 46 of his report
[A/52/513],
important. Further,
even as we
the
and
peace-building
development,
“That
democratization and governance efforts of
the
Organization are distinct but mutually reinforcing
underlines the importance for the United Nations
system as a whole to improve its ability to cooperate
and coordinate its actions.”
this creates an important
Accordingly,
the
developed democracies in our international community.
Assistance from them on a bilateral or, preferably,
multilateral basis is almost a sine qua non for the success
of new or restored democracies.
role for
it
In our efforts to guarantee success,
is also
important to focus on our youth. It is they who will
eventually take up the reins of government. If we really
want
to promote, consolidate and ultimately preserve
democracy we have to look to the future. A key element
of our strategy today, therefore, should be to prepare our
leaders of tomorrow. Here again the United Nations can
lend crucial
through the dissemination of
information and the hosting of programmes and other
activities to familiarize youth with the tenets of this
important process. Due to the intrinsic value of
democracy and good governance and their importance to
sustainable development and peace-building, no stone
should be left unturned in our efforts to ensure that new
or restored democracies remain democratic. Wherever the
United Nations system can provide support it must.
support
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The support given by the United Nations system to
Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored
democracies is unquestionably vital. It helps in providing
guidance to the United Nations itself, to Governments, and
to all others involved in fortifying democracy locally,
regionally and globally. It is therefore necessary for the
international community to intensify its efforts to create an
international framework of support that is conducive to
ultimate success in irrevocably consolidating new or
restored democracies at the national level.
Mr. Aouad (Argentina) (interpretation from Spanish):
I have the honour to express Argentina’s gratitude for the
support by the United Nations system of the efforts of
Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored
democracies.
I should like to extend our thanks to the Secretary-
General
for his very thorough report, and to the
Government and people of Romania for the success of the
recent Third International Conference of New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development. We
welcomed the conclusions of the Bucharest Conference,
whose debates and recommendations help move us towards
a future in which the democratization processes now under
way are progressively consolidated.
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
other in the realm of cooperation and humanitarian
assistance. The first
is Argentina’s participation in
peacekeeping operations within the United Nations
collective security system, with 614 of our personnel
scattered in various parts of the world. The other initiative
is the “White Helmet Commission”, launched by the
President of Argentina in 1993. Designed to draw on the
world’s
for emergency humanitarian
assistance,
this is also an appropriate instrument for
helping the United Nations in its work of consolidating
international peace.
real potential
Argentina has returned to the path of democracy,
after decades, and in the most diverse forums has
maintained its determination to continue deepening the
process of consolidating democracy, which it has been
doing for 14 years without interruption.
Within our region my country took an active part in
drawing up the presidential statement on a commitment to
democracy, signed by the Heads of State of the members
of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR),
together with Chile and Bolivia, which established that
the
functioning of democratic
institutions was an essential condition for cooperation in
MERCOSUR.
and effective
full
Nevertheless, I would like to express our concern at
the reports of regional experts that there are still severe
threats to fragile democracies in specific regions. At the
same time, we support
the
international community provide more assistance in
combating those threats.
the recommendation that
For all
these reasons, my country has also
participated actively in the democratization processes in
Central America and the Caribbean, providing technical,
economic and financial assistance, as well as electoral
observers, and has taken part in peacekeeping operations
when asked to do so.
During 1997 there also took place in New York the
International Conference on Governance for Sustainable
Growth and Equity, which concluded that good governance
is effective, participatory,
transparent, accountable and
equitable and promotes the rule of law. In this regard, we
welcome the fact
the international community is
encouraging consideration and gradual development of a
new philosophy of cooperation in this area. Good
governance and democratization, sustainable development
and the consolidation of peace daily assume greater
prominence in international debate.
that
to cooperate,
The Argentine Republic reaffirms today its unswerving
commitment
through the United Nations
system, in all initiatives to promote peace, the expansion of
democracy and respect for human rights. It is precisely
because of this commitment that we have taken two key
initiatives, one in the field of international policy and the
framework of democracy that
My delegation has no doubt whatsoever that the
democratic system of government is the best conduit for
expression of the people’s will. We believe that it is in
the
and
opportunities deriving from political and economic
freedom flourish. The modern formula for development
rests
on States’
responsibilities to society as guarantors of fundamental
freedoms and the strengthening of the system itself.
freedoms,
initiatives
on
these
but
also
The draft resolution comes within an international
framework oriented towards promoting democracies and
the parliamentary system. As on previous occasions,
Argentina is a sponsor, convinced that we are thus
contributing to the development of ideals that unite the
international community.
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Yelchenko (Ukraine):When the United Nations
was founded, it inscribed among the purposes set forth in
its Charter the maintenance of international peace and
security,
the development of friendly relations among
nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights
and self-determination of peoples, and the promotion and
encouragement of respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms.
Since 1945,
the world has undergone dramatic
changes. We have survived the long years of cold war and
ideological confrontation. The world political map has
recorded the emergence of new States, most of which have
made their choice in favour of democracy.
Today, the process of democratization affects North
and South, East and West, on a worldwide scale. In recent
years, there has been an almost universal recognition that
a democratic system of governance is the best model to
ensure a reliable framework for finding solutions to any
political, economic and social problems.
the new or
an inalienable part of
Ukraine is not a new Member of the United Nations,
but, as a State that regained its independence, it considers
itself
restored
democracies. Having embarked on the road of democracy
from the very first year of its independence, Ukraine has
declared its political will
to build an open, free and
democratic State. In so doing, our country has managed to
preserve peace and social accord in its society, to remove
contradictions that might have developed into bloody
conflicts on ethnic, political and economic grounds and, as
a result, to secure national harmony.
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
observance of the constitutional rights and freedoms of all
citizens.
I would also like to note that at the present time a
delegation of
the Congress of Local and Regional
Authorities of the Council of Europe is paying a visit to
Ukraine with the aim of assessing the latest developments
in the sphere of local self-governance.
Despite the optimism prevailing in this Hall as to the
process of democratization of the world community, it
should be noted that there are still considerable potential
threats to democracies in different parts of the world.
Democratization is a lasting process that requires a careful
attitude on the part of both national Governments and
international organizations and institutions.
In this regard, the delegation of Ukraine would like
to recall the initiative put forward by the President of
Ukraine two years ago at the commemorative meeting of
the United Nations General Assembly to establish a
mechanism of United Nations trusteeship over
the
processes of formation of new States.
We are of the view that the current United Nations
support for the efforts of Governments to promote and
consolidate new or restored democracies is in line with
that proposal. Our delegation commends the activities of
the United Nations Secretary-General and the United
Nations Development Programme in supporting and
monitoring the efforts of the new or restored democracies,
as mandated by the General Assembly, and strongly
supports the recommendation of the Bucharest Conference
in this regard.
28
on
June
Obviously, the adoption of the Fundamental Law of
Ukraine
further
strengthening of stability in its internal policy and harmony
in its society. The new Constitution of Ukraine became a
reliable guarantee of the rule of law and democratic
principles and of personal rights and freedoms.
promoted
1996
the
Thus the period of national formation, which lasted for
six years, is completed. The State framework has been
built, and now it should be strengthened and managed
properly, first of all in the economic field.
Yet another sign of
the further development of
democracy in Ukraine has been the recent adoption by the
Ukrainian Parliament of the law on its human rights
representative or ombudsman. The main purpose of this
institution is to establish a parliamentary control over the
18
the
We
fully
endorse
observations
and
recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary-
General (A/52/513), in particular those related to United
Nations activities in democratization and governance and
in strengthening civil society, which outline the new
trends in the movement towards democracy.
We believe that the further elaboration of the two
concepts of democratization and good governance should
be carried out in a unified manner, because those two
phenomena are inseparably linked. My delegation hopes
that this can be achieved through the proper combination
of their agendas within a single framework.
As
a participant
the Third International
Conference of the New or Restored Democracies on
Democracy and Development held this year at Bucharest,
at
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
Ukraine endorsed the final document of the Conference,
entitled “Progress Review and Recommendations”. We
regard that document as a significantly important one for
further strengthening the policies and principles utilized by
the Governments of new or restored democracies.
From Latin America to Africa, from Europe to Asia,
several authoritarian Powers, under
the pressure of
democratic forces, have given way to democratic regimes
more open and more respectful of human rights and
fundamental freedoms.
Our delegation fully shares the idea expressed in the
final document of the Conference that:
“United Nations activities should be designed to
help meet the special circumstances and priorities of
each country and, at the same time, offer guidance for
the implementation of the recommendations and plans
of action adopted by the major United Nations world
conferences.” [A/52/334, appendix, part IV.B]
One can say without any exaggeration that the process
of democratization as a prevailing trend in the development
of world civilization on the threshold of
the new
millennium will continue to increase in the twenty-first
century. The peace, security and prosperity of peoples
remain the priority of progressive humanity and the purpose
of the United Nations existence.
In conclusion, let me once again confirm Ukraine’s
adherence to the principles of democracy and its readiness
to continue to remain a cooperative partner of the United
Nations in supporting the efforts of Governments to
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies.
Mr. Biaou (Benin) (interpretation from French): I
should like to join preceding speakers in extending the
congratulations of the delegation of Benin on the efficient
manner with which the officers of the General Assembly
have been discharging their duties in guiding the work of
this session.
As you are aware, Benin has been engaged in for
more than seven years the process of democratization and
building a State based on the rule of law. Thus, my
delegation attaches great importance to agenda item 38,
“Support by the United Nations system of the efforts of
Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored
democracies”.
The changes that have taken place on the international
stage in recent years have had a decisive impact on the
socio-economic evolution of several nations and have
altered the political and economic landscape of certain
regions.
The process of democratization thus put in motion
has gained ground and taken various paths, in keeping
with the realities and requirements of each society as well
as according to circumstances.
Unfortunately, the advance of democratization has
not been uniform everywhere. Here and there,
the
movement has slowed down and even suffered setbacks
in certain areas. In many countries, especially in my
continent, Africa, fragile democracies are still under
threat. There
that
democratization now needs to find its second wind.
believe
to
is
every
reason
Against this background, there is a pressing need for
new or restored democracies to act together in seeking
ways and means to consolidate and build on what they
have achieved. In this undertaking, the United Nations has
an important role to play.
My delegation hopes that the current debate will
allow us to identify ways and means by which the
Organization will be able to provide more effective
support
in the areas of democratization and good
management of public affairs.
harmonious
Democracy cannot be consolidated as a system of
socio-economic
government without
development
that fosters the development of human
beings in their various dimensions. My delegation
therefore welcomes the General Assembly’s adoption this
year of the Agenda for Development, which adequately
emphasizes complementarity and the complexity of the
relationships between democracy and development.
Furthermore, this new dimension of international
cooperation has been at the heart of the work of the Third
International Conference of New or Restored Democracies
on Democracy and Development, which has held from 2
to 4 September 1997 in Bucharest, Romania. Benin took
an active part in that Conference and would very much
like to see its decisions and recommendations contribute,
in the context of the current reforms, to defining within
United Nations a better way of supporting the efforts of
Governments to foster and consolidate new or restored
democracies.
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
In fact, we are aware and convinced that merely
meeting the requirements of the ritual of holding periodic
elections is not enough and can in no way be considered
decisive in establishing and guaranteeing lasting democracy
in a country, particularly in a developing country such as
my own, which is classified among the least developed.
Likewise, for democracy to have real meaning — for
it to be an ideal shared by all peoples and for it to fully
achieve its liberating and saving effects — it must be
unambiguously expressed both at
the national and the
international levels. This means that democracy must also
underlie and govern the organization and conduct of
international relations. Now that the cold war is over and
the Berlin Wall has fallen, the world, so long divided by
East-West antagonism and by North-South imbalances, can
and must develop and implement new, democratic relations
among States.
began with
It is therefore no exaggeration to say that the renewal
of
the United Nations, which
the
commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of our universal
Organization, must be supported by all our States and
resolutely carried out
in order to ensure the necessary
conditions for the international community’s harmonious
pursuit of the democratization process at the dawn of the
twenty-first century.
Following the peaceful changes that took place in
Benin after the National Conference of Active Forces of the
Nation in February 1990, the people of Benin have been
experiencing an era of democratic renewal based, inter alia,
on the building of the rule of law, respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms, the eradication of poverty and
the promotion of sustainable development through its three
component factors — economic, social and environmental.
This new experiment is developing and taking root as time
passes and events unfold.
In order to signal
its deep-seated commitment
to
promoting the principles of democracy, the Government of
Benin has offered to host
the Fourth International
Conference of New or Restored Democracies at Cotonou.
Benin will thus be the first country in Africa to host this
new type of international conference.
My delegation would also like to take this opportunity
to thank all
the participants in the Third International
Conference for their support for our offer, and to assure
them that Benin will spare no effort
to make the
Conference a resounding success that will be inscribed in
history and in memory. In order to achieve this noble
20
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
ambition, Benin knows that it can count on the support of
all States and the United Nations system, and in particular
on the United Nations Development Programme.
Finally, my delegation fully associates itself with
draft resolution A/52/L.28, introduced by Romania on
behalf of the sponsors, and sincerely hopes that it will be
adopted by consensus.
Mr. Minoves-Triquell (Andorra): The day before
yesterday, I spoke in the Third Committee to convey a
message with regard to the current debate on democracy
and human rights versus economic and social rights, and
it is fitting to restate that message today. Indeed, in our
understanding, it is one of the goals of the United Nations
to help Governments promote and consolidate new or
restored democracies by using the means, procedures and
ideas that political scientists such as Juan Linz of Yale
University,
scholars have
identified as democracy-consolidators, and especially by
creating a network of support.
for example, and other
Andorra salutes all the efforts compiled in today’s
draft resolution as worthwhile and as being at the core of
the objectives of the Organization, and applauds the report
of the Secretary-General contained in document A/52/513.
We also wish to express our satisfaction at the success of
the three International Conferences of New or Restored
Democracies that have taken place since 1988, most
recently in Bucharest.
We believe, though, that in order to create the right
frame of mind for effective and sustained action in the
promotion of democracy around the world, the basis and
the importance of democracy must be acknowledged
unequivocally by the Organization. And, by fostering in
the Organization a somewhat philosophical debate on the
nature and necessity of democracy — independent of
economic advancement and development — we will be
able to catch the attention of civil society and enlist its
help in the arduous but uplifting task of expanding the
reaches of democracy and human rights in the world.
(spoke in French)
“It is evident to all alike that a great democratic
revolution is going on among us, but all do not look
at it in the same light. To some it appears to be
novel but accidental, and, as such, they hope it may
still be checked;
to others it seems irresistible,
because it is the most uniform, the most ancient, and
the most permanent tendency that is to be found in
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
history.” [Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in
America, Introduction]
squalid death in the Spanish Civil War, which took place
next door to us, and others escaping the barbarities of the
Second World War through our northern border.
(spoke in English)
Alexis de Tocqueville, more than 160 years ago,
recognized the emergence and expansion of democracy —
both as an idea and as a fact — and tried to chart its
pattern of growth, as well as some of its philosophical
limits. I am among those who believe that democracy and
the establishment of a human rights regime at the planetary
level are both irresistible and irrepressible, and that the
limits are constituted only by the limits of personal liberty
itself — that is, when our liberty infringes upon the liberty
of our fellow human beings — for, after all, we are all
social beings.
Of course, the fact that I am an Andorran is not
unrelated to my core of beliefs. After all, I belong to a
society that, with its small size and in its own historical
way, has been able to cling to individual liberties and the
tenets of tolerance for over 1,000 years. For example, I was
recently reading about the times of the Inquisition and
witch hunts in Europe, and I realized how benign its
attenuated effects were on Andorra.
Why should we hold these commitments to democracy
and human rights so firmly? The theory I hold is not one
of national pride and glorious illumination — not at all.
Our human beings are no better or no worse in essence
than any of our fellows in the human family. We were just
blessed, it seems to me, with a small territory to administer
ourselves that is very isolated by its mountains and its snow
from the rest of the world. With everybody knowing
everybody else, inflicting harsh treatment on neighbours
was a much more difficult task. Indeed, it is much easier to
torture and kill on paper than it is in person, except for
those who relish sadism and evil.
At the same time, living conditions were so difficult
in Andorra that no one could be spared: the collective good
was achieved by the cooperation of all and for all, and the
collective good was translated into individual benefits of all
kinds that could not be achieved by one person or one
family alone. Thus, since 1419 we have had a Parliament
and never a one-man or one-party rule. What
is most
astonishing is that, despite a small society and a strong set
of cultural, religious and social values, the liberties of
others are and have been so well respected in my country.
Our history in the twentieth century is proof of that, our
country having been a shelter of freedom for so many
individuals fleeing intolerance, torture, totalitarianism and
to a certain extent,
By taking the Andorran example as a model, I am
doing my job as an ambassador, of course — as I did the
other day in the Third Committee — which is to expand
knowledge about my country, and I beg the Assembly’s
leniency for taking some time to do that here. But in the
end, I will also show that,
is
possible to achieve human rights and democracy in poor
countries, in remote communities, out of the mainstream
of urban sophistication or New York debating societies.
We Andorrans did it out of necessity. We held to those
values that were necessary for our survival, but in the end
it was a choice by society through democratic means,
means that, I acknowledge, were easier and more natural
to use in a primitive setting because of the size of the
country.
it
Political
argue
nation-State.
At the end of the second millennium, democracy and
human rights are also becoming more of a necessity to
the planet. The 1948 Declaration of Human Rights, as the
first preambular paragraph of today’s draft resolution
highlights, charted a course that could lead the world
away from the path of self-annihilation the human family
is sometimes tempted to take. If we respect the rights of
others at the individual level, it is much less likely that
we will become aggressive at the conglomerate level of
the
that
democracies,
the depositories of realistic respect for
human rights, do not fight democracies. The choice of
democracy and human rights, a choice of human
philosophy that is the only option for a sane world in the
centuries to come, has been up for grabs since 1948. We
have indeed, for the first
time in history, a written
international standard of what is good and what is bad.
The eternal human search for the implications of good
and evil will probably never end, but
the 1948
Declaration is a definite step in the right direction. In the
name of my Government, I urge many countries to take
that step, in full and with no restrictions and no qualifiers.
scientists
It is indeed the right moment to reflect upon this
question. The fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration is
fast approaching, and it could not hurt if some countries
were to put their house in order so that we could have a
proper celebration in all parts of
is
sometimes chilling to listen to the reports that come from
certain regions of the world in terms of respect for
democracy and human rights. By our vote and co-
sponsorship of certain resolutions in the Third Committee,
the world.
It
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Andorra has made its position clear on this point. The
argument
that economic and social rights come before
individual liberties is a fallacy: why should one exclude the
other? After all, countries — even in the developing
world — that have embraced democracy and human rights
do not seem to be doing worse in terms of development
than those that opt for authoritarian regimes.
In any case, since in many of those States human
rights and democracy have not had a try, this remains an
argument without possible demonstration. Countries such as
mine that style themselves as defenders of democracy and
human rights must also go beyond the status quo. We must
foster tolerance at every level, giving a voice to those who
do not have one yet and fostering respect for all members
of society.
It is particularly important that we bring knowledge
about democracy and human rights into the schools so that
our children grow up with solid notions of what is right, of
how precious every expression of human individuality is, of
how much better a society is that, while tough with
intolerant people, achieves strength through reciprocal
individual respect and not through repression — through
ballots and not through bullets. This is probably one of the
most important points necessary for the consolidation of
democracy and human rights everywhere: that our children
be taught about them. Article 29 of the Convention on the
Rights of the Child insists on education in matters of
human rights, and much is still left to be done in this area.
Andorra is devoting particular attention to this subject so
that Andorran schools can instil the values of the 1948
Declaration into its students.
As I stated in the Third Committee, the moment is
now, and the message is dual. To those countries that fear
human rights and democracy, fear not. There is no other
way towards progress in the human condition in the years
to come, independently of the economy. To those countries
that hold democracy and human rights dear, we must go
beyond what we have; we must dare to build better
societies for all.
Mr. Baby (India): It is a particular pleasure for me,
for reasons that I will explain, to speak to the Assembly on
the agenda item entitled “Support by the United Nations
system of the efforts of Governments to promote and
consolidate new or restored democracies”. That I should be
the Indian representative speaking on this item illustrates
the value of democracy as a system of governance, and of
the unique diversity and strength of Indian democracy in
particular.
22
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
I am a member of the Communist Party of India —
Marxist. Giving the lie to the canard that communism as
an ideology is opposed to democracy, my party functions
within the democratic setup of India. We fight elections,
and, as can be seen, we win them. My party is in office
in the states of Kerala, West Bengal and Tripura —
communists elected to power by the people. We are not
in power in New Delhi, though my party is part of the
ruling United Front at the centre. It is an indication of the
maturity of Indian democracy that I was one of the
Members of Parliament invited by the Government of
India to represent it at this fifty-second session of the
General Assembly. I am honoured to do so.
As the world’s largest democracy, India supports the
United Nations efforts to promote and consolidate new or
restored democracies. We traditionally have had close
relations with many of
those countries. We have
participated in the International Conferences of New or
Restored Democracies,
including the latest, held in
Bucharest in September. The message from Bucharest
was that democracy, development and good governance
were linked, and that these States and those that support
them must focus on all three. We have read with interest
the Secretary-General’s report (A/52/513) on the support
which is being given by the United Nations system.
crucial
and essential
The new or restored democracies have embarked
upon this
journey towards
representative government at a time when most of them
are simultaneously faced not only with the struggle for
development but with two other inescapable challenges as
well. Domestically, there is pressure, and perhaps also a
need, for most States to move towards a market economy,
where the State is not the provider of goods and services
but a facilitator. Internationally, there is the challenge of
globalization. As the 1997 Report on the World Social
Situation notes,
“transnational forces that propel global changes ...
are weakening the ability of national Governments
to influence economic and social outcomes, often
putting fulfilment of even the national political
commitments, not to mention the ability to influence
global trends, beyond the reach of elected national
representatives”. [E/1997/15, p. 2, para. 8]
While the market economy has been elevated to a
norm almost as widely accepted as democracy, the World
Bank, in its World Development Report 1997, notes that
many countries lack the basic institutional foundations for
market development. At the same time, making the hard
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
political choices that are essential in the transition to a
market economy are that much more difficult
in a
democracy. The unemployed do not vote for governments
that cannot give them jobs or which have laid them off; the
task of educating the electorate can be almost insuperable
for governments of an inexperienced democracy.
The United Nations can help not only in building
national capacities but in pooling experiences from other
democracies which have trod this path before. In India, for
instance, we have adopted a framework to pursue, through
decisions democratically taken, growth with social equity.
We call this a market-plus policy. We would be glad to
share our experience with others.
the new or
What complicates life for
restored
democracies is that current political orthodoxy calls for the
downsizing of the State. Governments, including in the
States we are discussing, are being urged to divest
themselves of many activities which have been the preserve
of the State. However, this too has political consequences,
and, in fact, if the World Bank’s figures are to be believed,
developing countries, where approximately a quarter of
national income comes from State spending, still have some
way to go before catching up with the levels of government
spending in the developed world, where this accounts for
almost half of total income. The United Nations system
should not cater to the fashionable in its advice; it should
analyse each country’s situation objectively, and offer
neutral, professional advice.
and
that
innovative,
acknowledges
The United Nations system must address the needs
which the new or restored democracies have identified very
clearly. The Secretary-General’s report, which is thought-
provoking
the
relationship between democratization, good governance and
development is complex. In its work, the United Nations
system must assess the specific needs of individual States
or groups of States among the new or restored democracies
and tailor its programmes accordingly. For instance, there
are groups of countries where State capacity has to be built
up. There are others where, on the contrary, State capacity
is perhaps overdeveloped and now has to be put to different
uses, to “steering rather than rowing”. In a third group,
State capacity is low, but nevertheless is not being used in
the most productive manner. A single paradigm of
assistance for capacity-building will not help.
Another major issue which all democracies must face,
and which poses particular challenges to new or restored
democracies, is the balance between decentralization or
devolution on the one hand and central control on the other.
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
of
the
to
take
note
failure
In India, for instance, through a continual process of trial
and experimentation, we have arrived at a system that
works, but which is evolving. The People’s Plan
movement in my state is a unique experiment where,
through Panchayat Raj, people at the grass-roots level are
directly involved in planning and implementation. Another
example is the community development society model in
my state. Clearly, power has to be taken to the people.
However,
specific
characteristics and historical stage of a particular country
or a region within a country while working on devolution
and decentralization can upset national consensus in a
new or restored democracy. Unequal growth among
regions of a country, the devolution of responsibilities to
a local government not yet equipped to take them on, or
tensions between local governments encouraged by
outside advice to take intransigent stands against
the
central Government, can all disrupt a burgeoning
democracy. In extreme cases, these can lead to threats to
the integrity and unity of a State. The advice of the
United Nations system must not be driven by ideological
bias, but must be objective, sensible, and responsive to
the needs of each country.
Efforts to experiment with introducing new forms of
democratic process to provide people with a choice of
their elected representatives at the municipal or local level
in certain countries deserve our notice and appreciation,
if we are sincere about recognizing different historical
traditions in the evolution of democratic political practice.
The role of civil society is of course increasingly
important. Its impact on economic, social and even
political developments will only increase. However, civil
society is, and must be seen to be, a partner with
Government in the promotion of a common objective.
Again, it has become fashionable of late to project civil
society as a watchdog that is adversarial to a democratic
Government. This extrapolates the work of a few non-
governmental organizations, which have played this role
in specific sectors and in individual countries, to a global
norm. This is undesirable. In its work with new or
restored democracies,
the United Nations should not
encourage this polarization, which could destroy the often
fragile political consensus on which these States are
based.
Although we are primarily addressing the work of
the United Nations system, we have to bear in mind that,
as the Bucharest Conference recognized, the international
community has a vital role to play in support of new or
restored democracies. Better terms of trade, enhanced
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
access to markets, increased and stable investment flows,
access to technology on a non-discriminatory basis and the
availability of increased overseas development assistance
are all essential if these countries are to satisfy the needs of
economic and social development. If these needs are not
met, development in these countries will falter, the social
fabric will come under strain, and the populations will
become disaffected. There will be reminders that the old
systems offered a social blanket: as development is indeed
the other face of democracy, why is that other face still
veiled? Eventually, the value of democracy might itself be
called into question. The world of mature democracies,
therefore, has an abiding interest
the
democratic experiment succeeds in the new or restored
democracies.
in seeing that
The United Nations has many priorities, but assistance
to the new or restored democracies should rank high among
them. Unfortunately, its resources are limited, falling and
now increasingly uncertain. What is most unfortunate is that
the United Nations has been brought to this pass because
the legislature of a major contributor, which is also a major
democracy, chooses to ignore the Charter requirement that
all Member States must pay their assessed contributions to
the United Nations unconditionally. The Secretariat might
very well
long for new or renewed totalitarianism if
democratic processes are given as an excuse for a State’s
refusal to pay its dues. We hope that this incongruous
aberration will pass, and that the United Nations will be
given, by all
the resources it needs to
discharge the many urgent mandates of the international
community,
restored
democracies.
including those of
its Members,
the new or
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
The term “democratization” denotes the process by
which a society becomes increasingly participatory. The
United Nations system can help Member States in this
process by aiding them in developing more equitable and
effective governance of their peoples and in strengthening
their civil society. The Organization may help them
through its activities in peacemaking, peacekeeping and
peace-building. In fact, as we all know, the majority of
conflicts in which the United Nations deploys peace
activities are internal ones. The United Nations is
increasingly asked to initiate programmes that promote a
democratic culture to help negotiate and implement the
settlement of conflicts, with subsequent efforts to assist
those affected countries in rebuilding their institutions and
in consolidating peace.
To achieve the goal of making democracy a
tool, five main areas, I believe, should be
universal
underlined. The first is, political parties, movements and
civil society, which are indeed all essential elements to
any healthy democracy. Furthermore, trade unions, non-
governmental organizations and other associations can
also be major forces in the move to democracy.
as
the
community,
in a recent
The second area is that of electoral assistance. In
the
international
recent years
to
Secretary-General pointed out
Member States, has had greater
recourse to United
Nations support in this crucial area. Italy has made an
active contribution — in Africa, Central America and
Europe — to programmes for electoral assistance, the
strengthening of civil society, human rights education and
training, drafting of electoral laws and voter registration
and verification.
letter
India will be glad to put at the disposal of the United
Nations, for the benefit of the new or restored democracies,
the experience and expertise it has built up over the last 50
years in the challenge of meeting the economic and social
aspirations of a population through a democratic process.
We wish our friends in these countries success in the
challenging tasks they have set themselves.
Mr. Fulci (Italy): Allow me first of all to say how
glad I am today to be addressing the General Assembly
with you, Ambassador Camara, in the Chair. You are a
distinguished, able and genuine daughter of a great
continent: Africa.
it
The third area is that of media environment.
Freedom and pluralism are prerequisites of democracy,
and the development of a free and responsible press is
indeed essential
to effective democratization. In this
regard,
is very encouraging to see how close the
relationship between the United Nations and the media is
becoming. As members of the Assembly know,
the
second World Television Forum, established by General
Assembly resolution 51/205, has just concluded, with
even larger participation than last year, especially from
countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America and the
Caribbean.
In fully associating myself with the comments made
by the representative of Luxembourg on behalf of the
European Union, I would like also to emphasize some
issues to which Italy attaches special importance.
The fourth area is respect for human rights, which is
the foundation of democracy. In this respect, we praise
the work of the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, which, in our opinion,
24
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
should be able to increase its activities and be further
encouraged to establish concrete cooperation programmes
with Member States. As my Foreign Minister said yesterday
at the World Television Forum:
“We are indeed lucky that States have no right any
longer to inflict harm on their own citizens.”
Conference of New or Restored Democracies on
Democracy and Development, which took place at
Bucharest, Romania, from 2 to 4 September, and the
International Conference on Governance for Sustainable
Growth and Equity, held in New York from 28 to 30
June 1997.
Fifthly, institution-building and governance is another
area where Member States have begun to look to the
United Nations for assistance. Specific attention should be
paid to strengthening public administration and making it
more accountable and transparent. At its meeting on this
subject at its resumed fiftieth session, in April 1996, the
General Assembly addressed the following key concerns:
political
and
participation; a fair and reliable judiciary; freedom of
information and expression; effective and efficient public
sector management; and interaction with organizations of
civil society. In this regard, the efforts of the Division for
Governance, Public Administration and Finance of the
Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the United
Nations Secretariat should be commended.
freedom of
legitimacy;
association
Italy is deeply committed to the consolidation of
democracy in countries that have experienced institutional
turmoil or conflicts. The case of Albania is a case in point
and the most
the successful
completion of Operation Alba and the holding of free,
democratic elections in that country, there was a ministerial
conference in Rome on 17 October. On that occasion, the
Foreign Minister of Italy, Mr. Lamberto Dini stated,
recent example. After
law,
rehabilitation of
“The rule of
the judiciary
system, enhancement of standards in education, health
and public administration, restructuring and raising the
standards of police and defence forces to the level of
modern and democratic societies, are all elements of
a comprehensive plan to establish the right conditions
for long-term stability.”
Cooperation between the United Nations and regional
organizations could also make a remarkable contribution to
the process of consolidating democracy. Such cooperation
is taking place in Europe, especially with the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). We
welcome the fact that the General Assembly will once again
discuss this item in the coming days with the representative
of OSCE.
This year two events highlighted the debate on new
International
restored
democracies:
the Third
and
between
and
democracy
The Bucharest Conference, in which my country
actively participated, underlined the mutually reinforcing
relationship
sustainable
development. It added a new dimension to the discussion
of democracy and engendered new thinking on
international cooperation in this area. New issues for
consideration include the role of civil society and the
private sector in democratization, gender participation and
the use of globalization to benefit the consolidation of
democracy.
Italy welcomes
the guidelines, principles and
recommendations adopted both at the Bucharest and the
New York Conferences. We also wish to congratulate the
Government of Romania on organizing such a successful
Conference.
Finally, Italy deeply appreciates the decision of the
Bucharest Conference to hold the next conference in an
African country; Benin, I understand, was decided upon
this morning. This decision symbolizes the invaluable
contribution that countries from the African continent can
make to the universalization of the concept and practice
of democracy.
Mr. Spitzer (United States of America): The United
States fully endorses the findings of
the Secretary-
General’s recent report on United Nations support for the
efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new
or restored democracies — in particular, its observations
and recommendations concerning electoral assistance,
strengthening civil society, coordinating United Nations
activities
and
promoting democracy in the twenty-first century.
in democratization and governance,
The United States
remains committed to the
consolidation of the world’s new or restored democracies.
We understand that many of these nations face the
challenge
from
authoritarianism to democracy, from a planned to a
market economy and even, in some cases, from war to
peace.
simultaneous
transitions
of
That is why we applauded the focus of the recent
link between
Bucharest Conference on the critical
25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
democracy and sustainable development. And that is why
we applaud the efforts of the Secretary-General to use the
democratization and governance agenda as a means to
bridge the peace and development agendas of the United
Nations.
The steady growth in the number of new or restored
democracies reflects not only the universality of our shared
cause, but the effectiveness of the United Nations varied
support.
The United States will continue to work closely with
the Secretary-General and Member States to strengthen
further this crucial support. We are honoured to co-sponsor
the draft resolution in support of the efforts of the United
Nations system to promote and consolidate new or restored
democracies.
Mr. Jele (South Africa): My delegation attaches
particular importance to this agenda item and is pleased to
participate in this debate.
The United Nations has for decades been at
the
forefront of the struggle of peoples around the world for
justice, equality and the exercise of their democratic rights
and fundamental freedoms.
Africa has cast aside the yoke of colonialism and my
own country has, with the support of this Organization and
its membership, rid itself of the scourge of racial tyranny,
known as the system of apartheid.
the more appropriate that
Our continent continues to suffer
from sporadic
incidents of civil strife and military dictatorships. It is,
therefore, all
the Secretary-
General has produced on this agenda item a forward-
looking report, which contains
an all-encompassing
approach to promoting democracy for the twenty-first
century.
The importance of the report lies in the fact that it
addresses the process of global democratization in an
integrated manner and underscores that democratization is
an exercise which does not fall exclusively within either the
political or the developmental agendas of our Organization,
but, rather, that it should be treated in a holistic fashion.
The report also draws upon the conclusions and
the Third International
recommendations adopted at
the New or Restored Democracies on
Conference of
in
Democracy and Development, held in Bucharest
September 1997. My delegation wishes to highlight the
26
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
conclusion reached that good governance is effective,
participatory, transparent, accountable and equitable, and
promotes the rule of law.
Governance is effective only where three key
elements — the State,
the private sector and civil
society — function in partnership in creating the political,
economic and social conditions which are conducive to
ensuring sustainable human development. A sound
democratic structure and good governance present two of
the cornerstones of peace and development in any society.
as
to
the
being
critical
My delegation also notes the importance which the
Secretary-General attaches to the emergence of civil
society
of
democratization and empowerment. We concur with this
view, and also believe that the role of civil society should
not be restricted merely to the process of democratization.
Civil society has an equally important role to play in
areas such as the promotion of development, human rights
and the rule of law.
processes
My delegation is also in agreement with the
recommendation of the Bucharest Conference that, in
order to achieve the desired success in the process of
democratization, the international community should make
a commitment to collaborate with the new or restored
democracies,
the
attainment of the objectives of democracy and fostering
and expanding governance, democracy and participation
programmes.
to provide adequate support
for
infrastructures needed for
The United Nations system continues to play an
important role in helping new or restored democracies to
meet
the challenges of developing the economic and
social
sustainable human
development. My delegation notes with satisfaction the
Secretary-General’s observation that the United Nations
does not endorse any specific form of government, and
that democracy is a goal and not a model.
The cold-war era is something of the past. While the
threat of inter-State conflict remains in certain parts of the
world today, the focus has turned to internal strife. It is
widely recognized that the role of the United Nations in
assisting to resolve these threats to peace has become far
more
our
responsibilities simply because the task has become too
difficult.
intricate. However, we
cannot
shirk
The obligations of our Organization to the peoples
in these countries and territories and the responsibility of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Member States in helping to promote and consolidate
democratic cultures and societies, places new demands on
us as we prepare to enter the twenty-first century. In this
context, my delegation fully concurs with the Secretary-
General’s observation that the current system-wide process
of reform marks an opportune moment for us to reflect on
innovative approaches
to deal with these
challenges.
in order
As a sponsor, my delegation fully supports the draft
resolution, and hopes that it will be adopted by consensus.
Mr. Park (Republic of Korea): Today we live in a
world that enjoys more pluralism and a greater number of
democratic Governments and democratic global institutions
than in all of human history. The Republic of Korea, as a
country which has experienced many challenges in its own
long journey to the democracy it enjoys today, knows the
critical importance of political pluralism and respect for
human rights. We therefore are pleased to be a sponsor of
draft resolution A/52/L.28, entitled “Support by the United
Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote
and consolidate new or restored democracies”.
Although an impressive number of States have been
successful in democratization, in many parts of the world
democracy remains a fragile construct, with weak socio-
economic foundations. In certain regions a disconcerting
number of people continue to suffer under oppressive
authoritarian regimes. And in many new democracies
economic hardships are in danger of undermining popular
support for open societies and free markets.
The success of democratic changes requires wise
leadership, good governance and popular support, as well
as favourable external conditions. Civil society has a vital
role to play in this process and, indeed, the involvement of
non-governmental organizations in fledgling democracies
has helped lay the groundwork for a tradition of pluralism.
We also believe that
the United Nations and the
international community should continue to support the
efforts of Governments of the new or restored democracies
to strengthen the roots of their new systems.
We would also like to assure you, Madam President,
that the Republic of Korea will continue to provide various
forms of assistance to the world’s newly democratized
countries. One of the numerous ways Korea has been
helping those countries is through its expanding programme
of development assistance, particularly through support for
human resources development. Based on our experience,
strong human capital is one of the most critical components
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
of development and is essential for strengthening the roots
of any nascent democracy. When countries
invest
substantially in human resources development, they enable
their people to become agents of their own development
and foster a strong civil society.
The Secretary-General’s report provides a thorough
overview of
the issues relating to democracy. My
delegation is pleased to agree with his observations and
support the recommendations contained in the report on
the issues of electoral assistance, the strengthening of
civil
in
democratization and governance, and the promotion of
democratization in the next century.
coordination
activities
society,
the
of
We realize that, as the report indicates, in a world
with a large number of fledgling democracies, further
steps should be taken by the United Nations system as a
whole to ensure better cooperation and coordinate its
democratization activities,
including the provision of
electoral assistance. In support of United Nations electoral
assistance
the Republic of Korea has
participated in various electoral observer missions,
including those in Cambodia, South Africa, Mozambique,
Palestine, Bosnia and Algeria.
activities,
Allow me to assure you, Madam President, that in
all
areas of United Nations
to promote
democratization Korea stands ready to continue its active
participation and support. As
relatively young
democracy ourselves, Korea is particularly committed to
the promotion and consolidation of democracy and good
governance around the globe.
efforts
a
for
those
respect
building
blocks — closely
human
Democracy, we believe, is one of the fundamental
building blocks of development and prosperity. Another
to
of
democracy — is
and
fundamental freedoms. And on that note, let me take this
opportunity to give a reminder of
the important
commemoration next year of the fiftieth anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That
commemoration will, we trust, help further strengthen the
resolve of
the international community to promote
democracy and good governance throughout the world.
related
rights
On a final note, my delegation would like to thank
both the Romanian Government for hosting the Third
International Conference of
the New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development, this past
September, and the Romanian delegation for the leading
27
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
role it has played in submitting this important draft
resolution.
Mr. Sallah (Gambia): My delegation attaches great
importance to this agenda item — hence my maiden
statement from this rostrum today.
I wish to thank the Secretary-General
for his
comprehensive report. My congratulations go to the
Romanian delegation on the successful outcome of the
Third International Conference of the New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development.
Prior to July 1994 my country,
the Gambia, was
synonymous with multi-party politics and periodical
elections. Outwardly, this state of affairs was commended
by the international community. However, whilst
the
Gambia was being singled out as one of the African
government,
countries with
characterized
so-called
democracy was bedevilled with rampant corruption,
widespread poverty and social injustice.
forms
of
elections,
democratic
periodical
by
its
To avoid the country’s sliding into civil strife, the
military intervened on 22 July 1994 in a peaceful manner
and introduced a comprehensive programme of rectification
and reconstruction which was divided into governance
aspects and development projects. It introduced new and
meaningful dimensions to democracy by introducing a civic
education programme in a country where 80 per cent of the
population is illiterate. The military also lowered the voting
age from 21 years to 18 years, to make democracy more
participatory, and revised the 1970 Constitution to include
not only the traditional concepts of fundamental human
rights and freedoms, independence of the judiciary and the
rule of law, but also the right to development in the socio-
economic domain.
Also, for the first time an ombudsman was introduced
to make the Government and public services more
responsive to the rights and needs of the citizenry. The
governance aspect of the programme proceeded hand in
hand with the implementation of the development projects.
What the military Government achieved was admirable
and unprecedented. During this brief two-year period, it
organized a referendum to adopt the revised Constitution
and it held free and fair elections — both presidential, held
in September 1996, and legislative, in January 1997. Both
elections were conducted under the supervision of an
independent electoral commission.
28
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
In the area of development projects, more high
schools were built, a new hospital and a new international
airport were also constructed, new macadamized roads
were built, and there was much improvement in the water
and electricity supply.
The implementation of these development projects,
under the tenets of social justice outlined above, is thus
in consonance with the principles of democracy and social
justice, as enunciated in paragraph 24 of the Secretary-
General’s report [A/52/513].
My delegation is also in agreement with paragraph
27 of the report, which says that the United Nations
“does not endorse or promote any specific form of
government. Democracy is not a model to be copied
but a goal to be attained.” [A/52/513, para. 27]
My delegation believes in a goal of development and
social justice, accountability and the enjoyment of human
rights, and not only through the holding of free and fair
elections.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the United Nations for
the
providing financial and logistical assistance for
implementation of the programme of rectification and
reconstruction during the two-year period when the
Gambia was under military rule. This enabled us to usher
in the genuine democracy which has now been put in
place in the Gambia.
My delegation continues to count on the United
Nations system for the promotion and strengthening of
democracy. Our system of democracy in the Gambia has
been translated from rhetoric to reality, and the
democratic principles enshrined in our new Constitution
are no longer regarded as laws in books but not in action.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/52/L.28.
I would like to point out that since its introduction,
the following countries have become sponsors of draft
resolution A/52/L.28: Angola, Belarus, Croatia, France,
Sierra Leone, South Africa, Spain, Suriname, Thailand
and Uruguay.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
draft resolution?
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
51st plenary meeting
21 November 1997
Draft resolution A/52/L.28 was adopted (resolution
Agenda item 34 (continued)
52/18).
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
May I take it that it is the wish of the General Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 38?
It was so decided.
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Economic Cooperation Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/313)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.20/Rev.1)
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
resolution
We shall now proceed to consider draft
A/52/L.20/Rev.1.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/52/L.20/Rev.1.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
draft resolution?
Draft
resolution A/52/L.20/Rev.1 was adopted
(resolution 52/19).
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
the General Assembly wishes to
May I take it
conclude its consideration of agenda item 34?
that
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.
29
