United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
5th plenary meeting
Monday, 22 September 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.5
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 10
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization
The President: This morning, the General Assembly,
in accordance with the decision taken at its 4th plenary
meeting on 19 September 1997, will first take up agenda
item 10, entitled “Report of the Secretary-General on the
work of the Organization”, to hear a brief presentation by
the Secretary-General of his annual report.
I give the floor to the Secretary-General.
The
Secretary-General:
Congratulations,
Mr. President, on your election to this important post, made
all the more so by the weighty deliberations through which
you will be guiding this Assembly.
I am grateful for the opportunity to address the
General Assembly just before the general debate begins.
time in the 52-year history of
This is the first
the
Organization that
the Secretary-General has been so
honoured.
My presence here today reflects the importance that
you attach to the proposals for United Nations reform I
presented to Member States on 16 July 1997. Indeed, let
this be the Reform General Assembly. Let
it be
remembered as a time when all of us joined forces and
seized the opportunities created by the new era to
revitalize our United Nations — this unique and universal
instrument
the
betterment of humankind.
for concerted action in pursuit of
Before I turn to the issue of reform, permit me to
say a few words about the ongoing work and challenges
of the Organization and to raise several matters of serious
international concern that require urgent attention.
In my recently released annual report, I described
myself as prudently optimistic about the overall state of
the United Nations today.
The past year’s progress includes the adoption of the
Agenda for Development, expressing a new consensus to
guide our activities in this critically important field. It
includes major achievements in disarmament, particularly
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,
the
Chemical Weapons Convention, and the Ottawa process
to ban anti-personnel landmines, which I have vigorously
supported.
In the area of peacekeeping, significant movement is
taking place among a group of countries towards forming
a standby high-readiness brigade within the framework of
United Nations standby agreements. Such a brigade would
enable the Organization to act
in crises before they
unravel into escalating spirals of violence.
Responding to ever more frequent requests from
Member States, we have expanded our programmes in
97-86014 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
and
support
strengthening national capacity to promote human rights.
democratization
governance,
good
of
My annual report also acknowledges disappointments.
The benefits of economic globalization remain too
concentrated to benefit the vast majority of developing
countries, even as official development assistance continues
to decline.
New paradigms of cooperation are needed in which
major increases in assistance are combined with selective
debt relief, access to markets and investment strategies. All
societies, including those currently marginalized by the
forces of globalization, must have the opportunity to
become active participants
in the new international
economy.
The achievements of disarmament do not yet
encompass the remaining nuclear stockpiles, nor have they
contained the proliferation of light weapons and small arms,
including in conflicts that the United Nations is mandated
to resolve. The department for disarmament and arms
regulation that I have proposed is intended to bolster the
capacity of the Organization to pursue such aims.
What
is more,
in a growing number of conflicts,
civilian populations have become the explicit targets of
factional combatants and humanitarian missions have been
impeded, denied access and subjected to attacks.
Violence against women has become the most
pervasive human rights violation, respecting no distinction
of geography, culture or wealth.
We will have to erase these ugly stains from the
canvas of contemporary life.
session of
in achieving or
The nineteenth special
the General
Assembly — Rio +5 — made it clear that little progress
has been made
implementing the
agreements reached at the 1992 United Nations Conference
on Environment and Development. We must do better at
Kyoto
binding
commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which
we know to cause global warming.
in December
legally
secure
and
I also draw your attention to several areas of ongoing
concern that you may wish to address during this debate.
Since assuming office in January,
I have taken
initiatives to begin or revive peace processes in several
conflict situations, some of which have long defied
2
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
I have appointed special
resolution. To that end,
representatives for Western Sahara, Cyprus, East Timor,
the Great Lakes region of Central Africa, Somalia and
Afghanistan. A breakthrough may be at hand in Western
Sahara and signs of hope glimmer elsewhere.
In Afghanistan, however, despite our best efforts, the
parties continue to wage a brutal and futile civil war, with
heavy civilian casualties. A renewed commitment on the
part of regional and international actors is required to
prevent further bloodshed and a humanitarian crisis of
dreadful proportions.
In the Great Lakes region, despite the combined
efforts of the United Nations and the Organization of
African Unity, bitter legacies persist, as do intolerance
and violence. I urge the countries of the region to pursue
the path of peace, democracy,
reconciliation and
reconstruction — with full respect for human rights —
and to work with the international community to assist
and sustain their efforts.
In Bosnia,
the international community must be
prepared to consolidate the gains achieved and to prevent
a relapse into the horrors that triggered its involvement.
We must ensure that our collective investments —
military, political and financial — have not been in vain.
Doing so will require patience and persistence by all
concerned.
Finally, the international community cannot but view
with grave concern the mounting threats to the Israeli-
Palestinian peace process. We call on all sides to take the
courageous decisions required to re-establish mutual
confidence and rededicate themselves to achieving a
lasting peace.
I now turn to the item on your agenda that surely is
role of our
significant
the most
Organization: the challenge of reform.
future
the
for
I presented detailed proposals to you in this Hall
more than two months ago, on 16 July 1997. It is my
hope that when this session ends more than two months
from now, we will have reached consensus and can begin
the process of implementation. Permit me to recapitulate
the main objectives and key features.
What are the objectives of the reforms? We aspire to
a United Nations that can act with greater unity of
purpose, coherence of efforts and responsiveness in
pursuit of peace and progress; a United Nations that can
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
and people
focus on its priorities; a United Nations that empowers both
Governments
through
collaboration that might otherwise elude them; a United
Nations that will express the highest moral aspirations of
humankind even as it delivers practical benefits to men,
women and children in cities and villages around the world.
to realize goals
We aspire to a United Nations that recognizes and
joins in partnership with an ever more robust global civil
society, while helping to eliminate uncivil elements like
drug traffickers, criminals and terrorists; a United Nations
that will view change as a friend — not change for its own
sake, but change that permits us to do more by doing what
we do better.
For whom do we seek these objectives? We seek them
for those who most need a renewed and revitalized United
Nations because they lack the power and wealth to shape
the international environment to their advantage. We seek
them for the global public interest. We seek them in the
interest of the future of the Organization itself.
our
and
operations
streamlining
And how do we propose to meet these objectives? By
rationalizing
at
Headquarters and in the field. By creating new management
structures that will permit us to act as one within and
across our diverse areas of activities. By encouraging a new
institutional culture that stresses excellence in promoting the
collective good. By enhancing the accountability that
Member States deserve and creating the flexibility that the
Secretariat needs.
And we intend to meet these objectives by promoting
at all times the particular needs of the most disadvantaged
societies among us through the creation of the United
Nations development group, a new office of development
financing, a new system of multi-year pledges
for
development cooperation and a development dividend
funded from administrative savings, as well as by
strengthening the role of the Economic and Social Council,
especially in the area of macroeconomic dialogue.
Momentum has been building since I announced the
reform package on 16 July. Press reports from around the
world have been encouraging. Individual Governments as
well as groups of Governments have expressed support.
Civil society organizations and the private sector are
approaching us with ever greater frequency to work with us
and to lend their assistance.
The
historically
unprecedented $1 billion gift from Mr. Ted Turner for the
extraordinarily
generous
and
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
United Nations work in the development, environment
and humanitarian fields is the most visible expression of
this new and promising relationship.
Lastly, I fully expect to have implemented those
reform measures that are within my own jurisdiction
before the end of this calendar year.
Now I ask you, the Member States, to act. Some of
you I ask to do what your legal obligations require: to
liquidate your arrears and to pay your future assessments
in full, on time and without conditions.
All of you I ask to move expeditiously to consider
the package of reforms that is before you, with the aim of
reaching political consensus and providing budgetary
authority before this session ends. We live in a new day,
and it requires a new way. Therefore, let this be the
Reform Assembly. This is the moment to re-imagine the
role of the United Nations, giving it new life for the new
century.
When I launched my reform plan, I pledged to
narrow the gap between aspiration and achievement at the
United Nations. I say to you today that we must move to
close another gap — the one between the rhetoric and the
reality of the common world. To close that gap we need
the most effective instrument possible for collective
deliberation and concerted action. The United Nations can
be that
just as the Charter envisioned it,
provided that we act and we act now. This is our chance.
We must not let it pass.
instrument,
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for his
very important statement.
We have concluded this stage of our consideration
of agenda item 10.
Agenda item 9
General debate
The President: Before giving the floor to the first
speaker in the general debate, I should like to remind
members of the decision taken by the General Assembly
at
that
congratulations should not be expressed inside the
General Assembly Hall after a speech has been delivered.
its 4th plenary meeting, on 19 September,
In this connection, may I also remind members of
another decision, taken by the Assembly at the same
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
meeting, that speakers in the general debate, after delivering
their statements, would leave the Assembly Hall through
room GA-200, located behind the podium, before returning
to their seats.
I should also like to remind representatives that, in
accordance with the decision taken by the General
Assembly at its 4th plenary meeting, the list of speakers
will be closed on Wednesday, 24 September, at 6 p.m. May
I
request delegations to be good enough to provide
estimated speaking times that are as accurate as possible.
This will facilitate the work of the Secretariat.
I now give the floor to the first speaker in the general
the Minister of External Relations of Brazil,
debate,
His Excellency Mr. Luiz Felipe Lampreia.
Mr. Lampreia (Brazil): On behalf of the Brazilian
delegation, I would like to congratulate you, my dear
colleague, Hennadiy Udovenko, the Foreign Minister of
Ukraine, on your election as President of the General
Assembly at its fifty-second session. Brazil has a significant
and active community of Ukrainian origin. We Brazilians
are thus very glad to see this session headed by a
distinguished son of the Ukraine, a country that is close to
us.
I want to express my recognition to the Permanent
Representative of Malaysia, Ambassador Razali Ismail, for
the way he conducted the work of the fifty-first session.
Ambassador Razali’s dynamic presidency paved the way,
through extensive consultation, for an imaginative and
comprehensive proposal
to advance Security Council
reform.
chosen to oversee
I also pay tribute to our new Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan,
and
administrative challenges of modernization. He has been the
focus of
the
international community at a difficult moment in the life of
our Organization.
justifiable expectation on the part of
the political
We welcome the Secretary-General’s proposals for
reform and institutional strengthening as a sign of renewed
vitality within the United Nations. These proposals and
Ambassador Razali’s contribution will certainly warrant
close attention in the General Assembly and in parallel
consultation. We will help to consolidate a new spirit that
should inspire our Organization. This new spirit is called
leadership — that driving force of history altering the
course of events within countries and in the international
scenario, opening new horizons, giving hope to the peoples
4
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
of the world, seeing movement where some can only
stand still.
Ambassador Razali and Secretary-General Kofi
Annan have, in a way, revived the leadership of the
creators of the United Nations. They have shown the
same idealism in establishing goals and pragmatism in
carrying them out. It was also the leadership of men such
as Dag Hammarskjöld and Brazilian statesman Oswaldo
Aranha, twice President of this Assembly, that often led
the United Nations to a decisive role as a factor of change
in international relations.
force in favour of
This kind of leadership has given the world a forum
without parallel in history, a stage for negotiation and a
political
international peace and
security. Although the United Nations has not always
been able to prevent or to deter conflict, it has certainly
reduced its occurrence and avoided some of its more
serious consequences. For this reason, the United Nations
has been a mandatory reference, a sign of hope and a
moral force for world public opinion.
We are witnessing today the rebirth of
this
leadership, feeling its effects through a remarkable change
in the heart and soul of our Organization. There is greater
optimism. There is greater motivation among delegates
and staff. There is greater expectation on the part of many
Governments. A new atmosphere of hope embraces the
United Nations. This is something we must nurture and
promote — something we must filter to the public in
order to renew the trust of the international community in
our Organization.
The agenda of the fifty-second session is vast and
reveals the continuing complexity and the numerous
conflicts of interests that animate international relations in
our times. A new international dynamic combines three
positive impulses: first, modernization and political and
economic opening in most countries; secondly, economic
integration in regional contexts, with multiple political
and security benefits; and thirdly, the internationalization
of the economy on a global scale.
These impulses
tend to generate,
foster and
consolidate international peace and security. They are
based on confidence and understanding and should allow
us to prosper and achieve the desired material and
spiritual results. Economic integration is increasingly the
great bulwark of international peace and cooperation. It
must be given emphasis and further promoted.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
impetus
Precisely because of its many political and economic
benefits, integration is a defining trait of South America’s
reality, a direct consequence of democracy and economic
Southern Cone Common Market
freedom.
The
(MERCOSUR),
a new and powerful
for
development in the region, is an example of the importance
of
integration. With democracy firmly rooted and a
dynamic process of integration, South America has a
reduced potential for conflict. It has the lowest rates of
military spending in the world and is following an
economic course based on strict government budget
controls. Our priorities are stability and development. Arms
purchases are compatible with the defense needs of Latin
American countries. They are aimed at replacing obsolete
or exhausted equipment. Recently announced measures in
the
these
fundamental parameters.
strategic-military domain will not
affect
investment
international
The concrete interests that bring together the countries
and the
of South America — trade,
reinforcement of our
standing through
MERCOSUR — are an unyielding factor of unity and
cohesion. There is no threat of military destabilization in
Latin America. There is no danger of an arms race in the
absence of political, economic and strategic conditions for
such. A regional initiative towards self-imposed limitations
on conventional arms purchases is therefore unjustified. It
would be tantamount to disarming those already disarmed.
source of
Our preoccupation, on the other hand, should be the
fight against the arms trade that sustains organized crime
and drug trafficking. This is the real and grave problem
perpetuating a major
instability that has,
unfortunately, also affected our region severely. Only
determined and coordinated action on the part of the
international community, especially through tighter controls
on the production and selling of weapons in private hands,
can curb or even suppress this trade; which feeds crime
cartels and leads to violence, fear and desperation. Brazil
strongly urges all countries, and particularly those in the
Western Hemisphere, to intensify cooperation in the fight
against arms trafficking.
We have taken great strides in areas of concern and
growing visibility. Disarmament and, most specifically,
efforts towards the elimination of anti-personnel landmines
have increasingly held the attention of the international
community. Today, we
significant
accomplishments, such as the signing of the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the willingness of an
overwhelming majority to make firm commitments,
speak
can
of
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
expressed at
landmines.
the Oslo Conference on anti-personnel
In these two instances, Brazil has sought to add its
own efforts to those of the international community. This
was the main thrust of President Fernando Henrique
Cardoso’s decision to submit the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to congressional
approval. Brazil can and should make an additional
contribution to nuclear disarmament. We want to take a
constructive part in discussions within the framework
created by the indefinite extension of the NPT, the most
universal of disarmament
treaties. This is also the
guideline for our participation in the Oslo conference and
in the Ottawa process. Brazil stands firmly behind the
interdiction of landmines in all types of conflict.
The international community should do everything
in its power to help poor countries devastated by war.
They suffer
the perverse and prolonged effects of
landmines irresponsibly planted in their territories. The
interdiction of anti-personnel landmines and their removal
must become an effective commitment on the part of the
international community. This a question of ethics, a
question of observing the most elementary principles of
humanitarian law. We hope that
the international
convention agreed upon in Oslo and the important
commitments it enshrines find universal acceptance.
These positive tendencies might
lead to the
impression that the United Nations is less in demand
today than 10, 20 or 50 years ago. This is a false
to the effects of
impression. We are still subject
disintegrating
unfortunately,
by-products of new global trends, such as marginalization
within and among nations,
transnational crime and
conflicts of interest that find expression through violence
and the threat or use of force.
factors.
Some
are,
The persistent and overbearing nature of terrorism
continues to be one of the most serious threats to
international peace and development. It breeds despair and
suffering. In the Middle East, terrorism and intolerance
jeopardize a peace process that was once full of promise
for the peoples of the region. In other countries, some of
them in Latin America, terrorist acts reveal the existence
of groups
insist on employing tactics
incompatible with the values of civilization and human
dignity. We must not falter in condemning those who, in
disregard of all moral values, resort to cowardly violence
in seeking to advance their own obscure purposes. Brazil
is emphatic in repelling these practices and exhorts the
still
that
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
international community to spare no effort in the fight
against terrorism, whatever its form or the alleged reasoning
behind it.
In addition, conflicts
that had apparently been
surmounted by a spirit of understanding and constructive
action on the part of the United Nations still show signs of
resistance that demand a strong reaction from the
international community. Angola is a case in point. Hope
and promise cannot be constantly undermined by the factors
that have wrought so much destruction and suffering upon
a valiant people to whom we Brazilians feel so closely
linked. Angola is now a decisive test for the United
Nations. We cannot accept even the slightest possibility of
regression. Brazil, currently holding the presidency of the
Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries, calls upon
the international community, and in particular the members
of the Security Council, to exercise close scrutiny over the
Angolan peace process. We must do everything to ensure
that the people of Angola once again find the road of
development in a context of democracy and pluralism.
forces of
still combines
The United Nations has an irreplaceable role in a
world that
integration and
cooperation with forces of disintegration and aggression.
But we have allowed the United Nations to lose its strength
as an instrument of universal peace and understanding and
as a promoter of cooperation and development. We have
done this through inaction, through a lack of consensus,
through obstructionism and through excessive politicization
of issues. We must react to this situation. We must once
again find the cardinal notion of leadership.
The past few years have shown that reform of the
United Nations can no longer be put off. We cannot lose
sight of major institutional issues or waste further precious
energy. The report of
the Secretary-General entitled
“Renewing the United Nations: A Programme for Reform”
is thus timely and opportune. The Brazilian Government
welcomes it with satisfaction and enthusiasm. The strength
of our Organization derives from its universality and from
the all-encompassing nature of its mandate. The United
Nations must not be held to the performance of tasks better
suited to other international organizations or specialized
agencies.
We cannot be made prisoners of inertia, nor must we
condemn our debates to irrelevancy. The General Assembly
must urgently move towards an agenda focused on what is
essential to ensuring a relevant role for the United Nations
in international affairs. For the United Nations to make a
difference and provide leadership in today’s complex world,
6
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
it must recover the original meaning of the Charter by
concentrating on its essential mission: maintaining
international peace and security, promoting justice and
international
for
development, protecting human rights and providing
humanitarian assistance.
strengthening
law,
cooperation
Member States must create political conditions for
effective action by the United Nations and make the
commitment
to setting priorities and eliminating the
superfluous. Only then will our Organization as a
whole — not just the Secretariat — be able to devote
itself to those fundamental tasks. The Secretary-General
has assumed a leadership role by putting forth ideas that
must be objectively discussed by all Member States.
Brazil is committed to working constructively with Mr.
Kofi Annan on his proposals
to strengthen our
Organization.
Brazil has taken an active part in the debate on
reform of the Security Council. We have adopted an
open-minded and constructive approach because we
believe this to be a central element in the reform of the
Organization. Brazil has upheld a concept of reform that
would strengthen the Council and the United Nations as
a whole. It is not geared to the individual interests of any
one country. We want the Council to be representative of
contemporary international realities, as it was in its early
years.
The Council must be enlarged both in its permanent
membership, to take account of the industrialized and the
developing worlds, and in its non-permanent membership,
to allow for more frequent participation by interested
States. We repudiate all discrimination in the conception
or assignment of new seats. We must not create a third or
fourth category of member. This would weaken and
depreciate the participation of the developing world, and
of Latin America in particular, in the reform process and
in an enlarged Council.
We have always said that
in identifying new
permanent members we must exercise realism and
pragmatism by means of a democratic selection process
that leads to universally recognized representation without
support. Brazil has expressed,
renouncing regional
through President Fernando Henrique Cardoso,
its
willingness to accept the responsibilities of permanent
membership in the Security Council, if called upon by the
international community to do so. In such a case, Brazil
would be determined to carry out the role of permanent
member as the representative of Latin America and the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in the
Caribbean. We want our region to be present
Security Council on a permanent basis and, through ample
coordination and consultation, to have an even stronger
collective voice.
The Brazilian Government notes with satisfaction that
we are moving, if not towards consensus, at least in the
direction of a significant majority in favour of certain basic
notions about how to reform the Security Council,
particularly enlargement of its permanent membership to
take account of the developing world. The proposal by
Ambassador Razali, presently under discussion in the
Working Group, constitutes a firm basis for a negotiating
process leading to a decision by the General Assembly.
Ambassador Razali has helped us regain the ideal of
Council reform as a means of strengthening the entire
Organization. Our priority is now to define the most
suitable format for an enlarged Security Council. This must
be the prime focus of attention.
The international community needs a strong, efficient
and ever-present United Nations. We will continue to rely
on the political body with the universality and moral
strength that, in the history of humankind, only the United
Nations has been able to muster. We must display in this
session the determination to create the conditions for the
United Nations to be an effective instrument for promoting
international peace and security. The same spirit of
leadership that we have seen in the Secretary-General and
in Ambassador Razali has driven many delegations. A new
willingness to make a constructive contribution to the
Security Council reform process and to other reforms is
clearly felt by Member States. There is a new thrust to
negotiations. There is leadership, as well as carefully
crafted proposals. We must take advantage of this unique
opportunity in the history of the United Nations. We must
not let the moment pass. Reform has become more than a
key concept; it has become the order of the day for the
United Nations in 1997.
Let us do it with that “fierce urgency of now” felt by
Martin Luther King, a symbol of political leadership and of
the forces of change in our century. “This is no time”, said
King in his most famous speech,
“to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the
tranquillizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time...”.
Let us do it, then.
Address by Mr. William Jefferson Clinton, President of
the United States of America
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by the President of the United States of America.
Mr. William Jefferson Clinton, President of
the
United States of America, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations the
President of the United States of America, His Excellency
Mr. William Jefferson Clinton, and to invite him to
address the Assembly.
President Clinton: Five years ago, when I first
addressed this Assembly, the cold war had only just
ended and the transition to a new era was beginning.
Now, together, we are making that historic transition.
Behind us, we leave a century full of humanity’s capacity
for the worst and its genius for the best. Before us, at the
dawn of a new millennium, we can envision a new era
that escapes the twentieth century’s darkest moments,
fulfils its most brilliant possibilities and crosses frontiers
yet unimagined.
We are off to a promising start. For the first time in
history, more than half the people represented in this
Assembly freely choose their own Governments. Free
markets are growing, spreading individual opportunity and
national well-being. Early in the twenty-first century,
more than 20 of this Assembly’s members — home to
half the earth’s population — will lift themselves from
the ranks of low-income nations.
Powerful forces are bringing us closer together,
profoundly changing the way we work, live and relate to
each other. Every day, millions of our citizens on every
continent use laptops and satellites to send information,
products and money across the planet in seconds. Bit by
bit, the information age is chipping away at barriers —
economic, political and social — that once kept people
locked in and ideas locked out. Science is unravelling
mysteries in the tiniest of human genes and in the vast
cosmos. Never in the course of human history have we
had a greater opportunity to make our people healthier
and wiser, to protect our planet from decay and abuse and
to reap the benefits of free markets without abandoning
the social contract and its concern for the common good.
Yet
today’s possibilities
guarantees. We have work to do.
are not
tomorrow’s
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The forces of global
integration are a great
tide,
inexorably wearing away the established order of things.
But we must decide what will be left in its wake. People
fear change when they feel its burdens but not its benefits.
They are susceptible to misguided protectionism and to the
poisoned appeals of extreme nationalism, and ethnic, racial
and religious hatreds. New global environmental challenges
require us to find ways to work together without damaging
legitimate aspirations for progress. We are all vulnerable to
the reckless acts of rogue States and to an unholy axis of
terrorists, drug traffickers and international criminals.
These twenty-first-century predators feed on the free
flow of information, ideas and people we cherish. They
abuse the vast power of technology to build black markets
for weapons, to compromise law enforcement with huge
bribes of illicit cash and to launder money with the
keystroke of a computer. These forces are our enemies. We
must face them together because no one can defeat them
alone.
To seize the opportunities and move against the threats
of this new global era, we need a new strategy of security.
Over the past five years, nations have begun to put that
strategy in place through a new network of institutions and
arrangements, with distinct missions, but a common
purpose: to secure and strengthen the gains of democracy
and free markets while turning back their enemies.
We see this strategy taking shape on every continent:
in expanded military alliances, such as the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO), its Partnership for Peace and
its partnerships with a democratic Russia and a democratic
Ukraine; in free trade arrangements, such as the World
Trade Organization and the global Information Technology
Agreement, and in the movement towards free-trade areas
by nations in the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region and
elsewhere around the world; in strong arms-control regimes,
such as the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;
in
multinational coalitions with zero tolerance for terrorism,
corruption, crime and drug trafficking; and in binding
international commitments to protect the environment and
safeguard human rights.
Through this web of institutions and arrangements,
nations are setting the international ground rules for the
twenty-first century, laying a foundation for security and
prosperity for those who live within them, while isolating
those who challenge them from the outside. This system
will develop and endure only if those who follow the rules
of peace and freedom fully reap their rewards. Only then
8
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
they have a stake in
will our people believe that
supporting and shaping the emerging international system.
The United Nations must play a leading role in this
effort, filling in the fault lines of the new global era. The
core missions it has pursued during its first half century
will be just as relevant during the next half century: the
pursuit of peace and security, promoting human rights and
moving people from poverty to dignity and prosperity
through sustainable development.
Conceived in the cauldron of war,
the United
Nations first task must remain the pursuit of peace and
security. For 50 years the United Nations has helped
prevent world war and nuclear holocaust. Unfortunately,
conflicts between nations, and within nations, have
endured. From 1945 until today, they have cost 20 million
lives. Just since the end of the cold war, each year there
have been more than 30 armed conflicts in which more
than 1,000 people have lost their lives — including, of
course, a quarter of a million killed in the former
Yugoslavia and more than half a million in Rwanda.
Millions of personal tragedies the world over are a
warning that we dare not be complacent or indifferent;
trouble in a far corner can become a plague on everyone’s
house. People the world over cheer
the hopeful
developments in Northern Ireland, grieve over the loss of
innocent lives and the stalling of the peace process in the
Middle East and long for a resolution of the differences
on the Korean peninsula, between Greece and Turkey or
between the great nations of India and Pakistan as they
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of their birth.
The United Nations continues to keep many nations
away from bloodshed: in El Salvador and Mozambique;
in Haiti and Namibia; in Cyprus; and in Bosnia, where so
much remains to be done but can still be done because
the bloodshed has ended.
The United Nations record of service has left a
legacy of sacrifice. Just last week we lost some of our
finest sons and daughters in the crash of a United Nations
helicopter in Bosnia. Five were American, five German,
one Polish and one British — all citizens of the world we
are trying to make, each a selfless servant of peace. The
world is poorer for their passing.
At this very moment, the United Nations is keeping
the peace in 16 countries, often in partnership with
regional organizations such as NATO, the Organization of
American States, the Association of South-East Asian
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Nations and the Economic Community of West African
States, avoiding wider conflicts and even greater suffering.
Our shared commitment to more realistic peacekeeping
training for United Nations troops, a stronger role for
civilian police and better integration between military and
civilian agencies — all these will help the United Nations
fulfil these missions in the years ahead.
At
the same time, we must
improve the United
Nations capabilities after a conflict ends to help peace
become self-sustaining. The United Nations cannot build
nations, but
it can help nations build themselves by
fostering legitimate institutions of government, monitoring
elections and laying a strong foundation for economic
reconstruction.
This week the Security Council will hold an
unprecedented ministerial meeting on African security,
which our Secretary of State is proud to chair, and which
President Mugabe, Chairman of the Organization of African
Unity, will address. It will highlight the role the United
Nations can and should play in preventing conflict on a
continent where amazing progress towards democracy and
development is occurring alongside still too much discord,
disease and distress.
In the twenty-first century our security will be
challenged increasingly by interconnected groups that traffic
in terror, organized crime and drug smuggling. Already,
these international crime and drug syndicates drain up to
$750 billion a year from legitimate economies. That sum
that exceeds the combined gross national product of more
than half the nations in this Hall. These groups threaten to
undermine confidence in the fragile new democracies and
market economies that so many of you are working so hard
to see endure.
Two years ago I called upon all the members of this
Assembly to join in the fight against these forces. I applaud
the recent United Nations resolution calling on its Members
to join the major international anti-terrorism conventions,
making clear the emerging international consensus that
terrorism is always a crime and never a justifiable political
act. As more countries sign on, terrorists will have fewer
places to run or hide. I also applaud the steps that Members
are taking to implement the Declaration on Crime and
Public Security that the United States proposed two years
ago, calling for increased cooperation to strengthen every
citizen’s right
through cooperation on
extradition and asset forfeiture, shutting down grey markets
for guns and false documents, attacking corruption and
to basic safety,
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
bringing higher standards to law enforcement in new
democracies.
the more urgent our common quest
The spread of these global criminal syndicates also
has made all
to
eliminate weapons of mass destruction. We cannot allow
them to fall into or remain in the wrong hands. Here too,
the United Nations must lead, and it has led — from the
United Nations Special Commission in Iraq to the
International Atomic Energy Agency, now the most
expansive global inspection system ever devised to police
arms-control agreements.
When we met here last year, I was honoured to be
the first of 146 leaders to sign the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), our commitment to end
all nuclear tests for all time, the longest-sought, hardest-
fought prize in the history of arms control. It will help
prevent
the nuclear Powers from developing more
advanced and more dangerous weapons. It will limit the
possibilities for other States to acquire such devices. I am
pleased to announce that today I am sending this crucial
Treaty to the United States Senate for ratification. Our
common goal should be for the CTBT to enter into force
as soon as possible. I ask for of you to support that goal.
The United Nations second core mission must be to
defend and extend universal human rights and to help
democracy’s remarkable gains endure. Fifty years ago the
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights
stated the international community’s conviction that
people everywhere have the right
to be treated with
dignity, to give voice to their opinions and to choose their
leaders; that these rights are universal — not American
rights, not Western rights, not rights for the developed
world only, but rights inherent in the humanity of people
everywhere.
Over the past decades these rights have become a
reality for more people than ever, from Asia to Africa,
from Europe to the Americas. In a world that links rich
and poor, North and South, city and countryside in an
electronic network of shared images in real time, the
more these universal rights take hold, the more people
who do not enjoy them will demand them. Armed with
photocopiers and fax machines, e-mail and the Internet;
supported by an increasingly important community of
non-governmental organizations,
they will make their
demands known, spreading the spirit of freedom —
which, as the history of the last 10 years has shown us,
ultimately will prevail.
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The United Nations must be prepared to respond —
not only by setting standards but by implementing them. To
deter abuses, we should strengthen the United Nations field
operations and early-warning systems. To strengthen
democratic institutions — the best guarantors of human
rights — we must pursue programmes to help new legal,
parliamentary and electoral institutions get off the ground.
To punish those responsible for crimes against humanity,
and to promote justice so that peace endures, we must
maintain our strong support for the United Nations war-
crime tribunals and truth commissions. And before the
century ends, we should establish a permanent international
court
serious violations of
humanitarian law.
to prosecute
the most
The United States welcomes the Secretary General’s
efforts to strengthen the role of human rights within the
United Nations system and his splendid choice of Mary
Robinson as the new High Commissioner for Human
Rights. We will work hard to make sure that she has the
support she needs to carry out her mandate.
Finally, the United Nations has a special responsibility
to make sure that as the global economy creates greater
wealth, it does not produce growing disparities between the
haves and have-nots or threaten the global environment, our
common home. Progress is not yet everyone’s partner.
More than half the world’s people are two days’ walk from
a telephone, literally disconnected from the global economy.
Tens of millions lack the education, the training and the
skills they need to make the most of their God-given
abilities.
The men and women of the United Nations have
expertise across the entire range of humanitarian and
development activities. Every day they are making a
difference. We see it in nourished bodies of once-starving
children,
lives of those immunized against
disease, in the bright eyes of children exposed to education
through the rich storehouse of human knowledge,
in
refugees cared for and returned to their homes and in the
health of rivers and lakes restored.
in the full
The United Nations must focus even more on shifting
resources from handouts to “hand ups”, on giving people
the tools they need to make the most of their own destinies.
Spreading ideas and education and technology — the true
wealth of nations — is the best way to give the people the
chance to succeed.
The United Nations must continue to lead in ensuring
that today’s progress does not come at tomorrow’s expense.
10
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
the world gather again next
When the nations of
December in Kyoto for the Conference of the Parties to
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change, all of us — developed and developing nations —
must seize the opportunity to turn back the clock on
greenhouse-gas emissions so that we can leave a healthy
planet to our children.
In these efforts, the United Nations no longer can,
and no longer need, go it alone. Innovative partnerships
with the private sector, non-governmental organizations
and the international financial institutions can leverage its
effectiveness many times over. Last week a truly
visionary American, Ted Turner, made a remarkable
donation to strengthen the United Nations development
and humanitarian programmes. His gesture highlights the
potential for partnership between the United Nations and
the private sector, in contributions of time, resources and
expertise. I hope more will follow his lead.
In this area and others, the Secretary-General is
aggressively pursuing the most far-reaching reform of the
United Nations in its history — not to make the United
Nations smaller as an end in itself, but to make it better.
The United States strongly supports his leadership. We
should pass the Secretary-General’s reform agenda at this
session.
On every previous occasion I have addressed this
Assembly, the issue of our country’s dues has brought the
commitment of the United States to the United Nations
into question. The United States was a founder of the
United Nations. We are proud to be its host. We believe
in its ideals. We continue to be, as we have been, its
largest contributor. We are committed to seeing the
United Nations succeed in the twenty-first century.
This year, for the first
time since I have been
President, we have an opportunity to put the question of
debts and dues behind us once and for all and to put the
United Nations on a sounder financial footing for the
future. I have made it a priority to work with our
Congress on comprehensive legislation that would allow
us to pay off the bulk of our arrears and assure full
financing of America’s assessment in the years ahead.
Our Congress’s actions to solve this problem reflect a
strong bipartisan commitment to the United Nations and
to America’s role within it. At the same time, we look to
Member States to adopt a more equitable scale of
assessments. Let me say that we also strongly support
expanding the Security Council to give more countries a
voice in the most important work of the United Nations.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
In more equitably sharing responsibility for its successes,
we can make the United Nations stronger and more
democratic than it is today. I ask the General Assembly to
act on these proposals this year so that we can move
forward together.
At the dawn of a new century so full of hope but not
free of peril, more than ever we need a United Nations
where people of reason can work through shared problems
and take action to combat them, where nations of goodwill
can join in the struggle for freedom and prosperity and
where we can shape a future of peace, progress and the
preservation of our planet. We have the knowledge; we
have the intelligence; we have the energy; we have the
resources for the work before us. We are building the
necessary networks of cooperation. The great question
remaining is whether we have the vision and the heart
necessary to imagine a future that is different from the
past — necessary to free ourselves from destructive patterns
of relations with each other and within our own nations and
to live a future that is different.
A new century in a new millennium is upon us. We
are literally present at the future, and it is the great gift we
are obligated to leave to our children.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the President of the United States of
America for the statement he has just made.
Mr. William Jefferson Clinton, President of the
United States of America, was escorted from the
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark
The President: The Assembly will now hear a
the Kingdom of
statement by the Prime Minister of
Denmark.
Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Denmark, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming
the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark, Mr. Poul
Nyrup Rasmussen, and inviting him to address the General
Assembly.
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
Mr. Rasmussen (Denmark): First of all, I would
like to refer to the intervention which will be made
tomorrow by the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg on
behalf of the European Union. I should also like to
congratulate the Foreign Minister of Ukraine on his
election as President of the General Assembly.
Allow me to reflect a bit on the fact that three
decades ago a Danish Prime Minister, Mr. Jens Otto
Krag, presented our yearly address to the twenty-second
session of the General Assembly. The challenges of today
are not very similar to those of that time, and yet they are
no less complex nor of lesser magnitude. For the United
Nations to face these challenges, the Organization must
adapt. It must reform, must change and must modernize.
That is why reform must be a priority for this session of
the General Assembly. And that, in all humility, is why
I am here today: to support the Secretary-General and the
General Assembly and to do what I can on behalf of my
country in order to reach our goal at the end of this
session and to help make decisions that are necessary in
order to modernize and to reform.
Since the twenty-second session of the General
Assembly, 30 years ago, we have seen disappointments.
We have seen civil wars. We have seen frustrations,
backlashes and incredible suffering. Yet we have also
seen light. We have seen peace where war once raged.
We have seen former enemies living peacefully together.
Indeed, we have seen apartheid disappear. We have seen
the Berlin Wall fall. We have seen the oppressed coming
out of jails and being elected leaders of their countries,
and some of
them rank among the world’s most
outstanding leaders. We have seen the winds of change
sweep over entire continents.
I believe this: if our generation cannot believe in the
impossible, who can? If our generation cannot take the
decisions that are necessary, who else can? All in all, I
think this is of crucial importance for the United Nations.
A reform programme for the United Nations is not
only about a more efficient use of scarce resources. It is
also, and more importantly, about strengthening and
revitalizing the Organization so that it can effectively
carry out its core activities and meet the challenges of the
future. It must be a reform closer to the people, a reform
and
closer
parliamentarians, a reform unifying Governments,
the
United Nations and peoples.
non-governmental
to
organizations
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The core activities and priorities are very clearly
described in the Secretary-General’s reform programme.
With great precision and clarity, the Secretary-General has
spelled out elements that my Government fully subscribes
to: peace and security, economic and social affairs;
development cooperation; humanitarian affairs; and, as an
activity cutting across the others, human rights — because
human rights makes the United Nations the people’s United
Nations. These core functions of the United Nations are
interdependent and mutually supportive. No amount of
funding will create sustainable development without peace,
good governance and respect for human rights. None of our
efforts in the field of peace and security or humanitarian
relief will have a lasting effect without efforts to create
sustainable development.
its
full
support
Denmark gives
to the reform
programme of the Secretary-General. We consider the
programme, in its totality, to be a significant contribution
towards strengthening the Organization and towards making
it more responsive, legitimate and efficient. I also note the
spirit of the Secretary-General in creating much greater
motivation among the employees of the United Nations and
much shorter lines between the Secretary-General and all
the rest of the people working for our common goal and
cause, here in this House and all around the world.
Reform is about shifting resources to the core
functions of the United Nations: shifting resources from
administration to development — in short, getting more
value for money, centrally, on the national
level and
locally.
The reform programme constitutes a package.
It
should be dealt with by the General Assembly as such. The
programme as a whole should receive the political
endorsement of the Assembly in the coming weeks. My
country endorses the package fully and wholly.
Ground-breaking work has been carried out on the
way towards Security Council reform. Expansion of the
membership of the Council
to enhance its
legitimacy. At the same time, its effectiveness and decision-
making capacity must be safeguarded. But — and I think
that there is a “but” — we must unify in order to reform.
We are gathered to reform, to open a new chapter of
reforming and modernizing the United Nations.
is essential
It has to be said that no institution can discharge its
functions without a sound financial basis. Member States’
fulfilment of their financial obligations must be considered
the touchstone of their attachment to the United Nations. I
12
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
am not a billionaire; I am probably not even a millionaire.
I am the Prime Minister of my country, and I know the
way to go. I know, on behalf of my country, our
obligations. I also know, on behalf of my country, the
financial duties my country has. I therefore hope that this
session will also be a turning point for all Member
countries of the United Nations, because a sound financial
basis first and foremost requires that Member States pay
their contributions in full, on time and without any
conditions. The contributions of Member States must be
based on their capacity to pay. Therefore let us join, as
we have done on the reform process,
to finance the
United Nations on its path to the next century.
Political instability, violence and the collapse of the
structures of society have led to massive movements of
refugee populations. Large numbers of people — millions
of people — have fled to regions far from their homes.
We are deeply concerned about this situation. We must do
our utmost to support the humanitarian organizations in
their efforts to assist refugees and other displaced persons
as close to their local environments as possible: as close
to their homes as possible.
Yet refugees and other displaced persons cannot
return to their homes so long as anti-personnel mines
remain scattered throughout the countryside, so long as
human beings by the thousand are being injured or killed
when they work their fields, so long as children cannot go
to school without risking losing a limb on their way.
Mr. Secretary-General, you said it yourself in your
speech in Oslo: you underlined that the very presence, or
just the fear of the presence, of only one mine can stop
the work in a whole village, can stop the work in a whole
field, can make it
impossible for families, or whole
villages, to survive and to create proper living conditions.
We must realize that, without mines, we would have
countries that could double or triple their agricultural
production and thereby help themselves. We must get rid
of these anti-personnel mines and must do it today rather
than tomorrow.
I look forward to the day when the last anti-
personnel mine has been produced. That will be a good
day for mankind. I look forward to the day when the last
anti-personnel mine has been removed. That will be a
good day for mankind, and that day must come soon. I
look forward to the day when a United Nations
convention will settle this matter so that it never comes
before us again.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We must at the same time work at improving the basic
conditions of life for ordinary people in areas of conflict.
Only in this way can we prevent people from becoming
permanent refugees.
In the past year we have once again experienced how
quickly crises can break out in different parts of the world.
This underlines the need for the international community to
be able to react swiftly and in unity in order to prevent the
spread of violence and human suffering. As the Secretary-
General has noted, my country, Denmark, has taken the
initiative to establish a multinational standby high readiness
brigade (SHIRBRIG) within the framework of United
Nations standby agreements. The planning element for the
brigade was officially inaugurated by the Secretary-General
earlier this month in my country. The initiative is being
taken to increase the rapid-reaction capability, and it must
be carried forward. Improvements in the planning capacity
of the United Nations are under way and will help reduce
the overall response time.
Capacity within other areas must be enhanced as well.
Civilian police has proved crucial in many of the recent
operations. We must improve both the capacity and the
training of civilian police officers.
Next year we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of a
major achievement in the history of mankind: the 1948
adoption by the General Assembly of
the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. The noble object of the
Declaration is the protection of individuals — not
the
interests of States. All human beings are equal and deserve
equal protection against abuse. Therefore the standards of
the Declaration are by their very nature universal. Any
denunciation of human rights obligations is unacceptable
and demonstrates a lack of respect for human dignity.
On the subject of credibility, I wish to underline that
a connection must also be made between violence and
human rights violations and the consequences. I think,
therefore, that a significant recent development since the
adoption of the Declaration is the establishment of the
office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. I
welcome the new High Commissioner, Mrs. Mary
Robinson. She will
in her
endeavours to promote and ensure universal respect for
human rights.
full support
receive our
But
for
human
respect
also
international
justice. After the Nuremberg trials we all
believed that the Holocaust would never happen again, and
yet new genocides are haunting us. Therefore, we need a
demands
rights
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
permanent international criminal court. We will not allow
crimes against humanity to go unpunished. This is a
fundamental question of credibility, a fundamental
question of consequence and of justice. Setting a precise
date for a diplomatic conference in 1998 is essential to
maintain the momentum for the early establishment of the
court, by the end of this decade.
to benefit
The need to assist
the poorest countries is as
important as ever. The poorest countries do not, I believe,
attract sufficient private capital flows, nor do they have
the potential
from the liberalization of
international trade. It is time for action. It is time to
narrow the gap between rhetoric and action. I would
remind the Assembly of the World Summit for Social
Development, held in Copenhagen, and I would recall the
obligations undertaken there and our vision of narrowing
the gap between rhetoric and practical action. Education,
health and participation for women are fundamentals.
The role of the United Nations system in the field of
is indispensable. I
economic and social development
should like to emphasize in particular the importance of
the United Nations as an Organization operating with a
global mandate and on the basis of a global approach of
sustainable development, security and good governance.
Let me mention by way of example the World
Conference on Women, held in Beijing. It should be a
primary task for the United Nations system to ensure an
effective follow-up to these conferences.
The United Nations should be at the forefront of the
global efforts to ensure sustainable development for all.
And yet let us be direct, clear and honest. The United
Nations development organizations concerned are entirely
dependent on voluntary contributions, and these have,
regrettably, followed a decreasing trend in recent years. I
think it is fair to say that the United Nations development
organizations themselves can be partly blamed for the
emerging funding crisis. All too often they have failed to
cooperate. Many donors have been frustrated to see
United Nations organizations
costly
competition for funds. The mere fact that it has not been
possible until now for the United Nations organizations to
establish common premises at the country level is an
example of this situation.
engage
in a
Here again I feel that the Secretary-General’s reform
proposals are a significant contribution towards redressing
this unfortunate situation. Let us have one coordinated
United Nations house in each country, and let us not
among United Nations organizations but
compete
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
cooperate effectively. That is a vision that we want to
follow and to support.
The many, many problems faced by minorities in our
world, and not
least by indigenous peoples, must be
addressed in a coherent manner. We must ensure that
indigenous peoples are given real influence on matters
pertaining to them.
That
is why my country, Denmark — in close
cooperation with the indigenous population of Greenland —
has called upon the United Nations and its Member States
to establish, within the framework of the Economic and
Social Council, a permanent forum for indigenous peoples.
This forum should have a broad mandate to cover a wide
range of issues. Indigenous peoples themselves must be
ensured the possibility of active and effective participation
in its establishment and in its function.
The United Nations is the future for all of us on this
globe — a future that can be improved by closer
cooperation with regional organizations. This cooperation
must be strengthened. Since the political changes in Europe
that began at the end of the 1980s, the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has taken on
an important role in that region. This role is a natural
expression of its status as a regional arrangement under
Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. The
OSCE cooperates closely with the United Nations in a
number of areas. By taking on responsibility within its own
geographical area, the OSCE contributes to the United
Nations ability to deal with crises elsewhere.
As Chairman-in-Office of the OSCE, my Foreign
Minister has given high priority to strengthening the
relationship between the OSCE and the United Nations. We
have frequent contact with the Secretary-General and have
encouraged closer relations between the secretariats.
Let me conclude.
reform, as the
Secretary-General so wisely said, and I should like in this
connection to make three points.
is time for
It
is that
My first point
the reform programme put
forward by the Secretary-General deserves our full support.
If adopted, it will leave this Organization in much better
shape. For the sake of our common future this is needed.
Let us decide and let us follow up.
My second point is this: we need the United Nations,
and the United Nations needs us. We must ensure the
necessary funding for the world Organization and its
14
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
development agencies. We must do this to make the
world a better and safer place. Every Member must pay
in full, on time, without conditions.
Finally, my third point: we must address the negative
legacies of the past. We cannot solve the problem of
refugees and displaced persons without making it possible
for them to return to their homes. They cannot and will
not do that as long as their physical well-being is
threatened by inhumane anti-personnel mines and as long
as their political future is threatened by war criminals
who have not been brought to justice.
Human rights are not just about words. It should also
be a human right to be able to live a secure life. At the
World Summit for Social Development at Copenhagen,
we said, “You cannot any longer have secure States
without secure people inside”. This is what we need the
United Nations to help us with.
This is not a perfect world, but I remain an optimist.
With the United Nations as an organization for the people
and by the people, we can make this world a better place.
Let us join hands to make the twenty-first century a
happier one.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of
Denmark for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Denmark, was escorted from the
rostrum.
Address by The Honourable Major-General
Sitiveni Ligamamada Rabuka, Prime Minister,
Minister with Special Responsibility for the
Constitution Review and Minister for Regional
Development and Multi-Ethnic Affairs of the
Republic of Fiji
The President: The Assembly will now hear an
address by The Honourable Major-General Sitiveni
Ligamamada Rabuka, Prime Minister, Minister with
Special Responsibility for the Constitution Review and
Minister for Regional Development and Multi-Ethnic
Affairs of the Republic of Fiji.
The Honourable Major-General
Sitiveni
Ligamamada Rabuka, Prime Minister, Minister with
Special Responsibility for the Constitution Review
and Minister for Regional Development and Multi-
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Ethnic Affairs of the Republic of Fiji, was escorted to
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming the
Prime Minister, Minister with Special Responsibility for the
Constitution Review and Minister
for Regional
Development and Multi-Ethnic Affairs of the Republic of
Fiji, His Excellency The Honourable Major-General Sitiveni
Ligamamada Rabuka, and inviting him to address the
General Assembly.
Major-General Rabuka (Fiji): My country and my
delegation warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-
second session. Your election to this high office is a tribute
both to you and to your great country, Ukraine. I wish to
assure you of my delegation’s fullest cooperation during
your tenure of office.
It also gives me great pleasure to convey our profound
gratitude and appreciation to the outgoing president of the
General Assembly at its fifty-first session, Ambassador
Razali Ismail of Malaysia, who presided over the session
with such consummate skill, expertise and diplomacy, and
distinguished himself by his firm management of the
session through his dedication to and thoroughness in the
discharge of his assignment.
to
our
I
extend
pleased
am also
sincerest
congratulations to the new Secretary-General of the United
Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan. My delegation is convinced that
Mr. Annan will make an outstanding contribution to the
in
role and responsibilities of
the United Nations
international affairs and to the management of
the
Organization. We wish to reassure him of our fullest
cooperation during his tenure of office.
equitable
economic
growth with
The greatest challenge facing our world today is
economic development, specifically the promotion of
sustained
social
development, particularly in the developing countries of the
world. For small island developing States like Fiji, and for
many developing countries of the world in general, we need
an international economic environment that is buttressed by
economic justice. We need an international economic
environment that ensures a better life in all the countries of
the world and not in just a few. The slow pace of economic
development and even the lack of such development in
many countries of the world, circumscribed by the evils of
unemployment and poverty, are threats to international
peace and security.
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
This greatest challenge is growing more and more
acute as economic development is being retarded by a
number of policies, trends and unilateral actions which
pervade our world today. Our development policies, plans
and programmes are being seriously eroded by difficulties
in accessing the markets of the developed countries,
worsening terms of trade, inadequate capital flow for
investment,
protectionist
tendencies, ambivalence in the transfer of technologies
and exchange-rate volatility. Small countries like mine,
and indeed all developing nations, have no real influence
in these matters, except as victims.
spiralling
burdens,
debt
The Charter of the United Nations calls for the
promotion of
the international economic and social
advancement of all peoples. Implicit, if not explicit, in it
is embedded the principle of economic justice. As
Members of the United Nations, we have a collective
moral and humanitarian obligation to help and assist each
other. We have a collective duty to make our world a
better place to live in. The time has come for the
developed nations of the world, and all
international
organizations which can help, to cooperate and ensure
justice by enabling developing countries in their own
efforts towards the acceleration of sustained economic and
social development.
endowed with natural
There are a number of ways in which the developing
countries can be assisted towards achieving sustained
economic and social development. Developing countries,
even those
are
handicapped by a lack of capital
to mobilize these
resources to their advantage. Developing countries need
continuous foreign-direct-investment capital
flows to
stimulate and sustain economic growth. Both foreign
direct investment and private-sector investment are needed
to help diversify and increase economic activities,
especially where industrialization is an option.
resources,
for
Through the diversification of our economies we can
produce more for export and trade. In fact, trade is the
best means
sustained income generation and
development. The present globalized international trade is
ideally aimed at ensuring an open, secure, equitable,
transparent and predictable multilateral system wherein all
participants can benefit.
The reality we face is very different from this
espoused ideal. We do not live in an ideal world, but in
the real world, where international trade is dominated by
the industrialized, developed nations. Fiji and other
developing and least-developed countries of the world
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
have to compete for markets with industrial giants. The
international-trade playing field is not
level, despite
frequent statements to that effect. In reality, there is no
even playing field. It is in truth marked by inequalities of
power,
influence and resources, with steep and almost
insurmountable heights constraining small nations like ours.
In order for small countries like Fiji to survive and to
develop, we must be allowed to retain special arrangements
for our essential exports, which give our people social and
economic security.
of
today’s
My country firmly believes that globalization is the
phenomenon
trade. The
transformation of international trade rules from the Uruguay
Round to the World Trade Organization (WTO) has been
marked by rapid changes that can marginalize small
developing countries like mine.
international
(GATT)/WTO waiver
The appellate body of the WTO has significantly
narrowed the scope of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade
to the European
Community in respect of the Lomé Convention. Fiji is
among other African, Caribbean and Pacific countries
which will be adversely affected by these new arrangements
if the arrangements of the Lomé Conventions are eroded.
Furthermore,
it has opened up room for policies and
actions, leaving weak developing countries unprotected and
exposed to economic stagnation.
While the WTO is insisting on a level-playing-field
approach, peculiarities that pose problems for small island
developing countries persist. As for Fiji, our smallness,
remoteness and inaccessibility to foreign markets remain
our biggest hurdles in international trade. Annual natural
disasters, a consequence of the climatic conditions in our
location, continue to be a big drain on the Government’s
savings in terms of rehabilitation projects. Such angry
seasonal visitations of nature can wreak havoc on budget
plans and our scarce resources.
Small island States like Fiji have a very limited range
and volume of exports and they cannot and will not
dominate and overwhelm any sector of trade commodities.
In that context, my delegation is extremely disappointed at
the recent decision of the World Trade Organization appeal
body against banana exports from Caribbean countries to
the European Union.
We are not asking for favours. We are merely making
a plea for a sensible and reasonable transition period to
enable us to adjust. This cannot be done overnight; thus,
the
special arrangements must
remain to allow us
16
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
opportunity to find means for accommodation and
replacement.
The blind pursuit of free trade, resulting in dire
consequences for small nations and leading to the loss of
other fundamental freedoms, will not serve the purposes
of eradicating poverty and eliminating social and
economic inequalities. We seek an equality of opportunity
in a world dominated by inequalities of resources and
economic might.
The World Trade Organization must bring a sense of
equity and justice in its deliberations and decisions, and
consciously eschew paths which disadvantage even further
already disadvantaged developing nations. We seek an
equality of understanding for the position of the weak and
the small. We seek the creation of genuine freedom in
trade, for trade remains the best means for sustained
development for developing nations.
The
access of developing countries
to new,
to
environmentally sound technologies is also pivotal
economic development and sustained economic growth.
There is a need for developing countries like Fiji to
participate in, benefit from and contribute to the rapid
advances in the technologies of developed, industrialized
countries. Developing countries should be facilitated
access to reliable information on environmentally sound
technologies and helped in institutional development and
capacity-building to accommodate the transfer of such
technologies. Accessibility to knowledge for development
is a right,
the right of all nations, not merely of a
powerful few to retain as a monopoly for their own
selfish ends.
Official development assistance is an important
catalyst for development, yet its value remains unrealized.
Only four countries have met or surpassed the official
development assistance target of 0.7 per cent of gross
national product. A renewed commitment to this target is
essential in order to fulfil the imperatives established by
the Charter of the United Nations. At this stage of our
development, it is a much needed catalyst to our own
efforts.
External debt repayments continue to be a major
constraint on economic development and sustained
economic growth in major developing countries.
Burdensome debt repayments not only cause economic
development to stagnate, but stifle social development as
well. I call for the adoption of an effective and equitable
development-oriented solution to the debt problem, so that
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
it ceases to be a burden yet remains a useful tool for
sustained development.
I have emphasized economic growth for sustained
development as the direction we must pursue. My country
and Government are fully committed to this goal. Yet, for
economic growth to be sustainable, as well as beneficial
and of quality, the environmental factor must be brought to
the forefront in all our development efforts.
Despite the convening of the recent special session of
the General Assembly for the purpose of an overall review
of the implementation of Agenda 21, there are still no clear
commitments on the part of many developed countries to
work towards achieving such environmental goals as, for
instance,
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to
internationally specified levels. The South Pacific Forum
island countries are among the most vulnerable to climate
change in terms of sea level rise and global warming. It is
therefore imperative that all members of the international
community should strive for a firm political commitment
before the next Kyoto Conference, to adopt a stronger
protocol
to strengthen the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change.
In this connection, my delegation joins others in
expressing our appreciation to the private sector and civil
society for the supportive interest they have shown in the
search for an acceptable international solution to such
global concerns. A most welcome demonstration of this is
the recent donation of $1 billion by the Turner Foundation
in support of certain crucial activities of the United Nations.
We need more of such assistance to further sustain and
strengthen the work of the United Nations in achieving its
targets.
I would now like to turn my attention to the issue of
international security. Today we are witnessing a most
significant period of change in our world, a change which
bodes well for permanent and lasting peace and security.
The cold war has been over for some time now and the
tensions and threats to peace and security which it
generated are behind us. As a consequence, and with the
adoption of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
(CTBT), we have moved a step further towards nuclear
disarmament. While this is gratifying, there is much more
to be done to achieve the objective of our Organization to
turn our swords into ploughshares and our spears into
pruning hooks.
The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has
added to the impressive list of political and legal
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
instruments intended to de-escalate the production and
stockpiling of nuclear weapons. We have come a long
way in our efforts to prevent a nuclear holocaust on our
planet, but the existence and improvement of nuclear
weapons still
leaves the threat over us. The current
international situation creates a favourable condition for
the international community, and particularly nuclear-
weapon States, to take steps towards eliminating nuclear
weapons from our planet. While the CTBT is a step in
the right direction, it lacks a clear time-frame for the
removal of all nuclear weapons from our midst.
My delegation urges the international community to
begin negotiations as soon as possible on a treaty to halt
and prohibit, with acceptable verification, the production
and development of all nuclear weapons. My delegation
further urges the nuclear-weapon States to destroy all
stockpiles and arsenals of nuclear weapons, with
acceptable international verification, and thereby rid the
world of nuclear weapons, once and for all.
My delegation warmly welcomes the finalization in
treaty prohibiting the
Oslo last week of a draft
development,
stockpiling,
retaining or transferring of anti-personnel landmines. We
call on all nations of the world to sign and ratify the
treaty.
acquisition,
production,
In the achievement of all these objectives, whether
they relate to sustained development or disarmament, the
United Nations has a crucial role. It must possess a
dynamism to be effective. It cannot be cumbersome,
unwieldy and partial. To meet new challenges, the United
Nations must be streamlined. A meaningful international
organization such as ours must adapt
to changes,
enhancing its relevance and competence. The entire
international community, including my country, has been
calling for the reform of the United Nations. It has taken
some time, but at last our new Secretary-General has
presented his
restructured
Organization that can carry us over the threshold into the
new millennium. I would like to thank the Secretary-
General for his comprehensive, constructive and coherent
recommendations.
recommendations
for
a
My delegation will carefully study the bold and far-
reaching recommendations for reform, and we endorse the
proposals in principle.
in the
implementation of these reforms there must also be
positive benefits for the small Member States, including
their increased participation in the United Nations system.
I am particularly pleased that the Secretary-General has
I make a plea that
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
as well
and social affairs,
as
identified economic
development cooperation, as core activities. His proposals
are congruent with the high priority which my delegation
places on economic growth for sustained development. I
have already stated that the United Nations must play a
constructive and catalytic role, within its macroeconomic
policies
sustained
development, thereby enabling developing countries, which
constitute the vast majority of
the
Organization, to have an equal share in the opportunities for
wealth creation.
to facilitate economic growth for
the Members of
in terms of size of population, Fiji
I fully support the submission that peacekeeping will
remain an indispensable instrument of the United Nations.
My country, small though it is, has played its part in
international peacekeeping programmes in virtually every
theatre of the world since we joined the United Nations in
1970. In fact,
is
presently among the largest troop contributors to United
Nations peacekeeping programmes. In the process, several
of our peacekeepers have lost their lives. But as a nation
we remain committed to the goal of permanent and lasting
peace in our world. I might add here that it is a cause of
great pride, but pride tempered with humility, that one of
our nationals, Major-General Jioje Konrote, has been
appointed Force Commander of the United Nations Interim
Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). It reflects the degree and
extent of the commitment of our small nation of fewer than
a million people towards the peace and security of our
world.
The proposals for the reform of the United Nations
encompass new management and efficiency measures which
should reduce administrative costs, but
the financial
predicament of our Organization will not be resolved
entirely by cost-cutting measures. It can be resolved if
Member countries pay their contributions promptly. We call
on all Member States which are in arrears to settle those
arrears promptly, fully and without conditions.
As we press ahead with the reform of the United
Nations, it becomes incumbent on us to ensure that this
extends to the Security Council. My country continues to
advocate that the Security Council should be expanded to
reflect an equitable geographical distribution, taking into
account the substantial increase in the membership of the
United Nations. Reforms affecting the Security Council
should encompass opportunity for participation in its
decisions,
constructive
relationship with the General Assembly and the limited
scope and use of the veto power.
transparency in its work,
a
18
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
On the issue of expansion, my country wishes to
reiterate the recommendation it made to the General
Assembly last November with regard to the membership
of the Security Council, especially its non-permanent
membership. We strongly favour an equitable and wider
representation of non-permanent members, by which
regions and subregions would adopt a rotation system,
including a prohibition on immediate re-election.
that
I further submit
in the same way that
the
Caribbean forms a special subregion of
the Latin
American Group, the South Pacific region comprising 14
independent island States, eight of which are members of
the United Nations, and Australia and New Zealand,
should become a special subregion, ensuring continuous
membership from our region.
These changes are prerequisites for a dynamic
United Nations with credibility in the next millennium.
Now more than ever, our international community
needs a system of preventive diplomacy that can respond
promptly, positively and peacefully to potential conflicts
and threats of genocide. My country continues to call for
a special United Nations division or unit to undertake
preventive diplomacy in conflict prevention and conflict
resolution. The division should have the capacity to
receive,
intelligence
information and reports, with a view to early detection of
potential conflicts and early reaction to minimize, contain
and resolve such conflicts in collaboration with the
relevant Member States. May I reiterate that in such a
division, adequate representation of skills and expertise
from small States must be mandatory, for the division
must not become a device or a creature of the powerful
to impose their will on their own terms.
and interpret
collate,
analyze
Speaking as the head of Government of a small
island developing country, I totally support the principle
of capacity to pay as a fundamental criterion and a firm
benchmark on which the contribution of member
countries to the United Nations should be assessed. My
country therefore fully supports the recommendation of
the Committee on Contributions
the scale of
assessments for all Member States whose share of
adjusted national income is below the current floor rate of
0.01 per cent should be assessed at their actual share of
adjusted income. We also support
the recommended
minimum assessment rate of 0.001 per cent. We further
urge that the ceiling should not be lowered any further
because a reduction will negate the effect of reducing the
recommended minimum floor rate.
that
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
criminal
crimes
court. Recent
My delegation supports the establishment of an
international
against
humanity, including genocide, have made it incumbent on
the international community to take stern action against
those who perpetrate such heinous acts. It is our sincere
hope that the current efforts by the international community
will be crowned with success and that come next year we
shall be in a position to adopt a treaty establishing the
international criminal court.
My country strongly emphasizes that the protection
and security of small States should remain a central concern
of the United Nations. Increasingly, elected Governments
and the sovereignty and security of
their States are
threatened by transnational networks of crime, narcotics,
money-laundering and terrorism. These scourges are
expanding, and international cooperation and action are
essential to counter them.
The Middle East continues to be a cauldron aboil with
conflict, tension, violence and early death, the latter sadly
reaching tragic proportions since last year’s session of the
General Assembly. We call upon all parties involved to
engage in genuine negotiations towards a just and lasting
peace in the Middle East. We call upon the international
community, too, to contribute towards a just and lasting
peace.
Last year, I commended both the People’s Republic of
China and Taiwan for their efforts toward reconciling their
differences. I wish to renew my plea to them to work
towards unity. We in Fiji enjoy excellent relations with
both of them, though we adhere firmly to our One China
policy. We in the Pacific continue to enjoy their generosity
and their concern for the welfare of the people of the South
Pacific. Both the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan
enjoy our friendship and trust. Fiji and the other 15 member
countries of
the South Pacific Forum welcome their
participation in the annual post-Forum dialogue and
consultation with each of them. It is our fervent wish that
they will, together, find a solution for their common future.
Likewise, I urge South and North Korea to negotiate
a solution that will bring lasting peace and unity to the
people of Korea.
Fiji is an oceanic State. As in many island countries,
our progress and development depend as much on our land
territory as on the sea around us. We are,
therefore,
concerned that the seas are utilized in a manner that is
environmentally sound and that the development of marine
resources is orderly and sustainable so that they can serve
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
the present and future generations. We insist on this
approach at the national level and strongly support similar
efforts at regional and global levels.
In the past decade, our region has adopted a number
of treaties and declarations that address the issue of better
management of oceans. More recently,
following a
decision of the heads of Governments of the South Pacific
Forum, the region has taken the initiative to negotiate
with distant-water fishing States the establishment of a
regional fisheries management organization in order to
give effect to the provisions of the 1982 Convention on
the Law of the Sea and the Agreement relating to the
Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks
and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. This is an important
initiative which is designed to promote sustainable use of
the region’s valuable fish resources to the benefit of both
the coastal States and distant-water fishing nations. We
look forward to a
to these
negotiations.
successful outcome
As Fiji was the first State to ratify the Convention
on the Law of the Sea, in 1982, I feel gratified that,
thanks to the efforts of many, including my own country,
in resolving the outstanding problems, the Convention
today enjoys universal
support and near universal
participation.
All States benefit from the stability and certainty that
has been achieved in the new regime of the Law of the
Sea. By defining the jurisdiction of States in marine areas,
and by setting out the rights and duties of States, the
Convention represents an important contribution to
international peace and security.
The institutions established under the Convention,
namely the International Seabed Authority and the
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, and the
work being done with respect to the oceans in the United
Nations itself, require the support of the international
community if the achievements of the Convention are to
be consolidated and its promise of benefits to the peoples
of the world is to be realized.
Last year, I lent my strong support
to an early
adoption of the draft United Nations declaration of the
rights of indigenous peoples. I renew my call here.
We are informed in the United Nations Development
Programme’s Human Development Report 1997 about the
bleak future for indigenous people in almost all societies
where they are to be found. It is a great tragedy indeed
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
that indigenous people have seen their values and customs
destroyed by incoming population. They face discrimination
in employment and disparities in education and they fare
worse in the non-income dimensions of poverty.
The observation of the International Decade of the
World’s Indigenous People, the programme of activities
associated with it and the efforts of the international
community to prepare a draft United Nations declaration on
the rights of indigenous peoples, will mean little or nothing
if the indigenous people remain a disadvantaged people in
our world. The United Nations Voluntary Fund for
Indigenous Populations, however meaningful, is a mere
drop in the ocean of what is required to really facilitate the
development of the indigenous people. The World Bank
programme to assist indigenous people is too limited in
scope and application. The Member States of the United
Nations and the international community should do more.
The survival of the indigenous people is at stake.
My own country is the home of two indigenous
groups, Fijians and Rotumans, but it is also the home of
others who came into our country more recently. These
newcomers represent nearly half the population of my
country. A major challenge for us has been to accommodate
the interests and aspirations of
these citizens and to
reconcile them with the sensibilities, perceptions and
pre-eminent status of our
indigenous people. We are
ensuring peaceful co-existence and cooperation with
security and respect for the fundamental rights of all our
citizens.
It gives me great pleasure to address briefly recent
developments
in my own country, Fiji, before this
Assembly. Our delegation has kept the Assembly up to date
with political developments in our country, in particular our
efforts to formulate a new Constitution that is acceptable to
all the ethnic communities in the country. Our current
Constitution, the 1990 Constitution, was promulgated to
secure adequate representation in Parliament
the
indigenous people in order
to guarantee, protect and
enhance their future in their country. That Constitution was
reviewed by a Commission last year. Following the
submission of the report of the commission, a Parliamentary
Select Committee comprising representatives of all
the
political parties in our Parliament gave due consideration to
the report and reached a consensus to amend the 1990
Constitution. The changes were written into the Constitution
Amendment Bill of 1997 which was unanimously approved
by the House of Representatives and the Senate and signed
into law by our President on 25 July 1997. The amended
Constitution comes into effect on 27 July 1998.
for
20
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
to say that
I do not intend to provide all of the details of the
new Constitution, except
it contains an
entrenched Bill of Rights guaranteeing and protecting the
equal rights and fundamental freedoms of all individuals
and groups,
irrespective of race, religion, gender or
economic status. In addition to an independent judiciary,
citizens will also have recourse to an ombudsman and a
human rights commission in the protection of their basic
rights. The Constitution continues to enshrine the full
right of self-determination of the indigenous Fijian and
Rotuman people,
to maintain a
separate system of administration to safeguard their
interests and welfare.
including their right
A unique feature of the Constitution is the inclusion
of a Compact which recognizes certain principles,
including the following: the preservation of the ownership
of land, including the ownership of indigenous Fijian land
according to Fijian custom; the right of all persons to
practice their religion freely and to retain their language,
culture and tradition; and a commitment by all political
parties and their leaders to cooperate in the formation of
a broadly based Government to ensure that the interests
of all communities in Fiji’s multi-ethnic and multi-cultural
society are taken fully into account.
of
our
Indeed,
an
feature
innovative
new
Constitution is the provision for the formation of a multi-
party Government. This is to allow for the representation
in Cabinet of all political parties that secure seats in
Parliament
through general elections. We have no
doubt — in fact, we are very confident — that with the
commitment, goodwill and cooperation of all,
this
pioneering approach of bringing all communities together
in national decision-making,
in government and in
Parliament,
the best way of consolidating and
promoting enduring peace, unity and progress in our little
country of Fiji. From our ethnic and cultural diversity, we
are determined to build a strong nation with the full
participation of all citizens and communities in it.
is
We are the world. We who are gathered here
represent the Governments and peoples of the world. We
have it in our power to facilitate economic development
and sustained economic growth that include the full and
equal participation of the developing countries of the
world. Let us make it an international imperative.
Today I call on all of us to rededicate ourselves
anew to our commitment to the United Nations. Upon the
high principles of mutual love, justice and care on which
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
it was established, let us together make our world a better
place in which to live.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly,
I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister with Special
Responsibility for the Constitution Review and Minister for
Regional Development and Multi-Ethnic Affairs of the
Republic of Fiji for the statement he has just made.
The Honourable Major-General Sitiveni Ligamamada
Rabuka, Prime Minister, Minister with Special
Responsibility for
the Constitution Review and
Minister for Regional Development and Multi-Ethnic
Affairs of the Republic of Fiji, was escorted from the
rostrum.
The President: The next speaker inscribed on my list
is His Excellency the Honourable Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete,
Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
of the United Republic of Tanzania. He will also speak on
behalf of the Group of 77.
the outset,
Mr. Kikwete (United Republic of Tanzania): Please
permit me, Sir, at
to offer my sincere
congratulations to you on your election to the Presidency of
the fifty-second session of the General Assembly. In the
same vein, our congratulations are directed to the members
of the Bureau on their election. I wish to assure you of the
full cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of this
heavy responsibility entrusted to you.
I would also like to express my thanks to Ambassador
Razali Ismail of Malaysia for the able manner in which he
discharged his responsibilities during his Presidency of the
last session. At this juncture, I would like to pay a special
tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan for his deserved election as
Secretary-General of the United Nations and for the able
manner in which he is carrying out his responsibilities.
Looking at the agenda of this meeting, it is an historic
meeting of the General Assembly and you, Sir, will be
remembered for many years to come. Personally, I feel
proud and privileged to be associated with this meeting.
Last year, here in New York, members of the Group
of 77 and China elected my country, Tanzania, to the
chairmanship of the Group. The last nine months or so in
that post have been a very exciting and challenging
experience for me and my colleagues at our Mission to the
United Nations and for the entire Government of the United
Republic of Tanzania. We have been involved in several
meetings, debates and negotiations on behalf of the Group.
I am glad to say that, despite some setbacks, notable
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
success and progress have been made in all our
this was made possible through the
endeavours. All
cooperation, support and, above all,
teamwork of all
members of the Group. We thank all members for their
support.
(Mr. Elaraby (Egypt), Vice-President,
Chair.)
took the
Two years ago, world leaders met here to celebrate
50 years of the existence of the United Nations. Besides
taking stock of the progress made and the lessons learned,
the Heads of State or Government endeavoured to chart
the institutional framework and operational parameters
that could enhance the Organization’s relevance and
effectiveness in a changed international environment. In
this context, apart from the Organization’s traditional
roles of maintaining international peace and security and
providing humanitarian assistance,
it was also found
essential to place development cooperation issues at the
centre of United Nations activities. The United Nations
itself needed to undertake appropriate reform measures so
that it would be better able to deal with the challenges of
the new global economy.
To facilitate the reform process in the socio-
economic field, developing countries participated actively
and effectively in work on the Agenda for Development
to ensure the successful conclusion of the negotiations of
this important process. These negotiations were completed
in June 1997, and I should like to commend the Ad Hoc
Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly on
this issue for its good work.
essential
to the
economic
Building on the outcome of recent United Nations
conferences and other relevant agreements, the Agenda
for Development underscores that sustained economic
growth is
and social
development of all countries, in particular developing
countries. While acknowledging the importance of
national policies and measures in the development
process, the Agenda for Development calls for action
towards a dynamic and enabling international economic
environment, including such aspects as an open, rule-
based, equitable, secure, non-discriminatory, transparent
and predictable multilateral
trading system and the
promotion of investment and the transfer of technology
and knowledge. Additionally,
the Agenda calls for
enhanced international cooperation in the mobilization and
provision of financial resources for development. It also
underscores
equitable,
development-oriented and durable solution to the external
the need for
an effective,
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
debt and debt-servicing problems of
countries.
the developing
Many developing countries are not able to benefit
from the twin processes of the liberalization and the
globalization of
the world economy. These processes
benefit some countries while causing instability and
marginalization in others, particularly in developing
countries. The least-developed countries face the greatest
risk of further marginalization. This is why they continue
to demand that such uneven trends be addressed, and that
the World Trade Organization
related
international organizations adopt specific and concrete
measures to mitigate the adverse effects arising from the
implementation of the Uruguay Round agreements. These
measures must include long-term financial and technical
support, the transfer of technology, and the improvement of
the trade performance of the developing countries. It is also
necessary to ensure full and effective participation of the
developing countries in the international economic decision-
making processes.
other
and
Concerning financial flows, it is imperative to reverse
the overall decline in official development assistance and to
achieve the agreed target of 0.7 per cent by the turn of the
century. We appeal to developed countries to reaffirm their
commitments
sources of
concessional external financial assistance should also be
strengthened to enable them without conditionalities to
increase resources for disbursement
in support of the
developing countries.
target. Other
to meet
this
in developing countries
In addition to official development assistance and
multilateral assistance,
the growth in foreign direct
investment
is of particular
importance. However, foreign direct investment portfolio
flows are going to very few developing countries, those
which are already growing fast; very little, or none, is
going to the least-developed countries. For example, Africa
has received only a small proportion of the total net private
flows, despite extensive reforms that continue to be
undertaken. The challenge to the international community
in this respect
is to ensure that adequate capital and
investment flows also reach the least-developed countries so
as to accelerate their pace of development. This could be
done through, inter alia, the improvement of economic and
social infrastructure in the least-developed countries.
External indebtedness is one of the major obstacles to
the development efforts of many developing countries. It is
acknowledged that even with sound economic policies and
with full appreciation of the debt-rescheduling arrangements
22
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
in place, developing countries continue to face an
unbearable debt-servicing burden. There is hence an
urgent need for adopting durable solutions to external
debt and debt-servicing problems, particularly those of the
heavily indebted poor countries. More also needs to be
done in terms of debt stock cancellation and forgiveness.
We appreciate recent initiatives to reduce debts, both
those within the Naples terms of the Paris Club, and those
within the multilateral framework, such as the heavily
indebted poor countries initiative of the World Bank and
the International Monetary Fund. However, the criteria for
eligibility should be more flexible to enable more
countries to benefit from these arrangements. As it is
now, it is almost a nightmare for a country to qualify in
terms of conditionalities involved and the time it takes
before reaping the first benefits after qualifying. It is like
being so near yet so far.
The debate on development is closely interlinked
with that on the environment. In June this year, a special
session of the Assembly was held to review and appraise
the implementation of Agenda 21 five years on. It is
regrettable that the special session came out with no
concrete agreement or commitments on the cross-cutting
issues of financial resources and technology transfer. For
while it was possible to agree on follow-up action on
some of the sectoral
issues such as forests, energy,
climate change, desertification, fresh water and others,
lack of concrete agreement on issues related to financial
resources and technology transfer militates against
effective realization of the little that was agreed upon.
should rededicate themselves
In his statement at the special session on behalf of
the Group of 77 and China, my President, His Excellency
Mr. Benjamin William Mkapa, emphasized that all
countries
to the Rio
Declaration in order to achieve the goals of sustained
economic growth and sustainable development. He further
stressed the need for creating a more conducive
international economic environment, to enable developing
countries to gain access to new and additional resources
and technology on concessional and grant terms. I wish
to reiterate that call today.
Other major international conferences and world
summits held since 1990 will also come up for review in
the near future. It
is our hope that a new spirit of
international partnership in resolving the various socio-
economic problems
facing, particularly, developing
countries will emerge and that international support for
the implementation of the various programmes of these
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
conferences will
international community.
continue
to be provided by the
In recent years, South-South cooperation has evolved
into an important modality for addressing the development
needs of developing countries. We are convinced that
South-South cooperation provides a sound basis
for
promoting economic growth and increasing technical
capacities for acceleration of development in the developing
countries. The Group of 77 and China pledge to intensify
existing cooperation and solidarity among its members with
a view to sharing development experiences and solving
some of the development problems facing them.
I agree with the Secretary-General that reform of the
United Nations is not an event but a process. General
Assembly resolution 50/227 and the Secretary-General’s
proposals provide a basis for the discussion of United
Nations reforms. However, we strongly feel that emphasis
should be placed on the overall policy thrust and mission of
the Organization geared towards the strengthening of its
economic role.
Furthermore,
institutions that deal with economic
issues, such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD), the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO) and the relevant
Economic
and regional
commissions,
should remain. They should also be
strengthened to ensure that the development concerns of
developing countries are taken fully into account.
and Social Council bodies
As for the reform of the Security Council, my country
stands for more democratization and equity in this crucial
organ of the United Nations. We stand for the expansion of
its membership in both the permanent and non-permanent
categories, with the additional members in the permanent
category getting veto power. The expansion in both
categories should include not only Japan and Germany, but
also equitable representation of the developing countries of
Africa, Asia and Latin America.
All reforms must be conducive to realizing the broad
purposes and principles of the Charter and to improving the
efficiency of the United Nations in all areas. They must
also contribute to a more positive and effective United
Nations role in promoting world peace and development,
and meet the aspirations of developing countries. I am
confident that we will be able to achieve a broad consensus
as long as all of us engage in deliberations in good faith
and with a readiness to consider all legitimate concerns.
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
Tanzania appreciates the changes that have taken
place in the area of disarmament. The threat of nuclear
war may not at present manifest itself in the ideological
confrontation of the past, but it has not gone away or
receded. It is still with us, and we should guard against
any complacency that we are any safer today. Nations
still possess nuclear warheads, and new generations of
these weapons are being manufactured. The total
elimination of these weapons must continue to be the
central purpose of our disarmament agenda.
While nuclear weapons still pose a potentially grave
threat to international peace and security, conventional
ones have had a devastating effect, particularly in areas of
conflict. Among these are anti-personnel
landmines,
which maim and kill the innocent, even long after war
has ended. The effects of these weapons are evident all
over the world, with their most violent manifestation in
countries such as Angola, Cambodia, Mozambique and
Bosnia. Tanzania has supported, and will continue to
support, a worldwide ban of these weapons through the
framework of the Ottawa process and looks forward to
becoming an effective party to the instrument
just
concluded in Oslo, Norway. At the same time, we hope
that the elimination of anti-personnel landmines will not
be seen as an end in itself, but as part of the overall
objective of eliminating other weapons, especially
weapons of mass destruction.
As the United Nations grapples with the challenges
of peace and development, it is still faced with many
political problems which need urgent
resolution if
humanity is to prosper. From Latin America and the
Caribbean to Europe, from Asia to the Middle East and
Africa, the United Nations is faced with the arduous task
of promoting peace, democracy and good governance as
the enduring pillars of development.
We congratulate the people of Liberia for having
conducted a successful democratic election, which, we
hope, has ushered in a new era of peace in that country.
Now, as they seek to regain their footing and begin the
arduous task of national
reconciliation, healing and
economic reconstruction, they will need the support of the
international community.
At a time when Liberia is emerging from destruction
and suffering, we are deeply concerned that Sierra Leone
is sinking deeper into chaos at the expense of peace,
development and democracy for
that country. The
Government of Tanzania has associated itself fully with
the
the
efforts made within the
framework of
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to restore
democracy and constitutional rule in Sierra Leone. Even at
this late hour, we continue to hope that the Sierra Leonean
military will realize the folly of their misadventure and
agree to return their country to constitutional rule. In the
meantime,
the continuing efforts of the West African
region, and Africa in general, merit expanded support so as
to put an end to the destructive cycle of military coups in
Sierra Leone.
stall
the
process
of UNITA to
In Angola, we continue to be concerned by the
manoeuvres
of
implementation of the Lusaka accords. Our concern is given
added urgency by the steady degeneration of the situation
in the country and the likelihood of a return to open
hostilities and war, with all the destruction and suffering
that portends for the people of that country. We urge
UNITA to abandon its obstructionist policies and abide by
the Lusaka peace accords. We hope the United Nations will
remain engaged in Angola.
The situation in the Great Lakes region remains
precarious. The consequences of decades of misrule in
some countries of the region have been horrendous in terms
of suffering, war, death and lost opportunities to harness its
great development potential. We regret that the situation in
Burundi shows no sign of improvement. The military
authorities have persisted in frustrating the efforts of the
region within the framework of the Arusha initiative, under
the chairmanship of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, to facilitate
the process of political dialogue.
Tanzania and the other countries of the region are
persisting in their efforts because we believe there is no
alternative to dialogue but war and more suffering for
innocent civilians. The region has no other interest
in
Burundi but to help. At the regional level, meetings were
held in Arusha on 4 September, and the leaders reiterated
their commitment to the search for peace in Burundi and
called upon the military authorities there to abandon the
course of confrontation and seek dialogue and political
accommodation with all elements in Burundi.
The region has been categorical in restating that the
Burundi authorities should be under no illusion that they
can bury their heads in the sand or wish the problem away.
They simply have to face reality and dutifully rise to the
occasion. Certainly the region and the international
community cannot leave them alone and allow them to lead
the country into self-destruction and war, with all
the
attendant problems that creates for Burundi and its
24
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
I wish to appeal
to the international
neighbours.
community to continue assisting the region so that our
goal of restarting the dialogue for peace in the country is
achieved.
In Rwanda, fortunately,
the situation is steadily
stabilizing, particularly after the return of most of its
citizens, who had been coerced into a drifting life in exile
as refugees. Yet the difficulties which face that country
are enormous. The process of recovery from the immense
moral, physical and spiritual effects of the 1994 genocide
will be painful and slow. As Rwanda struggles to come
to terms with the genocide, reconcile with itself and
continue on the path of national healing and renewal, it
needs our solidarity and support.
With President Laurent Kabila’s assumption of the
leadership of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the
process of returning to democratic rule has begun, albeit
slowly. We realize that it will not be an easy or swift
process, given the political rigidity and the policies of
political exclusion to which that country was subjected for
decades. We appreciate the enormity of the task of
putting the country back on its feet, restoring Government
institutions and setting out towards democratic recovery.
Given this background, what the Government and people
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo need most is
solidarity, understanding and material support from the
international community.
The political problems of the Great Lakes have
precipitated a grave humanitarian challenge as millions of
people have been forced into a life of exile as refugees.
This has placed an enormous burden on the countries of
the region, including my own, which has had to shoulder
it without commensurate resources. We appreciate the
great work done by United Nations agencies and many
humanitarian non-governmental organizations in terms of
providing the much-needed assistance to the refugees.
Indeed, without this support, the life of the refugees
would have been most unbearable. Yet even with this
much-appreciated assistance, the burden left to refugee-
receiving States has been enormous. The economic,
social, environmental and security consequences of
hosting the refugees will have long-lasting effects from
which these countries will continue to suffer even after
the repatriation of the refugees has been completed. This
raises the fundamental
issue of assisting the asylum
countries, not only to cope with the immediate task of
meeting the needs of the refugees, but also with the long-
term effects of hosting them. This aspect needs
addressing.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Somalia may no longer be on our television screens or
worthy of the news headlines, but it is still a problem
which must not be forgotten. The country is
still
fragmented, and fighting among the factions in conflict is
not yet over. There is a chance that through the Sodere
initiative there may be some positive developments. The
United Nations needs to continue associating itself closely
with the efforts being expended by the Intergovernmental
Authority
and the
Organization of African Unity aimed at bringing durable
peace to Somalia.
and Development
for Drought
In Western Sahara, too, we are concerned by the
apparent freeze in the implementation of the settlement
plan. As we reiterate our solidarity with the Frente
POLISARIO, we express the hope that the initiatives of the
representative of the Secretary-General, in the person of the
former United States Secretary of State James Baker, will
bear fruit and remove the prevailing political difficulties in
the implementation of the settlement plan.
Tanzania continues to follow closely the developments
in the Middle East which now threaten peace in the area. In
this regard, Tanzania reiterates its solidarity with the
Palestinian people and calls upon the Palestinian and the
Israeli authorities to persist in their efforts to consolidate
dialogue and move forward in elaborating permanent
arrangements for peace. We still believe that, ultimately,
enduring peace in the region lies in the return of all the
occupied Arab land and in the full enjoyment by the
Palestinian people of
to self-
determination
the
establishment of a homeland for
themselves within
internationally recognized boundaries.
right
including
independence,
inalienable
and
its
In conclusion, as we move into the new millennium,
the world is still a place largely besieged by poverty and
underdevelopment, conflict and war. The giant leaps of
science and technology which have enabled humankind to
explore outer space and to shrink the world into a global
village have so far not been adequately and evenly
channelled into meeting the compelling needs of the greater
part humanity. The world will
into the next
millennium divided between those who are prosperous and
at peace and those living in abject poverty and at war.
Therefore, it must be the overriding objective of the United
Nations to ensure that
this disparity is overcome. The
challenge that we must all face is to strengthen this
Organization by unconditionally supporting it
fully,
politically and financially to enable it to serve humanity
better.
transit
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
The Acting President (interpretation from Arabic):
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile,
His Excellency Mr. José Miguel Insulza.
Mr. Insulza (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
It is with particular pleasure that I extend to you, Mr.
President, my sincerest congratulations, and those of my
Government, on your election as President of the General
Assembly. Your election will ensure that the business of
the General Assembly will be conducted skilfully,
impartially and very efficiently at this important moment
for the General Assembly, when it will have to make
decisions that may be vital
to the future of our
Organization.
The General Assembly session that we are now
beginning is a particularly important one in that
its
purpose is to ensure that in the future multilateral activity
will be assured of validity, effectiveness and credibility.
With the United Nations having completed more than 50
years of existence, we need new ways to view the world,
without forgetting the many achievements made and the
valuable experience gained both from successes and from
failures.
This is an appropriate time for us to renew our
commitment to multilateralism as the guiding principle of
international relations and the essential tool to resolve
crises and problems that are beyond the ability of any
State, however important or powerful
to
resolve on its own.
it may be,
This is particularly important
in the face of a
growing unilateralism that has recently emerged as a
feature of the international scene. The new international
reality makes it essential for States to act together so as
to confront energetically and resolutely the problems of
the environment, organized crime, arms control, human
rights, democratization, poverty, unemployment, social
fragmentation and many other issues.
has
to
Chile
consistently
the
Organization and, to the limits of its ability to do so, will
continue to lend its strong support to the great work of
the United Nations in all its forums.
contributed
I wish to speak first of the issue of the Security
Council and its reform process. I stressed before the
General Assembly last year the importance of greater
involvement by Member States in the decisions of the
Security Council in order to strengthen its legitimacy and
25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
give it the necessary political backing for the actions it
undertakes.
We reiterate once again the desirability of revising the
composition of
the Security Council and its working
methods. In this connection, we appreciate the arduous
work conducted by the Working Group on this issue, which
has served to clarify the various positions and to allow a
proper appraisal of this enormously complex subject.
I wish especially to pay tribute to the outgoing
President of the General Assembly, Mr. Razali Ismail of
Malaysia, for his keen sense of responsibility and his
courage in taking the initiative to make specific proposals
on these matters
to ease the difficulties
encountered within the Working Group and make it
possible to analyse and discuss them in specific terms.
in order
My Government considers that any future composition
of the Council must combine the requirements of its
effectiveness with the need for an equitable representation
of
the developing countries that properly reflects the
increase in the number of Members in the past 50 years.
Where these fundamental issues are concerned, Chile
supports and endorses the content of the Declaration on the
strengthening of the United Nations and the reform of the
Security Council
issued by the Heads of State or
Government at the eleventh summit of the Rio Group in
Asunción, Paraguay, on 24 August of this year.
In that Declaration we expressed the great importance
we attach to the process of expanding and reforming the
Security Council, which must result in a broad general
agreement
the
imbalances in its current composition, improve the decision-
making mechanisms, make the conduct of its work more
transparent and represent with greater legitimacy all States
Members of the Organization.
that will make it possible to correct
impair
With regard to the total number of members of the
Security Council, we believe that a membership of up to 25
would not
the
expansion met the requirements of responding properly to
the increase in United Nations Member States since the last
reform of
the Charter and the undeniably growing
importance of developing countries.
its effectiveness, provided that
Chile shares in the broad base of agreement on
allowing the entry of Germany and Japan as permanent
members of the Security Council. Nevertheless, there is
also a conviction that this can take place only in the context
26
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
suitable regional
of
permanent members
America.
including other
representation,
from Asia, Africa and Latin
We support a process of regional consultation and
consensus to fill these seats. This, however, does not
exclude a possible role for the General Assembly in case
there is an absence of
In this
connection, the Assembly will have to analyse carefully
the proposals that have been put forward regarding
rotation. These are undoubtedly attractive since they
include a larger number of countries, but they could
impair the effectiveness of the Council and increase
tensions between permanent and non-permanent members.
regional agreement.
legitimacy.
As far as the Latin American and Caribbean region
is concerned, its fundamental responsibility is to fill its
seats through a process that gives its members legal
validity and political
In this process,
consideration must be given to all the possibilities that
will allow for appropriate regional representation. Chile
is prepared to accept any formula that reflects this.
Serious consideration must be given to the possibility that
only one of its members will occupy the permanent seat
allocated to the region.
The question of the veto will also have to be
discussed in greater depth,
taking into account many
factors, such as legal ones relating to Charter obligations
and the evolution of modern international
law, and
political ones, such as the evolution of the international
situation, which are today very different from those
prevailing at the time the United Nations came into being.
The outgoing President of the General Assembly has
made some very interesting proposals in this regard,
which need to be carefully considered by Member States.
Chile is concluding this year, with a sense of
satisfaction, its participation in the Security Council after
an absence of more than 30 years. Our decision to
participate was motivated by the need to assume our
international
responsibilities, and we did so in the
conviction that we could make a contribution.
As a preliminary conclusion,
I would like to
emphasize that the rich contribution of the non-permanent
members of the Council provides genuine balance and
enables the Council
to renew itself over time. Our
experience has been a rewarding one, and we have sought
to focus our contribution, beyond our natural interest in
issues relating to the Latin American region, on a number
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
of areas in which welcome progress has been made, to
which Chile has made an effective contribution.
it to act with greater unity of purpose, coherence and
agility in tackling the problems.
We welcome the important progress the Council has
made regarding its responsibility in the humanitarian
sphere, which has necessarily become a major aspect of the
maintenance of international peace and security. This is the
foundation of the presidential statement
issued by the
Council on the protection of humanitarian workers. The
strengthening of this aspect of the Council’s work was one
of the main issues in which Chile participated. Motivated
by our concern about this matter, we proposed a mechanism
that establishes the modalities by which the Council
communicates with the humanitarian agencies working in
the field.
Similarly, Chile has been particularly concerned that
countries that have experienced severe conflicts should not
be abandoned by the system once conflict ends. We have
therefore insisted on the need for a United Nations presence
in the field when peace-building gives way to overall
reconstruction and development activities.
With respect to sanctions, it has been demonstrated
that, where authoritarian Governments are concerned, broad
sanction regimes merely penalize the population without
bringing about political change. We have noted the progress
made by the Council in devising sanctions, as in the case
of resolution 1072 (1996) on the situation in Burundi and
the one recently adopted on UNITA in Angola, which are
indeed capable of yielding the desired results without
harming innocent populations.
to assist
the Council
important
Lastly, Chile has attached special
importance to
African affairs while a member of the Security Council. We
believed it
in taking
decisions on the problems that region is facing at this
historic moment when African countries are assuming their
own responsibilities for regional problems, as has been
apparent in the Organization of African Unity initiative in
the Arusha process and the activities of the Economic
Community of West African States, among others.
We wish to convey to the Secretary-General and his
colleagues our gratitude for the report, which the General
Assembly will have to analyse in depth, and Chile will
contribute to the debate with interest and dedication and
in an open spirit of consensus.
In this connection, we agree with the Secretary-
General’s statement that the major source of institutional
weakness in the United Nations is the fact that over the
course of the past half century certain of its organizational
features have tended to become fragmented, duplicated
and rigid, resulting in their ineffectiveness in some areas
and superfluity in others. As Chile sees it, the main
obstacle to the reform process has been the fear of change
that exists in the Organization, which has paralysed the
process since it began here in the General Assembly four
years ago. The time has come for all of us, the Secretariat
and Member States alike, to show proudly our collective
creativity, courage and realistic inventiveness. The period
of bureaucratization in the United Nations must give way
to the era of creation.
Only through flexible and efficient management will
we be able to give new impetus to the Organization and
provide it with the proper tools for the true modernization
the international community demands. Reform is not
intrinsically an exercise in cutting costs or reducing staff.
Its aim is to ensure a real and growing increase in the
political effectiveness of the United Nations, from the
Security Council and the way it deals with and resolves
present-day conflicts in today’s world to the Economic
and Social Council and the development agencies.
Many of the problems facing the Organization result
from the fact that Member States have been remiss in
responding to the need to adapt
intergovernmental
machinery to the new requirements of the international
situation. This is perhaps one of the main aspects of the
reform process we have embarked upon.
We are aware that the reform process is not confined
to the Security Council. The Secretary-General has told us
clearly and lucidly that we are facing the most extensive
and farthest-reaching reforms in the 52 years of this
Organization’s history. Accordingly, we welcome his
comprehensive report of last July, entitled, “Renewing the
United Nations: A programme for reform”. We agree with
his proposals aimed at transforming the leadership and
management structure of the United Nations so as to enable
Accordingly, it is essential to proceed further with
the reorientation and restructuring of the Economic and
Social Council in order to coordinate both the agencies
and its subsidiary bodies so that
it may engage in
executive interaction with the functions of the General
Assembly. In that way,
it can regain its leadership
position as a flexible and efficient organ and contribute
effectively to answering the challenges on the economic
and social agenda of the Organization.
27
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
Given this mandate of the Economic and Social
Council, its future relationship with the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund will be extremely important.
In this connection,
the establishment of a substantive
secretariat of the Economic and Social Council seems to us
an interesting proposal.
international society. As the Secretary-General himself
has stated,
they constitute an essential component of
international peace and security. Any measure that
contributes to strengthening the ability of
the High
Commissioner for Human Rights to take action will
receive the firm support of the Chilean delegation.
Similarly, we strongly support the initiatives by the
Secretary-General with regard to the proposals for
interaction between civil society and private enterprise,
which have become major actors at both the national and
international levels. The time has come for civil society,
including the business community, to participate in the
United Nations at a level that reflects the contribution that
it has been making for some time.
A series of measures have been recommended to us
that are designed to make more flexible the procedures
for deliberations in the General Assembly, to reduce the
length of meetings, apply a thematic approach to topical
issues, overcome delays and enable us to concentrate on
the most essential matters. While technically these
proposals appear
than to
substantive aspects, we know that in fact they will not be
simple or merely procedural decisions. In reality, their
aim is to promote the capacity of this Organization to
build consensus, so as to arrive at concise decisions in the
shortest possible time.
to relate more to formal
budgeting, with
On financial matters, we endorse the proposal for
results-based
few institutional
mechanisms having a major strategic impact. This seems
to us an innovation will have far-reaching consequences
for
the idea of
reallocating savings to economic and social activities
through the establishment of a development account.
the Organization. We also support
Furthermore, the reform process should leave room for
the progressive regionalization that is taking place within
the United Nations system. In the review of the regional
commissions to be carried out by the Economic and Social
Council, there is a need to find mechanisms which, without
affecting the regional mandates of each commission, can
contribute to the definition and regional implementation of
the major agreements and consensuses reached by the major
conferences sponsored by the United Nations system over
the past decade.
We are following with interest the proposal to give to
the Resident Coordinator of the Secretary-General authority
over all United Nations bodies in the field. This new
integrated approach, in which the funds and programmes
will retain their autonomy, will contribute to the necessary
tendency towards
cohesion and reduce
divergence
agencies
represented, thereby strengthening their activities.
the natural
the multidisciplinary
between
are
It also seems to us essential to evaluate the subsidiary
bodies in greater depth, using as the main criteria their
relevance and effectiveness, and to take the appropriate
decisions. Accordingly, we
concerned by the
recommendation to merge the Commissions on Narcotic
Drugs and on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, since
that would run the risk of limiting treatment of the problem
of narcotic drugs merely to its criminal dimension, losing
sight, in the process, of elements that are an inherent part
of the drug issue, such as education and prevention. At the
same time,
the reform process must assign special
importance to measures and mechanisms designed to
accelerate economic and social development, especially in
Africa, by supporting domestic efforts at economic
restructuring, diversification of raw materials and increased
food security being carried out by the countries of the
region.
We welcome the proposals designed to strengthen the
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, both
institutionally and substantively, since they seem to us to be
of great
importance for the future development of the
Organization. The protection and promotion of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, together with democracy
and equitable growth, are the three pillars of present-day
28
5th plenary meeting
22 September 1997
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the United Nations requires if it
We have focused our statement on the great task of
reform, which is difficult, complex and full of potential as
well as of problems. We are determined to find the
solutions that
is to
discharge all its mandates and satisfy the demands and
aspirations of an international community that is anxious to
place in the Organization great hopes for the future. We are
determined not to let this opportunity to restructure and
renew the United Nations pass us by. The full cooperation
of the Chilean delegation can be counted on in this effort.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
29
