United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
36th plenary meeting
Monday, 27 October 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 13
Report of the International Court of Justice (A/52/4)
The President: This morning the Assembly will first
turn to the report of the International Court of Justice
covering the period from 1 August 1996 to 31 July 1997.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note of
the report of the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The President: I call on Mr. Stephen Schwebel,
President of the International Court of Justice.
Mr. Schwebel (President of the International Court of
Justice): It is an honour for me to address the General
Assembly on the occasion of its consideration of the annual
report of the International Court of Justice for the period
August 1996 to August 1997. Speaking to the General
Assembly on the Court’s report is a tradition which was
initiated by Sir Robert Jennings during his presidency of the
Court, and it is one that I am happy to maintain, as did my
immediate predecessor as President, Judge Bedjaoui.
It
is a particular pleasure to speak to a General
Assembly that meets under the presidency of Foreign
Minister Udovenko. He is a leader of a State which recently
has taken an important step in support of the Court’s
jurisdiction.
This is the year in which the Organization welcomed
Mr. Kofi Annan as its new Secretary-General. Among the
highlights of the year for the Court was the visit to The
Hague by the Secretary-General in March, shortly after he
took office. Members of the Court took great pleasure in
Mr. Annan’s visit and in having the opportunity to discuss
with him, in depth, matters of current concern to the
Court and to the United Nations. It was in a very real
sense a working visit. The Court appreciated the profound
interest in its work which that visit represented and the
impetus it gave to it.
The Secretary-General, in visiting The Hague, visited
what is increasingly seen as the judicial capital of the
world. The Court is appreciative of the facilities of The
Hague and the courtesies of the host Government. It is
appreciative of the support of the host Government and
the United Nations in extending the Peace Palace to
accommodate the many Judges ad hoc and the staff of the
Registry, extensions which have been notably successful.
It looks forward to the celebrations of the centenary of
the Hague Peace Conference of 1899 and it follows with
high interest
the
establishment of an international criminal court.
the negotiations
in respect of
review,
In the period under
the Court gave a
Judgment on 12 December 1996 upholding its jurisdiction
in the case concerning Oil Platforms brought by the
Islamic Republic of Iran against the United States of
America.
then turned its attention to the case
concerning the Gabcˇíkovo-Nagymaros Project, brought by
Special Agreement between Hungary and Slovakia. It
It
97-86320 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
concerned a project for the joint construction of dams on
the Danube River — and very much more. Quite apart from
the exceptional amount of public interest this case aroused
in those countries, and the variety of difficult and
challenging issues it raised — fundamental issues of the
law of treaties, environmental law, the law of international
watercourses
and State
responsibility — the case presented a number of distinctive
features which called upon the Court’s resourcefulness.
succession
of State
and
The volume of pleadings and documentary annexes
filed exceeded 5,000 pages. There have been other cases of
like or larger dimension of pleadings — such as South West
Africa, Barcelona Traction, some Continental Shelf cases,
and Military and Paramilitary Activities in and against
Nicaragua — but the majority of cases produce pleadings
less massive. The Gabcˇíkovo-Nagymaros pleadings and
annexes placed a considerable burden on the Court’s tiny
translation services and on its budget.
The case also gave the Court the unique opportunity,
between two rounds of oral hearings, at the joint invitation
of the Parties,
“to exercise its functions with regard to the obtaining
of evidence at a place or locality to which the case
relates”. [A/52/4, para. 108]
This procedure is poetically known in French as a descente
sur les lieux; in English, we have come to call it a “site
visit”. The Parties agreed on the detailed itinerary, content
and logistical arrangements of the visit, and the full Court
spent four days visiting locations along the Danube between
Bratislava and Budapest, accompanied by representatives of
the two States and their scientific advisers. The Court
looked, listened, asked many questions and gained a new
dimension of insight into the case and what it meant to the
Parties — much more than could have been gleaned from
confining the proceedings to The Hague. I might add that
it was all organized by the Parties with admirable
efficiency.
I use the word “unique” because it was the first time
in the history of the present Court that such a working visit
to a site of the dispute had been undertaken. The visit was
not entirely unprecedented. Almost 60 years ago, in May
1937, the Permanent Court of International Justice spent
two days visiting a number of locations rather closer to the
the Court, along the River Meuse between
seat of
Maastricht and Antwerp,
in connection with a dispute
between the Netherlands and Belgium in the case
concerning the Diversion of Water from the Meuse. The
2
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
published record of that visit is terse, but even so, the
parallels between the two exercises — as between the
cases themselves and the character of the visits — turned
out to be striking.
There have been other occasions when such visits
were requested by one party or canvassed, but for various
reasons were not carried out by the Court. Clearly, the
issues of law can usually be decided without such an
exercise. In the exceptional case in which a site visit
would be useful, it would depend upon a high degree of
cooperation between the States concerned, and one can
imagine only some contentious cases in which the
situation on the ground may lend itself to carrying out a
site visit. There are also financial implications for the
States concerned. However, the successful completion of
this valuable procedure in the Gabcˇíkovo case is
suggestive.
The Court gave its Judgment in the Gabcˇíkovo case
on 24 September. The importance of that Judgment not
only for Hungary and Slovakia, but for the interpretation,
application and development of international
is
considerable. It is a Judgment of significance for the law
of
international
watercourses, of the environment and of State succession.
treaties, of State responsibility, of
law,
concluded pursuant
The Gabcˇíkovo Judgment
is notable, moreover,
because of the breadth and depth of the importance given
in it
to the work product of the International Law
Commission. The Court’s Judgment not only draws on
treaties
to the Commission’s
proceedings — those on the law of treaties, of State
succession in respect of
treaties, and the law of
international watercourses; it also gives great weight to
some of
the Commission’s draft articles on State
responsibility, as did both Hungary and Slovakia in their
pleadings. This is not wholly exceptional;
it
illustrates the fact that, just as the judgments and opinions
of the Court have influenced the work of the International
Law Commission, so the work of the Commission may
influence that of the Court.
rather
The Gabcˇíkovo-Nagymaros Judgment is noteworthy
too because it is the first of the Court to be placed on the
Court’s own Internet website, and that on the day of
delivery of the Judgment. There was great use made of
this innovation and we are confident that there will be of
our website generally.
A last reason why the Gabcˇíkovo-Nagymaros case is
of particular interest is that it is, in a sense, ongoing, even
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
after that Judgment. This is because of the nature of the
parties’ agreement as to what the role of the Court was to
be. Essentially, in their Special Agreement, they handed
over to the Court for resolution the legal aspects of a
dispute which had deeply divided them at the political
level, and which had proved intractable. The questions put
by the parties, precisely framed, were clearly and
conclusively answered by the Court in accordance with
international law. But that is not where it ends; the Special
Agreement goes on to provide that the parties shall
after
“Immediately
the
Judgment ... enter into negotiations on the modalities
for its execution.”
transmission
the
of
It further provides that
“If they are unable to reach agreement within six
months, either party may request the Court to render
an additional Judgment to determine the modalities for
executing its Judgment.”
for
search
So, in a very real sense, the function of the Court in
this case has been to provide the parties with the legal
answers within which they may pursue their
further
negotiations: in other words, to advance the progress of
their mutual
assuming
responsibility for defining the fundamental legal parameters
of that process. It is for them to apply the Court’s Judgment
in taking their negotiations to a new level. In so doing, they
will be directed not only by the Court’s Judgment about the
law of the matter, about the legal rights and wrongs of the
past. They will also be guided by the Court’s views as to
the practical content of future cooperative arrangements.
solution
a
by
This recalls to mind the concept evoked by Sir Robert
Jennings when he addressed the Assembly in October 1993,
charting the tendency, already apparent then, for the Court
to be seen not solely as a sort of judicial “last resort”,
though it
is that, but also as “a partner in preventive
diplomacy”, a vital part of the machinery deployed by
States in the course of dispute resolution, machinery by
which judicial findings of fact and rulings of law may
define the bounds of constructive negotiations. The Court
is gratified by the continuing development of this role, as
part of the fabric of diplomatic negotiation with which the
members of the community of nations interact to further the
principles of the Charter and of international law.
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
only of disputes which are settled because of the prospect
of resort to the Court, but also of those cases which, at a
certain stage of the proceedings, have become ripe for
and resulted in negotiated settlements.
There have been some telling examples in the past
few years. Sir Robert mentioned two. One was the case
on Certain Phosphate Lands between Nauru and
Australia, which was
settled after a Judgment on
jurisdiction and admissibility favourable to Nauru. The
other was the Great Belt case between Finland and
Denmark, which was, after issuance of an order on a
request for the indication of provisional measures, settled
very shortly before the expedited hearings on the merits
were to start, by negotiations which the Court had
encouraged. The maritime delimitation case between
Guinea-Bissau and Senegal also was discontinued by
agreement, in the wake of a Judgment of the Court in a
related case between those States. And,
in another
settlement, like that of the Great Belt made virtually on
the courthouse steps, hearings due to take place in the
Aerial Incident case between the Islamic Republic of Iran
and the United States of America were postponed sine die
at the request of the parties in 1994. Subsequently the
case was settled.
These breakthroughs
in negotiation are to be
welcomed. They do, however, pose certain problems for
the Court in terms of deployment of its scarce resources,
and I will return to this point in a moment.
its underutilization and its potential
My distinguished predecessor as President, Judge
Bedjaoui, took up the theme of the Court’s advisory
function,
for
expansion to a wider spectrum of organs and agencies.
Since then, as the Assembly is aware, the Court has given
two important Advisory Opinions, in July 1996, one at
the request of the World Health Organization on the
Legality of the Use by a State of Nuclear Weapons in
Armed Conflict, and the other at
the request of the
General Assembly itself, on the Legality of the Threat or
Use of Nuclear Weapons. The Court has noted the
response of the General Assembly, in resolution 51/45 M,
to the Court’s opinion and its decision to include in the
provisional agenda of its fifty-second session an item
the
entitled “Follow-up to the advisory opinion of
International Court of Justice on the Legality of
the
Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons”.
This is why it is important to take account, in any
assessment of the Court’s work, not only of the cases which
have been the subject of Judgments of the Court, and not
The limitations on the role of the Court can be
structural, jurisdictional or circumstantial. Of the latter,
the most obvious and immediate are resource constraints,
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
notably, shortage of staff and money. The Court, a principal
organ of the United Nations and, at the same time, in terms
of staff and budget a very small fraction of it, has suffered
severely over
the current budgetary biennium from
budgetary and staff cuts. However, the Secretary-General
and his colleagues, and the Assembly itself, have been
responsive in helping the Court to deal with its difficulties,
with the fortuitous assistance of a rise in the value of the
dollar. Their commitment to, and understanding of, the
proper functioning of the Court as its Statute requires, is a
matter of profound appreciation by the Court.
The Court continues to confront a heavy caseload
under severe financial constraints. Resources are scarce and
must be wisely deployed. Even though we have made some
changes in the way in which we handle translation, our
resources in this field are barely sufficient for the needs of
immediately pending cases. There is no room for forward
planning in the sense of embarking on the translation of
cases which are not close to being ready for hearing, as
there is simply no way of funding it. Moreover, there is
uncertainty about whether it will be a wasted effort in the
event of a settlement of the case before hearing.
is hard,
This is why the consequences of an unpredicted
settlement on the courthouse steps, however desirable it
may be for the parties and for the broader interests of
dispute resolution, can be disruptive of the Court’s carefully
resourced schedule of work. It
in the present
financial climate, to have a fallback position, especially at
the merits phase of a case — that is, to have another case
which is fully translated and ready for hearing, and which
can be brought forward at short notice. While in an ideal
world this would be desirable, in any event there is always
an amplitude of pleadings requiring study by the members
of the Court. The Court is at work even when it is not
publicly sitting.
systems of
the world. Secondly,
legal
it can truly claim to be universal:
A fundamental consideration is the undoubted strength
of the Court sitting in The Hague in its full composition.
First,
its Members
together represent the main forms of civilization and the
principal
in
combining both oral and written phases of procedure, it
marries the key features of the common and civil law
systems. The bench brings to bear the distinctive analytical
techniques of both. At the same time, the Court’s attitude
towards evidence is demonstrably flexible. And lastly —
and this is important — its decision-making process,
carefully elaborated in the 1976 Resolution on the Internal
Judicial Practice of the Court, is structured so as to permit
each and every member of the Court to participate on an
4
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
equal footing while maintaining the forward momentum
of the drafting work.
On examining this resolution, one is struck by the
careful balance of considerations of equality and
discipline, and also by the importance of having an agreed
structure and sequence to serve as the framework for the
Court’s deliberations. It is a coherent and coordinated
process, with the emphasis squarely on the collective
nature of the exercise. Consistently with this philosophy,
Judges who might append separate or dissenting opinions
still participate fully in the discussions and influence the
contents of the Court’s work, so that the judgment is in
every sense the judgment of the whole Court. Those
opinions are produced in the same time-frame as the
judgment and are included with the text on the date it is
rendered, rather than weeks or months later. If only
because of the time it saves, which might otherwise be
spent in discussing how to proceed — which can happen
in arbitration, at a cost to the parties — the Court’s
established practice is a boon, and there is more to
commend in it than that.
At the same time, any busy court must periodically
review its procedures to ensure that they meet the needs
of the day. In the last dozen years the Court has become
much busier while, in the last few years, operating under
sharp financial restrictions.
Because of their very nature, the proceedings of the
Court cannot be swift — apart from provisional measures
or the occasional urgent advisory opinion. The Court’s
procedures
institution
judiciously to fulfil its unique and vital function in the
service of international law, and to protect and uphold
certain fundamental judicial principles. That function and
those principles remain vital.
are designed to allow the
It is desirable that cases should be dealt with as
expeditiously as possible, consistent with justice and with
the highest levels of professional care. States themselves
often require substantial periods of
the
preparation of their written pleadings. At the same time,
with the increase in the Court’s caseload in recent years,
the time that elapses between the date when a case or a
phase of a case is ready for a hearing, and when a case
actually is heard, is too long, because the Court is still
dealing with prior cases. The Court has been studying
how best this problem may be addressed.
time for
It charged its Rules Committee with developing
proposals to maximize the Court’s efficiency. The Court
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
has recently adopted a range of alterations to its working
practices. Some of these will involve the parties, and some
only the Court. The Court will inform parties to litigation
of the new procedures that it proposes that may affect them.
For instance, a new case cannot, of course, be heard until
its pleadings are ready in both French and English. Because
the translation of voluminous annexes of documents is
expensive and time-consuming, it is to be hoped that the
parties to cases before the Court will exercise every care to
ensure that
there are annexed to pleadings only those
documents, or sections of documents,
that are really
required.
length he or
the Court or
As for the measures that relate to the Court itself, it
has been the longstanding practice for each Judge, upon the
conclusion of the oral proceedings of a case, to prepare a
written note, of whatever
she thinks
appropriate, analysing the key issues of law in the case.
These notes are translated and circulated for study before
the Judges meet to deliberate on a case. The Court has now
determined that it may proceed without written notes where
it considers it necessary, in suitable cases concerning the
jurisdiction of
the
application. This has already been the practice in the case
of urgent requests for interim measures of protection. This
departure will be on an experimental basis. The traditional
practice regarding the preparation of written notes will be
continued with regard to cases in which the Court is to
decide on the merits.
the admissibility of
The Court has made further
important decisions
directed to accelerating its work. In particular, appropriate
cases on jurisdiction may be heard “back to back” — that
is to say, in immediate succession — so that work may
then proceed on them both concurrently. This innovation
will be undertaken on an experimental basis, where there
are appropriate cases and a pressing need to proceed
rapidly.
The Court has also confirmed its recent practice in
trying to give the parties notice of its intended schedule for
the next three cases, believing that such forward planning
assists both States and their counsel, and the Court.
In order to respond as best it may to the legitimate
aspirations of States to have their cases heard as soon as
possible, the Court has decided upon these measures and
also upon a series of related and consequential changes in
administrative and internal practices.
If States and the Court together cooperate along the
lines I have indicated, we believe cases — including those
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
on the current docket — can be ready for oral argument
within an acceptable time after the conclusion of the
written phase. States can come to the Court secure in the
knowledge that their important legal disputes will be
judicially resolved within a reasonable time.
Support for the Court from member States in its
endeavour to continue to fulfil its statutory obligations in
an optimal manner is, of course, most welcome. I note in
this connection the proposals made by Mexico to the
session of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of
the Organization, held in January and February of this
year. Mexico proposed that the International Court of
Justice should be part of the ongoing process of reform
and revitalization. Indeed it should.
However, I would urge Member States to bear in
mind that such initiatives must be developed within the
framework of the Court’s Statute, which is an integral
part of the Charter. The Statute can be amended, but no
more easily than the Charter itself, and any amendments
would require the most careful consideration. The Court
itself, in the last article of its Statute, is given “power to
propose such amendments to the present Statute as it may
deem necessary”. Article 30 of the Statute gives the Court
the sole power
its
functions, and in particular its rules of procedure. The
Court has, and must continue to enjoy, complete
autonomy in establishing its own practices and procedures
if its judicial independence is to be preserved. Equally, if
it is to operate as the Charter provides, the Court must be
accorded the resources to do its work. These are the
essential conditions for the Court to further “the principles
of justice and international law” to which the purposes of
the United Nations Charter refer.
to frame rules for carrying out
Mr. Tello (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
We are grateful to Judge Stephen M. Schwebel, President
of the International Court of Justice, for the report he has
submitted to the General Assembly. We appreciate this
opportunity to strengthen the links of communication and
cooperation between two principal organs of the United
Nations. We are pleased to note that this year’s report of
the Court was published earlier than usual. We hope that
this, which gives States timely information about the work
of the Court, will continue in the future and will mark the
beginning of a more effective dialogue.
The pace of Court
increased
considerably in recent years. We are pleased to note that
States turn more frequently to judicial means for the
activities has
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in a situation where
settlement of their disputes. Yet
disputes on points of law are a fact of life, recourse to
Court adjudication should be greater still.
At present, only 60 States — less than one third of the
membership of
the United Nations — recognize as
compulsory the jurisdiction of the International Court of
Justice. This is a very low figure in an Organization of 185
Members. During the reporting period, only one State,
Paraguay,
as
compulsory the Court’s jurisdiction as contemplated by
Article 36 of the Statute of the Court. We welcome the
decision taken by Paraguay and urge States that have not
yet done so to do the same.
recognizing
declaration
deposited
a
We are convinced that recognition of the Court’s
jurisdiction as compulsory by all the permanent members of
the Security Council would prove to be a crucial and
decisive element in promoting greater use of judicial means
for the settlement of disputes. At present, only the United
Kingdom recognizes this jurisdiction.
The broad dissemination of the publications and
decisions of the Court improves the study of international
law and facilitates the understanding of that subject. That
is why we particularly welcome the Court’s decision to set
up an Internet site to expand the availability of
its
documents. We are confident that this decision will not
affect
the availability or the quantity of printed Court
documents, which are still necessary in places with limited
access to electronic media.
its fifty-first session,
There is a reference in paragraph 153 of the report to
the Court’s present budgetary restrictions. In his statement
to the General Assembly at
the
President of the Court spoke of that issue and of other
factors that limit the capacity of the highest judicial organ
to contribute to the peaceful settlement of disputes and to
the purpose of the maintenance of peace. The current
President has just made reference to the same problem. The
delegation of Mexico is aware of these concerns and is
convinced that the Court must have all the practical means
it needs to strengthen its role; in the Special Committee on
the Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening
of
the Organization, my delegation has
encouraged a discussion of the impact that the increased
number of cases before the Court has on the Court’s
functioning.
the Role of
Ms. Eshmambetova (Kyrgyzstan), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
6
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
The objective of this exchange is to help the Court
to deal with a growing caseload. We reiterate today that
this exercise is not aimed at involving Member States in
areas that are internal to the functioning to the Court, as
this is the sole purview of the institution itself; nor is it
aimed at
in its Statute. The
leading to reforms
independence and authority of
the Court must be
preserved at all times. We hope that the Court, as well as
States, will participate in this exercise, which we are
confident can lead to a strengthened institution.
international humanitarian law. Likewise,
We underscore once again the importance of the
advisory opinion handed down by the Court on 8 July
1996 regarding the Legality of the Threat or Use of
Nuclear Weapons. In its opinion, the Court determined
that the threat or use of nuclear weapons would generally
be contrary to the rules of international law applicable in
armed conflict, and in particular the principles and rules
of
and
unanimously, it affirmed that there exists an obligation on
the part of all States to pursue in good faith and bring to
a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament
under strict and effective international control. We note
with concern that, in spite of this opinion, there is no sign
yet of an unequivocal commitment on the part of all
States to implement effectively this judgment by the
Court.
In the already long history of humankind,
the
existence of this type of weapon constitutes an aberration
which has lasted just a few decades. That is why we are
convinced that it must disappear, and why Mexico will
remain committed and work to make nuclear disarmament
a reality in the near future.
Mr. Amorim (Brazil): I would like to start by
thanking the President of the International Court of
Justice (ICJ), Judge Schwebel, for his introduction of this
year’s report to the General Assembly. We welcome the
opportunity afforded by the annual presentation of the
ICJ’s report
to the General Assembly as a valuable
occasion for an exchange on the work of the principal
judicial organ of the United Nations.
During the Court’s fiftieth anniversary in 1996, there
were frequent references to a renewal of interest in its
activities. Judge Schwebel spoke of a burgeoning of the
Court, with an increasing number of cases in its docket
since the last decade. More recently, Judge Gilbert
Guillaume has referred to “a resurrection of international
justice”. Many have pointed out that justice can contribute
to the maintenance of international peace, and that peace
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
favours recourse to justice. There seems to be a growing
perception that the end of the cold war is conducive to the
pacific settlement of disputes and that the International
Court of Justice can play an important role, together with
the General Assembly and the Security Council,
in
founding peace through justice, in conformity with the
United Nations Charter.
The latest report from the ICJ indicates that at present
there are nine cases before the Court. These cases involve
disputes of varying nature, some of which have been
associated with the use or threat of use of force, while
others are of a more benign nature. In at least one case, the
Court has been instrumental in helping to prevent hostility
between two bordering nations in Africa from degenerating
into an armed conflict. In other instances, it may be acting
as a channel for preventive diplomacy, by defusing tensions
which might otherwise have given way to unbridled
antagonism.
The Judgment on the dispute concerning the projected
diversion of the Danube for the construction of a dam on
the Hungarian/Slovak border, made public after the issuance
of
should hopefully contribute to
promoting confidence and cooperation in a part of the
world that is only now beginning to overcome a difficult
period of transition.
the latest
report,
In addition to its role in solving the contentious cases
before it, the Court retains its unique capacity to issue
advisory opinions on any legal question in response to
requests by the General Assembly and the Security Council.
The impact of the Advisory Opinion delivered on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons can still
be felt in the deliberations of the General Assembly, and
there are many who feel that greater use should be made of
the Court’s expertise under Article 96.
Authoritative voices have suggested that the capacity
of United Nations organs and its specialized agencies to
request advisory opinions might be extended to include
other intergovernmental international organizations. Many
consider that the United Nations Secretary-General should
be authorized to request advisory opinions on legal
questions arising within the scope of his responsibilities.
As further evidence of the Court’s enduring relevance,
the number of treaties which provide for submission to it of
disputes arising thereunder continues to grow, and at last
count stood at 264, more than 100 of
those being
multilateral treaties.
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
Furthermore, in his critical appraisal of the ICJ’s
first 50 years, the President of the Court has suggested
that affording other international courts the facility of
appeal
to the International Court of Justice merits
consideration, as specialized international courts multiply
and the need arises to ensure that various international
courts do not develop conflicting interpretations of
international law. The intensification of the negotiating
process for the establishment of an international criminal
court should be borne in mind in this context.
At the same time, the question of calling upon the
Court to examine the jurisdictional boundaries between
the different organs of the United Nations system and
granting it powers of judicial review over administrative
action or political decisions is one that
is likely to
re-emerge some time in the future, given the appropriate
political climate.
In short, in all likelihood, the workload of the judges
will tend to increase and to gain in significance. It is
therefore necessary that the General Assembly and the
general public be kept well
informed of the Court’s
activities, and that appropriate resources be allocated for
it to meet the rising demand for its services.
The section on publications and documents in this
year’s report admits that there have been delays caused by
the present budgetary restrictions in the publishing of the
Court’s fascicles and Yearbook, a trend which could give
rise to concern if it were to persist. But more serious
seem to be the warnings to the effect that the Court has
been falling behind schedule in discharging its substantive
responsibilities. Remedies must be found to prevent such
undue delays
to scepticism or
disillusionment regarding the Court’s international role, a
development which would not be in conformity with the
rising expectations of the international community for an
order
law, as well as on
founded on the rule of
transparency and accountability.
from giving rise
We are grateful to the delegation of Mexico for
the Special Committee on the
having proposed that
Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of
the Role of the Organization examine practical ways and
means to strengthen the Court and to enhance its capacity
to contribute to the peaceful settlement of disputes and
the maintenance of international peace. As was clarified
by the representative of Mexico, such an undertaking
could be carried out without
the need to amend the
the Statute, and without purporting to
Charter or
undermine the authority or independence of the Court.
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
We agree that some thought can usefully be given to
improving the Court’s capacity to deal with a larger number
of cases in a more expeditious and efficient manner, and we
would concur with the suggestion that the Court itself, as
well as Member States, submit their written comments on
the matter.
I should like briefly to digress, to make a comment
that I believe is relevant in this context.
important
A draft resolution was circulated on 22 October which
raises
legal questions going beyond the
immediate aims of its proponents. The draft, contained in
document A/52/L.7, suggests that there is a
“need to comply faithfully with the provisions of
Article 108 of the Charter of the United Nations with
respect to any resolution with Charter amendment
implications”.
The word “implications” is dangerously vague,
possibly intentionally. The Charter does not provide for the
adoption of draft resolutions according to Article 108,
which applies specifically to amendments. Is it admissible
that
the majorities mentioned in Article 108 become
applicable to draft resolutions which are not actual Charter
amendments through the adoption of a draft resolution
itself? And, assuming it is, would not that draft resolution
itself be subject, by the same logic,
to Article 108
provisions in turn, since it would stretch too far the
meaning of a Charter provision?
It should be recalled that Article 108 also refers to
ratification, and requires that the five permanent members
of the Security Council approve the amendments before
thus being suggested that
they come into force. Is it
resolutions which may or may not
in the future be
translated into Charter amendments would be subject to
ratification, and thus to the veto? Is it acceptable to
introduce the veto power into the General Assembly? A
resolution, may I recall, is not an amendment; it is the
sense of the General Assembly, even if, at a future stage,
it may be the basis of an amendment, which then, but only
then, would be subject, of course, to the provisions of
Article 108.
Without going into the political merit of
the
requirement for a large majority when important draft
resolutions are voted on, a requirement with which we
agree, we must consider carefully the serious precedents
these drafts, if adopted, would establish.
8
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
This is the kind of question that would probably
benefit from the Court’s legal advice, provided it can act
expeditiously.
Mr. Mabilangan (Philippines): I would like to start
by expressing my gratitude for the comprehensive and
enlightening report of Mr. Stephen Schwebel, President of
the International Court of Justice.
My country, one of 60 of the 185 parties to the
Statute of the Court that recognize as compulsory the
jurisdiction of the Court, continues to give work of the
Court the highest regard and importance. We feel that the
Court is significant not only as a distinguished and viable
venue for the settlement of disputes, but also as a major
factor in maintaining faith in the law in our fragmented
global legal system.
States by and large prefer that
the Court avoid
creating law. States would still
like to reserve that
exercise for themselves. But the Court’s pronouncements
are a primary source for international lawyers, scholars
and policy makers. Practically every paragraph of a
decision or advisory opinion is scrutinized, probed,
examined and quoted. Most cases and advisory opinions
lead to publicists’
filling journals and books with
hundreds of pages of analysis and comments. In that
sense, the Court plays a significant role in saying what
the law is for a great many people.
States make treaties. States make the practice and
manifest the opinio juris that build customary law. States,
in so doing, look to the work of the Court. The body of
work created by the Court is probably the most influential
factor when a State acts in the context of making or
applying international law.
It is a truism in most legal systems that hard cases
make bad law. In the international arena, so far, hard
cases make no law. With far too few exceptions, the truly
significant disputes and conflicts in the world are still to
see the light of day in the Court or in any other judicial
or third-party forum. This is still true today, even though
a State that finds itself tempted by self-interest to erode
traditional and established norms may in time regret its conduct.
have
to
the
Some
pointed
non-compulsory
jurisdiction of the Court as its major weakness. In some
instances, those involved in a dispute lament that the
Court
compulsory
jurisdiction. This is an attitude that oversimplifies the
nature and content of international disputes. The non-
universal
does
not
have
and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
compulsory jurisdiction of the Court for them becomes an
excuse for inaction.
My region is experiencing an era of peace and stability
that has provided a firm basis for its sustained progress and
growth. Yet we are not without problems. In the seas
central to our region, we have disputes over territory and
boundaries. The Philippines has consistently taken a
position of resolving these disputes peacefully, including
bringing them to the Court. We continue to maintain this
position.
We have been moving forward in addressing these
disputes, though the steps we have taken are small, few and
cautious. We are confident that we will find a just, peaceful
and lasting solution to this situation, and we study very
closely each and every legal pronouncement
and
formulation the Court makes in cases before it that concern
territorial and maritime disputes.
From the report of the Court, we note that the Court’s
docket today is the fullest it has ever been. There was a
time when it was not so full. There was a time when the
Court had so few cases that the rumoured practice of the
Chief Clerk of the Permanent Court of International Justice
would come to mind. In the 1920s and 1930s the Chief
Clerk of that Court was said to have made his way about
the capitals of Europe as a kind of agent provocateur,
talking up border disputes that the Court could adjudicate.
But I anticipate that even more cases will be brought
to the Court. The end of the cold war meant a reduction in
the role that power played in determining the outcome of
State behaviour in its many aspects. Today states have the
law as a primary guide for their behaviour. Also the stigma
of resorting to third parties is declining.
Our interdependent world is turning into a very
complex one. While the reports of the death of the State are
exaggerated, today States are disaggregating into separate,
functionally distinct parts. Non-State and sub-State actors
that bring with them vastly complex and wide varieties of
issues are forcing us to reassess the rules that govern us.
These factors, unimaginable only a decade ago, are causing
States to be as creative in resolving their disputes as the
situation demands.
The changed global circumstances has also made
possible one of the most significant requests for an advisory
opinion ever made of the Court. While a definitive ruling
on the specific issue before it would have been desirable,
the assumption by the Court of its jurisdiction on a highly
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
political issue and its subsequent Advisory Opinion on the
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons is a
welcome development. The Court must, therefore, have
the resources by which to play its increasing role in
resolving disputes and in the progress of international law.
In spite of the logistical difficulties facing the Court,
it has not failed to keep up with technology and the
challenges of cyberspace. The Court has an impressive
website, dignified and full of useful information, yet user-
friendly. While the website contains many useful
documents, I hope that
the day will come when the
Court’s wisdom and erudition will truly be available to
anyone who can dial up a server and access the Internet.
On my visit
the
decisions and pleadings in two or three cases were
accessible through its website.
to the Court’s website, I saw that
current
considering the
It is my hope that one day all the decisions, advisory
opinions, orders and pleadings of the Court will be
available on the website. I know that this is a rather
daunting task,
limitations
experienced by the Court. Neither do I wish to deprive of
their business existing websites or services that offer these
documents at prices only rich law firms or well-endowed
institutions can afford. But there is much that the Court
says about international law that could help guide States,
not only in settling disputes, but also in preventing them,
as well as in their general dealings with other subjects
and objects of international law.
While on the subject of
the Court’s Internet
presence, I could not help but notice something else about
its website. The word “web” in Internet language is used
on purpose, and is very descriptive of the nature and
practice in the Internet of linkages and interusage. Yet, in
what is a rather rare case for websites on the Internet, the
Court’s website has no links with other sites, not even
with the United Nations Home Page.
As an avid user of the Internet, at first I found this
strange. But after a few seconds of cybershock I realized
the profound symbolism in this: that the Court is indeed
an independent body. It is this independence, together
with its probity and integrity, and a well-deserved
infusion of resources, that will sustain the Court as it
continues to assume a central role in the pursuit of justice
and the maintenance of world peace.
Mr. Kamaruddin Bin Ahmad (Malaysia): My
delegation wishes to congratulate Judge Stephen M.
Schwebel on his re-election, as well as his elevation to
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the presidency of the International Court of Justice, and to
thank him for his report in document A/52/4. My delegation
also wishes to congratulate both Judge Pieter H. Kooijmans
and Judge Francesco Rezek on their election to the Court.
Our felicitations also go to Judges M. Bedjaoui and S.
Vereshchetin on their re-election.
My delegation notes that there has been increasing
recourse to the Court by Member States over the years. It
is also heartening to note that 60 States have made
declarations recognizing as compulsory the jurisdiction of
the Court, as stipulated in article 36, paragraphs 2 and 5, of
the Statute. This positive development is to be welcomed,
as it will contribute to the continued relevance and
strengthening of the Court in the United Nations system.
The International Court of Justice, like other United
Nations organs, has an important role to play in the
promotion of peace and harmony between nations and
peoples of the world through the rule of law. However, it
is disquieting to note that nine contentious cases under the
Court’s review are still pending. Some of these cases, in
my delegation’s view, would have been expeditiously
solved, especially when much substantive work has already
been done, but for the objections of certain Member States
by virtue of article 79, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Court.
In our view, resorting to that article too frequently will only
delay settlement of the cases, and will not be in the overall
interest of Member States. We would,
therefore, urge
parties to disputes before the Court to cooperate as fully as
possible with it to ensure an expeditious settlement of their
disputes.
In the light of the increase in the number of cases
referred to the International Court of Justice in the last
several years, there is an urgent need to strengthen the
Court’s capacity to handle these cases. We note that the
Court has been placed under a severe strain, with reductions
in both its human and financial resources. Consequently, it
has not been able satisfactorily to provide its judicial
services to meet with the increasing demands made by
Member States. My delegation, therefore, strongly supports
the call for the Court to be given adequate human and
financial resources to enable it to fulfil its functions and
responsibilities as an important organ within the United
Nations system. My delegation further hopes that, with the
establishment and commissioning of
the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, States will consider
referring their maritime disputes to the Tribunal, thereby
lessening the Court’s burden.
10
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
As the only judicial organ of the United Nations, the
Court, my delegation also believes, should be a source of
advisory opinions for other organs of the United Nations.
The intergovernmental organs of the United Nations
should not only utilize the Court as a source that can
interpret the relevant and applicable laws, but should also
refer controversial
for advisory
opinions. In this regard, Malaysia is particularly pleased
with the Advisory Opinion rendered by the Court last
year on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear
Weapons, which, in the view of my delegation, was an
important
nuclear
disarmament.
issues to the Court
development
of
in
the
issue
It
is clear
to my delegation that
the Court’s
judgments and opinions have all contributed to the
progressive development of international law, and this is
consistent with the thrust and aims of the United Nations
Decade of International Law programme. Even if, on
occasions, a request to file a case has been dismissed by
the Court on certain legal or technical grounds, the filing
of these cases has, nevertheless, had a salutary impact on
account of the publicity generated.
My delegation commends the efforts made by the
Court to increase public awareness and understanding of
its work, such as through the various talks and lectures
given by the President and other members of the Court,
as well as by the Registrar and other officials of the
Court. While disseminating information about the Court
through traditional methods is to be welcomed and further
encouraged, my delegation believes that
the use of
advanced technology in enhancing public awareness about
the Court and its activities should be improved. To this
end, we express strong support for the steps taken by the
Court to take advantage of the benefits provided by the
electronic media, such as the Internet, and in particular
its own website, which should
the construction of
facilitate public access
to the Court’s voluminous
documents.
In conclusion, it is the view of my delegation that,
like the other organs and institutions within the United
Nations system, the International Court of Justice should
directly benefit
from the ongoing reform process
undertaken by the United Nations. A revitalized
International Court of Justice should certainly contribute
to its effectiveness and efficiency in handling the many
cases before it, thereby enhancing the role of the Court in
the promotion of justice under international law.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
(Argentina)
Mr. Rebagliati
(interpretation from
Spanish): First, I should like to welcome Judge Stephen M.
Schwebel to this Hall, and say how pleased Argentina is at
his election to the Presidency of the International Court of
Justice (ICJ). We would also like to express our
appreciation to Judge Mohammed Bedjaoui for the brilliant
leadership he demonstrated during his Presidency.
Argentina attaches particular importance to this type
of dialogue which takes place annually between the General
Assembly and the International Court of Justice to examine
the progress of the Court’s work. This periodic contact not
only demonstrates the General Assembly’s interest in the
Court’s activities,
the close
cooperation that must exist between the principal organs of
the United Nations for the attainment of their objectives.
is also exemplary of
it
the
The
ICJ,
capacity as
international
in its
community’s principal
judicial organ, has fundamental
responsibilities for the peaceful settlement of disputes
through the application of the rule of law. In fulfilling this
specific function, the Court occupies a privileged place in
the overall system for the maintenance of international
peace and security.
Without being unduly optimistic, we must emphasize
the growing importance of the Court and the law in today’s
world. Though international society remains consensus-
driven, it is clear that international relations are increasingly
permeated by the law. The rule of law is of particular
importance in weaving the international
fabric of a
globalized society in which unity and interdependence
coexist with a trend towards fragmentation and the
worsening of local conflicts.
to submit
their disputes
The progress in international law is manifested in the
growing will of States
to
jurisdictional dispute settlement mechanisms, and to accept
adjudication by third parties in order
to make State
the same time, States are
responsibility effective. At
moving
towards
penal
responsibility of
those who commit extremely grave
international crimes, through the creation of special courts
and the forthcoming establishment of an international
criminal court.
establishing
individual
the
All of this reveals the aspiration of States to strengthen
the law and punish violations. More generally, it reflects the
international community’s progressive recognition that
justice is an essential component of a stable peace.
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
In this context, the number and complexity of the
cases brought before the International Court of Justice
attests, in particular, to the willingness of States to submit
and entrust
the most varied aspects of
international relations.
to the Court
In the period covered by the report, the Court has
handled cases involving central aspects of international
peace and security, such as questions arising from the
aerial
the
implementation of the international Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.
incident at Lockerbie, oil platforms, or
The fact that the Court is dealing with matters that
are undoubtedly among the most complex and topical of
international law reveals the growing international trust in
its authority, integrity, impartiality and independence. Its
vitality and prestige have been reflected not only in the
nature of the cases brought before it, but also in the
increase in the number of States from all regions that
have turned to the Court for the settlement of disputes. At
the same time, the will of States to develop international
law and broaden its content is apparent. This, in turn,
should benefit the functions of the Court by strengthening
the legal basis for their exercise.
The States must see to it that the International Court
of Justice will be able to cope with the expected
expansion of its activities. The Court is endowed by its
Statute and rules with the procedural tools it needs in
order effectively to carry out its functions, both with
respect to dispute settlement and in the framework of its
equally important advisory authority.
We must ensure that the Court is also provided with
adequate resources to make the best use of those tools,
which were designed by the founding fathers and the
members of the Court themselves. At a time when our
Organization is confronting severe budgetary restraints
and is debating the process of reform, we most not allow
circumstantial problems to undermine the ICJ’s immense
potential in the maintenance of international peace and
security.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Berrocal Soto (Costa Rica) (interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation is pleased to be able to take the
floor in this debate on the report of the International Court
of Justice (document A/52/4). We are particularly honoured
by the presence of the distinguished President of the Court,
Judge Schwebel, whose erudition is well known and widely
admired.
Costa Rica has renounced the force of arms and
accepted the force of law. International law is the sole,
reliable guarantee of our independence and sovereignty. Our
faith in the principles of the Charter has enabled us to
throw off the financial and budgetary burden of maintaining
an army and has enabled us to build a more humane and
just society, based on universal respect for human rights.
This year my country is celebrating the forty-ninth
anniversary of the constitutional abolition of its armed
forces. In this connection, respect and support for the rule
of law are the fundamental pillars of our foreign policy and
our position here in the United Nations. The promotion of
human rights, respect for international humanitarian law,
the implementation of the principle of non-intervention,
total adherence to the prohibition of the use of force and
the fostering of democracy as the ideal way to realize the
right of peoples to self-determination — these are all
recurring themes in our international actions, both here in
the General Assembly and in the Security Council. Only
respect
to
international law, can enable us to build an international
society that is more humane, just and harmonious, more
peaceful and more civilized.
those principles, which are
central
for
In this,
the International Court of Justice plays a
central role. Any legal system requires effective machinery
for the peaceful settlement of disputes. If that machinery
did not exist, disputes would interfere with the normal
processes of international relations and could become
threats to peace. States therefore have an unequivocal
obligation to settle disputes peacefully and without recourse
to armed force. In this connection, the International Court
of Justice is eminently well equipped. When States are
unable to settle their disputes through negotiations, they can
have recourse to the Court in exercise of their sovereign
right to choose the means to settle disputes. Only the Court
possesses the appropriate intellectual and material resources
to analyse thoroughly the various de facto and de jure
arguments submitted by the parties to the dispute, and only
the Court can then hand down a solution to satisfy the
parties’ desire for justice within the context of the United
Nations Charter.
12
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
in
the
role
progressive
development
Furthermore — and this is one of its essential
functions — the International Court of Justice plays a
central
of
international law. In particular, Costa Rica believes that
the Court’s Advisory Opinion on the Legality of
the
the
Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons is one of
milestones in the development of
international
law,
recognizing as it does the obligation on all States to enter
into negotiations in good faith on complete nuclear
disarmament under effective international control. My
country is fully committed to compliance with that
commitment and is prepared to participate in such
fundamental and necessary negotiations at any time.
In the light of what I have said, and given the
extremely important role of the International Court of
Justice, it is regrettable that so far only one third of the
States of the international community — some 60 States
only — have recognized the compulsory jurisdiction of
the Court. It is also regrettable that, in addition, many of
them have limited their
recognition by expressing
reservations, thereby unnecessarily restricting the work
that
the Court can accomplish. Costa Rica therefore
invites all States that have not yet done so to recognize
the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. Costa Rica believes,
in particular, that recognition of that jurisdiction should be
a requirement
for all States whose nationals are
nominated as candidates to such a lofty tribunal, for
permanent members of the Security Council and for those
that wish to become permanent members under the
reforms currently being discussed at
this fifty-second
session of the General Assembly. We call upon the 120
countries that have not yet recognized the compulsory
jurisdiction of the Court to do so, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2 and 5 of article 36 of the
Court’s Statute.
The International Court of Justice is flourishing. The
number of cases before it, as reflected in the report
(A/52/4) now before the Assembly, is unusually high, and
it is especially being used by developing countries. In
addition, as we have said, the recent Advisory Opinions
on the legality of the use of nuclear weapons involved the
participation of an unprecedented number of States. This
attests to the growing interest and confidence in the
Court, which we believe is a very healthy and positive
trend.
However, we cannot fail to mention that proceedings
before the Court continue to present unnecessary
difficulties for developing States. Litigation, if not the
Court’s Statute and rules, requires lengthy pleadings and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
extensive documentation, dozens of lawyers and long years
before the Court can reach a final decision on a case. This
entails prohibitive costs for most States, and is one of the
reasons for the Court’s present financial crisis. The Court
should refrain from encouraging such practices. On the
contrary, it should discourage the unnecessary submission
and presentation of evidence and documentation, which
must be translated by the Court. Furthermore, judges should
set limits on the length and extent of their separate and
dissenting opinions, realizing that the quality of the Court’s
opinions is not dependent on their copiousness or their
scope. If those practical and concrete steps could be taken,
at the Court’s discretion and respecting the sovereign right
of parties to present their cases, and the independence of
the judges, the Court could resolve its present financial
crisis and become more efficient in dealing with the cases
submitted for its consideration.
We cannot, of course, deny that the financial crisis of
the United Nations itself has imposed serious restraints on
the work of the Court. We must strengthen the Court’s
budget so that it can rebuild the necessary administrative
and investigative services it requires to carry out its work
effectively. My delegation recognizes the efforts the Court
has made recently to increase the dissemination of
information. We welcome in particular the idea of having
documents and judgments made available to the public on
the Internet. We believe that will not only reduce costs in
the future but will also promote knowledge of and research
into the work of the Court, particularly in developing
countries that do not normally have access to the Court’s
documentation but can now access it on the Internet. That
is indeed important progress that should be noted.
The
Justice
International Court of
and other
international bodies concerned with the administration of
justice — such as the International Tribunal for the Law of
the Sea and the international criminal court whose
establishment is now being negotiated — embody the joint
effort the international community is making to ensure the
rule of law in the conduct of international relations. In this
connection,
the
international community.
these bodies are an essential part of
My country wishes once again to reiterate its full
support for and confidence in the outstanding work the
Court has done, as reflected in its important decisions.
36th plenary meeting
27 October 1997
The Acting President: We have heard the last
speaker in the debate on agenda item 13, “Report of the
International Court of Justice”.May I take it that it is the
wish of the Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 13?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The President: I should like to inform members that
agenda item 27, entitled “Return or restitution of cultural
property to the countries of origin”, originally scheduled
for tomorrow morning, Tuesday, 28 October, will be
taken up at a later date to be announced.
Agenda item 14, entitled “Report of the International
Atomic Energy Agency”, originally scheduled for Monday
morning, 3 November, will now be taken up on
Wednesday, 12 November, in the morning.
I should now like to make an announcement
concerning agenda item 20, entitled “Strengthening of the
coordination of humanitarian and disaster relief assistance
of
including special economic
assistance”, which is scheduled for consideration by the
General Assembly on Monday, 24 November in the
morning.
the United Nations,
I have
requested His Excellency Mr. Ernst
Sucharipa, Permanent Representative of Austria to the
United Nations, who during the three previous sessions so
ably coordinated the informal consultations on draft
resolutions under the same agenda item, to assist once
again in the same capacity at
session, and
Ambassador Sucharipa has graciously accepted.
this
May I request those delegations intending to submit
draft resolutions under agenda item 20 to do so as early
as possible in order to allow time,
if need be, for
negotiations with a view to reaching consensus on the
draft resolutions.
The meeting rose at 11.35 p.m.
13
