United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
47th plenary meeting
Monday, 10 November 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 48
Question of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)
The President: I should like to inform representatives
that, following consultations regarding agenda item 48,
“Question of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)”, and taking
into account General Assembly decision 51/407 of 25
October 1996, it is proposed that the General Assembly
decide to postpone consideration of this item and to include
it in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third session.
May I take it, therefore, that the Assembly, taking into
account decision 51/407, wishes to defer consideration of
this item and to include it in the provisional agenda of the
fifty-third session?
It was so decided.
The President: The General Assembly has thus
concluded its consideration of agenda item 48.
Agenda item 10 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/1)
Mr. Al-Hitti (Iraq) (interpretation from Arabic): My
delegation wishes to begin by welcoming the report of the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization that
we are considering today. We commend the highly
praiseworthy efforts that went into preparing the report.
But we believe that it might have been more useful had
it
imprecise
conclusions as well as certain contradictions with regard
to certain concepts and their applications.
generalizations
avoided
certain
and
We believe that the report in its analyses focuses on
symptoms and end results of international problems rather
than their root causes and on ways to deal with them. It
also provides generally an exposé in summary form of
international problems and variables and of the efforts the
United Nations has made to come to grips with them
without giving adequate attention to exploring future
horizons. This is especially so as regards proposing
concrete solutions to problems which are battering our
the
planet
deterioration
sustainable
development, the widening gap between North and South
and the absence of the principles of justice and equity in
international relations, as well as the use of selectivity and
double standards when it comes to the consideration by
United Nations bodies of issues of grave international
importance
security, disarmament,
development and other important international questions.
such as poverty,
such as peace,
environment
at present,
famine,
of
the
and
To save time, I shall be brief. I intend to focus on
two paragraphs of
report,
paragraphs 89 and 125 although there are comments
regarding a number of other paragraphs.
the Secretary-General’s
97-86449 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
With regard to paragraph 89, the report refers to the
use of mandatory sanctions as a valuable tool available to
the Security Council, permitting the United Nations to bring
pressure to bear without recourse to force. We believe that
that may be true only from an abstract and theoretical
perspective. But it ignores the framework in which this
instrument is included in the Charter, namely, that sanctions
are to be imposed only after exhausting all peaceful and
preventive means to seek a pacific settlement, as set forth
in Chapter VI of the Charter. This was not the case with
Iraq.
for
Furthermore,
the Charter does not call
the
imposition of sanctions as a blank cheque or as a means for
revenge and punishment. We wonder how economic
sanctions can figure under
the label of “preventive
diplomacy” and the pacific settlement of disputes when they
lead to the death of more than a million and a quarter
innocent Iraqi citizens, most of whom are children, women
and old people. In addition, 4 million Iraqi citizens have
been subjected to famine and malnutrition, as has been
recognized in the latest
joint report of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and
the World Food Programme issued on 5 October 1997.
the
Secretary-General’s
If the economic sanctions were really pacific and
preventive measures, the United Nations would not have to
review them through a sub-working group on sanctions that
reached important conclusions and recommendations that
are totally disregarded in the Secretary-General’s report.
Otherwise,
representative,
Ms. Graça Machel, would not have included in her report
last year, on military confrontations and their implications
for children, the remark that caution should be exercised
and precautions taken before sanctions are imposed against
States. What is important here is that economic sanctions,
in view of their destructive consequences for populations
and development and their sowing the seeds of future
conflicts, can be anything but a preventive or peaceful tool.
In his report, the Secretary-General dealt with the
economic sanctions against Iraq as if they were to be
imposed permanently and as if during the last seven years
Iraq had not implemented the resolutions of the Security
Council
in such a manner as to justify the lifting or
reduction of such sanctions by the United Nations. If this
is the case, then the United Nations, which is now trying to
rationalize its expenses and reform its Headquarters and
field procedures, should review its work in Iraq, and should
enquire of its teams and of the thousands of employees
which it has been dispatching for the past seven years
2
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
regarding Iraq’s compliance and the scope of
accomplishments at all levels.
their
As regards the oil-for-food formula referred to in
paragraph 89, we wish to say that this formula has been
emptied of its contents and of any implications of human
significance because of the acts of incessant piracy on the
part of the representatives of the United States and the
United Kingdom within the boycott Commission to
obstruct adoption and implementation of contracts
providing Iraq with food and medicine. For example, the
representative of the United States of America opposes
the provision of 100 ambulances to Iraq under the pretext
that that is a large number — as if Iraq were a small
country and not a State that has 22 million citizens. The
United States representative also rejects contracts for
medicine under the pretext that such contracts include free
medical supplies, and also certain contracts for batteries
and tires for the trucks that are used for the transport of
food — claiming they are for dual use.
Even if the implementation of Security Council
resolution 986 (1995) could continue in spite of the
American and British obstacles,
the provisions are
insufficient to meet even the essential human needs of the
Iraqi people. The average Iraqi would not have more than
25 cents today if that resolution were fully implemented.
To date the resolution has only provided a small increase
in Iraqi citizens’ allotment of flour and rice. As Jesus
Christ said, “Man does not live by bread alone.” [The
Holy Bible, Matthew 4:4]
The best and latest description of the implementation
of resolution 986 (1995) is contained in the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
and World Food Programme report to which we referred
a short while ago. That report states that despite the
implementation of Security Council resolution 986 (1995)
“malnutrition remains a serious problem throughout
the country”.
[Special Report, FAO/WFP Food
Supply and Nutrition Assessment Mission to Iraq, 3
October 1997, part 1]
It also says,
“the situation for the majority of the population had
become deplorable ... This remains true today.”
[ibid., part 5]
In the light of these judgements issued by United
the Secretary-
Nations bodies, can paragraph 89 of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
General’s report be in line with the formula of oil-for-food?
That formula, according to the report, is
“the first systematic attempt by the Council to address
the humanitarian needs of the citizens of a civilian
population in a
to
sanctions”. [A/52/1, para. 89]
country remaining subject
A realistic evaluation of the results of the oil-for-food
programme is that it has actually become a programme
making up for compensation and reparations for the United
Nations. However, we wish to welcome the Secretary-
General’s call to the General Assembly and the Security
Council to consider possible ways to render the sanctions
less blunt and more effective.
As regards paragraph 125, we wish to say that the use
of the word “military” to describe the mandate of the
United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) is not
correct or precise, because it is well known to all that
resolution 687 (1991), which was adopted in accordance
with Chapter VII of the Charter, deals with measures for
implementing post-conflict peace-building and does not deal
with military actions.
As regards the obstruction of the movement of this
Commission and its being prevented from reaching the
positions concerned, we wish to clarify that Iraq has always
asked for differentiation between the essential
issues,
especially those contained in resolutions such as resolution
687 (1991) and other, secondary ones. Iraq has always
cooperated seriously and sincerely with the Special
Commission and its inspection teams in the performance of
their missions in accordance with the relevant resolutions of
the Security Council. The Commission has recognized this
cooperation more than once in its semi-annual reports to the
Security Council.
that
However, it is regrettable that the members of these
inspection teams sometimes go beyond the functions of
their missions as prescribed by the Security Council, a
matter
led Iraq to establish a common, agreed
programme of work with the Special Commission on 22
June 1996 in order to facilitate the work and modus
operandi, especially when inspecting the sensitive areas in
a manner that does not jeopardize the country’s security.
The intelligence building, for example, was inspected more
than three times. When an inspection team asked to inspect
a section inside that building, it was told that that section
had nothing to do with the nature of the Commission’s
work.
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
It is regrettable that paragraph 125 selected only two
situations and described them as negative, without putting
them within the proper context to which we referred to
earlier, and without balancing them against the positive
and consistent record of Iraq’s cooperation with the
Special Commission
the
implementation of its mandate as defined by the Security
Council.
efforts
and
all
its
in
Allow us, in conclusion, to quote from the end of the
last report of the Director General of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), presented to the Security
Council last month, in order to provide evidence of what
we are stating here. The report states,
“monitoring and verification activities carried out
since April 1997 have not revealed indications of the
existence
in Iraq of prohibited materials or
activities.” [S/1997/779, para. 43]
Before that, the Executive Chairman of UNSCOM,
in paragraph 46 of his report, presented to the Security
Council in April 1997, referred to Iraq’s commitment to
the Security Council resolutions as follows:
“The accumulated effect of the work that has
been accomplished over six years since the ceasefire
went into effect, between Iraq and the Coalition, is
such that not much is unknown about Iraq’s retained
proscribed weapons
[S/1997/301,
para. 46]
capabilities.”
Undoubtedly, this unambiguously shows that Iraq is
fully committed to complying with the
relevant
resolutions of the Security Council, which makes the
Council,
in return, duty-bound to comply with the
commitments it made to Iraq. The first of these is the
application of operative paragraph 22 of resolution 687
(1991) regarding the lifting of the unjust economic siege
against our country, in preparation for lifting the other
sanctions against Iraq in order that it might return to its
natural regional and international status, a matter that
would preserve the interests of all and promote
international peace and security.
Mr. Mabilangan (Philippines): We thank the
Secretary-General for presenting a concise, straight-to-the-
point, yet comprehensive annual report on the work of the
Organization. The new format has greatly facilitated our
study of the report.
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
I wish to limit my remarks to a few specific
observations, but first, as a general observation, we are
pleased to note the numerous activities undertaken by the
Secretariat in accordance with the mandates in the various
fields outlined in the report, and we congratulate the
Secretariat and the Secretary-General in this regard. The
report also reflects the comprehensive and global mandate
of the Organization, as well as the key role of the United
Nations on issues of global concern.
Paragraph 16 suggests that globalization is the driving
force for development, but also refers to the need for a
more conducive external environment. We could not agree
more with this assessment, inasmuch as the globalization
process should not be considered as a panacea or a
substitute for adopting international policies aimed at
correcting fundamental economic imbalances and promoting
international cooperation to ensure that
the benefits of
globalization are shared by as many as possible and not just
a few. Effective international cooperation in key areas, such
as international
foreign
investment, is still urgently needed.
trade and finance and direct
At the same time, although section B deals with the
issues of international economic cooperation and sustainable
development — and we should take into account that the
General Assembly has an agreed context in which the term
“sustainable development” should be used — the report
reflects, in our view, the creeping marginalization of the
United Nations on development policy issues, despite the
fact that the Agenda for Development was adopted earlier
this year.
In this regard, the report emphasizes the issues of
sustainable development — that
is, environment and
development operations. Important as these are, there is
nevertheless scant,
if any, reference or allusion to the
United Nations activities, role or influence in the area of
global macroeconomic decision-making and policies. Issues
relating to international cooperation on core economic
issues, such as finance, technology and investment, are
insufficiently covered, if at all. We see this not as an
omission on the part of the Secretary-General, but as a
reflection of the state of affairs in the United Nations with
regard to global development policy matters and core
economic issues. Therefore, if the report’s meagre coverage
of these issues is a reflection of present-day realities in the
United Nations, it is essential that States Members of this
Organization correct
this and restore real development
policy issues and concerns to the heart of the United
Nations agenda. Although the international policy context
and setting may have changed as a result of the end of the
4
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
cold war,
problems remain.
continuing development
challenges
and
On section D, concerning preventive diplomacy, we
applaud the various
initiatives undertaken by the
Secretary-General in this regard. The Philippines fully
recognizes the importance of preventing disputes from
erupting into conflict. However,
in considering this
particular issue, the Secretary-General might also wish to
take into account the fact that, after almost three years of
negotiation, Member States have yet
to agree on an
operational definition for this concept. Nor has agreement
been reached on the principles for
the conduct of
preventive diplomacy by the United Nations. We therefore
urge that negotiations be resumed on this subject as soon
as possible in order to avoid recurring misunderstanding
and concerns on the activities undertaken by the United
Nations in the name of preventive diplomacy.
At the same time, paragraph 79 of the report refers
to the concept of preventive action. This term has not
been considered by Member States. We therefore support
the call of the Non-Aligned Movement, made during the
debate on the Secretary-General’s reform proposals, that
the term “preventive action”, at least with regard to its
definition and operational principles, be discussed and
considered by the General Assembly at the earliest date.
We are also interested in receiving details on the
“global watch” referred to in paragraph 79. Is this the
same as the early warning system? We are particularly
interested in knowing the type and sources of data or
information used to maintain this watch, as well as the
criteria used to determine whether a particular situation
could be classified as a threat to international peace and
security. Greater transparency of this activity is essential.
We subscribe in general to the Secretary-General’s
conclusion in part III. However, we believe that
the
implications of the reforms suggested in paragraph 174
need to be studied carefully by the general membership.
That paragraph suggests a reconfiguration of the balance
of functions between the Organization’s legislative bodies
and the Secretary-General, and proposes a number of
measures to create a balance between the General
Assembly and the Secretary-General. Given the clear
distinction provided in the Charter of the roles of the
principal United Nations organs, this suggestion requires
clarification and examination by this body.
Essentially, we believe that any reconfiguration in the
balance of functions between the General Assembly and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
any other principal United Nations organ should aim at
strengthening and not weakening or diluting the role and
powers of the General Assembly as defined in the Charter
of the United Nations. The views of my delegation on the
specific measures referred to in this paragraph have been
stated in the course of the discussions on the Secretary-
General’s reform proposals.
Finally, allow me once again to congratulate the
Secretary-General for his report. We hope that future
reports on the Work of the Organization will be presented
with similar brevity and precision.
Mr. Londoño
from
Spanish): I wish to thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan for
his very complete report, contained in document A/52/1.
(interpretation
(Colombia)
The climate in the world today is one of integration,
globalization and multilateral trade. Significant progress has
been made in this respect and millions today enjoy better
products, the modernization of their systems and a guiding
vision for their aspirations to progress on the threshold of
the coming millennium. Nonetheless, and as the Secretary-
General has pointed out, not everyone enjoys the benefits
of this new world climate. Continents like Africa share a
meagre 4 per cent of direct foreign investment.
This statistic is unwelcome from any standpoint; it
reflects the assertion that we need to be aware and to
understand that any interest in national well-being which
lacks a global consciousness can lead to a balance sheet
that may be positive in the short term, but in the long run
is imbalanced for all humanity. In his report, the Secretary-
General refers to the need to combine pro-growth policies
at the national level with targeted external assistance as an
effective means of achieving the development of the least
developed countries.
In spite of valiant efforts, a great deal needs to be done
with regard to rules for conventional weapons, especially
light arms. Therefore, efforts to halt their proliferation must
be stepped up, both within conflicts themselves and where
conflicts are rooted. As has been pointed out,
these
weapons are the cause of many violent deaths.
My delegation considers it necessary to make an
important clarification regarding statements on the increase
of human rights activities in field operations as a direct
result of decisions adopted by the Security Council in this
field.
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
Paragraph 31 of the Secretary-General’s report states
that operations of this nature exist in Colombia. On this
point, it must be made very clear that the opening of an
office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights was never the result of a decision of the
Security Council. On the contrary,
it arose from a
itself,
proposal made by the Colombian Government
which had the support and full welcome of
the
Organization’s relevant human rights bodies, in particular
the Commission on Human Rights.
This is therefore not a matter of a decision imposed
by the Security Council, but rather of an innovative
procedure to help in the promotion and protection of
human rights in Colombia as a part of the resolute
commitment of the Colombian authorities to defend these
rights.
We commend the efforts of the Organization with
regard to the maintenance of peace.
The report of the Secretary-General is a valuable
document for Member States which summarizes the
efforts, results and work left to be done by all.
Mr. Türk (Slovenia): We have studied the report of
the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization
with keen interest. The report gives a concise overview of
United Nations activities and offers a comprehensive
picture
the
Organization.
developments within
current
of
the
The delegation of Slovenia commends the Secretary-
General for the clarity and conciseness of the report, as
well as for its early availability. This helped focus the
general debate at the beginning of this session of the
General Assembly. Today we are required to concentrate
on those questions which need to be considered in order
to help the progress of the current session and the taking
of the necessary decisions.
In his general statement on the current situation of
the Organization and the Organization’s steps ahead, in
paragraph 167, the Secretary-General expresses prudent
optimism. We share this sentiment. The Organization is
doing useful work; it is active in the efforts to adjust and
adapt to the changing international environment and is
demonstrating a
the necessary
innovation. Much of this is to the credit of the Secretary-
General, who has offered a number of specific and well
thought out proposals for
reform. Those proposals
to the specific
represent an important complement
capacity for
real
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
decisions and actions of the Organization in its daily work
and a valuable
contribution to the Organization’s
dynamism.
On the other hand, it has to be recognized that the
current situation of the United Nations, both its internal
situation and its role in the changing world, is far from
the majority of United Nations Members would
what
consider desirable,
let alone perfect. The discrepancy
between needs and expectations on the one hand, and the
actual performance of the Organization on the other,
undoubtedly exists. It is important that we understand the
reasons for this discrepancy and equally important that we
try to make specific proposals which will diminish it.
There are, in our opinion, three basic reasons for the
difficulties which need to be addressed during the present
discussion. They are, first, the extent of change in the
international
inherently
demanding character of the most important tasks of the
United Nations; and thirdly, the less than perfect level of
cooperation among the United Nations Member States.
environment;
secondly,
the
Allow me to briefly address those three sets of
questions and to start with a few words on the nature of the
ongoing change in the world.
In the first part of the report, the Secretary-General
describes the “contours of the new era” and explains that
today, as in all transitional periods, different expressions of
the human predicament coexist
in an uneasy tension:
globalization and particularism, zones of prosperity and
large pockets of poverty, areas of peace and areas of
unprecedented violence. These circumstances have a
profound bearing on the tasks of the United Nations today.
The dissolution of the previous international order and
some aspects of the current processes of globalization have
contributed to the strengthening of the tendencies of social
and political disintegration. As the Secretary-General
correctly states in paragraph 16 of the report,
“The same technological means
foster
globalization and the transnational expansion of civil
society also provide the infrastructure for expanding
global networks of ... organized crime,
... money
launderers and terrorists.” [A/52/1, para. 16]
that
It can be added that
the uneven character of global
economic progress resulted in the concentration of direct
foreign investment in a small number of countries. Large
parts of the world, notably Africa, are left out. Inadequate
6
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
economic progress is adding to political instability and to
the outbreak of armed conflicts.
These and other changes
in the international
environment represent a challenge to all international
organizations, which have to adjust their activities and
structures to the new needs. If the United Nations is
compared with other international organizations in this
context, it can be said that the United Nations efforts to
adjust are among the most serious ones. Furthermore, it
has to be recognized that the United Nations is left with
some of the most difficult tasks. The expectations of the
international community must be measured against a
realistic understanding of the real power of the United
Nations.
The responsibilities placed on the United Nations in
such areas as crisis management, development assistance,
human rights and crime prevention are indeed weighty
and, regrettably, often unaccompanied by the necessary
assistance of States. Effective international cooperation
requires effective Member States. As pointed out
in
paragraph 10 of the report, an effective State is crucial for
success in development. We would add to this that an
effective and enlightened role of the State is critical for
the international management of the global processes of
change. States must demonstrate, within the activities of
the United Nations, that they understand this requirement
and that they are able to live up to it.
Let me now proceed to my second set of remarks,
concerning the demanding character of some of the most
important tasks of the United Nations today.
An enlightened and effective role of
the State
requires
that good governance, human rights and
democratization are understood as fundamental tasks. We
welcome the placement of these tasks in the second part
of the report and we largely agree with the content of the
relevant paragraphs, 22 to 41, of the report.
The current United Nations activities in the field of
human rights confirm and emphasize the universality of
human rights. Indeed, universality is the very essence of
the concept and of the legal definition of human rights.
However,
the notion of universality does not require
uniformity in the implementation of the universally valid
concepts of human rights. In the implementation there has
to be scope for specificity and a margin of appreciation in
devising the specific measures necessary for the effective
implementation of the universal norms of human rights.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
On the other hand, universality requires that the United
Nations human rights agenda remain truly global. In this
context, we agree with the Secretary-General, who
emphasizes in his report such areas of work as United
Nations assistance for the strengthening of the judiciary
worldwide and the need to combat discrimination against
women and to eliminate violence against them. We would
like to add that combating racial discrimination must remain
among the top priorities of the United Nations human rights
agenda.
Finally,
the human rights activities of the United
Nations must be provided with more resources and become
better integrated with the United Nations activities in the
domain of economic and social development.
In the sections of the report devoted to international
economic cooperation and sustainable development and to
development operations, the Secretary-General provides an
overview which shows the areas of progress as well as the
problems encountered. He rightly points to the unfavourable
trends in official development assistance which,
“cast a serious shadow over the development prospects
of lower income countries” [ibid., para. 47].
The negative trends with respect to official development
assistance are among the factors which give rise to serious
concern.
Another reason for concern is the relatively slow
progress in the implementation of commitments agreed to
at the World Summit for Social Development, held in
Copenhagen in 1995. Both official development assistance
and the implementation of commitments and specific targets
in the field of social development require an effective and
enlightened role of
the improved
performance of States, little can be expected to take place
in the improvement of the situation in the least developed
countries or
strengthening of world social
development.
the State. Without
in the
It is important in this context to understand that the
success or failure of the United Nations development
activities hinges on the question of development in Africa.
There is no meaningful global development strategy without
a meaningful and effective strategy for development in
Africa. The initiatives to which the Secretary-General refers
in paragraph 47 of his report are welcome and necessary.
If they succeed and a new partnership between developed
and developing countries is established, then and only then
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
would we be in a position to say that the answer to the
question of global development has been found.
Furthermore, there is an urgent need to address the
problem of development as a factor among the sources of
conflict in Africa and to lay the ground for a durable
peace and economic growth in Africa, as requested by the
Security Council at its ministerial meeting in September
this year. A prosperous and politically stable Africa will
contribute to global peace and security. We look forward
to the relevant recommendations of the Secretary-General,
which the Security Council requested from him.
I wish to conclude with a few remarks regarding
cooperation among States for an improved organization of
the United Nations. Here again the effectiveness and the
enlightened character of States are put to the test. At
present
three clearly definable
the question of the financing of the
questions: first,
reforms
United Nations;
proposed by the Secretary-General; and thirdly,
the
question of the most politically demanding reforms,
including the reform of the Security Council.
this test consists of
the question of
secondly,
An effective and responsible approach to the question
of the financing of the United Nations — the first of the
three questions — requires that outstanding contributions
by Member States be paid in full and that in future they
be paid in full and on time. Reaching agreement on the
scale of assessments should not be allowed to become an
insurmountable problem.
As regards the agreement on the proposals for reform
put forward by the Secretary-General, that should be seen
as an opportunity to develop a new partnership among
Member States for a better United Nations. For that to
become possible, the narrow interests of individual States
or groups of States should give way to the understanding
of
the
Organization.
the common need and common purpose of
Thirdly, such an understanding of the importance of
the majority of proposals for reform would represent
something valuable per se and, not less importantly, a
condition which would enable the Organization to achieve
success in the most demanding aspects of
reform,
including the reform of the Security Council. While it is
clear that the time for definitive decisions regarding the
reform of the Security Council has not yet come and that
resolutions which might imply the contrary should be
avoided, it also has become clear that immediate progress
in matters of the financing of the United Nations and in
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the areas of reform proposed by the Secretary-General
would considerably improve the prospects for a meaningful
reform of the Security Council. I think that this is one of
the most important matters to be kept in mind at the present
stage of this session of the General Assembly.
Let me conclude by saying that
these are some
thoughts which come to mind when studying the report of
the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization. The
discussion of the report provides an opportunity for the
General Assembly, in the middle of the session, to take a
look at the state of the United Nations from a broader
perspective and to enable itself to take the necessary
decisions. It is our hope that the current discussion will, in
that manner, contribute to the success of the reform efforts
and help the General Assembly to take decisions where
decisions are needed.
Mr. Valle (Brazil): It is with particular satisfaction that
I take the floor to welcome the first report on the work of
the Organization presented by Secretary-General Kofi
Annan. We believe that this year’s annual report constitutes
a straightforward document which fulfils the goal of
highlighting
the
Organization’s activity during the course of the previous
year in a refreshing and concise manner. We commend the
Secretary-General and his staff for having provided us with
a sharply focused text
that helps us to reflect on the
challenges that lie ahead, on the basis of recent experience.
the most
significant
aspects
of
The Secretary-General’s analysis of what he calls “the
contours of the new era” is a lucid attempt to capture in
suspended animation the essential elements of what
continues to be a quickly shifting international environment,
as regards both economic and political trends. It should not
come as a surprise that the picture which emerges is fraught
with contradictions. Unprecedented wealth and economic
growth coexist with extreme forms of poverty. While
democracy makes significant inroads, multiple forms of
tyranny and intolerance continue to threaten individual
freedoms. Although the prospects for peace have seldom
been more encouraging, a number of seemingly intractable
conflicts continue to exclude various regions of the world
from the more beneficial aspects of globalization.
The thematic overview of achievements in the main
areas of activity over the past year in the report’s Chapter
topics of
II brings to the forefront
international
sustainable
development. We are pleased to note that the report has
acknowledged the adoption of an Agenda for Development
by the General Assembly as “a major event”. In our view,
the fundamental
cooperation
economic
and
8
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
the negotiations which led to its adoption represented a
groundbreaking exercise in helping to organize a
conceptual framework for dealing with the complex
relationships among development, peace, democracy, good
governance and human rights. Having overcome the
ideological confrontation of previous eras, we should
expect no less than a new consensus on economic
development. We agree with the Secretary-General when
he states that
“An important task ... for the years ahead will be to
develop forms of partnership between developed and
developing countries — partnerships that meet the
needs and aspirations of developing countries and are
also consistent with global and economic conditions
and attitudes.” [A/52/1, para. 47]
The work carried out by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in
examining the relationship between globalization and
development deserves to be highlighted in this context,
and should continue to aim at promoting a fuller
integration of developing countries into the international
trading system, with the support of all Member States.
Five years after the Rio Conference on Environment
and Development,
the special session of the General
Assembly which took place last June has contributed to
raising the level of awareness regarding the areas where
progress has been insufficient. The need for financial and
technological support to developing countries in their
efforts to pursue environmental goals remains a priority,
even as cooperative strategies are sought in such key
areas as climate change. This year’s report presents with
particular clarity the multifaceted and intersectoral nature
of
the concerns addressed both in the Agenda for
Development and at the special session of the General
Assembly. Institutional improvements under way deserve
the political support of Member States so that current
efforts at integrating the Organization’s analytical and
normative functions in the economic and social spheres
may help regional and national efforts to generate positive
repercussions worldwide.
In Latin America and the Caribbean mutually
reinforcing prospects for economic growth and vigorous
democracy have established a solid basis for trade-
induced integration, setting the stage for continuous peace
and development. Such encouraging signs are visible in
many regions, and it is our belief that the United Nations
has greatly contributed to promoting such changes and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
can do more in the years to come, with the active support
of the international community.
Of immediate relevance, of course, is the role of the
United Nations in the maintenance of international peace
and security in those areas where it remains under threat.
While not intending to present views on United Nations
activities with respect
I would
nevertheless like to make a few comments on the coverage
of certain security issues in this year’s report.
to specific conflicts,
The topic of sanctions is one which has generated
considerable interest in recent years, as increasing resort to
this tool has underlined the need to limit its unintended
effects and ensure it is properly targeted. While we agree
that sanctions can permit the United Nations “to bring
pressure to bear without recourse to force”, as stated in
paragraph 89, we question the appropriateness of addressing
the issue in a subchapter entitled “Preventive diplomacy,
peaceful settlement of disputes and disarmament”. As stated
in annex II of resolution 51/242, by which the General
Assembly adopted the texts approved by the Informal
Open-ended Working Group on an Agenda for Peace,
“As Security Council action under Chapter VII,
sanctions are a matter of utmost seriousness and
concern”. [resolution 51/242, annex II, para. 1]
To include sanctions in a section of the report which deals
essentially with Chapter VI efforts seems to us misleading.
The following subchapter, dealing with humanitarian
action, describes the growing interest and involvement of
the Security Council
in humanitarian questions as a
welcome and timely development. This affirmation requires
some qualification. It would have been worth recalling, for
instance,
that a presidential statement of the Security
Council was issued, as document S/PRST/1997/34, on the
question of “Protection for humanitarian assistance to
refugees and others in conflict situations”, which reflects
the sentiment of the Council on this question. Our own
position, as presented to the Council in the open debate that
took place on 21 May under the presidency of the Republic
of Korea, can be summarized as follows: if the Security
Council is to be expected to play a more active role in
guaranteeing safe conditions for humanitarian assistance,
our preference is for such endeavours to be attempted in
parallel with multilaterally defined diplomatic agendas and
within the realm of the possibilities offered by Chapter
VI — that of
settlement of disputes.
Furthermore, it is necessary to preserve the role of the
General Assembly in the humanitarian domain whenever
the pacific
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
international security is not the overriding concern. In
addition, we must ensure adequate coordination between
the relevant United Nations bodies and other agencies, in
accordance with the principles of humanity, neutrality and
impartiality of humanitarian assistance.
The chapter on peacekeeping and post-conflict peace-
building refers to the phenomenon of what is coming to
be seen by some delegations as an exaggerated reluctance
on the part of the Security Council to contemplate the
creation of new peacekeeping operations. While not
defending a return to the patterns of 1993 and 1994, the
report seems to echo a widespread apprehension to the
effect
that errors can also be made in the opposite
direction. This
pondering.
Peacekeeping operations remain an effective instrument
for the promotion of international peace when resorted to
with the necessary caution and given the appropriate
political conditions. In the absence of such conditions,
precipitate action or misguided decisions can erode the
Organization’s credibility. As arrangements for standby
readiness
organizational
improvements are conceived,
it will be necessary to
reflect on the possibilities and limitations of peacekeeping
in the current international scene.
question worth
perfected
other
and
are
is
a
We have repeatedly stressed the significance of
peace-building efforts for the consolidation of peace. But
it might be useful, from a conceptual point of view and
in terms of presentation as well, to differentiate between
reconstruction or technical assistance carried out with the
consent of the parties on the one hand, and activities
carried out under Chapter VII, such as those of the United
Nations Special Commission or of
the International
Criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and for
Rwanda, on the other. To discuss the latter and the former
as part of a continuum, as is the case in the report,
glosses over the fundamental difference in the nature of
what
is being attempted in each case and tends to
exceptional
minimize
the
circumstances
of
enforcement measures.
seriousness
for
authorization
required
of
the
those
The Secretary-General’s report is correct in stressing
multilateralism: an opportunity, in short, for peace and
sustainable development. As we prepare ourselves to
manage a changing international environment, we must
confront the need for renewal and reform. We therefore
take the occasion offered by the democratic debate on the
annual report on the work of the Organization to welcome
once again the many constructive proposals for reform
submitted by the Secretary-General, and to reaffirm our
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
readiness to promote the necessary degree of agreement on
the reform of other vital areas of the United Nations in
order to fully equip the Organization to play its part in the
twenty-first century.
Mr. Petrella (Argentina) (interpretation from Spanish):
Through you, Sir, I wish to thank the Secretary-General for
his thought-provoking report on the work of the United
Nations during the fifty-first session of
the General
Assembly. It
is thought-provoking because rather than
confining itself to a list of facts it describes the forces that
have transformed the world since the cold war, the way in
which the United Nations has reacted, and the ways and
means of successfully confronting the new realities.
We share the basic premise that we live in a world of
contradictions: integration and globalization coexist with
fragmentation and marginalization; computer science, while
a source of progress, is also facilitating the expansion of
transnational criminal networks, drug trafficking, money
laundering
of
environmental problems is not accompanied by the political
will
to find satisfactory solutions; and despite the
strengthening of democracy, extremely serious violations of
human rights continue to be committed.
awareness
terrorism;
greater
and
The Secretary-General has given us his response to
these dualities: that these problems cannot be resolved in
isolation, but need to be approached in a comprehensive
way, combining the essential element of peace and security
with sustainable development, democracy and good
governance. The United Nations must therefore undertake
the reforms necessary for an integrated approach to be
reflected in its actions.
It is from that viewpoint that we wish to comment on
the report of the Secretary-General. We shall focus on tasks
in three areas: sustainable development, the protection of
human rights, and the maintenance of international peace
and security.
and
poverty
promote
In a world characterized by major disparities in income
and in access to services and opportunities, we value the
efforts of United Nations funds and programmes to
eradicate
human
development. The resources available to those funds and
programmes are, however, limited. One of the paradoxes of
our day is the reduction in official development assistance.
The situation requires, first and foremost, that resources be
carefully managed so that they will be allocated to those
really in need. It also requires thought on the role to be
played by the United Nations in this area, and particularly
sustainable
10
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
vis-à-vis other development agencies that have greater
resources. The Secretary-General
this
situation, and proposes solutions in paragraphs 77 and 174
of the report. Argentina supports these efforts aimed at
improving the cost-benefit ratio of these activities.
is aware of
We particularly agree with the Secretary-General
that good governance is an essential requirement for
sustainable development. We are pleased that the United
Nations Development Programme allocates some of its
resources to this field.
Sustainable development also requires that the needs
of the world population be met without affecting the
environment. Expectations
regarding the nineteenth
special session of the General Assembly, on the review of
the implementation of Agenda 21, were not entirely met.
Nonetheless, that conference made it possible for us to be
aware of the scant progress achieved in the fulfilment of
the commitments undertaken in Rio de Janeiro. This fact,
together with the active role played by non-governmental
organizations, should encourage us to persevere in our
efforts.
that
In the post-cold-war world, the protection of human
is inseparably linked to
rights is an element
international peace and security. We agree with the
Secretary-General about the importance of incorporating
the promotion of human rights
into peacekeeping
operations. A lasting peace can be built only on the basis
of democratic regimes. In this context, we attach great
importance to the monitoring of electoral processes under
the auspices of the United Nations. The best evidence of
the value that States attach to the legitimacy of
democratic processes is reflected, as the Secretary-General
tells us, by the fact that in the past five years the United
Nations has received some 80 requests for electoral
assistance. Argentina has cooperated and will continue to
cooperate enthusiastically in these missions and in other
tasks in support of the establishment and consolidation of
democratic systems.
The maintenance of peace and security is the
fundamental and irreplaceable role of the United Nations.
If that role is not ensured, no other activity can be
conducted effectively. All countries, regardless of their
size and to the extent of their capacities, should feel
themselves to be participants in the effort to maintain
peace and security.
Argentina is gratified by the fact that for 40 years
now it has contributed to peacekeeping operations and
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
that it has participated in over half of them. In this context,
we believe it is very important that the mandates that the
Security Council gives to these operations be as clear and
precise as possible. But in order to have mandates that meet
these conditions, it is necessary first of all to grasp the
profound change that has taken place in the nature of
conflicts. Today these are, for the most part, intra-State
conflicts, and they are accompanied by grave humanitarian
situations.
Secondly, these new conflicts require greater sensitivity
on the part of the Security Council. That sensitivity can be
produced only through a more profound and direct
knowledge of the realities in the countries affected and of
the overall circumstances prevailing in the regions where
the conflicts occur. These comments apply in particular to
the subject of sanctions and their negative impact on
civilian populations. All this needs to be studied, as is
pointed out by the Secretary-General.
What
therefore,
is needed,
is greater transparency,
more fluid relations with the General Assembly, continuing
dialogue with all countries concerned and, where required,
a role for non-governmental organizations whose experience
may be useful. Combining effectiveness in the work of the
Security Council with transparency in its procedures should
not be difficult at a time when democracy is spreading in
almost all countries. We believe that only in this way will
we be able to implement
the recommendations of the
Secretary-General.
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
As a complement to peacekeeping operations, we
have conflict-prevention and peace-building activities. In
connection with the former, without
impinging on
sensitive matters of States, the United Nations should
strengthen a system of early warning. As regards the
latter,
is a necessary
condition, but is not enough for the establishment of a
just and lasting peace.
the cessation of armed conflict
In this context,
I wish to mention the “White
Helmets”. The relevance that
this body has acquired
reflects the tasks it has carried out and the greater
awareness of countries regarding the importance of acting
in rapid and integral fashion. The new missions that the
“White Helmets” have begun to carry out in Angola, Haiti
and Palestine encourage us to call for the international
community to participate actively in this initiative.
the Convention on the Prohibition of
In respect of disarmament, relevant steps have been
taken. We would like to highlight the signing of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, the entry into
force of
the
Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of
Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, efforts to
the
provide the Convention on the Prohibition of
Development,
Stockpiling
of
Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on
Their Destruction with
verification
mechanism, and progress in the area of nuclear-weapon-
free zones.
Production
effective
and
an
We are also of the opinion that in the future the
Organization should apply the lessons learned in joint
deployment with regional organizations and that it should
explore the possibilities of renewed use of Chapter VIII of
the Charter.
In a different context, as was recently stated by
Foreign Minister Di Tella before this Assembly:
“A lasting peace
requires United Nations
contingents endowed with the capacity to deploy
rapidly and effectively.” [Official Records of
the
General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Plenary
Meetings, 10th meeting, p. 15]
I wish to recall that Argentina supports initiatives to
improve the deployment time of troops, is a party to the
stand-by force agreements and has joined the Danish Stand-
by Forces High-Readiness Brigade (SHIRBRIG) initiative.
Now of concern is the proliferation of small and light
arms, because their dissemination heightens intra-State
conflict. Furthermore, there should be an institutional link
drawn between questions of peace and security and
disarmament issues in order to fulfil the essential role of
the United Nations more effectively.
We particularly value the support given by the
Secretary-General to the Ottawa process. Argentina will
sign the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use,
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel
Mines and on Their Destruction next December, and will
continue to work for total prohibition.
This is the first report of the current Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization. It reflects the
vision of a statesman. It transmits the experience acquired
in the Secretariat, where there are so many examples of
selfless dedication to the cause of peace. We are
convinced that
the reforms proposed, which we will
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
steadily be implementing on the basis of consensus, will
direct the Organization towards the twenty-first century.
Mr. Reyn (Belgium) (interpretation from French): I
would like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his
efforts in preparing and presenting a month and a half ago
the report we are considering today in the General
Assembly.
this document
Everyone will agree that
is of
indisputable interest. The description of the activities of the
United Nations make it possible to better assess the place
and the activities of our Organization in the context of the
great changes in the world. Furthermore, the report gives
the Secretary-General
the opportunity to introduce the
means for restoring dynamism to the United Nations, the
dynamism that world public opinion expects of it.
The concise drafting of the report and its presentation
by the Secretary-General in person at the beginning of this
session of the General Assembly contributed to making the
ministerial debate more specific. That was a successful
innovation, and my delegation thanks those who made it
possible.
In my opinion, the most important message of the
report remains the acknowledgement that the new global
environment demands far-reaching adaptation by the United
Nations, as well as the fact that the Secretary-General is
fully prepared to work vigorously along those lines.
As the Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs stated
here,
“It is clear that the way in which we organize
ourselves as a world community is of the utmost
importance for questions of war and peace, poverty
and wealth, and justice and injustice in the world”
[Official Records of
the General Assembly, Fifty-
second Session, Plenary Meetings, 12th meeting, p. 29]
My delegation fully supports the Secretary-General’s
into an
intention to transform the United Nations
Organization that is simpler, more integrated and more
focused, one that is capable of carrying out its mission in
its
different
and
effectiveness.
fields with maximum synergy
The reform proposals are even more deserving of our
support, as they are part of a restructuring initiative that is
sufficiently
entire
Organization to the requirements of the modern world. Such
adapting
the
global,
aimed
at
12
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
the resolute commitment of all
a process calls for
Member States and deserves a rapid and unequivocal
collective response.
the Security Council
intergovernmental bodies:
On the basis of such a positive response we will be
able to give greater dynamism to the relationships
the
between the principal
General Assembly,
and the
Economic and Social Council. It is also on the basis of
that response that a better balance should be found among
those bodies. And it is on the basis of that response that
we will be able better to develop the essential
links
between the political tasks and the development work of
the United Nations and to design the global role of an
Organization whose central elements are progress in
respect for human rights and in respect for international
law.
Several other aspects of the report also deserve to be
highlighted. First, as the Secretary-General notes, the new
world environment demands more systematic cooperation
between the United Nations and all the other actors that
are working to promote political and economic security at
all levels, whether they are regional organizations or even
non-State actors.
The Secretary-General also emphasizes the extreme
gravity of the financial situation of the United Nations.
Belgium agrees that any reform effort will be in vain if
the fundamental need to give the Organization a more
appropriate and reliable financial basis is neglected. It is
high time to stop the use of interim measures in both the
management of the Organization and the search for
lasting solutions.
Finally, the reform of the Security Council is another
of those exercises demanded by the overall reform of this
Organization. This delicate matter must be judged on its
own merits; we
should avoid both unproductive
confrontation and the definitive deferment of
this
fundamental aspect of reform.
The report of the Secretary-General deals with a
great many other issues that I have not addressed. I
wished simply to highlight
those that seemed to me
essential; that, however, does not in any way diminish the
importance of the other aspects of the report. The report
provides a very useful framework for action by the
Organization and the work of
this session of our
Assembly. I should again like to thank the Secretary-
General, and I hope that he will follow the same approach
next year in presenting his report.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Hasmy (Malaysia): My delegation continues to
maintain that the debate pertaining to the item under current
consideration, agenda item 10, entitled “Report of the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization”, should,
as in the past, remain an item of priority deliberation. We
believe that this item deserves to be considered early during
the work of the General Assembly to signify the importance
of this report. After all, it is one of the Charter-mandated
reports, constituting an important and integral element of
the work of the General Assembly, as stipulated in Article
98 of the Charter.
Mr. Zacharakis (Greece), Vice-President,
Chair.
took the
reporting format will be retained and that
We wish to commend the Secretary-General for his
maiden annual report, which has been submitted in a
concise and refreshingly readable form. It is our hope that
this
the
temptation for lengthy annual reports in future will be
resisted. We readily agree that in considering this year’s
report, due account needs to be taken of the Secretary-
General’s reform proposals contained in the relevant
documents and of his oral statement at the beginning of this
session.
It should be recalled that
While my delegation welcomes the format of the
report, containing three chapters and eight sub-chapters, we
would like to suggest that the report continue to contain the
data pertaining to the resolutions adopted by the General
Assembly.
last year many
delegations requested that future annual reports include
information on the status of
the implementation of
resolutions and decisions, as they form the basis of the
intergovernmental mandate to the Secretariat for action. My
delegation would in particular like to be apprised of
problems at the implementation stage so as to enable the
intergovernmental process to review and re-evaluate the
decisions it had taken.
In outlining the “Contours of the new era” in the first
chapter, the United Nations Secretary-General has outlined
seven fundamental forces “reshaping the world today”
[A/52/1, para. 6]. He has rightly focused on globalization
as one of these forces. In paragraphs 6 to 11 he has
succinctly highlighted the benefits and challenges of
globalization. I wish in particular to refer to paragraph 8,
which reads,
“Globalization also poses numerous policy
challenges, however. Among them are the inherent
risks of markets lacking critical regulatory safeguards,
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
as is true in some respects of international financial
markets. Globalization is also eroding the efficacy of
some policy instruments by which the industrialized
countries had pursued full employment and social
stability throughout the era that followed the Second
World War.” [Ibid., para. 8]
For the East Asian region, which has been subjected
to extreme volatility of currency and stock markets, the
urgent need for critical regulatory safeguards in respect of
international
financial markets is unambiguous. The
United Nations should contribute to the international
efforts to arrive at critical regulatory safeguards.
On the issue of international economic cooperation,
sustained economic growth and sustainable development,
we note the Secretary-General’s assurances that this issue
will remain at the core of the Organization’s agenda.
Nevertheless, the critical challenge is to operationalize the
collective commitments made at the United Nations and
at the various global conferences, particularly the financial
commitments. We must arrest
the accelerating slide
towards a diminishing role for the United Nations on
development issues, especially on issues of trade and
development financing. While good governance at the
national level is critical, we cannot ignore or sideline the
importance of a supportive international environment. It
may be timely to seriously consider the need for the
Secretary-General to attend the key and annual meetings
of the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade
Organization.
We agree with the Secretary-General that democracy
at the national level should continue to be promoted and
expanded. However, it is disquieting that the report is
silent on the important principle of democracy among
nations, which should be promoted by our Organization
on the basis of the principle of the sovereign equality of
States.
In respect of human rights, my delegation takes note
of the Secretary-General’s assessment as contained in the
report. While the core human rights activities of the
United Nations had taken on renewed strength after the
1993 Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, as
the Secretary-General correctly observed, progress in the
implementation of the right to development, which is
recognized by the Declaration as indivisible and an
integral part of human rights is far from satisfactory.
There are still many obstacles, especially at
the
international level, which have impeded, and can impede,
the
its
therefore critical
full
for
realization.
It
is
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
international community to inject renewed interest and a
spirit of cooperation in overcoming these obstacles.
existence of nuclear weapons persists, hovering like the
proverbial sword of Damocles over mankind.
In this connection, my delegation would also like to
emphasize the need for all countries, regardless of their
level of economic development, to expand, enhance and
contribute to the exchange of knowledge and experiences in
the field of human rights. We have much to learn from
each other. It is our view that the Secretary-General and,
especially, the High Commissioner for Human Rights have
an important role to play in promoting this spirit of
cooperation and should not be perceived as promoting the
interests of certain groups. My delegation also believes that
the
separate new branch with
commensurate levels of services and resources to deal
specifically with the right
is necessary
under the proposed consolidation of the Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human
Rights.
establishment of
to development
a
Next year, 1998, will mark the fiftieth anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It will also be
five years since the adoption of the Vienna Declaration and
Programme of Action. This is indeed an opportune time to
take stock of the substantial progress made in the field of
human rights. We must reject the exploitation of human
rights for self-serving reasons, evident
in the double
standards and selectivity which have characterized the
annual meetings of the Commission on Human Rights. At
the same time, there should also be greater candour and
honesty about our
failures, which have indeed been
considerable, as attested to by the mounds of human
remains and pools of blood we have witnessed on our
television screens and documented in various reports which
will haunt us all for ever as human beings.
On the question of disarmament, my delegation has
always believed that the Organization could fully exercise
its potential to play a more significant and prominent role.
This role could be built upon the existing multilateral
disarmament treaties and conventions, as well as through
close cooperation with regional organizations. However, in
spite of some positive developments in the area of arms
regulation and disarmament in the past year, we cannot be
too sanguine about these achievements in the absence of
any real or substantial progress made in the area of the
further reduction of nuclear weapons leading to their total
elimination. The failure of the Conference on Disarmament
its 1997 session is clear
to make further progress at
testimony to this. Despite numerous
calls by the
international community, the threat posed by the continued
14
My delegation shares the concern over the increasing
threat of illicit transfers of small arms and light weapons,
especially to conflict areas. Effective steps should be
taken to address this issue from the core — that is, to
limit the production and acquisitions of such weapons
only to the legitimate security requirements of States.
Similarly, greater attention should be given to the
increasing availability of more technologically advanced
and sophisticated conventional weapons. The drive for
higher profits derived from the supply of those weapons,
particularly to the developing countries, has threatened
regional
security and hampered confidence-building
efforts. In this regard, we would welcome any effort to
strengthen and broaden the scope of the United Nations
Register of Conventional Arms, as we believe it would
contribute to enhancing transparency.
As events in many parts of the world have continued
the United Nations in
to demonstrate,
peacekeeping in all its aspects is critical to the promotion
of peace and development. We fully concur with the
observation in the report that,
the role of
“Though peace is far less costly than war, there
should be no illusion that it can be achieved on the
cheap.” [A/52/1, para. 110]
resolution
On the question of preventive diplomacy and
peaceful settlement of disputes, my delegation would like
to reiterate the necessity that such activities continue to be
undertaken within the provisions of the United Nations
Charter and the mandate given to the world body. My
the adoption of General
delegation also welcomes
Assembly
51/242
the
recommendation concerning the Informal Open-ended
Working Group on An Agenda for Peace.
is
unfortunate, however,
the General Assembly is
unable, as yet, to successfully conclude the work of the
subgroups on preventive diplomacy and peacemaking and
post-conflict peace-building, signalling the inability of
Member States to move ahead on critical issues relevant
to many of the affected States.
regarding
that
It
Although supportive of United Nations efforts aimed
at preventing conflicts or the escalation of conflicts, my
delegation is concerned about the indiscriminate use of
the term “preventive action” appearing in a number of
United Nations publications, including the report of the
Secretary-General on a programme for reform contained
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in document A/51/950. The concept clearly requires further
clarification and certainly deliberated upon by the General
Assembly. At the same time, my delegation shares the view
that Member States must come to grips with the real
problems on the ground, while maintaining the fundamental
principles of
inter-State relations as enshrined in the
Charter.
My delegation expresses its serious concern at the
increasing number of attacks on humanitarian personnel and
the numerous barriers placed in the way of their access to
populations in distress. Any attack on humanitarian action
negates the very foundations of assistance and protection
work. This
a more
comprehensive and concerted international response and
assistance.
problem calls
growing
for
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
reflect on those activities which took place at the United
Nations over the past year so that, in the reform process
in which we are now engaged, we can seek to make the
Organization more capable of dealing with these changes.
Guyana shares the concerns of all the Member States
that are concerned with the problems that have surfaced
in the globalization process. We are pleased to note that
the United Nations Conference
and
Development has been examining the relationships
between globalization and development and that
the
Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean has been examining the compatibility between
international trade and a more open international system.
We hope that these findings will be made available for
review by the General Assembly.
on Trade
On the issue of transnational threats, Malaysia shares
the concern over the exploitation of modern technology by
“uncivil society” to enhance their illegal activities. This
transboundary nature of current criminal activities indeed
poses a serious threat to the well-being of the international
community, both the Member States and the peoples of the
world. In this regard, my delegation welcomes all efforts to
enhance international cooperation against
transnational
threats, including addressing the drug menace.
With the trend towards globalization, developing
countries are in danger of having the gains they have
made in areas such as trade negated. This comes at a time
when we are still grappling with the poverty issue and
means of resolving it. It would be wise, therefore, to pay
particular attention to the 1997 World Economic and
Social Survey, which concludes that less affluent countries
require a more favourable external economic environment
than currently exists.
I cannot conclude my statement without reference to
the precarious financial health of the Organization. As of 30
September 1997, the Organization was owed $2.417 billion
for the regular budget, peacekeeping budget and the budgets
for the international tribunals. It is regrettable that the major
contributor accounted for 60 per cent of all amounts owed
to the Organization. Failure to pay or withholding
mandatory contributions constitutes a direct attack on
United Nations programmes and action. It is unfortunate
that as a result of late payments or non-payment, the United
Nations had to resort
to borrowing from the already
depleted peacekeeping account
the shortfall.
Malaysia and many others, despite being up to date in their
assessed contributions, have in fact been penalized by not
being reimbursed for providing troops and equipment to the
various United Nations peacekeeping operations. We
therefore appeal to all Member States to fulfil in good faith
their mandatory contributions to the United Nations in full,
on time and without conditions.
to cover
All States have recognized the need for partnership
for development. It
is only through partnership with
developed countries, and with the United Nations, that
developing countries will be able to improve their
economic situation. All actors involved must recognize
the special challenges faced by developing counties and
work together towards resolving them. By doing so, it is
possible for the world to reach the goal of peace and
stability worldwide. The universal
the
United Nations is most suited to the task of fostering such
international cooperation.
institution of
Internal strife has exacerbated the poverty issue in
many developing countries, which at this time also have
to contend with the effects of globalization. The decision
of the United Nations to strengthen its global watch so
that threats to international peace and security might be
detected early, and dealt with, would help Member States
to devote greater efforts to dealing with other challenges.
Mrs. Cornette (Guyana): My delegation wishes to
thank the Secretary-General for his concise report on the
work of the United Nations over the past year. Certainly, it
makes us more aware of how global events, particularly in
the developing countries, have had an impact on us. We can
A few external conflicts still remain unresolved. In
what remains one of the most troubled areas, the Middle
East, the fact that the tenth emergency special session of
the General Assembly is being convened for the third
time with the aim of resolving some of the issues in the
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
indicates that
the situation
Israeli-Palestinian conflict
remains volatile. We hope that in the coming year greater
effort will be devoted to working with the parties concerned
in the Middle East and elsewhere so that differences can be
resolved.
The United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development has succeeded in integrating matters of an
economic, social and environmental nature with the aim of
achieving sustainable development. One of the major events
this year was its five-year review. The finding that the state
of the environment continues to deteriorate does not augur
well for developing countries whose economic viability is
heavily reliant on a healthy physical environment. Now that
the Commission on Sustainable Development is in a better
position to identify priorities, we hope that developing
countries will be able to benefit from the assistance
necessary to enable them to respond better to the more
pressing issues hampering their sustainable development
goals.
Developing countries need to be better prepared to
cope with the challenges which a changing world
environment presents, while simultaneously adopting
effective measures to address internal issues which hamper
sustainable development. The Secretary-General’s reform
proposals, when adopted, should better enable the United
Nations to assist developing countries in attaining their
priority goals.
As the Secretary-General’s report observes, adequate
financing is essential for implementing United Nations
programmes and activities. Private capital flows have been
selective and promises of official development assistance
have not been realized. United Nations
funds and
programmes have become the most reliable source of
funding. The United Nations has yet to find satisfactory
solutions to the question of financing. We hope, therefore,
that in the future, the United Nations will give this the
priority consideration it deserves.
Overall, this first report of the new Secretary-General
has assured us that the Organization is in capable hands.
We share its prudent optimism and are willing to work with
him to make the United Nations better able to serve its
Member States.
Mr. Takht-Ravanchi (Islamic Republic of Iran): At
the very outset, let me express, on behalf of the delegation
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, our gratitude to the
Secretary-General
the
for his report on the work of
16
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
Organization, as contained in document A/52/1. We find
the report informative, analytical and useful.
In the introductory part of the report, the Secretary-
General provides a panoramic view of
the most
significant changes that have shaped world affairs in the
course of the past decade and still continue to unfold, the
collapse of the bipolar world and ascendancy of the twin
processes of globalization and liberalization being the two
most fundamental factors. The report’s treatment of the
far-reaching implications of the ongoing transformations
and further unfolding changes, particularly for
the
developing world and the additional challenges they have
to face, is also interesting.
We agree with the overall objectives enumerated in
paragraph 2 of the report and believe that the whole
international community should strive towards a more
secure and predictable peace, greater economic well-
being, social
justice and environmental sustainability.
Furthermore, we concur with the view that individual
nations can hardly achieve these lofty objectives on their
own and, hence, we recognize the desirability as much as
the inevitability of collective efforts at the global level,
which in our time are best embodied in the form of the
United Nations.
Cognizant of the magnitude of the changes just
referred to, as well as of the imperative of reform and
adaptation, we wish the Secretary-General the utmost
success in achieving greater unity of purpose, coherence
of efforts and responsiveness throughout
the United
Nations to meet the challenges of our time effectively.
We
the
Organization will remain a vital and effective instrument
of international cooperation in the years and decades to
come.
the Secretary-General’s hope
share
that
Having made these general comments by way of
introduction,
I would like to make a number of
observations on some aspects of the Organization’s work,
especially in the light of the still ongoing reform process.
I underline, however,
that as our views on various
elements of the Secretary-General’s reform proposals
have been raised,
in the course of current
deliberations on reform within the framework of the
Open-ended Informal Consultations of the Plenary, our
exposé here will be limited merely to a few select areas.
in detail,
I
First
turn to disarmament. We believe that
disarmament, as a top priority on the United Nations
agenda, should preserve its significance and relevance to
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
international peace and security. We concur with the
Secretary-General that, in the past year, significant progress
has been made in the field of disarmament and arms
regulation through multilateral treaty-making, in particular
by the Conference on Disarmament. Nevertheless, we do
not share the optimism that the accomplishments thus far
are of a comprehensive nature, unless and until nuclear
disarmament becomes a reality. Moreover, the imperative
of nuclear disarmament should under no circumstances be
overshadowed by the ongoing negotiations and deliberations
on conventional weapons. Accordingly, it is our earnest
hope that in the process of the United Nations reform and
restructuring of the disarmament (SSOD I) machinery, the
priorities stipulated in the first special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament be given due
consideration and maintained.
The second issue I address concerns peacekeeping and
post-conflict peace-building. In our view,
the General
Assembly, as the only truly universal body of the United
Nations, should exercise its paramount role in defining the
objectives and criteria as well as setting the requisite
modalities and guidelines for post-conflict peace-building
activities. Likewise, any proposals and measures to enhance
United Nations peacekeeping capabilities should receive
similar treatment. Having thoroughly studied the Secretary-
General’s analysis of past peacekeeping operations and their
specific difficulties, we are of the view that the success of
peacekeeping operations in the future hinges upon genuine
multilateral cooperation and compliance with the principles
of international law, in particular the provisions of the
United Nations Charter. Similarly, the post-conflict peace-
building activities to be undertaken by the United Nations
should also conform to the political, social, economic and
cultural systems of the parties concerned.
In turning to the next issue, let me echo the Secretary-
General’s emphasis on the importance of the question of
human rights. The collective campaign of
the world
community to define, promote and protect human rights
across the globe represents a great achievement of humanity
at large and needs to be cherished by all; however, the
imperative of a balanced approach to all aspects of human
rights, whether civil, political, economic, social or cultural,
should not be theoretically underestimated or practically
neglected. We join the Secretary-General in welcoming the
new United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
and wish her the utmost success in this very sensitive area
of global concern and international cooperation, in which
due attention and consideration must be paid to the specific
particularities of all societies.
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
fundamental
The last issue I take up concerns development, which
in our view should be considered the most pivotal, all-
embracing and cross-cutting issue on the United Nations
agenda. The serious implications and consequences of
recent
transformations in world affairs,
particularly those of the twin processes of liberalization
and globalization, further accentuate the imperative of
development in its broadest sense for the larger segment
of the world community. Despite this importance, which
is also discernible in large measure in the Secretary-
General’s report, a number of disquieting trends need to
be addressed and adequately dealt with at the level of the
Organization.
and direct
The quite perceptible, albeit gradual, shift away from
multilateralism on the part of the developed world augurs
ill
in this field. The continuing decline in official
development assistance, coupled with a simultaneous
growing reliance on bilateral
foreign
investment, serve as unmistakable indications of this
unhealthy process. Undue emphasis on just a few purely
environmental aspects of sustainable development to the
detriment of the social and economic dimensions of
balanced overall development
another negative
indication in this regard. We continue to believe that
comprehensive development of
the
prerequisite for peace and security at the global level and
deserves to receive the undivided attention of the entire
international community,
the
United Nations.
the South is
in particular,
including,
is
The Organization’s unrivalled role in the field of
development, whether analytical, normative or operational,
and in contributing to the creation of a favourable
international milieu for development, hardly needs to be
emphasized. Nor does the Secretary-General need to be
convinced of the centrality of development in the overall
work of the Organization. What remains is the United
Nations active involvement in the process of development,
inter alia through full and expeditious implementation of
the Agenda for Development.
To conclude, let me add that the great challenge of
our time lies in our ability to navigate through the
uncharted contours of a new era. All countries, big and
small, developed and developing,
facing this
challenge, although to varying degrees and in various
ways and fields. Moreover,
individual
countries but the international community in its entirety
that is confronted with this daunting challenge. We all
have no choice but to take on the challenge and go
forward. I further venture to add that we have no choice
is not
just
are
it
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
but to cooperate and strive collectively towards solving the
common problems of humanity.
Mrs. Sinha (India): Permit me
to begin by
complimenting you, Sir, on the skill with which you have
conducted the work of the fifty-second session of the
General Assembly. I would also like to compliment the
Secretary-General on the quality of his report on the work
of the Organization, which we are discussing today. The
Secretary-General has set the tone for our discussions in the
admirable brevity and clarity of his comprehensive
coverage of
the current challenges facing the United
Nations.
The Secretary-General has said that we live in an era
of realignment. Indeed, vast forces are at work reshaping
the world, but we do not want the process of globalization
to be uncontrolled, nor would we welcome a return either
to the international anarchy that preceded the creation of the
United Nations or to the alignment and confrontation
between blocs that vitiated international relations during the
cold war. This is why, particularly in an era of realignment,
the principles and ideals of non-alignment continue to be so
important. And this is also why we think that all Member
States must work together to strengthen the United Nations,
make its functioning more democratic and representative,
and ensure that, through it, we are able to harness to the
common good the forces and energies released by the end
of
inexorable progress of
globalization.
cold war
the
and the
It is only the United Nations that can evolve, define
and promote a comprehensive and responsive universalist
agenda that will meet the challenges of the next century.
The Secretariat obviously has a critical role to play. On the
one hand, led by its able Secretary-General, it must in its
work faithfully reflect the priorities set by Member States
and transmitted through intergovernmental mandates; on the
other, it is our responsibility to give the Secretariat the
resources to do the work that we have assigned it.
There is much with which we agree in the Secretary-
General’s overview of current developments, which he
describes as the contours of the new era. What we find
absent, somewhat surprisingly,
is any mention of the
imperative and critical need for the world community to
pursue the goal of nuclear disarmament,
to which all
Member States are committed, with the sense of urgency it
deserves. As long as nuclear weapons exist, the world itself
cannot be safe. We regret, therefore, that this year there has
been an impasse in the Conference on Disarmament and the
United Nations Disarmament Commission on the issue of
18
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
through the indefinite
nuclear disarmament. Having,
extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), perpetuated a monopoly on
nuclear weapons, nuclear-weapon States espouse non-
proliferation treaties as disarmament measures, impeding
progress towards genuine nuclear disarmament. We
believe that,
in accordance with the principles and
priorities of the Final Document of the first special
session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament,
the United Nations has the foremost responsibility to
promote nuclear disarmament.
Over the years the United Nations has developed a
range of activities that promote the maintenance of
international peace and security. Peacekeeping finds no
mention in the Charter of the United Nations, but has
almost become synonymous with the United Nations in
the popular imagination. The United Nations has had its
greatest successes in peacekeeping, but also, in recent
years, its most serious controversies. Problems perhaps
the
arose because neither
Secretariat
the
muscular approach to peacekeeping that was briefly
adopted in the early 1990s, when it was put forward
almost as a panacea for various troubled regions. A sharp
downturn has taken place from mid-decade; in 1995, the
Secretary-General reported that there were over 67,000
blue helmets engaged in peacekeeping operations; by
October of this year, the number had fallen to 18,000.
Does this mean that the world has become a safer or
more peaceful place? I think not.
the Security Council nor
through the implications of
thought
even more
the willing;
What we see is a decline in the United Nations role
in peacekeeping and the evolution of concepts like
peacekeeping and peace enforcement by proxy through
coalitions of
innovative
mechanisms are being thought of, including what might
almost be called the franchising of peacekeeping by the
United Nations to those who can respond the quickest.
These and other ad hoc arrangements may be expedient,
but they may also be guided by considerations other than
a commitment to peace. We have to ask whether these are
the best means of ensuring international peace and
security, enhancing the United Nations role in collective
security or indeed bringing about savings in costs. These
are questions raised in the work of the Secretariat and by
trends in peacekeeping, the answers to which we need to
find.
We welcome the Secretary-General’s attention to the
threats of international crime, drug
new transnational
trafficking, money laundering and terrorism, and warmly
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
applaud his determination to position the United Nations to
combat them. However, we note with disappointment that,
apart from the consolidation of the various functions into a
single office, an addition of only two professional posts has
been proposed to strengthen the United Nations capacity to
address issues related to terrorism. Tokenism is dangerous
when the challenge is so real, powerful and widespread. We
would encourage the Secretariat to allocate the resources it
needs to counter these global challenges effectively and to
ask for more intergovernmental support
these are
inadequate.
if
We have read with interest the Secretary-General’s
analysis of the global economic scenario and share his
assessment of the challenges and risks of globalization and
liberalization. The recovery of the 1990s could be more
sustained, since it is based both on higher growth rates in
developing countries, which may well endure, and on the
revitalization of the economies in transition. But, while
developing countries are increasingly crucial
to world
growth, this growing centrality has not been reflected in
their enhanced participation in rule-setting or decision-
making processes. Also, as the Secretary-General has noted
elsewhere,
forces that propel global
changes, in particular mobile investment and finance, are
weakening the ability of national Governments to influence
economic and social outcomes, often putting the fulfilment
of even national political commitments, not to mention the
ability to influence global
trends, beyond the reach of
elected national representatives.
the transnational
natural
resources
the provision of basic social services,
At the same time, most developing countries continue
to be faced with the problems of poverty, the lack of
adequate infrastructure, human resource development and
technological deficits. Among the recent successes of the
United Nations has been the forging of an international
consensus on certain areas of global concern and priority
through the recent series of global conferences. However,
the management of
and human
settlements,
the
support required for targeted programmes for poverty
alleviation, the correction of acute gender disabilities, social
protection, employment generation and skill development,
the improvements sought
in public administration and
governance — all priorities defined by the global
community — are typically activities that require public
resources spent through public entities. The fundamental
question we need to ask is whether these globally defined
priorities lie purely within the domain of national corrective
action or whether there is a greater role for international
cooperation in mobilizing the requisite political will and
in a commensurate
external resources to complement,
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
manner, the considerable ongoing efforts by developing
countries through their own initiatives at the national
level.
that
We need an international consensus on the role of
the United Nations in effectively facilitating the creation
of an international economic environment
is
conducive to sustained economic growth, particularly in
developing countries,
to ensure the availability of
resources for investments in the social and environmental
sectors and for poverty eradication. The ongoing
discussions on the Secretary-General’s reform proposals
should lead to decisions that strengthen the role of the
United Nations in the economic and development spheres
and ensure that any division of international labour does
not restrict it solely to the social sector nor tip the balance
wholly towards its normative functions. We need to
ensure a role for the United Nations as a facilitator of
growth, development and prosperity that
is shared
equitably among nations. For this, it is imperative that
development,
sustained economic growth and the
eradication of poverty become the principal cross-sectoral
priorities on the agenda of the United Nations for the
twenty-first century.
The United Nations therefore has a wide charter of
responsibilities as it approaches the millennium. We
welcome the Secretary-General’s attention to reform. As
our Prime Minister said during the general debate, India
has a vital interest in a United Nations that is continually
making itself more responsive to the needs of its Member
States and preparing itself to serve them better. We will
support all initiatives that help the United Nations adapt
to a rapidly changing environment and to the mandates of
the international community.
Against these yardsticks, we must ask ourselves if
the process of reform so far has had the effects we would
have expected. It is, for instance, quite extraordinary that
the President of the International Court of Justice should
have to complain to the Sixth Committee at this session
of the General Assembly that the Court, facing the largest
workload in its history, was finding itself severely
constrained because the United Nations had not given it
the resources it needed. Nor is it at all desirable, either
for Member States or the Secretariat that serves them, that
the work of the Committees of the General Assembly has
been delayed because documentation is delayed.
Quite clearly, cutting costs has not always made the
United Nations more efficient. If we want the United
Nations to be more active on our behalf, we must give it
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the resources it needs. Setting out to tackle the titanic and
complex forces which call for global action with the United
Nations in a financial crisis is not the best way to promote
our collective interests. Member States must demonstrate
the political will to pay the United Nations all their dues, in
full and on time, and to pay as much as the United Nations,
within fiscal prudence, needs to discharge its mandates.
The Secretary-General has reported on the need for the
United Nations to engage with civil society. We support
this, but greater discipline and responsibility need to be
introduced in the terms of interaction with this burgeoning
civil society. Recently we have seen an industrialist making
the United Nations an extraordinarily generous pledge that
is almost 10 per cent of its regular budget. While such
contributions can certainly supplement the United Nations
resources, we need to consider very carefully the
implications on its functioning if funding from sources over
which there is no intergovernmental control affects the
priorities set by Member States. Such financing for the
United Nations cannot be a substitute for the financial
support from Member States which is mandated by the
Charter.
Lastly, for the United Nations to be more effective it
must also become more representative and democratic in its
functioning. The legitimacy of the Security Council will be
enhanced when developing countries, which constitute the
vast majority of the United Nations membership, are
represented equitably in the category of permanent
membership.
the most
representative body of the United Nations, must be given
new life and should breathe that life into the other bodies
of
the
Organization should reflect the felt needs of the many.
the system. The agendas and priorities of
The General Assembly,
The United Nations was established because we felt
that all of us stood to gain from it. That universalist vision
should continue
the
Organization.
functioning of
to guide
the
Mr. Guarini
(United States of America):
I am
the United States
privileged to speak on behalf of
delegation this morning. My name is Frank Guarini, and I
am the representative to the General Assembly on the
United States delegation. I also had the privilege of serving
as a congressman in the United States House of
Representatives in Washington for 14 years.
The Secretary-General’s report on the work of the
Organization is his annual address to the membership and,
by extension, to all stakeholders in the Organization. We
20
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
time the Secretary-
were impressed that for the first
General made use of an important political and media
moment at the opening of this session’s general debate to
introduce orally this, his “State of the United Nations”
report.
This annual report is meant to inform us and spur the
General Assembly to action, as does the reporting of the
other principal organs to the Assembly. But this year’s
report on the work of the organization, the first of this
incumbent Secretary-General,
to
contemplate the direction of the Organization. It considers
the contours of our new era, better ways to manage
change and possible steps ahead. The United States
delegation accepts this opportunity, particularly given the
report’s premise that
also compels us
“the Organization must learn to make far better use
of its major potential source of institutional strength:
the many complementarities and synergies that exist
within it.” [A/52/1, para. 3]
The contours of our new era are too varied to
describe here. But let us simply agree with the report that
key forces transforming the world suggest the need for an
intergovernmental organization as a vital and effective
instrument of international cooperation.
In the course of arguing for a more sustainable and
more stable Organization this past year, Member States
and the Secretary-General alike have been seized by its
fiscal precariousness. Admittedly, my delegation has
shared the pressures from our Capitol on this point. But
so many Member States have also felt these individual
pressures. All of us have been arguing for material means
to attend to beneficial activities. My delegation’s
prescription is that incremental adjustments in favour of
financial support
is less dependent on any one
Member State are again needed for the general health of
the Organization.
that
My delegation’s ability to participate with more
confidence and with the goodwill of colleagues here is in
need of improvement, as is the Organization in need of
amounts due which must satisfy its work. We request that
this Assembly during its regular session approve the
adjustment of the scales of assessments for both the
regular budget and the peacekeeping budget
in ways
which will restore such participation in furtherance of the
Assembly’s agreed mandates.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Revised scales of assessment would further serve as a
visible way to manage change. The report states that
“all parts of the United Nations have continuously
adapted their strategies and programmes to the new
and fluid international context”. [ibid., para. 21]
We agree with the Secretary-General that reform is not an
event, but indeed a process. It is a process for strategically
managing change in our world. Reform succeeds when
Member States and the Secretary-General give themselves
the capability to act on change, instead of having to react
to it.
The work of the Organization has been revitalized with
the challenge of reform, going beyond mere resources
management to incorporate strategic management on behalf
of the priorities of the medium-term plan. And they are:
international peace and security; promotion of sustained
economic
development;
development of Africa; promotion of human rights;
coordination of humanitarian assistance efforts; promotion
of justice and international law; disarmament; drug control;
crime prevention; and combating international terrorism.
sustainable
growth
and
indicates improved stewardship of
We note improvements in the report’s format and
structure over those of previous years. This is one example
that
the resources
entrusted to the Secretary-General as chief administrative
officer. For 52 years Member States have also entrusted to
the United Nations their aspirations and ideals for a better
and peaceful world.
How has the stock of the United Nations fared in the
last year?
Given the high degree of political attention throughout
the year, and particularly during the general debate, we
urge colleagues to take note of improvements in the
functioning of the United Nations. This would enable more
effective promotion of the goals of the Charter. Innovations
implemented on the Secretary-General’s authority are
making reality out of what previously had been our hopes
for this noble experiment, the United Nations. The first use
of a cabinet by the Secretary-General,
for example,
demonstrates that the most potent resource of the United
Nations is its desire to honour its own latent potential. We
should work its useful practices, move beyond those that
have served their purposes, and fine-tune for both sending
and receiving clearer messages in furtherance of mandates
established by all Member States.
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
economic
development
This Assembly is abundant in priorities identified by
the recent round of global conferences, particularly in the
areas of good governance, human rights, democratization,
cooperation and sustainable
international
development,
preventive
diplomacy,
and
disarmament, as well as humanitarian action and
peacekeeping
peace-building.
Strategically, we are managing ourselves with these
priorities in what we find prescribed between the lines of
every page of the report of the Secretary-General on the
work of the Organization.
post-conflict
operations,
settlement
peaceful
of
disputes
and
I shall comment briefly on some passages in the
report. The consolidation of the Centre for Human Rights
into the Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights will strengthen the United Nations human rights
machinery. It will also rightly make human rights a major
consideration throughout all United Nations activities. It
is critical to promote democratic practices and yet have
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. We
support bringing together development activities in a
United Nations Development Group chaired by the United
Nations Development
Programme Administrator.
Enhancing field level coordination should be its priority.
Common premises and services would produce greater
efficiency and therefore free up more resources for
developing programmes. The United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the regional
economic commissions require further refinements to
streamline operations and also to increase efficiency. The
completed consolidation of three Secretariat Departments
into the new Department of Economic and Social Affairs
will promote efficiency and reduce administrative expenses.
The Secretary-General has created a Department for
Disarmament Affairs. While we applaud his attention to
this serious problem,
the United
Nations maintain budgetary restraint. We will therefore
work to ensure that
the new department does not
duplicate or interfere with ongoing related work.
is important
that
it
The Department of Humanitarian Affairs was not
effective in delivering humanitarian assistance. The
Secretary-General was wise to abolish it and to transfer
its core functions to the new Office of the Emergency
Relief Coordinator, which, furthermore, would fill a much
needed coordination role. It would assess a situation and
focus on coordinating an appropriate response along with
other United Nations entities, all dealing with the
necessary operational activities. This should lead to a
more rapid and effective response.
21
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Secretary-General’s report draws attention to the
steps ahead. This house, the General Assembly, has become
recognized universally as the forum for seeing and being
seen, hearing and being heard. Like another 52-year-old
invention, the Internet, it is evolving into an increasingly
busy, real time, global chat forum. Both are promoting
individual and shared interests. As an illustration, at the
opening of this session of the Assembly the United States
Secretary of State scheduled an unprecedented two weeks
at the United Nations to engage effectively and efficiently
with foreign leaders and ministers from around the world.
Her success was reported in the press here as an innovative
way to leverage our foreign policy resources.
for
The General Assembly has the opportunity to become
a living, breathing Internet
the world. We must
contemplate what that means for the Organization’s future.
We must also consider upgrading the way we process our
work and explore enhanced capabilities for furthering our
Member States together, using all our priorities as a guide.
Again, reform has a role to play: to fit this mechanism with
the most appropriate devices and technicians available to
realize its growing potential as an increasingly effective
intergovernmental and operational forum.
We have read the Secretary-General’s report, which
calls for new paradigms of cooperation. We look forward
to making far better use of the United Nations latent
potentials on behalf of all its Members’ mandates.
Mr. Sucharipa (Austria): The debate on the Secretary-
General’s report on the work of the Organization provides
us with one of the few opportunities we have to look at the
whole rather than at specific parts of our work. The United
Nations is shaped by political realities in the world. Indeed,
in large parts it can but mirror these developments, while
at least sometimes being a catalyst for positive change. At
its best, the United Nations is a tool we agree to use to
tackle the growing number of challenges none of us can
take on alone.
It is therefore not surprising that the Organization finds
itself in transition. The bipolar world order ended only a
few years ago. Since then, we have witnessed the
beginnings of the evolution of a multipolar order,
the
eventual form of which we can hardly sketch out at this
point in time. As the Secretary-General rightly points out in
his
transition is marked by seemingly
contradictory trends of integration and fragmentation. Our
own debates on many important
issues have clearly
reflected these contradictions as well as another typical sign
of change: the split between forward-looking and backward-
report,
this
22
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
oriented policies. History teaches us that fundamental
change cannot and will not be stopped by clinging to the
past. If we want to make use of this unique opportunity,
we have to embrace change and shape it.
reform of
Last year, when we spoke on this agenda item, we
expressed the hope that we would be able to complete a
meaningful
the United Nations in 1997.
Unfortunately, progress has been slow and somewhat less
than satisfactory. The Secretary-General presented us with
a balanced and substantial package of measures and
recommendations in July that squarely address the
challenges we face. It
is now our responsibility as
Member States to do our part if we are to fulfil the
pledge made by the Heads of States and Governments to
make this Organization fit for the twenty-first century.
We hope that the intensive work done in the informal
meetings of the plenary over the past few weeks will very
soon be concluded with a clear signal
the
Member States, are serious about strengthening the United
Nations.
that we,
As a traditionally loyal supporter of the United
Nations, Austria cannot abide seeing our Organization fall
prey to creeping irrelevance. If we continue to oppose
reform for opposition’s sake or for fear of the unknown,
we run the very real risk of stripping the United Nations
of importance. Many have bemoaned the lack of interest
public opinion has shown in United Nations matters. We
have asked for new strategies to better sell our product to
the media. But if we, the membership as a whole, insist
on wasting our time fighting over minute changes in
language, we shall very soon no longer have a product to
sell. If we do not keep the Organization a capable player,
it will become a bystander. And it is much too important
for that to happen.
In order to remain relevant, this Organization must
today, more than ever before, better focus on those issues
where it can make a real difference. The Secretary-
General’s report before us sets an excellent example in
highlighting these areas of activity. We welcome the
precise nature of the report, as well as the fact that the
Secretary-General could present it personally before this
General Assembly at the beginning of its session. We
welcome the effort to provide focus to the general debate.
The tasks of the United Nations are manifold. They
reach from the maintenance of international peace and
security to the promotion of sustainable development and
post-conflict peace-building;
from the eradication of
poverty to the promotion of human rights for all; from the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
protection of our environment to the further elaboration of
international law. In all these, as in many other areas, such
as drug control and crime prevention — a field which the
Secretary-General rightly describes as one of major concern
for the international community — universal debate, policy
formulation and norm-setting, as well as the implementation
of agreed measures, are required.
This house is based on a democratic structure not
unlike the parliaments of most of its Member States. Thus,
a wide spectrum of support is needed for effective action.
At
those who truly believe in the
Organization and in its unique possibilities cannot allow
this potential to be endangered and jeopardized by those
who have lost faith.
the same time,
We firmly believe that reform is necessary for its own
sake. I know that many delegations in this Hall share this
view in principle, but have strong reservations about
reforming the Organization in an unnecessarily difficult
financial situation.
Important amounts of money are
withheld, contrary to consensually adopted obligations.
With no guarantee that even a consensus on in-depth
reform would secure the financial future of the United
Nations, it is not hard to take their point. This Organization
does not belong to any one country or group of countries
alone. It is time for all of us to face the realities shaping
our cooperation. To make meaningful progress, we need the
broadest possible support on the floor of this Hall as well
as in the bank accounts of the Organization.
The Secretary-General has repeatedly said that reform
is a process, not an event. If we cannot provide a good start
to this process within the next few weeks, it could turn out
to be a non-event. There could be no justification for such
a happening.
Mr. Manley (United Kingdom): I shall be brief. As so
many have said this morning, the report which is before us
is most welcome, both in its form and in its content. We
share the strong commitment expressed by the Secretary-
General in the report to fundamental, not piecemeal, reform
at the United Nations; to developing the central role of the
Organization in the fields of peace, development, human
rights and the environment; and to organizing the structure
of the Organization around these core tasks. I would add
that we very strongly support the comments just made by
the Permanent Representative of Austria in regard to the
reform of this Organization. We are sure, for our part, that
the report of the Secretary-General which is before us will
influence our work in all those areas, including reform, and
for the better.
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
The British delegation would also like to commend
the Secretary-General for the form of the report and the
manner of its presentation. It is exactly the sort of shorter
and more forward-looking report which the Working
Group on United Nations strengthening hoped to see. And
the Secretary-General’s decision to introduce the report in
plenary immediately before the start of the general debate
was a bold and innovative step which gave greater focus
and a higher profile to the debate that ensued amongst our
Ministers.
is steps like these which, more than
anything, can help to revitalize this Assembly and give
new energy to the Organization as a whole. We welcome
them wholeheartedly.
It
Mr. Dumitriu (Romania): I am pleased to start the
few remarks that my delegation wishes to make on
agenda item 10 by welcoming the new, concise format of
the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization.
The first report of Secretary-General Kofi Annan
gives us a broad and comprehensive view on what the
United Nations does and what it is expected to do, and on
the features of the global environment in which it works.
Less descriptive than previous reports, but no less
substantial, the report highlights better the uniqueness of
the United Nations as the most
inclusive multilateral
framework in a position to maximize international
cooperation in facing the powerful forces of globalization.
The ample analysis presented in the first part of the
report — “Contours of the new era” — is not just an
intellectual adornment to a colourless account of facts, be
they achievements or failures. It is, rather, a lucid effort
to convey a message that we may ignore at our peril.
It is not yet clear that globalization pushes mankind
in the same direction. As emphasized by the report, the
integrative trends are accompanied by tendencies towards
fragmentation. The information superhighway is taking us
to the digitally organized life and cyber-mentalities, but
on its sidewalks illiteracy and extreme poverty continue
to coexist. The transnational expansion of civil society
also provides
abused by the destructive
transboundary forces of organized crime, terrorism and
drug-trafficking. The rapid technological developments are
not accompanied by a superior sense of morality and
ethics.
energies
Under these circumstances, it is apparent that the
international community has the duty to take advantage of
and reinforce the available multilateral mechanisms,
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
however imperfect. We are not allowed to indulge ourselves
in the blind defence of narrow, selfish interests and let the
Organization be shaken by curable financial diseases and
fixable structural weaknesses. The United Nations is still
the best-equipped instrument of concerted action of nations
and can further be made able to harness the mutual benefits
of globalization while managing its adverse effects.
This is the message my delegation reads in the report
of the Secretary-General, and we support it.
The report identifies a series of needs that should be
translated into priorities for the United Nations: to deal with
inter-ethnic and other domestic conflicts, instability and
security;
to make all countries reap the benefits of
globalization; to enable marginalized countries to participate
actively in the global economy; to empower marginalized
people to participate actively in the life of their societies by
supporting participation, human rights and democracy; and
to assert individuality and diversity and respect for law,
both nationally and internationally.
The efforts of the United Nations in these directions
are echoed in the second part of the report, entitled
“Managing change”. My delegation agrees with the
conclusions reached by the Secretary-General as to the
main areas of action of the United Nations. Indeed, good
governance, human rights and democratization are essential
means to accomplish the objectives of peace, sustainable
development and broadly shared prosperity.
This fundamental issue was deeply considered by the
ministers and representatives of 77 countries and 47 non-
governmental organizations which participated in the Third
International Conference of
the New or Restored
Democracies on Democracy and Development, which took
place in Bucharest from 2 to 4 September 1997. In the final
document, they emphasized the
“almost universal recognition that a democratic system
of government
to ensure a
framework of liberties for lasting solutions to the
political, economic and social problems that our
societies face.” [A/52/334, appendix, third paragraph]
the best model
is
It was also recognized that
“The real challenge today is how to strengthen
democracy
efficient
government,
anti-corruption
in order to promote sustainable human
measures,
transparency
practices
through
and
the
of
24
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
development and bring the State closer
people.” [ibid, tenth paragraph]
to the
My delegation detected with satisfaction the spirit of
the Bucharest document reflected in the report of the
Secretary-General.
that
competent,
The sections on international economic cooperation,
sustainable development and development operations are
realistic and action-oriented. We fully agree with the
and
pronouncement
responsive public institutions are essential
the
achievement of development. The United Nations should
foster a supportive international framework and try to
counterbalance,
through more efficient advocacy and
better management of resources, the effects of the current
decline in official development assistance.
accountable
for
The sections on preventive diplomacy, peaceful
settlements of disputes, peacekeeping and post-conflict
peace-building give us the picture of a quite impressive
array of actions by a variety of organizations, States or
groups of States and prominent personalities. All were
mobilized and backed by the United Nations. They have
not solved all the tensions, disputes or conflicts they dealt
with. Nevertheless, even in the worst of cases, actions
under United Nations
their
escalation. What they accomplished was the result of the
fact that they bore the imprint of the moral authority of
the United Nations. That
the
Organization’s current tribulations and its critics cannot
diminish.
auspices discouraged
something that
is
the cold war and super-Power
As a final remark on this part, allow me, Sir, to
allude to the burning issue of internal conflicts. These
conflicts are correctly seen as one of the side-effects of
the end of
rivalry.
Nevertheless, one can also see that the States themselves
behave with more responsibility than in the past and are
less inclined to wage war against each other. If that is
admitted, we should credit the United Nations, which
offers norms for
international conduct and sets up
benchmarks which few are willing to ignore.
steps
the report of
ahead” — like
The last part of
the Secretary-
General — “The
the whole
document, looks at the future. The future advocated by
him, however, is closer than one might think. As a matter
of fact,
is the renewal of a strong plea to
Member States to proceed with the approval of the
programme of reform. Our attention is invited to the idea
that the United Nations must undergo fundamental, not
this part
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
piecemeal, reform. He requests us not to surrender to inertia
and to accept the challenges of change.
My delegation takes this opportunity to reiterate its
own support for the reform package proposed by the
Secretary-General. We believe that it is the responsibility of
Member States, which remain while Secretaries-General go.
To conclude, I would like to quote again from the final
document adopted by the Bucharest Conference of the New
or Restored Democracies:
“Managing globalization requires capable leaders,
political will and ethical determination to assume the
risk and the moral responsibility of change.” [ibid,
appendix, part I E, second paragraph]
That coincided with the meaning my delegation has taken
from its reading of the report of the Secretary-General on
the work of the Organization.
Mr. Henze (Germany): The report of the Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization stands out for
many reasons: it is short and concise; it is comprehensive,
analytical and thought-provoking. It should be presented to
a wide readership. It lays out the threads which we, the
Member States, must pick up in order
to give our
Organization a sense of purpose and direction for the
future.
It
this outstanding piece of work.
Germany commends the Secretary-General and his
colleagues for
is
complementary to the Secretary-General’s reform proposals.
The report demonstrates in many instances how these
proposals tie in with the work and practice of
the
Organization. Furthermore,
the
it suggests looking at
Organization from a new perspective and provides the
reader with an integrated view of its different units and
structures. It brings to bear a fundamental experience that
the whole is more than the sum of its parts. To create this
whole, the Secretary-General has announced his intention
to refocus the Organization and to make its efforts more
coherent. We found ample evidence of this endeavour in
the report, and we therefore welcome it.
has
rightly
put
The
Secretary-General
cooperation,
good
governance, human rights and democratization, international
economic
and
development operations at the top of the list of United
Nations activities. The cluster of good governance, human
rights and democratization has been identified as an
essential building block for meeting the objectives of
sustainable development
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
sustained development, prosperity and peace. At the same
time, development, peace and prosperity will remain
elusive if the international community fails to secure full
and equal rights for women and girls, who constitute half
the population of the world. The United Nations is called
upon to continue to promote the empowerment of women
and their full integration into the societies of the coming
centuries.
The capacity and activities of the United Nations in
these areas have increased in recent years. New and
innovative approaches have been pursued, such as
advisory services and technical assistance. Human rights
field operations also contribute to protecting and
promoting respect for human rights. United Nations
electoral assistance is so sought after that not all requests
can met. Germany has supported these various activities
with contributions to voluntary funds as well as by
providing election observers or staff for various field
missions, and we commend the Secretary-General for his
determination and leadership in this field.
We are facing new challenges in the areas of
international economic cooperation and development
operations to which we must respond. There is a growing
recognition among countries and the public at large that
these demand concerted action by States. As a result, we
have witnessed a worldwide trend towards multilateral
cooperation. But a substantial part of the world population
has remained excluded from the new opportunities
presented by globalization and technological innovations.
The daily lives of millions of people continue to be
ruined by the scourge of war and other violent conflicts.
In a world which is moving ever closer to becoming a
global village,
this is deeply disturbing. We must
therefore address existing and emerging crises and
conflicts more vigorously and more systematically. We
must refocus our attention towards the underlying causes
of the problems at hand.
Between 1980 and 1994, global expenditures for
bilateral emergency assistance rose from 2 per cent to 10
per cent of official development assistance. Too many
resources have to be diverted to contain crises and to
alleviate the most acute sufferings of people. In many
cases, projects
long-term development already
underway are destroyed or have to be put on hold until
stable conditions prevail. Damage prevention is less costly
than damage repair. For this reason, Germany has begun
to refocus its attention on crisis prevention through the
traditional instruments of development cooperation. The
for
25
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
aim is to assess the potential for crisis systematically and
to incorporate the results in our development cooperation.
The internal political and economic environment of a
country is crucial to the success or failure of development.
There are five criteria which we believe are conducive to
effective development. These criteria are respect for human
rights, popular participation in political decision-making, the
rule of law and guaranteed legal security, the introduction
of a social market economy, and the orientation of State
action towards development.
Let me give a few examples which might illustrate
these considerations. The aim of development assistance is
to improve the livelihoods of people, especially the poorest.
Steep population increases can exacerbate competition not
only for social services, employment and other income
opportunities but also for arable land, water and energy.
Our concept emphasizes improved family planning services,
and in this context helps promoting women’s access to
health and education services.
Marginalization of social strata of the population may
also lead to conflict. Development cooperation can help
countries to establish their own systems of participatory
society.
To prevent crises from perpetuating themselves, we
have to set up programmes which help reintegrate former
combatants into civil life, rebuild infrastructure, restore civil
administrations and rekindle economic activities. These
efforts can play an important
long-term role in the
framework of post-conflict peace-building.
We welcome the fact that many of the operational
activities of the United Nations, through the United Nations
Development Programme, the United Nations Population
Fund, the World Food Programme and the United Nations
Children’s Fund, are also undertaken in these areas.
threats
this year highlighted the
The special session of the General Assembly held in
June
caused by
environmental degradation. One case in point is global
warming caused by greenhouse gases, which has the
potential to wipe entire countries — States Members of the
United Nations — from the face of the Earth. These
environmental challenges must be met. Unfortunately, our
world body has not so far been able to respond adequately
to our high expectations.
Meanwhile, the incidence of environmental disasters
which can be related to environmental degradation seems to
26
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
have increased dramatically in recent years. To mitigate
their impact and magnitude, it has been suggested that an
early-warning system should be established. This concept
has been actively promoted by my Government since the
forty-eighth session of the General Assembly,
in the
course of deliberations and through voluntary financial
contributions. Our idea of an environmental early-warning
system has been cast into a resolution. We now look
forward to the first report of the Secretary-General on this
issue, and we will continue to support system-wide efforts
in this regard.
We do not suggest that we have invented anything
new by promoting development cooperation as a
preventive tool. All we are doing is to try to refocus the
application of the existing instruments of development
assistance more consciously in order to address these
complex issues,
international
community likewise to increase their efforts so as to
tackle these very pressing tasks. Let us cooperate so that
in future sustained and uninterrupted development will be
the rule, and the need for peacekeeping the exception.
and we
invite
the
The Secretary-General’s report clearly shows that the
United Nations is productive in all the areas which I have
mentioned. The major world conferences and summits of
the last decade have defined the global agenda for years
to come. Through these landmark events, we have
committed ourselves to high standards and goals. Now is
the time to make them reality; the United Nations should
be the driving force in this process.
However,
the United Nations needs
a well
coordinated, coherent and comprehensive approach to the
follow-up of these conferences. This is why the Economic
and Social Council must fulfil its role as a coordinating
body for the United Nations system; the Council should
adapt its working methods to this task where needed. In
this regard, we expect next spring’s special session of the
Economic and Social Council to give new impetus to the
coordinated implementation of the outcomes of the Rio,
Copenhagen, Beijing and other conferences.
As the world undergoes profound changes, we as
actors on the international stage must adapt, and so must
United Nations. For years, this Organization has been
struggling with difficulties which have reduced its ability
to fully perform its functions. It has been in a financial
crisis for the last 10 years, and its present financial
constitution seems worse than ever.
In the area of
managerial and institutional reform, realistic and far-
reaching proposals are on the table, but Member States
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
have yet to respond commensurately in order to turn vision
into reality. Furthermore, the debate on the reform of the
Security Council is not going forward as we would like to
see it do. The “full-picture” proposal of the previous
President of the General Assembly, Mr. Razali Ismail, is on
the table. This balanced reform proposal has been
thoroughly discussed. No other plan is in sight which could
match it. We should not let more time go by without
seizing this historic opportunity.
But, as the saying goes, every crisis is an opportunity
in disguise. Let us therefore take the necessary decisions on
all the reforms now. Let us provide the United Nations with
the means to fully play its role in the next century. The
Secretary-General has proposed the direction in which this
Organization should go. It is now for us, the Member
States, to decide, and to help him get on with the job.
Mr. Fulci (Italy): I wish to thank the Secretary-
General for his impressive first report on the work of the
Organization, which highlights the key forces transforming
the international community and envisions how the United
Nations must respond to them.
I wish to consider the following points: human rights
and democratization; peaceful settlement of disputes and
peacekeeping operations;
cooperation and
development; new transnational threats; and management
and communications.
economic
The United Nations plays a crucial
role in the
promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, which the Vienna Declaration of 1993 reaffirms
as the birthright of all human beings. It also stresses that
democracy, development and respect for human rights are
interdependent and mutually reinforcing. We fully subscribe
to the Secretary-General’s measures to ensure that
the
cross-cutting nature of these issues is fully reflected in the
United Nations programme of work, in which the Office of
the High Commissioner for Human Rights is called on to
play a pivotal role.
The Secretary-General rightly underlines the role of the
United Nations in strengthening the democratic systems of
Member States by providing assistance at their request.
There is a strong need for more open channels of
communication between the United Nations and civil
society.
the United Nations
acknowledged in unequivocal terms the contribution that
can be made to its work by civil society, in particular by
non-governmental organizations, which provided much of
the input to the international conferences of the 1990s in
is high time
that
It
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
the economic and social fields. We strongly believe that
the United Nations should devise ways and means to
improve its
interaction with the non-governmental
organizations.
of
The chapters on “Preventive diplomacy, peaceful
settlement
and
“Peacekeeping and post-conflict peace-building” represent
a realistic, accurate analysis of the United Nations role in
the maintenance of international peace and security.
disarmament”
disputes
and
As the report underlines,
“Early post-cold-war euphoria greatly exaggerated
the range of possibilities for expanding the scope of
United Nations peace operations, but the more recent
sense of limits may err in the opposite direction.”
[A/52/1, para.108]
As we stated last year, Italy remains firmly convinced
that the United Nations cannot impose peace by waging
war. The United Nations has neither the vocation nor the
structure and resources to carry out peace enforcement
operations.
regional
organizations or coalitions of States that are better
equipped to plan and implement these operations more
successfully.
Instead,
should
rely
on
it
But for all other peacekeeping operations, in the
literal sense of the term, we believe in the great efforts
under way to make stand-by arrangements, which Italy
has signed, to provide the United Nations with rapid
deployment capacity. To strengthen every component of
peacekeeping, the Secretariat, in response to the Fifth
Committee’s invitation, should first define the concept of
logistic support as the frame of reference for all initiatives
in the sector.
We are closely following the endeavours of the
African countries, and of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) — with which Italy actively collaborates —
in particular, to improve the capacity to respond to and
intervene in crisis situations on their continent. We look
with favour on the possible creation, within the
framework of the United Nations, of a support group to
study such issues and to offer concrete assistance to the
African States.
Needless to say,
Italy also attaches the utmost
importance to the role of
in
preventing, controlling and resolving conflicts. The report
the United Nations
27
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
eloquently describes the Secretary-General’s ceaseless
efforts in every crisis area.
African initiatives have to deal with the extreme
complexity that often characterizes crises on that continent.
However, we believe that the efforts of the Secretary-
General’s special envoy to Central Africa, Mohamed
Sahnoun, have had a positive effect, and should be pursued
in coordination with the action of other mediators,
in
particular Aldo Ajello for the European Union.
organizations
In our opinion,
the case of Albania also deserves
special mention because of the excellent cooperation among
all
involved. With
the Security Council authorized a
extraordinary speed,
multinational “coalition of
the willing” — Operation
Alba — led by Italy and deployed in Albania in a matter of
only a few days.
Its mandate was to facilitate the
distribution of humanitarian aid and help create safe
conditions
of
international
organizations operating in the country.
the missions
the
the
international
for
During the Security Council debate of 14 August 1997
on the conclusion of Operation Alba, many delegations
described it as a model, including the following aspects:
unity of intent by the group of countries involved; decisive,
prompt action taken by the Security Council; a very clear
mandate; definite limits on the time-frame; rapid planning
and deployment; and in-depth political coordination and
consultation among all
the parties involved, with none
excluded, through an ad hoc steering committee.
Now that
the emergency phase is over, each
international organization will do its part for the overall
rehabilitation of Albania. These include the United Nations,
the European Union and Commission, the international
financial institutions, the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Council of Europe, the
humanitarian agencies and organizations,
the Western
European Union (WEU) and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO).
In the field of economic cooperation and development,
Italy warmly welcomes the Secretary-General’s action to
establish the United Nations Development Group, which
will streamline the Organization’s operational activities for
development. The decision to entrust the Administrator of
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with
the responsibility of convening the Group is consistent with
the central role that UNDP plays in development. I wish to
recall here that, despite a decline in voluntary contributions
to the general resources due to a temporary — and I
28
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
underline the word “temporary” — negative economic
juncture, Italy is still one of the top donors of non-core
resources to UNDP. The Development Programme for
Displaced Persons, Refugees and Returnees (PRODERE)
and similar initiatives launched in Central America,
Mozambique, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and soon in
Angola, illustrate the full extent of cooperation between
Italy and UNDP. In this context, my country is also
engaged in active, constant cooperation with the Alliance
of Small Island States, a group of countries which must
be assisted in order to face the environmental changes and
their adverse economic consequences for the planet.
the Rome World Food Summit
While the restructuring of UNDP will be conducive
to more efficient and effective UNDP programmes,
efficiency alone cannot solve the problem of poverty or
ensure sustainable development in developing countries.
While it can help, this cannot be an alibi for donor
to development
countries to lower their commitment
assistance. At
last
November, high-level representatives of all Governments
pledged to cut in half by the year 2015 the number of
people suffering from malnutrition, currently estimated at
840 million. For this, and for all other commitments
contained in the plans of action of the major United
Nations conferences, Italy will make every effort
to
provide resources to the United Nations to fight
to
eradicate poverty.
activities
the United Nations
threats. Criminal
We fully endorse the Secretary-General’s vision of
in fighting new
the role of
international
and drug
trafficking threaten the safety and welfare of citizens and
nations
the
seriousness of this phenomenon, the United Nations has
developed over the years crime and drug prevention
programmes aimed at fostering international cooperation
and strengthening the national capacity of Member States
to meet these challenges.
around the world.
In recognition of
We warmly welcome
the Secretary-General’s
initiatives to strengthen the Vienna Office for Drug
Control and Crime Prevention. This will enable the
Organization to make a crucial contribution to the fight
against “uncivil society” actors, as the Secretary-General
so rightly called them. The new Director of the Vienna
Office, Professor Pino Arlacchi, can provide genuine
enthusiasm, dynamic leadership and tested expertise.
The ability of the United Nations to meet
the
challenges of the future will also depend very much on its
capacity to deal efficiently and systematically with the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
information. We strongly support
the
rising flow of
initiatives of the United Nations Secretariat for information
technology changes in the structure and functioning of the
United Nations. Major progress towards overcoming the
gap in information technology will lead to a more efficient
Organization, lower costs and better services — by the
way, we were delighted to see computers being installed in
the Delegates’ Lounge.
on
In this context we commend the results obtained by the
Economic and Social Council Ad Hoc Open-ended Working
Group
the Permanent
Representative of Pakistan, our colleague Ambassador
Ahmad Kamal, whose peerless diplomatic ability and keen
insight made many of these results possible.
informatics,
chaired
by
in the area of
A final comment on legal affairs: we note with
satisfaction the results achieved and the progress made in
the past year
the codification and
development of international law. In particular, we praise
the efforts carried out
the establishment of an
international criminal court. The Preparatory Committee has
done, and we are confident will continue to do, an
admirable job in elaborating the text of the court’s statute,
to be submitted to the Rome diplomatic conference next
year.
for
The debate on agenda item 59 concerning the reform
of the Security Council is now scheduled for 4 December.
That is why I had not planned to touch on that issue in
today’s discussion. However, since other delegations have
raised this matter, I felt that I, too, had to make a couple of
remarks — just a couple; I do not want
to abuse the
patience and time of the Assembly.
I want to repeat that Italy is fully committed to the
reform of the Security Council in view of the increased
membership of the United Nations and the need to meet the
challenges of the next centuries. Thus, we do recognize the
urgency of this matter, but not — absolutely not — at the
cost of making hasty decisions before real general
agreement is reached. In this regard, resolution 48/26, by
which the General Assembly established the Open-ended
Working Group on the reform of the Security Council,
specifically underlined — I wish to repeat this loud and
clear — the need and importance of reaching “general
agreement”.
As the President of the Republic of Italy, President
Scalfaro, mentioned in his United Nations Day message to
the Secretary-General, Italy is deeply convinced that no
reform can be fair and effective unless it is inspired by the
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
fundamental principles of our Charter. Allow me to
remind the Assembly that these principles are equality of
States; equitable geographical representation; and the full
involvement of all States in the life and responsibility of
the Organization, with none excluded. The reform of the
Security Council is a matter of vital importance to this
Organization. We must beware of the temptation to take
procedural short cuts that may seem easy but would go
against the letter and spirit of the Charter. Above all, they
could create irreparable damage to the United Nations and
also have negative repercussions on the current effort by
the Secretary-General to reform the Organization as a
whole.
It is for these reasons, and for these reasons only,
that we, together with a group of other Member States,
have recently taken initiatives aiming to safeguard the
Security Council reform process from any attempt to
impose a time-frame;
to prevent hasty solutions that
would disregard the fundamental provisions of our
Charter; and, above all, to ensure that a genuine, global
and general agreement can be reached beforehand on a
matter of such magnitude. As my Foreign Minister,
Mr. Dini, said in his speech in Rome on 29 October
celebrating United Nations Day, it is not true — I repeat
here — that we are moved by the desire to block the
ambition of one, two or more States. Our proposals are
based on a rigorous, broad, far-reaching and courageous
vision. Our approach is not directed against anybody; it
is directed towards the good of the total membership of
the United Nations, not the good of just a few Members.
In short, I recall once again what I said last year: we are
for the participation of all and for the exclusion of none.
Mr. Campbell (Ireland): This debate on the report
of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization
gives us an opportunity to review themes affecting our
work over the past year and the extent to which the
Organization is adapting to meet new challenges. I want
to express the Irish delegation’s thanks to the Secretary-
General for his report and for the way in which he
presented it personally to this Assembly at the outset of
our work. It is his first in office, as he himself points out,
and it marks a change in the emphasis that it gives to the
interpretation of events and the particular needs which
they foreshadow.
The report is much shorter than recent versions and
inevitably is a less complete record of
the myriad
activities of the Organization. But in terms of readability
it gains greatly, and whereas the earlier format acted as a
useful source of reference, it served less easily for a
29
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
debate among Member States, which must focus on the
broad picture of dominant trends and priorities for action.
The report underlines the essential role of multilateral
diplomacy in a world of rapid and often unpredictable
change. No emphasis on multilateralism can be too strong
at a time when faith in its virtues is questioned in important
quarters. Globalization, and the multitude of interlinking
dependencies which come with it, only serves to reinforce
this
the
immense benefits, but also the problems, that accompany
globalization offers a clear call to reaffirm our faith in
multilateralism and our determination to uphold it. In this
process the United Nations and the United Nations system
hold a central place.
reality. The Secretary-General’s analysis of
The report rightly places great emphasis on good
governance, human rights and democratization in the work
of the Organization. It is now possible, as the report claims,
to approach human rights in practical as well as principled
terms from a truly global perspective.
Equally, the place of development is properly given
central emphasis in the report’s overview. The fifty-first
session of the General Assembly saw the adoption of An
Agenda for Development. That was a hard won, but not
insignificant, achievement. In reviewing development issues
across the board,
the
United Nations development organizations face enormous
challenges with very limited resources, and enhanced
support is necessary.
the Secretary-General notes that
The resources, he points out, that are available to the
United Nations, and to intergovernmental organizations
generally, are declining relative to the scale of the problems
which they face and to the capacity of other actors, notably
in the private sector.
At the same time, the control of Governments over
many international developments, financial or other, is less
complete than previously. The Secretary-General hardly
exaggerates in describing the nineteenth special session of
the General Assembly, held last summer to review the
implementation of Agenda 21, as a “sober reflection”
[A/52/1, para. 45] on the limited progress achieved since
Rio.
The Secretary-General is right in seeing this situation
as one which does not allow the United Nations to stand
still or to advance simply through incremental adaptation.
The report makes a clear case for a process of fundamental
reform, and it is his emphasis on this theme, running as a
30
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
the
thread through the account of all aspects of
Organization’s work, that gives the report its particular
coherence and force.
My Government has strongly backed the Secretary-
General in this approach, and we pay tribute to the clear
and persuasive manner in which he has presented it. We
hope that within the next few days the General Assembly
will give its unequivocal backing to the actions presented
in his report on reform and that the same serious purpose
will
lead to an early solution of the United Nations
financial crisis caused by non-payment of dues.
Resolution 51/241, adopted at the fifty-first session
of the General Assembly, contains a number of provisions
designed to influence future versions of the Secretary-
General’s report. In many respects the report this year has
already anticipated these provisions in the clearer focus it
gives to main themes and developments which need our
attention. The resolution calls for a report that is more
easily directed to assessing the way in which mandates of
the General Assembly have been fulfilled over the past
year and setting priorities for the period ahead in the
major political, economic and social, administrative and
financial areas.
It also calls for a specific section in the report
outlining goals for the Secretariat in the year ahead in the
context of the Organization’s work plan and taking into
account the medium-term plan.
reading of
We hope that this format will allow an even more
coherent and thought out
the Secretary-
General’s report which embodies the overall sense of
purpose and direction in the work of the Organization
which he is uniquely qualified to give. The timing and
assessment provisions foreseen would also add to the
action-oriented thrust
is hoped the report will
continue to inspire in future years.
that
it
Mr. Chowdhury (Bangladesh): Allow me to express
our
thanks to the Secretary-General
for his report,
contained in document A/52/1, providing us with a
thematic overview of the activities of the Organization
over the past year. The Secretary-General deserves our
appreciation for the incisive analysis of the trends shaping
today’s world and the vision he proposes to bring to bear
on the role of
the United Nations in meeting the
challenges facing humanity.
We see the report of the Secretary-General on the
work of the Organization as a statement of our collective
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
achievements as well as of our collective failures. We
regard the report also as a guideline for the year ahead.
This year’s report, the first of the new Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, coincides with the renewed drive for
reform of the Organization.
My delegation will be brief and will touch on two of
the main themes contained the report.
could
be
regarded
The first
peace-building
is international peace and security. We
appreciate the initiatives taken by the Secretary-General in
respect of long-standing disputes and the objectivity with
which he has interpreted the conflict situations. They point
the way for future action. The section on peacekeeping and
post-conflict
as
comprehensive but for two elements. A brief overview of
the evolving nature of peacekeeping would have been
useful. Similarly, some of the highlights of the work of the
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations could have
been included in the report. The reporting on arms control
and disarmament lacks comprehensiveness. There is little
focus on the regional imperatives and efforts. Although the
perspective of peace and security finds a mention, the
linkage between disarmament and development has not
been articulated. The intention to bring disarmament to
centre stage of
the United Nations agenda will be
meaningful only when it is placed in the perspective of the
twin objectives of reducing of both military and non-
military threats to peace and security.
The second is development. A conscious effort at
comprehensive reporting is manifest in this section. We are
happy that the Secretary-General considers it a core mission
of the United Nations to facilitate the successful integration
of currently marginalized countries as active participants in
the world economy. But this introductory pledge does not
find a concrete reflection in the thematic section. For
instance,
there is not a single reference to the least
developed countries in the discussion. The absence of
conspicuous reference to this most disadvantaged and
marginalized group of 48 countries is a matter of great
concern to us at a time when most of the objectives of the
Programme of Action for the least developed countries still
remains to be achieved. The report does not seem to focus
on the implementation of the outcome of the 1990s cycle of
except
major
conferences,
the World
Conference on Human Rights,
the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development and the
United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat
II). The imperative of brevity, if this was the case, should
not have been at the cost of the continued focus on the
follow-up of these major global conferences.
international
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
In this connection, we join the delegation of
Malaysia in reiterating the request
inclusion of
information on the status of implementation of resolutions
and decisions of the General Assembly.
for
We are happy that
the United Nations agencies,
funds and programmes are making increased and targeted
efforts at development and promotion of human rights,
particularly extending assistance for strengthening or
building institutional capacities of Member States. In this
connection, I wish to mention that Bangladesh has been
a beneficiary of assistance from the United Nations
Development Programme that has greatly facilitated work
towards the establishment of an independent National
Human Rights Commission. The
for
strengthening democratic institutions such as the Election
Commission and the Parliament has also been deeply
appreciated in my country.
assistance
The Charter places promotion of respect for human
rights and fundamental
freedoms in the context of
international cooperation in solving problems of an
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character on
the basis of the principle of non-discrimination. We
believe that human rights should be pursued in holistic
terms and in their proper context. For decades, a partial
and, hence, critically distorted approach — with an almost
exclusive focus on civil and political rights — has failed
the cause. It is a matter of satisfaction to note that due
cognizance has been taken of
the 1993 Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action in the report. This
assumes particular significance in the perspective of the
ongoing process of reform and restructuring. We are
confident
new United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights will be able to make
historic progress in the realization of human rights in their
totality and throughout the world.
that
the
the
effectiveness
and efficiency of
The accomplishment of the reform is expected to
enhance
the
Organization. The Secretary-General has claimed our
unanimous appreciation for presenting within a short
period a comprehensive set of reforms, which have been
under consideration by the Assembly. The realization of
the objectives will, however, depend on the political will
of the Member States, who will judge the performance by
31
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
47th plenary meeting
10 November 1997
the will of
In the process,
the
ultimate delivery.
international community to have the United Nations
function to its full potential will also become evident. We
should all act throughout the year in such a way as to have
a report next year that provides a statement of greater
achievements, loftier vision and higher commitment.
The Acting President: We have heard the last speaker
in the debate on this item.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note of
the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: We have thus concluded this
stage of our consideration of agenda item 10.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
32
