United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
35th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 22 October 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tello (Mexico),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Address by Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, President of
the Republic of Mozambique
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
The Assembly will first hear an address by the President of
the Republic of Mozambique.
Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, President of
the
Republic of Mozambique, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
On behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to
welcome to the United Nations the President of
the
Republic of Mozambique, His Excellency Mr. Joaquim
Alberto Chissano, and to invite him to address the
Assembly.
President Chissano: On behalf of the people and the
Government of Mozambique, and indeed on my own
behalf, it is a great honour for me to address this august
Assembly. I bring to you the warm felicitations and best
wishes of all Mozambicans.
Two years ago, during the commemoration of the
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, we committed
ourselves not only to save succeeding generations from the
scourge of war, but also to rededicate our efforts to
achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness for our
universal Organization, with a view to enabling it to play
a pivotal role in promoting sustainable development,
particularly in the developing countries. Therefore, our
deliberations in all subsequent General Assembly sessions
should reflect that firm political will and commitment.
On that occasion, I informed the Assembly of the
progress we had achieved in our continued endeavours to
consolidate peace and democracy and promote socio-
economic development. I am happy to state that, today,
these positive trends are prevailing and that the situation
in my country is improving. We envision the future with
renewed optimism.
Our pluralist democracy continues to flourish; we are
further strengthening our democratic institutions; and the
state of the economy is gradually and steadily improving.
However, many challenges lie ahead. We still have
schools and hospitals to rehabilitate, and new ones to
build. We still have roads to repair, and new ones to
build. We still have landmines to clear. We have to
address our heavy debt burden and find ways and means
of bringing it to sustainable levels.
These challenges are indeed immense, but not
insurmountable. With hard work and the generous support
of the international community, I am sure we shall
succeed in our quest for better living standards for our
people. The United Nations and the international
community at large have invested a lot in order to ensure
97-86290 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
a lasting peace and stability in Mozambique. I say to all the
members of the international community: your effective
work has helped put an end to the suffering of our people
in a delicate and complex peace process. The cost of peace
was high, but it would have been higher if you had failed
to fulfil your obligations. We therefore urge you to
recommit yourselves to providing all necessary means for
the consolidation of the peace you have helped to achieve.
to
rededicate
themselves
The advent of peace has made it possible for
Mozambicans
the
implementation of sound political and economic reforms,
with visible positive results. It is our earnest desire to take
maximum advantage of the rich potential of our natural
resources and to use them in a sustainable and balanced
manner with a view to creating wealth and a better future
for our people.
to
As a result of the implementation of the structural
adjustment programme, launched in 1987 under the most
adverse conditions, encouraging developments are taking
place in our economy. In 1996 the gross domestic product
grew by around 6.4 per cent and exports increased by 24
per cent. The inflation rate declined sharply to 16.6 per cent
from 70 per cent in 1994 and 54 per cent in 1995. The
mid-year evaluation indicates 3.2 per cent, and we expect
a single-digit cumulative rate for 1997. Moreover, we have
also registered important progress in currency stabilization.
We estimate that the 1997 figures for virtually all major
economic indicators will be better than the previous ones.
Our successes in the consolidation of peace and
democracy reflect the values our people have inherited
throughout history; they reflect our common desire and
noble aspirations to live together in unity and harmony
within diversity, thanks to our growing culture of tolerance
and forgiveness. They also constitute a vivid example of a
culture of peace we have embraced in our country. We
believe that the promotion and further consolidation of a
culture of peace should be the next most
important
challenge to all societies as well as to each individual
citizen.
It was within this framework that my Government, in
close collaboration with the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), convened
at Maputo a conference on culture of peace and good
governance. The outcome of this conference and of other
similar conferences that have taken place worldwide was to
recognize once again the existing relationship between
peace, democracy and development, as well as the common
challenges to all countries committed to implementing these
2
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
values and processes. For these reasons, I welcome the
efforts under way towards the adoption of a meaningful
draft resolution on this contemporary issue.
Peace and stability cannot be ensured by the mere
holding of multiparty elections, nor should they be seen
as a simple absence of military conflict. Recent history
proves that in conflict resolution a proper balance should
be struck between the need for elections, with their
inherent hostile and partisan propaganda, and the need for
reconciliation that should follow the aftermath of a
democratic process.
Our own experience reminds us that it is not enough
to ensure reconciliation of former conflicting parties in
order to guarantee a lasting peace. Our task today is to
guarantee that a culture of peace is embedded in the
minds of all citizens as an important step forward in
conflict prevention and management. All citizens are
called upon to participate, notwithstanding the diversity of
opinions and sometimes of interests. Only commitment to
supreme national
individual
interests do not hamper these noble objectives.
interests can ensure that
Peace and democracy are fundamental
tools for
fostering development in all its aspects, especially in
today’s world, where one fifth of the world population is
still confronted with absolute poverty, hunger and
malnutrition, illiteracy and endemic disease. It is therefore
incumbent upon all of us to take concerted actions in
order to reverse this picture and to create an enabling
environment for sustained development, with emphasis on
education and the provision of basic health care, potable
water and housing.
to cross
security in all
its components,
the threshold of
This requires the strengthening of the rule of law,
good governance, transparency and accountability. It also
requires
including
economic, social, environmental and all related issues. As
we are about
the new
millennium, the concept of security must be considered in
its global dimension. No country, no matter how big or
how small,
Indeed,
environmental problems, refugees and displaced persons,
transboundary movements of people and goods, drug
trafficking, money laundering and other transnational
crimes can only be addressed effectively through a
cooperative approach in a global context.
isolation.
can
develop
in
Without peace and democracy, development will
always be in jeopardy, and issues related to governance
and social instability will continue to confront future
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
generations. That is why democracy and development, two
faces of the same coin, remain a daunting challenge to our
societies. This is an undertaking that requires a common
approach from all Governments and from civil society,
including the private sector.
These are equally the challenges facing the southern
African region today. Because we believe that only
collective efforts will bring about durable peace and
stability and sustainable development, we attach great
importance to regional cooperation within the framework of
the Southern African Development Community (SADC).
With 14 member States and about 170 million people,
SADC is a viable economic bloc poised to play a positive
role in the efforts for continental development.
The 1997 annual summit of Heads of State or
Government of our Community reviewed the activities of
the organization and developments that had taken place in
the region since the last summit. Within the framework of
the establishment of the African Economic Community, and
as one of its building blocks, we are, inter alia, according
top priority in our domestic agendas to issues pertaining to
the social development of our countries so as to ensure that
our policies and strategies are in response to, and in support
of, national priorities. Special emphasis is being given to
the need for investment in the development of technology
and infrastructures.
The summit also considered the applications for
membership of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
the Republic of Seychelles, and decided to welcome those
countries as the newest members of our Community.
The summit discussed in great detail
the current
situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We
have agreed that the Democratic Republic of the Congo
requires and deserves support
from the international
community in order
to enable its newly established
Government and its people to cope with the developmental
challenges deriving from three decades of uncertainty.
A stable Democratic Republic of the Congo is equally
vital for the attainment of the peace that has so far eluded
the Great Lakes region and for the efforts under way with
a view to finding a political settlement of the conflict
ravaging the neighbouring Congo.
Furthermore, the Democratic Republic of the Congo
has major strategic importance for the development of the
region, and indeed, of the whole continent of Africa, given
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
its great potential in such key areas as energy, water,
tourism, transport and communications.
importance
The issue of transport and communication is of
paramount
southern Africa. The
establishment of the Maputo, Beira and Nacala corridors
are fundamental steps towards improving transport and
communications within the region.
to
and
entrepreneurs
The concept of development corridors we are
implementing in southern Africa represents a new
partnership we are building in the region between
Government,
communities. A
development corridor is not only a road or railway linking
a harbour to one point at the border of a neighbouring
country, but also, and more importantly, an area along the
communications routes and beyond them into the interior
of the countries concerned and open for investment in a
great variety of economic activities, thus bringing about
an integrated development of the region.
The areas of investment include improvements of sea
ports and railways;
improvement and construction of
highways; and gas pipelines, energy and communications
livestock, forestry, agriculture, mining,
infrastructures,
manufacturing,
industry and tourism. We believe,
therefore, that the development corridors will contribute
significantly towards the realization of the noble goals
and aspirations of the peoples of the region.
conflict
towards
contribution
This is the path we have embarked on in southern
Africa. We believe that, in so doing, we are making a
positive
prevention,
resolution and management in Africa, and to building the
blocks that shall sustain the development of our continent.
In order to guarantee political stability as well as the
sustainability of our development efforts, the region has
established, within SADC, an Organ on Politics, Defence
and Security with the responsibility of preventing,
resolving and managing conflicts in the region.
This is the future that we envisage for the African
in which the rule of law and
continent: a continent
legitimacy is above all other interests; a continent in
which democracy, accountability and good governance
must prevail; a continent in which development and social
justice are promoted and safeguarded by all of us. This is
where cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization
further
strengthened.
of African Unity must
be
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
On behalf of the General Assembly, I wish to thank His
Excellency the President of the Republic of Mozambique
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, President of
the
Republic of Mozambique, was escorted from the
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 7
Notification by the Secretary-General under Article 12,
paragraph 2, of the Charter of the United Nations
Note by the Secretary-General (A/52/392)
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
As members are aware, in accordance with the provisions
of Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the United
Nations and with the consent of the Security Council, the
Secretary-General
is mandated to notify the General
Assembly of matters relative to the maintenance of
international peace and security that are being dealt with by
the Security Council and of matters with which the Council
has ceased to deal.
In this connection, the General Assembly has before
it a note by the Secretary-General issued as document
A/52/392.
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of that
document?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 16
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and other
elections
(b) Election of seven members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/52/440)
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
In accordance with General Assembly decision 42/450 of
17 December 1987, the Assembly elects the members of the
Committee for Programme and Coordination upon their
nomination by the Economic and Social Council.
4
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
The Assembly has before it document A/52/440,
which contains the nominations by the Economic and
Social Council to fill the vacancies in the Committee,
which will occur as a result of the expiration on 31
December 1997 of the terms of office of the Bahamas,
Benin, France, Ghana, Mexico, the Russian Federation
and the United States of America. Those States are
eligible for immediate re-election.
I should like to remind members that, after 1
January 1998, the following States will still be members
of the Committee: Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Cameroon,
China, the Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Egypt, Germany, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran,
Japan, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, the Republic
of Korea, Romania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Zimbabwe.
Therefore, those 25 States are not eligible in this
election.
The following States have been nominated by the
Economic and Social Council: two African States for two
vacancies — Uganda and Zambia; one Eastern European
State for one vacancy — the Russian Federation; two
Latin American
two
vacancies — the Bahamas and Mexico;
two Western
European and other States for two vacancies — the
United States of America and France.
and Caribbean States
for
As stated in document A/52/440, the Economic and
Social Council has postponed to a future session of the
Council the nomination of two other members from the
Western European and other States for a term beginning
on the date of election and expiring on 31 December
1999.
The number of States nominated from among the
African States, the Eastern European States, the Latin
American and Caribbean States and the Western European
and other States is equal
to or does not exceed the
number of seats to be filled in each of those regions.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure,
all elections shall be held by secret ballot. However, in
accordance with paragraph 16 of decision 34/401, the
Assembly may, in elections to subsidiary organs, dispense
with secret balloting when the number of candidates
corresponds to the number of seats to be filled.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
from among the African States,
May I therefore take it that the Assembly wishes to
declare those States nominated by the Economic and Social
Council
the Eastern
European States, the Latin American and Caribbean States
and the Western European and other States — the
Bahamas, France, Mexico, the Russian Federation, Uganda,
the United States of America and Zambia — elected
members
and
Coordination for a three-year term beginning on 1 January
1998?
for Programme
the Committee
of
It was so decided.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I congratulate the States that have been elected members of
the Committee for Programme and Coordination.
With regard to the two remaining vacancies to be
filled from among the Western European and other States,
the General Assembly will be in a position to act on them
upon the nomination by the Economic and Social Council
of two Member States from that region.
I therefore propose that the Assembly keep this sub-
item on the agenda of the fifty-second session.
If I hear no objection, I shall take it that the Assembly
agrees to that procedure.
It was so decided.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have thus concluded this stage of our consideration of
sub-item (b) of agenda item 16.
Agenda item 25
Cooperation between the United Nations and the Latin
American Economic System
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/376)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.6)
The Acting President: I call on the representative of
Peru to introduce draft resolution A/52/L.6.
Mr. Guillén (Peru) (interpretation from Spanish): I
have the honour to introduce, under agenda item 25, the
draft resolution entitled “Cooperation between the United
Nations and the Latin American Economic System”, which
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
is sponsored by the 27 member States of the Latin
American Economic System (SELA).
We are grateful for the report contained in document
A/52/376, which the Secretary-General has submitted to
the Member States of the United Nations in accordance
with resolution 50/14, adopted by consensus at a previous
session of the General Assembly.
The draft
resolution introduced today has no
financial implications, and its content is similar to those
of the resolution adopted unanimously at
the fiftieth
session of the General Assembly.
I am pleased to report, however, that between the
adoption of resolution 50/14 two years ago and the
present draft, SELA has taken a series of decisions that
are worth mentioning here, by way of complementing the
report. The report refers to the work done by the system
before the adoption of the resolution and, naturally, since
it
refers only to cooperation between SELA and
specialized agencies of the system, it has not taken into
account important decisions that have been reached, in
particular at the recent meeting of the Latin American
Council, held in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago,
from 6 to 9 October of this year, to which I shall refer
momentarily.
first,
From 1995 to the present SELA has accomplished a
fundamental reorientation and adaptation in order to
achieve two main objectives:
to help the 27
members become integrated into the current international
environment and, secondly, to coordinate their agendas
for regional, hemispheric and international actions. This
latter aspect is of particular importance because SELA is
the only system that encompasses all the subregions of
Latin America and the Caribbean.
has
therefore
concentrated
The Council
its
endeavours on eight thematic areas, deemed priorities for
development. These include analysing the process of
globalization of the international economy, tracking the
relations of the countries of the region with their principal
economic partners and using computers to disseminate
information.
All
this is contained in a summary entitled “A
current vision of SELA”, which was prepared by SELA
at
the request of the Latin American and Caribbean
Group. This is not a United Nations document, but it is
available in English and Spanish and includes an index of
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the recent studies conducted by SELA, which are also
available on the Internet.
The meeting of the Latin American Council at Port-of-
Spain was focused on the theme “growth and employment”
because the member Governments were of the view that
adjustment and restructuring policies were falling short of
resolving the problems besetting the most disadvantaged
sectors of the region’s populations: youth and women. In
that regard, at that meeting 10 specific points for action
were laid out, and they are contained in the aforementioned
summary.
The next meeting of the Latin American Council, in
1998, will focus on the theme “the dynamics of external
relations of Latin America and the Caribbean” and will no
doubt also take into account
the results of the second
Hemispheric Summit and the preparatory work for the
biregional summit of Latin America and the European
Union, to be held early in 1999.
All this means that the Latin American Economic
System, with its relatively modest resources, is making
available to the countries of the region the capacity to
coordinate regional and subregional actions that coincide
with the priorities laid down in the international agenda. All
this is being done in coordination and cooperation with
organizations
those mentioned in the draft
resolution we are introducing.
such as
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
regional project entitled “Support to SELA”, a project of
great importance to Latin America and the Caribbean, came
to an end last year. We request
that — to the extent
possible, and in accordance with the decisions of the
Executive Board, which are binding for UNDP,
this
cooperation will not be completely lacking.
The countries of Latin America and the Caribbean
hope that — as part of the reorientation of international
cooperation, which calls for efficiency and realistic goals —
the work done by SELA will be given due consideration.
Mr. Pino (Venezuela) (interpretation from Spanish):
The delegation of Venezuela wishes to express its particular
interest in co-sponsoring the draft resolution on cooperation
between the United Nations and Latin American Economic
System (SELA), which was introduced by the delegation of
Peru.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
consultation, coordination and cooperation among the
nations of our Latin American and Caribbean region. In
fact, SELA is making invaluable efforts in promoting the
coordination of governmental policies in priority areas for
our countries, such as economic integration, the active
participation of our
social
development,
financing and
investment, among others.
region in world trade,
technical
cooperation,
Consultation and coordination activities intended to
harmonize common positions and strategies of
the
countries of our region in the economic field, offer the
region ways to take more appropriate actions in order to
become part of the demanding globalized economy now
confronting us. In addition, SELA’s analyses, activities
and publications have enabled us to identify specific
solutions to specific problems.
the
through formal coordination
relationship of SELA,
mechanisms, with United Nations bodies and other
regional and extraregional organizations, such as the
Andean Development Corporation, the Inter-American
Development Bank, the Organization of American States
and the Caribbean Community, to mention but a few, has
enabled us to make more efficient use of the technical
and financial resources available to the region.
In this context,
Since its establishment in 1975, the Latin American
Economic System (SELA) has maintained a productive,
cooperative relationship with the United Nations. Over the
years
relationship has been strengthened and
diversified to the benefit of the countries of our region.
that
On this occasion we wish to appeal to the bodies
and programmes of the United Nations system to continue
to provide increasing support for the work carried out by
the Latin American Economic System.
Mr. Petrella (Argentina)
(interpretation from
Spanish): The delegation of Argentina would like to make
a brief statement to express its support for the promotion
of and the search for new cooperation mechanisms
between the Latin American Economic System (SELA)
and the United Nations. We welcome the Secretary-
General’s report, which describes in detail the progress
made in the area of cooperation among United Nations
organizations, agencies and programmes, with particular
emphasis on the relationship between SELA and the
Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ECLAC).
We are firmly convinced that SELA has been and will
continue to be an effective and efficient instrument for
The adoption of free-market policies, the opening up
of trade, decreased State intervention, and economic
6
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
encourage
integration have effectively increased the efficiency of
increase
interregional mechanisms to revitalize trade,
and
production,
investment
promote
technological development. Likewise,
the process of
international trade liberalization has made clear the need to
coordinate positions within the new international
trade
framework that emerged in the wake of the Uruguay
Round.
The democratization process and changes in outside
development strategies have been additional reasons for
revitalizing integration and regional growth.
However, much remains to be done in terms of
regional development. According to the conclusions of the
First Regional Conference in Follow-up to the World
Summit for Social Development, held in São Paolo, Brazil,
economic growth in the region has not been sufficient
speedily to overcome social problems, given the low rate of
savings and investment, a lack of dynamism in the job
sector, marked social shortcomings and the existing gap
between economic growth and the growth of the labour
force.
This outlook reaffirms
the need to revitalize
mechanisms for coordination and cooperation. SELA is an
important tool to assist in effectively integrating the Latin
American region into the new realities of a broader market.
Mechanisms for political and economic coordination in our
region have developed in part thanks to existing cooperation
mechanisms with the United Nations system, but it is clear
that civil society has also played an important role in
regional integration. The participation of new players has
increased institutional
involvement and given a new
dynamism to the joint negotiating capacity of the countries
within the system. Likewise, the involvement of non-State
agents has encouraged our Governments to renew their
efforts to support existing principles and mechanisms in
order to achieve the objective of regional cooperation.
We must confront existing problems in a coordinated
manner at the subregional, regional and international levels.
While it is the responsibility of the countries of the region
themselves to respond adequately to the new challenges
posed by development, the advantages provided by close
cooperation and collaboration between the region and the
United Nations system will allow us to complement our
regional approach with a universal one, and it will also give
our countries alternative tools to help resolve the difficulties
that have arisen on the path towards sustainable economic
growth.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
That is why the commitments to participate actively,
to provide concrete support to the countries of the region
and to strengthen international cooperation mechanisms
such as the anticipated cooperation between SELA and
the United Nations are complementary activities essential
to the discharging of the mandate of SELA, which was
established in Panama in 1975. Let us not forget
to
mention Venezuela, which has generously provided the
headquarters for
this body and has had a decisive
influence on matters relating to cooperation and to the
founding, transformative ideals of SELA.
On behalf of Argentina, I wish to express our strong
support for the draft resolution submitted to the Assembly
for its consideration. We believe that it accurately reflects
the feeling in the region in terms of our future strategies
for inter-institutional cooperation between the United
Nations and SELA, and that
it will respond to the
challenges of both growth and modernization in Latin
America.
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
Mr. Mungra (Suriname): I have the honour to
address this meeting on behalf of the 14 member States
of
that are
Members of the United Nations: Antigua and Barbuda,
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, the
Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti,
Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and
the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago and my own
country, Suriname.
Allow me at the outset to extend our delegations’
sincere appreciation to the Secretary-General for his
comprehensive and informative report (A/52/376),
in
which he informs us of the various cooperation activities
that have been carried out between the Latin American
Economic System (SELA) and the United Nations system,
in particular with the Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), the United Nations
Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO), the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD), the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization
the World
Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the World
Intellectual Property Organization.
(UNIDO),
Considering the increased cooperation we have
witnessed during the past year
in support of Latin
American and Caribbean Member States in the field of
designing policies on social development — including the
follow-up
Social
Development — on economic integration and on trends in
the World
to
Summit
for
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
the globalization process, our delegations are in favour of
a further broadening and deepening of
the mutual
supporting activities between ECLAC and the Latin
American Economic System, as expressed this morning by
the representative of Peru.
development, since it will forge greater cooperation and
coordination among the developing countries in our
region. Further strengthening of the collaboration between
SELA and the United Nations system will undoubtedly
enhance this process.
During the general debate in the Second Committee,
many delegations expressed their concern at the threat of
the marginalization of many of the developing countries, in
particular the small and vulnerable States, as a consequence
of the globalization process. In this regard,
the small,
fragile and vulnerable economies of CARICOM member
States should be given special attention by the United
Nations system. Existing regional development institutions
should be further strengthened in order to enhance their
capacity to assist
individual Member States to adapt
successfully to the globalization process.
In its guidelines for action for the period 1997 to
2000, the Latin American Economic System has defined its
role as an institution for promoting coordination and
cooperation among its member States in pursuing the
following main objectives:
to secure the timely and
adequate participation of the 27 member countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean in the rapidly changing world
economy;
to contribute to strengthening the regional
integration process, both among ourselves and with the
outside world; and to enhance the global competitiveness of
member States.
In this regard, the organization intends to give priority
to promoting exchanges of experiences among member
States,
to the preparation by SELA of analytical and
comparative studies and to follow-up work on key global
economic issues with special attention to their regional and
subregional aspects.
The goals and responsibilities of SELA as just
mentioned are comprehensive, while on the other hand its
resources are regrettably limited. We are therefore pleased
that cooperation between those various United Nations
organizations and SELA has allowed the institution to
implement its mandate more fully. We expect that this
assistance will be deepened and broadened in the near
future.
This year, for the first time in 22 years, the Latin
American Economic System held a Council meeting in a
Caribbean State, Trinidad and Tobago, thus expressing the
willingness of the organization to incorporate the interests
of the Caribbean in a more assertive manner in the SELA
work programme. CARICOM is pleased with this
8
Against this background, I wish, on behalf of the
to commend draft
introduced this morning by the
for unanimous
States members of CARICOM,
resolution A/52/L.6,
Permanent Representative of Peru,
adoption.
Mr. Tanasescu (Romania)
(interpretation from
Spanish): It is my honour to address the Assembly on
agenda item 25, “Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Latin American Economic System”. It may seem
surprising that a country so distant from Latin America
should be speaking on such a specific item, but there are
rational reasons for this.
First of all, Romania is a Latin country. If we view
Latin traits as a very important axis of cultural and
spiritual diversity in the modern world, then we can see
that this axis has two ends: one in Eastern Europe — in
Romania — and the other is in the very South of Latin
America. It is no mere happenstance that one of the first
to explore Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego was the
Romanian Iulio Popper, who visited those areas early in
this century and carried out scientific studies of nature
there.
Linguistic and cultural affinities between my country
and the countries of Latin America are an essential
element in the long-standing good relations between us.
That
is why we follow with interest economic and
political developments in the region, along with the role
played by the Latin American Economic System (SELA)
in promoting such developments.
We welcome the report of the Secretary-General on
the item before us and consider that it provides a good
basis for discussion. The report affirms that
there is
convergence between the economic and social items of
interest to the United Nations and those of interest to
SELA, which is an ongoing positive element
in the
development of
the relationship between the two
organizations. I stress the importance of the Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
(ECLAC) in this cooperation with SELA, and a number
of recent joint projects on matters of interest not only to
Latin America but also to other regions: the definition of
economic and social policies, social aspects of regional
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
integration and the role of human resources in the process
of restructuring, to mention but a few.
in recent years
strengthened their
Recent developments in Latin America have confirmed
the growing importance of regional cooperation in current
process of globalization. The Southern Cone Common
Market (MERCOSUR) in South America and the Central
American Integration System (SICA) in Central America
have
economic
cooperation, showing that regional integration is a way for
small and medium-sized countries to respond in a unified
way to the challenges of globalization. Regional integration
is a defining process of the world economy at the end of
the twentieth century, and the countries involved see it as
a tool
for effective development as they strive for
liberalization and for the opening up of their economies.
Regional integration is a valid basis for promoting the
integration of national economies in an increasingly
interdependent and competitive economic world. As a
framework for deliberation and cooperation among Latin
American countries, SELA has been the starting point for
regional integration.
In our view, all these concepts, on which economic
efforts and action in Latin America are based, possess a
value that has been confirmed by the appearance of similar
processes in other regions. The United Nations remains the
sole universal forum where we can share our experiences
in these processes and exchange ideas and views on the
specific needs of each region. We believe that this is one
more argument in favour of periodic discussion of this item
in the General Assembly. By analyzing items relating to
regional cooperation and integration, we can identify the
implications of these processes for the future structure of
international relations and for the concepts that will define
the world in the coming century.
In the 1980s, Latin American countries began a broad
process of internal political democratization, economic
restructuring and opening to the world. The results give rise
to hope for developments on the international
front.
Without these processes, our debate on this item would be
less rich.
At the beginning of the 1990s, following the fall of
the Berlin Wall, similar processes began in Central and
Eastern Europe, including in my country. Our region now
includes more than 20 countries in various stages of the
process of creating democratic institutions and legislation,
along with market-economy institutions and mechanisms.
There is great
in formulating approaches to
cooperation and regional integration.
interest
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
Today I wish to make a proposal
to our Latin
American friends and to the representatives of SELA; it
was suggested by a distinguished Argentine academic
during the most
recent meetings on the On-line
Information Key (LINK) project, held under United
Nations auspices in May. Here there is an opportunity to
begin an exchange of experiences and opinions between
the countries of Latin America and those of Central and
Eastern Europe on issues that are relevant to the processes
that both regions, at different times, have undertaken. The
processes under way in both our regions could benefit
from our sharing views on progress along the road to
democratization, on institutions guaranteeing civil and
economic freedom and on the opening up of our
economies. With the support of ECLAC and of the
Economic Commission for Europe, SELA could provide
a framework for this exchange of experiences, and my
country would participate in it with great interest.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 35/3 of
13 October 1980, I now call on the Observer for the Latin
American Economic System.
Mr. Wagner (Latin American Economic System)
(interpretation from Spanish): I am pleased to express my
thanks in particular to the delegation of Peru, which
introduced the draft resolution on cooperation between the
United Nations and the Latin American Economic System
(SELA). I would also like to thank the delegations of the
member States of SELA and that of Romania for having
sponsored this draft resolution, as well as delegations that
have spoken in favour of it. Of course, I have taken
careful note of the initiative suggested by the delegate of
Romania on the interesting project
for exchanging
experiences between Latin America and the Caribbean
and the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. We will
take the necessary coordinating steps to carry it out.
Since 1996 SELA has undergone a process of
restructuring and modernization, which is
reflected
primarily in the reorientation of its work programme and
the updating of its modalities for action. The exchange of
experiences has been used as the principal mechanism for
promoting regional coordination and cooperation.
In keeping with that reorientation, the activities of
SELA are now focused on eight themes: an analysis of
the expected impact of the process of globalization on the
international economy and on the development of Latin
America and the Caribbean; a follow-up to the relations
the region with their main
among the countries of
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
economic and trade partners; a consideration of trade issues
in their regional, hemispheric and multilateral dimensions;
financing development; support for reconciling the various
economic approaches to and agreements for integration in
Latin America and the Caribbean; coordinating economic
and social policies and strengthening small and medium-
sized enterprises; technical cooperation among the countries
of Latin America and the Caribbean within the framework
of technical cooperation among developing countries; and
activities related to information dissemination, so that the
organization’s work will reach the greatest number of actors
within and outside the region.
These aspects are detailed further in the document
entitled “A current vision of SELA”, which, at the request
of the Latin American and Caribbean Group, I am pleased
to make available to delegations.
Cooperation between SELA and the United Nations
system is of particular importance in this context, given the
convergence and coordination of priorities set out at the
regional level by the Latin American Council of SELA and
those of the international agenda, in particular the agenda
of the United Nations and the bodies within its system.
In this respect, I am pleased to affirm that we have
continued to strengthen the ties of coordination and joint
work of SELA with the Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean, the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization, the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development, the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization,
the World Health
Organization, the International Labour Organization and the
World Intellectual Property Organization, to mention only
the United Nations agencies with which we have the closest
ties.
Of course, one of the characteristics of SELA is the
joint and coordinated work it carries out with regional and
international organizations so that we can avoid costly and
needless duplications.
Particular mention should be made of the excellent
cooperation that SELA has enjoyed over the years with the
United Nations Development Programme Special Unit for
Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries as a
regional focal point for such technical cooperation among
the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Examples of this fruitful and close cooperation include the
regional tasks of programming and negotiating technical
cooperation among developing countries, such as that
carried out in 1995 for Haiti, which enabled us to create
10
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
more than 120 cooperation projects. Most of them to date
have been carried out with excellent results, such as the
project carried out
in 1996 in support of small and
medium-sized enterprises in Latin America and the
Caribbean and the one initiated in 1997 in support of
decentralization in Central America. A regional exercise
for greater cooperation between the Caribbean and Latin
America is scheduled for 1998, in Bridgetown, Barbados,
and will bring together for the first time directors of
international
technical cooperation from the entire
American and Caribbean region in a Caribbean country.
The Permanent Secretariat of the Latin American
Economic System trusts that this cooperation will be
strengthened and broadened in order to support
the
countries of Latin America and the Caribbean in our
efforts to respond positively to the challenges of the
globalization of
the international economy and of
achieving development with social equity.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have now heard the last speaker in the debate on this
item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/52/L.6.
May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to
resolution contained in document
the draft
adopt
A/52/L.6?
Draft resolution A/52/L.6 was adopted (resolution
52/3).
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I shall now call on those representatives who wish to
speak in explanation of position on the resolution just
adopted. May I remind delegations that explanations of
position are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Baltes (Luxembourg): The European Union
joined the consensus on draft resolution A/52/L.6, on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Latin
American Economic System, but at the same time we
would like to put on record the following observations.
Regarding operative paragraph 3, we note that the
draft resolution urges the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) to renew and expand its financial
and technical cooperation with the relevant programmes.
It is the European Union’s understanding that decisions
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
on such activities are up to the UNDP Executive Board in
the context of UNDP’s agreed priorities and budget.
Regarding operative paragraph 4, the European Union
also notes that the resolution adds funds of the United
Nations system to the list of bodies which are urged to
continue and intensify their support for and cooperation in
the activities of SELA. We would have liked some further
clarification on the intention of this addition.
Also, the European Union would have welcomed the
informal consultations on the draft
opportunity for
resolution before it came to the plenary.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the only speaker in explanation of position.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 25?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 31
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization of the Islamic Conference
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/377)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.2)
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I give the floor to the representative of Indonesia to
introduce draft resolution A/52/L.2.
Mr. Wibisono (Indonesia): In its capacity as the
Chairman of the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers,
Indonesia has
the distinct honour and privilege of
introducing, on behalf of the 55 States members of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), the draft
resolution entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Organization of the Islamic Conference”, which is
contained in document A/52/L.2 of 15 October 1997.
Before proceeding, however, we would like to express
our deep appreciation to the Secretary-General for the
comprehensive and informative report (A/52/377) he has
presented under this agenda item on the state of cooperation
between the United Nations and the Organization of the
Islamic Conference.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
Earlier this month, on the occasion of the annual
coordination meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the OIC,
held at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General
Kofi Annan stated that the OIC and the United Nations
were natural partners in the cause of peace and prosperity.
On the same occasion, Mr. Ali Alatas, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of
Indonesia and
Chairman of the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers,
referred to the tremendous stake the OIC had in the
revitalization of the United Nations through judicious
reform and democratization, and stated that much of the
advocacy and many of the initiatives that members of the
OIC were pursuing would prosper or fade in the forums
of the United Nations system.
the Republic of
Indeed, ever since its inception the Organization of
the Islamic Conference has been steadfast
in its
commitment to the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter. Over the years, we have witnessed
expanded cooperation between the United Nations and the
OIC with a view to achieving the common objectives of
the preservation of peace and security and the promotion
of social and economic development.
The draft resolution which I have the honour to
introduce today not only reflects the many tangible forms
of cooperation which have been established between the
two Organizations, but is also aimed at further enhancing
such cooperation. The draft is essentially identical to the
resolutions adopted under the same agenda item at earlier
sessions of the General Assembly.
the United Nations.
The preamble of the draft resolution takes into
account the desire of both Organizations to continue to
cooperate closely in their common search for solutions to
global problems. It recalls the Articles of the Charter of
the United Nations that encourage the activities through
regional cooperation for the promotion of the purposes
and principles of
It notes the
strengthening of cooperation between the United Nations,
its funds and programmes and specialized agencies and
the Organization of the Islamic Conference, its subsidiary
organs and its specialized and affiliated institutions. Also,
it notes the encouraging progress made in the nine
priority areas of cooperation, as well as
in the
identification of other areas of cooperation. Furthermore,
it
the strengthening of cooperation
between the United Nations and other organizations of the
United Nations system and the Organization of the
Islamic Conference and other organs and institutions of
the OIC system contributes to the promotion of the
purposes and principles of the United Nations. It takes
recognizes that
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
into account the report (A/47/277) of the Secretary-General
entitled “An Agenda for Peace”, in particular section VII,
concerning cooperation with regional arrangements and
organizations, and the “Supplement
to An Agenda for
Peace” (A/50/60). Finally, with respect to the preamble, it
notes with appreciation the determination of both
Organizations to strengthen further the existing cooperation
by developing specific proposals in the designated priority
areas of cooperation, as well as in the political field.
In its operative paragraphs, the General Assembly
would,
inter alia, note with satisfaction the active
participation of the Organization of the Islamic Conference
in the work of the United Nations towards the realization of
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations. The General Assembly would also request the
United Nations and the Organization of
the Islamic
Conference to continue cooperation in their common search
for solutions to global problems. In addition, the General
Assembly would welcome the efforts of the United Nations
and the Organization of
the Islamic Conference to
strengthen cooperation between them in areas of common
concern and to review the ways and means for enhancing
the actual mechanisms of such cooperation. The Assembly
would also welcome the efforts of the secretariats of the
two Organizations to strengthen information exchange,
coordination and cooperation between them in areas of
mutual interest in the political field, and their ongoing
consultations with a view to developing the modalities of
such cooperation. It would further welcome the periodic
high-level meetings between the Secretary-General of the
United Nations
the
Organization of the Islamic Conference, as well as between
senior secretariat officials of the two Organizations, and
encourage their participation in important meetings of the
two Organizations.
the Secretary-General
and
of
The draft
resolution would recommend that,
in
accordance with General Assembly resolution 50/17, in
order to enhance cooperation and for the purpose of review
and appraisal of progress, a general meeting between
representatives of the Secretariats of the United Nations
system and the Organization of the Islamic Conference
should take place in 1998. It would also recommend that,
again in accordance with General Assembly resolution
50/17, coordination meetings of
the
organizations and agencies of the United Nations system
and the Organization of the Islamic Conference and its
specialized institutions should be held concurrently with the
general meeting in 1998. The draft
resolution would
encourage the specialized agencies and other organizations
of the United Nations system to continue to expand their
focal points of
12
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
by
particularly
cooperation with the subsidiary organs and specialized
and affiliated institutions of the Organization of the
Islamic Conference,
negotiating
cooperation agreements, and would invite them to
multiply the contacts and meetings of the focal points for
cooperation in priority areas of interest to the United
Nations and the Organization of the Islamic Conference.
It would urge the United Nations and other organizations
of
the United Nations system, especially the lead
agencies, to provide increased technical and other forms
of assistance to the Organization of
the Islamic
Conference and its subsidiary organs and specialized and
affiliated institutions in order to enhance cooperation.
express
The General Assembly would
its
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his continued
efforts
to strengthen cooperation and coordination
between the United Nations and other organizations of the
United Nations system and the OIC and its subsidiary
organs and specialized and affiliated institutions to serve
the mutual
interests of the two Organizations in the
political, economic, social and cultural fields; and would
express the hope that the Secretary-General will continue
to strengthen the mechanisms of coordination between the
two Organizations.
The Assembly would request the Secretary-General
to report to it at its fifty-third session on the state of
and the
cooperation between the United Nations
Organization of the Islamic Conference. Finally,
the
Assembly would decide to include in the provisional
agenda of
fifty-third session the item entitled
“Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization of the Islamic Conference”.
its
On behalf of the member States of the Organization
of the Islamic Conference, I should like to request the
Members of the Assembly to support the draft resolution
and, as has been the case in previous years, to facilitate
its adoption by consensus.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 3369
(XXX), of 10 October 1975, I now call on the observer
for the Organization of the Islamic Conference.
Mr. Ansay
(Organization
Islamic
Conference): It is my privilege to address the General
Assembly this morning on behalf of the Secretary-General
of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, Mr.
Laraki, on agenda item 31, which covers the status of
the
of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
cooperation
Organization of the Islamic Conference.
the United Nations
between
and
the
the outset,
I would take this opportunity, at
to
congratulate the President and his colleagues in the Bureau
on their election to their high offices. I know that in the
President’s capable hands the work of the Assembly will be
very ably directed. I also join other delegations in paying
tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Razali Ismail, and his
colleagues on the outgoing Bureau, for steering the work of
the Assembly with remarkable success during its fifty-first
session.
The report of the Secretary-General, which is before
us in document A/52/377, provides informative material on
the activities of cooperation between our two Organizations
and their respective subsidiary and specialized organs,
agencies and institutions in areas of common concern in
1997. It describes the endeavours of the United Nations
system in implementing General Assembly resolution 51/18
of 14 November 1996, which requested the United Nations
and the Organization of the Islamic Conference to continue
cooperation in their common search for solutions to global
problems relating to international peace and security,
disarmament, self-determination, fundamental human rights,
social
technical
development
cooperation, as well as
to continue to expand the
parameters of this cooperation in response to the growing
needs of our common member States. I would, therefore,
take the opportunity to extend to the President and the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to the Executive
Heads of the various United Nations funds, programmes
and specialized agencies, our sincere thanks for their and
their respective staffs’ efforts, which have kept our common
endeavours in full motion throughout the year.
economic
and
and
Representatives will recall
that General Assembly
resolution 50/17 of 20 November 1995 called for
strengthening cooperation between our two Organizations
in the political field, besides, of course, continuing to
expand our ongoing cooperation in several economic, social
and humanitarian sectors. As the Secretary-General’s report
illustrates, this aspect has figured prominently in the two
meetings between the Secretaries-General of our
two
Organizations, held here at the United Nations on 2 May
1997 and 4 October 1997, and in the high-level meeting of
officials of the two Organizations held here also on 4
October 1997. This meeting of senior officials preceded the
meeting between the Secretaries-General of our
two
Organizations which I have just mentioned.
as well
and Tajikistan,
in Afghanistan, which
These meetings devoted particular attention to
ongoing peacemaking efforts in Palestine, Afghanistan,
Jammu and Kashmir
as
peacekeeping efforts relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Azerbaijan, Somalia and Cyprus.
I would cite two
examples of our cooperation at the practical level during
the workings of our
the period under review: first,
respective missions
have
maintained complementarity and close contact in assisting
the various Afghan political
factions in finding an
agreeable solution to their present predicament; secondly,
the joint support of the United Nations and the OIC
extended to the inter-Tajik talks, which led to the signing
of the General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace
and National Concord in Tajikistan between the
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan and the United
Tajik Opposition, in Moscow on 27 June 1997. On the
same occasion,
the OIC
co-signed the Protocol on Guarantees along with the
representatives of the United Nations, other observer
States and organizations to support the efforts of the
international community to ensure the implementation of
the peace agreements.
the Secretary-General of
I am glad to report that our cooperation in the social,
economic and cultural spheres has proceeded as planned
during the period under review. It is focusing on the nine
priority areas that have been identified among our two
Organizations, namely, the development of science and
technology; trade and development; technical cooperation
among Islamic countries; assistance to refugees; food
security and agriculture; education and the eradication of
illiteracy;
investment mechanisms and joint ventures;
human resource development; and the environment.
approval
identification,
The adoption of new cost-effective modalities
stemming from the recommendations of the meeting of
United Nations and OIC focal points, held in Geneva in
June 1995, which were endorsed by the general meeting
between the secretariats of the two organizations, held in
Geneva in June 1996, is accelerating the programme and
project
and implementation
processes. I would cite briefly two recent examples of
these endeavours: first, the technical assistance that the
OIC and the United Nations Development Programme are
providing to the Foundation for Social Peace, a respected
African non-governmental organization based in Niamey,
Niger,
in implementing its Rural Education and
Agricultural Extension facility for the nomads of the
Sahel and Sahara regions, with some catalytic financial
support from the Perez Guerrero Trust Fund; secondly,
the technical assistance being extended by the Islamic
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the UNDP’s
Special Unit for Technical Cooperation Among Developing
Countries
to the small and medium-scale industries
concerned with food processing and textiles in the Arab and
African regions.
speedy project
identification and approval processes reflecting effective
coordination between the two Organizations at the working
levels
and
implementation, to the advantage of the beneficiaries.
In both instances,
now accelerating
delivery
the
are
I should now like to refer briefly to the annual
coordination meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs
of the States members of the OIC, held on 2 October 1997,
to discuss the agenda of the fifty-second session of the
General Assembly, in particular those items that were of
relevance to the member States of the OIC. I am happy to
recall that the meeting was, unprecedentedly, addressed by
the Secretary-General of
the United Nations. As the
Secretary-General’s report mentions in paragraph 2,
in
response to our invitation, a senior representative from the
United Nations Department of Political Affairs also
attended the meeting and observed its deliberations.
Paragraph 3 of
the Secretary-General
summarizes the issues that the meeting covered.
the report of
The Ambassador of Indonesia, acting in his capacity
as Chairman of the Islamic Group and the representative of
the current Chairman of the Islamic Conference of Foreign
Ministers, has graciously introduced, with detailed
eloquence, the draft resolution on cooperation between the
United Nations and the Organization of
the Islamic
Conference which is before the Assembly in document
A/52/L.2 of 15 October 1997. I would take the liberty of
drawing attention to 4 of the 13 operative paragraphs,
because of their significance.
First, paragraphs 7 and 8 recommend the convening of
a general meeting and of coordination meetings of focal
points of the organizations and agencies of the United
Nations system and of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference and its specialized institutions in Geneva,
concurrently, in 1998. We believe that the convening of the
two meetings in the same time-frame, unlike the practice in
previous years, will be an efficient and economical way of
pursuing the objective of coordination between our two
Organizations in areas of common interest.
Secondly, paragraph 9 encourages, among other things,
the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system to negotiate cooperation agreements
with their OIC counterparts for cooperation in priority areas
of interest to the two Organizations. Two memoranda of
14
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
Islamic Educational,
understanding signed by the
Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO) with the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) here in New
York last year, and one with the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) this year, have paved
the way for
ISESCO’s systematic consultation and
effective cooperation with these three major programmes
of the United Nations, adding to several it has similarly
concluded with other United Nations organizations in the
past. We would hope that this process will continue to
expand between the relevant organs, agencies and
institutions of our two Organizations.
and
and
organs
specialized
the United Nations
Thirdly, paragraph 10 urges the United Nations and
system,
other organizations of
especially the lead agencies,
to provide increased
technical and other forms of assistance to the OIC and its
subsidiary
affiliated
institutions, in order to enhance cooperation. At a time
when the OIC is initiating a four-year action programme
of economic and technical cooperation between its
member States, it would welcome such assistance, which
should go a long way in reinforcing and strengthening its
institutional capacity for the operational challenges it will
be facing in the process. This aspect was favourably
approached in the discussions held between the
Secretaries-General of the two Organizations when they
last met here earlier this month.
As with the resolution of the preceding year, none of
the operative paragraphs contained in this resolution
involves any additional
I am
therefore confident that it will attract unanimous approval.
implications.
financial
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the OIC
derives its inspiration and guidance from the teachings of
Islam, the religion of peace, which advocates justice,
equality, tolerance and cooperation between all nations
and all segments of mankind. These noble tenets shall
continue to guide our cooperation with the United Nations
as we pursue our journey towards the global village of the
twenty-first century, in quest of peace, prosperity and
progress for all mankind.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the last speaker on this item. The General
Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution
A/52/L.2.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
draft resolution?
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
Draft resolution A/52/L.2 was adopted (resolution
52/4).
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
May I also take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 31?
Arab States, in order to contribute to the creation of a
more favourable atmosphere in which the peace process
in the Middle East will lead to a comprehensive, lasting
and just peace ensuring the legitimate rights of all parties
concerned, so that the Palestinian people can exercise all
its legitimate rights on the totality of its national territory,
including Jerusalem.
It was so decided.
Agenda item 33
Cooperation between the United Nations and the League
of Arab States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/52/378)
Draft resolution (A/52/L.3 and Corr.1)
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I give the floor to the representative of Yemen to introduce
the draft resolution.
Mr. Al-Ashtal (Yemen) (interpretation from Arabic):
In my capacity as Chairman of the Arab Group for this
month, I have the honour to introduce, on behalf of the
member States of the League of Arab States, the draft
resolution contained in document A/52/L.3, under agenda
item 33, “Cooperation between the United Nations and the
League of Arab States”.
The existing bonds between the United Nations and
the League of Arab States were reinforced following the
adoption by the General Assembly of resolution 48/21 on
“Cooperation between the United Nations and the League
of Arab States”. That resolution, adopted by consensus,
embodies the cooperation sought under Chapter VIII of the
United Nations Charter between the United Nations and
regional organizations.
As demonstrated by their common history,
the
relationship between the two Organizations has been
premised on the principles and purposes enshrined in their
respective charters. These charters aim at
the same
objective, namely, maintenance of international peace and
security being in the forefront of their interests.
In view of the fact that the peace process in the
Middle East
is currently stalling because of genuine
difficulties and obstacles that may jeopardize peace and
security in the region, there is a dire need for further
cooperation between the United Nations and the League of
In the same context, there is a pressing need to
intensify cooperation between the United Nations and the
League of Arab States
and
development areas so that the economic and financial
resources available may be used in a more coordinated
and efficient manner in pursuit of the common interests
of the two organizations.
in economic,
social
The preambular portion of the draft resolution before
us contains paragraphs that underscore the desire of the
two organizations to consolidate the ties existing between
them in all spheres, and to continue their cooperation,
thereby promoting the purposes and principles of the
United Nations.
In the operative paragraphs of the draft resolution,
the Assembly, inter alia, expresses appreciation to the
Secretary-General for the follow-up action he has taken to
implement the proposals adopted at the meetings between
the representatives of the secretariats of the United
Nations and other organizations of the United Nations
system dealing with development and the General
Secretariat of
the League of Arab States and its
specialized organizations, including the latest meeting
held in Geneva in 1997.
Paragraph 11 calls for a general meeting to take
place every two years between the United Nations system
and the League of Arab States. It also calls for inter-
agency sectoral meetings to be organized regularly on
areas of priority and wide importance in the development
of the Arab States, on the basis of agreement between the
counterpart programmes of the United Nations system and
the League of Arab States
specialized
organizations.
and its
On behalf of the Group of Arab States, I invite all
members of the international community to support the
League of Arab States and its efforts to cooperate with
the United Nations system in the service of their common
goals, as set forth in the text of the draft resolution now
before the Assembly. This draft resolution merits adoption
by consensus.
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 477 (V) of
1 November 1950, I now call on the Observer of the
League of Arab States.
to express
Mr. Hassouna (League of Arab States): Allow me at
the outset
to the President my sincere
congratulations on his election to preside over the United
Nations General Assembly at its fifty-second session. His
election to that lofty post attests to the confidence and high
esteem that
the international community feels for his
country, Ukraine.
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
League of Arab States is nothing new. It began in the
1940s, when the founding States of the League of Arab
States participated in drawing up the United Nations
Charter
thereby
contributing to enshrining in the Charter the principle of
regional organizations. That principle led to the creation on
22 March 1945 of the League of Arab States, the first
regional organization to emerge in the international order
following the end of the Second World War.
the San Francisco Conference,
at
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
League of Arab States has evolved gradually over time. Its
first stage began in 1950, when the United Nations
Secretary-General, at the request of the General Assembly,
invited the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States
to attend the session of the Assembly as an observer, and
continued until 1981, when the General Assembly invited
the League of Arab States to participate officially as an
Observer in the sessions and work of the Assembly and its
subsidiary bodies.
The first contractual relationship between the two
organizations, in the sphere of cooperation, was set forth in
a memorandum of agreement that was ratified by both
organizations in 1960. Subsequently, the two organizations
determined to strengthen their cooperation, in keeping with
an agreement between the two organizations that was
ratified in 1989.
Over
the years,
cooperation between the
two
organizations has evolved and now includes several
agreements between the League of Arab States and the
United Nations and its specialized agencies, establishing
cooperation in joint programmes and projects in the
interests of the Arab region.
In his report (A/52/378) of 23 September 1997, the
Secretary-General indicates that the Secretaries-General of
16
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
in June and October of
the United Nations and the League of Arab States have in
recent times continued their practice of meetings and
consultations. The Secretary-General of the League of
Arab States held important consultations at United
Nations Headquarters with Mr. Kofi Annan on two
occasions,
this year. The
Secretaries-General discussed the various questions before
the United Nations of concern to Arab countries and
considered ways
and
cooperation between the two organizations. We hope soon
to welcome the United Nations Secretary-General at the
Headquarters of the League of Arab States in Cairo to
continue the discussion of the various questions of interest
to both organizations.
coordination
to
strengthen
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
League of Arab States was broadened during the course
of a successful joint meeting between the Secretaries-
General of the United Nations and the League of Arab
States and its institutions at Geneva in July 1997, as a
follow-up to earlier joint meetings between the two
organizations held at Geneva in 1993 and Vienna in 1995.
The agenda of that meeting attests to the interest of
both organizations in such international and regional
questions as the political question of the maintenance of
international peace and security or humanitarian questions
such as mine clearance, as well as other questions dealing
with economic and social cooperation,
sustainable
development, the environment, combating drugs, crime
prevention, agricultural and rural development, family
planning, population and health. All those subjects are
both regional and international in scope and are dealt with
by the United Nations and the League of Arab States in
the framework of the active cooperation that they enjoy.
The positive nature of this cooperation is best
reflected in the conclusions reached by the participants in
that meeting as a result of
the
achievements realized to date, which demonstrate the need
to pursue the cooperation between the two organizations
to foster international peace and security and strengthen
social and economic development in the region.
their evaluation of
In this respect, I wish to share the view of the
participants on the importance of pursuing the joint
political efforts of the two organizations in the settlement
of regional disputes and crises. I would add here that
these efforts should be based on what is currently being
done to settle the crisis in Somalia, given that the two
organizations are participating in Somalia’s national
reconciliation process with a view to restoring security to
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
that country. The participants also felt that it is necessary
to continue studying the question of strengthening the role
of the League of Arab States and its ability to contribute to
the areas of preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping in
accordance with Chapter VIII of
the United Nations
Charter.
In the area of disarmament, the participants supported
the efforts of the League of Arab States in drafting an
agreement to make the Middle East a zone free of all
weapons of mass destruction and encouraged the two
organizations to step up their efforts to proclaim it so. They
also emphasized the need to make the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) universal through
the accession of all countries.
the
participants noted the accession of all Arab States to the
Treaty.
In this
respect,
In addition, they expressed their concern over the
continuing problem of landmines, which cause great human
suffering. We should therefore intensify international efforts
to solve this problem. There is no doubt that the recent
Oslo agreement to ban anti-personnel landmines represents
an important step towards this goal.
One of the major results of the Geneva meeting was
the joint agreement of the two organizations on holding a
sectoral meeting on international trade and development at
the headquarters of the League of Arab States in Cairo in
1998. This is a priority area for achieving progress and for
economic and social development in the Arab region. In
this respect, I should like, on behalf of the League of Arab
States, to thank the Secretariat of the United Nations for its
tireless efforts to convene joint meetings between the two
organizations and to strengthen cooperation between them
in all areas.
The current international order is seeing major changes
in regional and international relations. This highlights the
increased importance of the United Nations and its crucial
role in maintaining international peace and security. Aware
of this reality, the Secretary-General of the United Nations
has set forth his reform programme for the Organization,
which includes a set of measures and proposals aimed at
achieving this goal. The League of Arab States expresses its
support for the Secretary-General and its appreciation for
his
the
Organization’s performance and strengthening its role.
initiative, which
improving
aimed
at
is
I would also stress the content of the Secretary-
General’s report on the programme of reform, which
to increase
affirms
the United Nations
the will of
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
cooperation with regional organizations so as to make
them ever more active partners with the Organization in
all activities related to peacekeeping and international
security, including conflict prevention. The League of
Arab States stands ready to cooperate with the United
Nations in this context, particularly in the light of the
League’s recent efforts to improve its mechanisms and to
create new political and legal bodies for settling regional
conflicts, such as the Arab court of justice and its own
mechanisms for conflict prevention, management and
resolution.
In the context of its attachment to the establishment
of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in our region,
and on the basis of the principles of the United Nations
Charter and international resolutions,
the Council of
Foreign Ministers of the League of Arab States, at its
108th regular meeting in September,
reiterated the
commitment of League members to the two essential
principles
recent
developments in the peace process.
position
relating
their
on
to
First, we attach importance to the achievement of a
just and comprehensive peace as a strategic goal on the
basis of the principles of the peace process — the most
important of which is the implementation of Security
Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425
(1978) — as well as the principle of land for peace and
the implementation of the legitimate political rights of the
Palestinian
self-
determination and the establishment of an independent
State.
including
people,
rights
its
to
the policies of
Secondly, we reject
the Israeli
Government aimed at undermining the peace process and
its repudiation of the principles and bases of that process.
We also reject its refusal to implement the commitments
and agreements undertaken in the course of the peace
process; its unilateral measures aimed at imposing a fait
accompli in Jerusalem, the West Bank and the Golan; and
its aggressions in southern Lebanon. We hold the Israeli
Government fully responsible for the consequences of its
policies and positions, which have set back the peace
process and thrown into question the measures taken in
respect of Israel in the framework of the peace process.
Given the dangers facing our
region and the
escalation resulting from the continuing policies and
practices of the Israeli Government, the League of Arab
States asks the international community, represented by
the United Nations, to assume its responsibilities and role
in relaunching the peace process, following all negotiating
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
options and implementing the Organization’s resolutions of
international legality on the question of Palestine and the
Middle East, which is a legal, political and moral
obligation. In our view, this is the only guarantee of peace
and security for the peoples of the region.
In conclusion, I would affirm the continued and
unequivocal support of the League of Arab States for the
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and
wish the Organization every success in its tasks. May it
meet the challenges it faces in our world today, where our
two organizations are striving to establish respect for the
values, principles and laws governing actions between
countries and peoples.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/52/L.3 and Corr.1. May I take it that the
Assembly decides to adopt the draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/52/L.3 and Corr.1 was adopted
(resolution 52/5).
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I now call on the representative of Israel, who wishes to
explain his position on the resolution just adopted. May I
remind him that explanations of vote or position are limited
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from
their seats.
Mr. Gilon (Israel): The delegation of Israel has joined
the consensus on this resolution for the fourth time in a
row. In so doing, we are guided by the desire to make
peace with our neighbours, all of which are members of the
League of Arab States.
Today, after a long period of standstill in the peace
process, there is new hope for progress on the Israeli-
Palestinian track. The nine joint committees have resumed
their work after a meeting between Prime Minister
Netanyahu and Chairman Arafat and between Foreign
Minister Levy and Mr. Abu Mazin. Further discussions are
expected later this month in Washington.
We still hope for positive developments on the Syrian-
Lebanese track. It is regrettable that at the meeting of the
Foreign Ministers of the Arab League held in Cairo, a one-
sided approach was adopted, and only Israel was blamed
for the problems which have at times arisen in the peace
process. The Arab League Foreign Ministers called for,
18
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
inter alia, stopping the normalization process between
Israel and its Arab neighbours, abjuring Arab participation
on multilateral
tracks, adhering to the Arab boycott
against Israel and more.
The peace process which began in Madrid in 1991
was based on two tracks: the bilateral tracks between
Israel and its neighbours, and multilateral tracks between
Israel and the entire Arab world. Freezing one track of
the peace process contributes nothing to the advancement
of the other track.
Despite our concerns, we also note that the Ministers
for Foreign Affairs have at the same time emphasized
their commitment to peace. We hope that now, when
there are new prospects for the peace process, they will
stand by their commitments and choose a constructive
role in advancing peace in our region.
Israel supports cooperation between the United
Nations and various regional organizations, including the
League of Arab States. Moreover, Israel does not seek to
replace the current regional system of States with a new
organizational structure in the Middle East. Indeed, the
cooperation between the League of Arab States and the
United Nations is based on provisions of the United
Nations Charter. In this context, it is regrettable that Israel
still does not belong to a regional political group —
which its geographical location would warrant — at the
United Nations due to the political objections of some
Member States.
Israel calls upon the members of the League of Arab
States to lift their objection to the admission of Israel to
the Asian Group. The fact that Israel is currently denied
membership in any regional political group directly
contradicts the basic principle of the universality of the
United Nations, as well as the principle of sovereign
equality.
Israel takes this opportunity to call for increased
cooperation between the United Nations Development
Programme and the League of Arab States for the
establishment of joint projects within the framework of
regional agricultural development in the areas under the
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Council.
Israel feels that the Arab world should provide a
greater share of aid to the Palestinian Council to match
the aid given by the European Union, Norway, Japan and
the United States.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Israel welcomes all efforts to advance the social,
economic, education, health and cultural standing of
Palestinian residents of the territories, within the framework
of participation between the League of Arab States and
United Nations agencies.
This is the first resolution on an issue related to the
Middle East to be adopted by the General Assembly at its
fifty-second session. We are pleased that the resolution was
adopted by consensus. We would therefore take this
opportunity to recommend that all parties to the peace
process exercise restraint in both the language of draft
resolutions to be submitted, as well as with regard to their
stated purposes.
We cannot build confidence in the Middle East by
engaging in political battle in New York. The peace process
is by its nature bilateral, between the parties. Inflammatory
rhetoric offered in international forums surely belongs to
another era.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the only speaker in explanation of position.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 33?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 158
Observer status for the Andean Community in the
General Assembly
Draft resolution (A/52/L.5)
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I call on the representative of Ecuador to introduce draft
resolution A/52/L.5.
(Ecuador)
(interpretation
Mr. Camacho
from
Spanish): On behalf of the sponsors, I have the honour to
resolution contained in document
introduce the draft
A/52/L.5, entitled “Observer
status
the Andean
Community in the General Assembly”.
for
The member countries of the Andean Community
share particularly close social, cultural and historical ties.
They became independent through a common effort headed
by Simón Bolívar.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
Following a century and a half of independence, the
plenipotentiaries of Bolivia, Colombia, Chile, Ecuador and
Peru signed the Subregional Integration Agreement on 26
May 1969, Cartagena de Indias, Colombia. Venezuela
signed the Agreement
in 1973, and in 1976 Chile
withdrew from it, leaving the five States that today make
up the Andean Community.
The process of integration continued to develop: in
October 1992 the Andean Free Trade Area was
established; in 1995 the Andean Customs Union was
established when the Common External Tariff came into
force. Finally, at the seventh Andean Presidential Council,
held at Quito, Ecuador, on 5 September 1995, the five
countries decided to reorganize the executive and
administrative bodies of the system to create the Andean
Integration System — the Andean Community we know
today.
As a result of that reorganization, the six principal
bodies of the Andean Integration System were set up: the
Andean Presidential Council, the highest body of the
System, which is composed of the Heads of State of the
member countries and which meets annually; the Andean
Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs; the Commission
of the Andean Community; the General Secretariat, as the
permanent executive body, with its headquarters in Lima,
Peru, and headed by the Secretary-General; the Andean
Community Court of Justice, with its headquarters in
Quito, Ecuador; and the Andean Parliament, whose
headquarters will be in Bogotá, Colombia.
The main objectives of the Andean Community are
to promote the balanced and harmonious development of
the member countries on an equal basis
through
integration and economic and social cooperation;
to
accelerate economic and social growth and generate
employment; to reduce vulnerability to external factors
and to improve the position of member countries in the
global economic context; and to strengthen subregional
solidarity and reduce differences in existing levels of
development among its members.
On behalf of the member States of the Andean
Community, I would like to express our gratitude to the
members of other systems of integration, such as the
European Union, the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR), the Central American Integration System
and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), all of which
generously offered to sponsor the draft resolution that I
am introducing to the Assembly. We are also grateful for
the sponsorship of the United States of America.
19
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
Observer status at the United Nations would facilitate the
realization of this mission. Venezuela is open to relations
with the rest of the world. We view globalization as a
fundamental trend of the times and of the coming century.
But to achieve globalization many roads will have to be
crossed, and there are many means of crossing them.
Therefore, Venezuela welcomes integration efforts with
other countries. The Andean Community is one such
means, and that is why we would welcome its presence
as an observer at the United Nations.
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
We have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
resolution A/52/L.5.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
draft resolution contained in document A/52/L.5?
Draft resolution A/52/L.5 was adopted (resolution
52/6).
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to
conclude its consideration of agenda item 158?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The Acting President (interpretation from Spanish):
I should like to inform delegates that agenda item 42,
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity”, originally scheduled for
this morning, will be taken up at a later date to be
announced. I should also like to inform members that the
programme of work for the remainder of October, for the
month of November and for the beginning of December
has been issued as document A/INF/52/3/Add.1 this
morning. The list of speakers for each of the items listed
in that document is now open.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The Andean Community attaches great importance to
its relations with other integration systems. These past few
days, the President of Ecuador, Dr. Fabián Alarcón, the
current Chairman of the Andean Presidential Council,
accompanied by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the
countries of the Community, has been visiting Brussels in
order to strengthen ties between the European Union and
the Andean Community.
Similarly,
the Andean Community is involved in
negotiations with MERCOSUR with the aim of establishing
a free-trade zone between the two groups within 10 years.
To the same end, negotiations are also under way with
Panama and CARICOM, and discussions are foreseen with
the Central American Integration System in the future.
Before concluding, I wish to point out that Canada,
Cyprus, France and the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia have joined the 35 sponsors which appear in
document A/52/L.5. We hope that the General Assembly
will welcome this draft resolution and give it its unanimous
support.
Mr. Escovar-Salom (Venezuela) (interpretation from
Spanish): The delegation of Venezuela is very pleased to
join in sponsoring this draft resolution aimed at granting
observer status to the Andean Community in the General
Assembly.
The Andean Community has enabled its member
countries — Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and
Venezuela — to promote balanced harmonious and
equitable development
through economic and social
integration.
tariff or para-tariff
For example, we have established a free-trade area,
without
restrictions, and we are
negotiating with the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR) and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
to extend that zone over the next 10 years. Similarly, we
have signed new cooperation agreements with the European
Union in order to promote the flow of investment and the
transfer of technology.
This dynamism imparted by the Andean Community
to our economies has enabled us to create sources of stable
and productive employment and to fight effectively against
poverty, marginalization and the other forms of suffering
that still affect a considerable portion of our population.
The purpose of the Andean Community is to improve
the standard of living of the inhabitants of the subregion.
20
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
The General Assembly will be kept informed, in due
course, of the dates for the consideration of other agenda
items as well as of any additions or changes.
The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.
35th plenary meeting
22 October 1997
21
