United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-second Session
38th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 29 October 1997, 10 a.m.
New York
A/52/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Udovenko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Ukraine)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work
The President: May I take it
the General
Assembly, on the proposal of the Secretary-General,
wishes to include an item in the agenda of the current
session entitled “Financing of
the United Nations
Observer Mission in Angola”?
that
Request for the inclusion of an additional item
It was so decided.
Note by the Secretary-General (A/52/234)
The President: In his note circulated in document
A/52/234, the Secretary-General has the honour to request,
pursuant to rule 15 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly, the inclusion in the agenda of the fifty-second
session of an item entitled “Financing of the United Nations
Observer Mission in Angola”.
Owing to the nature of the item, the Secretary-General
further requests that the item be allocated to the Fifth
Committee.
Unless there is any objection, may I take it that the
General Assembly agrees, in view of the importance and
urgency of the matter, that the provision of rule 40 of the
rules of procedure, which would require a meeting of the
General Committee on the question of the inclusion of this
item on the agenda, can be waived?
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it
the General
Assembly wishes to allocate this item to the Fifth
Committee?
that
It was so decided.
The President: The Chairman of
the Fifth
Committee will be informed of the decision just taken.
Agenda item 11
Report of the Security Council (A/52/2)
The President: We shall now be discussing the
substance of the fifty-second annual report of the Security
Council to the General Assembly, covering the period
from 16 June 1996 to 15 June 1997 (A/52/2).
It is widely recognized that, by discharging its duties
under its primary responsibility for the maintenance of
international peace and security, the Council is playing a
special role in implementing the purposes and principles
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
97-86341 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Currently, at this important stage of the reform of the
United Nations, the activities of the Security Council are
acquiring additional weight and significance. Therefore, I
believe that the spirit of transformation should be guiding
our considerations.
In this regard a new concept which has found its
reflection in the preparation of the present report should be
welcomed. Its realization has produced a better picture of
the substantive work of the Security Council and introduced
an analytical approach to its assessment. The measures at
this juncture constitute an important step forward aimed at
enhancing the transparency of the Security Council’s work.
I would like to encourage delegates to undertake a
constructive and action-oriented discussion which would
provide additional opportunities for fostering its interaction
with the General Assembly.
I now call on the President of the Security Council,
Mr. Juan Somavía, to introduce the report of the Security
Council.
Mr. Somavía (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
Allow me, Sir, to convey to you personally my pleasure in
submitting this report (A/52/2) under your presidency and
direction.
It is a great honour for me to continue today the
practice established in 1993 by Ambassador Sardenberg of
Brazil, and continued by Ambassadors Hannay of the
United Kingdom, Al Khussaiby of Oman and Wisnumurti
of Indonesia, each of whom addressed you as President of
the Security Council to introduce its annual report to the
General Assembly.
On each of those occasions, my predecessors indicated
the importance the Security Council attaches to the timely
submission of its annual report in accordance with Articles
15 and 24 of the Charter of the United Nations, and gave
an account of the progress made during the periods covered
in relation to the transparency of the work of the Council.
Consideration of the Council’s report by the General
Assembly constitutes an exceptional occasion for
the
necessary dialogue and interaction between these two
principal organs of the United Nations. It
is thus an
important element enabling both organs to exercise in a
complementary manner their respective functions relating to
the maintenance of international peace and security.
I would like to express appreciation to the Security
Council secretariat for its efforts over the past year in
2
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
ensuring the availability of the report of the Security
Council to all delegations well before the beginning of the
general debate. I hope that this practice will continue in
the future.
in response to problems
This year’s report, which bears the symbol A/52/2
and which covers the period from 16 June 1996 to 15
June 1997, once again reflects the heavy workload of the
Council
relating to the
maintenance of international peace and security. As the
report indicates, during the period under consideration the
Council held 115 formal meetings, adopted 52 resolutions
and issued 54 statements by the President. In addition,
Council members held consultations of the whole totalling
some 342 hours, considered over 105 reports of the
Secretary-General and reviewed and processed more than
1,214 documents and communications from States and
regional and other intergovernmental organizations.
However, the purpose of my presence here today
cannot be merely to transmit data and statistics on the
past year’s work. The report of the Security Council
reflects the efforts which all the members of the Council
the report meets
have made to ensure that
the
requirements
and aspirations
expressed by States
Members of the Organization with regard to the working
methods of the Council. It is important for all Members
of the Organization to build a relationship that will enable
each principal organ to discharge properly the mandate
assigned to it by the Charter.
review,
During the period under
the Council’s
informal working group on documentation and other
procedural questions worked hard to find ways of
satisfying the wish of Member States to receive in a
timely manner a substantive, analytical and material
account of the Council’s work.
The main outcome of its work, as reviewed and
approved by the Council, is embodied in the note by the
President of the Security Council circulated as an official
document under the symbol S/1997/451 of 12 June 1997.
In that note, the President sets out the new measures
approved by the Council aimed at making its annual
report more analytical in nature, as requested, from 16
June 1997 onwards.
Thus, future reports will include the following as
background to each subject dealt with by the Council: a
descriptive
and
presidential statements of the Council for the preceding
twelve-month period; a description in chronological order
the decisions,
list of
resolutions
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
including
of the consideration by the Council of the matter in
question and of actions taken by the Council on that item,
including descriptions of the decisions, resolutions and
presidential statements; a list of communications received
by the Council and reports of the Secretary-General; factual
data,
including dates of formal meetings and informal
consultations at which a given subject was discussed;
information regarding the work of the subsidiary organs of
the Council,
committees;
information regarding the documentation and working
methods and procedures of the Council; matters brought to
the attention of the Council but not discussed by it during
the period covered; appendices as in the past, but also the
full
texts of all resolutions, decisions and presidential
statements adopted or voted upon by the Council during the
reporting period; and information about meetings with
troop-contributing countries. Those are the new elements
that will appear in next year’s report of the Security
Council.
sanctions
the
There will also be attached, as an addendum to the
report, brief monthly assessments of the work of the
Council, which representatives who have completed their
functions as President of the Security Council may wish to
prepare. Allow me to dwell on this last point. I think it
important
the Council
discussed at
length the best way of giving a more
substantive and analytical character to the annual report,
which many have, quite rightly, considered as a mere
description and compilation of information.
the members of
to stress that
in that
it enables
the Council
This initial approach adopted by the Council — that
of monthly assessments that Presidents may provide at the
end of their terms — is an important step in the direction
the General Assembly has requested. It
is a realistic
solution,
to provide
information to the General Assembly through brief
assessments prepared by each of the Presidents of the
Council, under her or his own responsibility, for the month
during which she or he presided. These evaluations will be
prepared on a personal basis by each former President, who
will consult with the other members of the Council for the
purpose of reconciling the approaches that may legitimately
exist to the various topics that were the focus of attention
in each month.
I think this is an important step towards a more
analytical report, and while the outcome of this exercise
must not necessarily be considered as representing the
views of the Security Council, it will have the virtue of
combining the individual sensibilities of each President —
which will broaden the view on the work that has been
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
carried out — with consultation with members in order to
reflect generally shared perspectives. This is a realistic
and at the same time innovative solution which has been
applied from July of this year. I believe that with time it
may become a rich source of
information on the
substantive work of the Council.
As indicated in the introduction to the report of the
Security Council, the report is not intended as a substitute
for the official records of the Security Council, which
provide a more substantive account of its deliberations.
Thus, the report should be read, for the purposes of this
discussion in the General Assembly, in conjunction with
other official documents of the Council,
to which it
constitutes a reference guide.
I would also note that various efforts have been
made to make the work of the Council more transparent.
This is an area to which great attention will continue to
be paid. A number of mechanisms have already been
established to improve access by Member States to the
work of the Council; our experience shows that, in some
cases, effectiveness depends not only on the Council itself
but also on participation by non-members of the Council.
Consultations between troop-contributing countries
and Council members are a case in point. In general,
there is too little active participation by all. I believe that
such consultations should generate more interaction
between those countries and the Council members. Better
use needs to be made of them by all concerned. There
can be no doubt that those consultations serve an essential
formal purpose, which is that of hearing the views of the
countries that place their nationals in situations of danger
under the United Nations flag — and this is an extremely
important objective — but above all, they are important
forums for non-members to contribute their views to the
decision-making process of the Council. Therefore, they
should be encouraged to use this mechanism more
actively than is currently the case, and the Council will
continue to explore possible ways and means of
enhancing this practice.
I think it is also useful to refer to the presidential
briefing sessions on the Council’s work, open to the 185
Member States of the United Nations and normally held
on the same day as informal consultations of the Council
have been held. Nevertheless, few delegations participate
or ask questions about the work done. I think that this is
another area in which, by working together, we will be
able to make those meetings more useful and broaden
their scope.
3
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in
the way
discharges
the Council
In conclusion, I wish to draw attention to other
changes
its
responsibilities. For example, when in response to threats to
international peace and security, a decision has been taken
to impose sanctions, the Council has sought, to the extent
possible and in keeping with the goal of ensuring effective
implementation, to target those responsible for the actions
that brought about the imposition of the sanctions. The
Council has also responded to humanitarian concerns by
making the
for
humanitarian reasons and has conducted regular monitoring
on the basis of Secretariat reports.
fullest possible use of
exceptions
to highlight
In addition,
the Council has
increasingly and
systematically sought
its concern over the
situation of humanitarian workers in conflict situations and
the responsibility of the international community to protect
their lives, property and activities. In cooperation with the
Department of Humanitarian Affairs, we have made
progress
for
ascertaining their views on the basis of their experience in
the field.
appropriate
formulas
towards
finding
Finally, there is no doubt that much still remains to be
done in all aspects of the relationship between the General
Assembly and the Security Council. It is the responsibility
of all of us together — as Members of the United Nations,
not as members of one body or the other — to continue the
search for working methods
the
international community to feel well-served by the
interaction of both institutions in the field of peace and
security.
that will
enable
Mr. Park (Republic of Korea): My country being a
member of the Security Council, my delegation wishes to
associate itself with the statement of Ambassador Somavía,
who has just introduced the annual report of the Security
Council to the General Assembly on behalf of the Council
membership.
As we all know, since 1993, when this practice of
presenting the Council report to the general membership
began, one of the central themes guiding the debate under
the current agenda item has been how to promote
transparency in the working methods of the Security
Council. In our view, there are two main reasons why this
question has drawn attention, particularly from non-
members of the Council.
First of all, as the Council has played an increasingly
important role as an organ responsible for maintaining
international peace and security, especially since the end of
4
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
the cold war, there has been a growing demand outside
the Council for information on the Council’s actions.
Naturally, non-members of the Council have wanted to
know in time and in detail what has transpired during
informal consultations, which constitute the core of the
decision-making process in today’s Security Council.
Secondly, non-members of the Council have rightly
perceived a deeper and wider transparency of this world
body, in particular the Security Council, as an indication
that genuine democratization of the Organization is under
way. Democratization in the structural dimension is
important. In our view, however, democratization of the
United Nations cannot be complete without operational
democratization, which embraces, among other things, a
reasonably fair and equal distribution and the sharing of
information among Member States.
Having said that, we believe that over the past year
there has been some meaningful progress in the efforts to
promote transparency of the Security Council. The new
guidelines for the format of the report, contained in the
note by the President of
the Security Council
(S/1997/451), dated 12 June 1997, is a hallmark in this
regard.
lies
report, however,
Drawing upon the principles established by that note,
the forthcoming Council report covering the one-year
period from 16 June 1997 will be much more user-
friendly than the one now before us. The highlight of the
future
in optional monthly
assessments of the work of the Council, to be prepared by
the outgoing Presidents under their own responsibility, in
consultation with other members of the Council. As
rightly pointed out by Ambassador Somavía in his
statement, the attachment of this addendum will make the
report itself a more substantive and analytical source of
information, and thus will contribute to enhancing the
Council’s transparency.
based
less at
to do with transparency. While
daily
Some in this Hall may wonder what the report’s
the
format has
informal
on
briefing
presidency’s
consultations aims more or
the real-time
transparency of the Council’s deliberations, we believe
that monthly assessments of the report will contribute to
promoting historical transparency. In other words, when
a question emerges with regard to past activities of the
Council, those Members outside the Council will be able
to refer to the report, rather than spending time contacting
a small number of delegations which are able to keep
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
their own record of informal consultations inside the
Council.
Over
the past year, and especially during our
presidency in the month of May, my delegation tried to do
its utmost to improve the format of the report to that effect.
It was also in this spirit that we provided the general
membership with an assessment of the Council’s work for
the month of May, on our own initiative, even though the
new guidelines came into effect on 16 June.
In this vein, my delegation wishes to emphasize that
this transparency-enhancing measure was made possible not
only by the efforts within the Council, but also by the
attention paid by those outside the Council. In particular,
the General Assembly’s encouragement, contained in its
resolution 51/193, has provided the Council with a
guidepost pointing to the desirable purpose and content of
future reports. Although we do not intend to engage in a
legalistic polemic on the relationship between the General
Assembly and the Security Council, the six-month process,
which was triggered by the General Assembly resolution
and eventually led to the adoption of the new guidelines for
the Council report, can be regarded, in the view of my
delegation, as an example of healthy and positive
interaction between the two major pillars of the world body.
While hoping that the ties of closer cooperation and
consultation can be further strengthened between these two
organs through the continuation of such interactions, we
wish to take this opportunity to look at
the issue of
information-sharing in a broader context, on the basis of
our own experience as a Council member. In essence, we
believe that the flow of information between the General
Assembly and the Security Council should be timely,
extensive and two-way, so that both organs can function in
a more efficient manner with better knowledge about each
other’s priorities and preferences.
by
the
presidency,
In our view,
there now exist
two major channels
through which the general membership can receive
information from the Council. One channel is the daily
briefing
informal
consultations, and the other is the annual report of the
Council. As for the report, even though its new format
needs further improvement
the
expectations of non-members of the Council, we believe
that the progress made over the past year deserves a warm
welcome.
in order to fully meet
based
upon
On the other hand, it does not seem that the briefing
given by the presidency has been playing a substantively
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
meaningful role in terms of information-sharing with the
general membership, in particular, when one considers the
fact that it is usually not well attended and there are
relatively few questions. The format of this briefing may
not appeal to most delegations, mainly because it usually
takes place hours after informal consultations have ended,
or because it is often pre-empted by certain members of
the Council who brief the media immediately following
informal consultations.
Indeed, whenever I come out of the consultation
room and pass by our colleagues, the so-called loungers,
waiting to get debriefed by members of the Council, I
always feel that, given the critical importance of informal
consultations, there should be a more systematic and
reliable way of providing information to non-members of
the Council on a real-time basis. Although my delegation
will leave the Council at the end of this year, we will
continue to try to find solutions to this kind of problem,
in consultation with other interested delegations.
the Security Council
Regarding the flow of information from the general
membership to the Security Council, we wish to
emphasize that, without adequate knowledge about the
expectations and capabilities of those outside the Council
Chamber,
is unable to deal
effectively with a wide spectrum of issues related to the
maintenance of peace and security in the post-cold-war
era. Especially because various inter-State and intra-State
conflicts of this decade are characterized by diverse
sources of instability, usually comprising local or regional
elements, it seems essential for the Council to familiarize
itself with,
the views of neighbouring
countries in the area when an issue is brought to its
attention. Without
general
membership, Council actions might not carry enough
weight to lay the necessary foundation for regional peace
and security.
from the
instance,
input
this
for
awareness of
Fortunately, in recent years there have been some
positive developments in this regard. Expanded use of
orientation debates or open debates on certain regional or
thematic issues has made a substantial contribution to
fostering the Council’s
the various
characteristics of and challenges posed by the present
international security structure. It was with this in mind
that my delegation organized an open debate on the
subject of protection for humanitarian assistance to
refugees and others in conflict situations, on 21 May,
during its presidency of the Council, which eventually
resulted in the adoption of a presidential statement on the
matter in June under the Russian presidency. Furthermore,
5
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
there is another concomitant advantage of such a forum,
which results from the open nature of the meeting. As this
type of Council debate is open to all of the non-members
of
real-time transparency is guaranteed,
without any hindrance.
the Council,
Another important mechanism available, at least to
part of the general membership, is the arrangement for the
consultation and exchange of information with troop-
contributing countries, as contained in the presidential
statement of 28 March 1996. Although these meetings of
troop-contributing countries and Council members have
taken place regularly over the past year, we believe that a
more dynamic exchange of views, as well as the more
active participation of troop-contributors, would make it
possible for the Council to be fully informed about the
individual sensitivities and preferences of those that join
peacekeeping operations before it takes any action on the
mandate of peacekeeping operations.
Lastly, let me briefly touch upon the Arria-formula
meeting, which is a unique and extremely informal channel
of information for the Council. In a nutshell,
this is
essentially a closed-door meeting of Council members with
an invited personality, which is held primarily for the
purpose of
information-sharing. This month, Council
members had another Arria-formula meeting — with
Mr. Diego Arria, who, as Ambassador of Venezuela,
created this format of meeting in 1993 — in order to learn
about its origin and to discuss its effective and desirable
use. My impression is that while the informal nature of the
Arria-formula meeting is certainly an asset which facilitates
a candid exchange of views, it may also be possible to hold
the meeting in a more flexible or more open setting under
certain circumstances, with a view to enhancing the
transparency of the Council. In this context, we wish to
draw the attention of the Assembly to rule 39 of the
provisional
rules of procedure of the Council, which
stipulates that
the Council may invite members of the
Secretariat or other persons to supply it with information,
and to Article 32 of the Charter, which entitles non-
members of the Council to participate in the discussion of
a dispute under consideration by the Council.
However, my delegation has no intention of claiming
at this time that all future Arria-formula meetings should be
held in the form of formal meetings of the Council in
accordance with the aforementioned rules. Rather, we
expect that the Council’s working group on documentation
and other procedural matters, which has recently taken up
this issue, will be able to forge a balanced formula to allow
both informality and transparency.
6
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
All
between
those mechanisms
the General
Assembly and the Security Council, which I have just
delineated, amply demonstrate how difficult and sensitive
it is to pursue transparency and efficiency at the same
time. In principle, however, we firmly believe that an
enhanced partnership between the two organs should
encompass both elements, so that the calibre of this world
body as a whole can be augmented in coping with the
broad range of new conflicts and instabilities which have
emerged in the post-cold-war era.
Indeed, contradictory as the two concepts may seem,
transparency and efficiency do complement each other. In
this age of information, it goes without saying that the
efficiency of any organization depends, to a large extent,
upon how adequately information is shared internally. The
degree of information- sharing, in turn, relies heavily
upon the extent of transparency within the organization.
In this regard, we are convinced that efficiency and
transparency can, and should, be pursued in tandem
within the United Nations as well.
From this perspective, it is essential, in our view, to
secure a more orderly and reliable flow of information in
both directions between the two major organs of this
world body. While keeping this objective in mind, my
delegation has made
to further
strengthen and institutionalize the links between the
General Assembly and the Security Council throughout
the past
two years as a Council member, and will
continue to do so, starting next year, outside the Council
as well.
strenuous
efforts
Sir John Weston (United Kingdom): I welcome this
opportunity to consider the annual report of the Security
to the General Assembly. The Permanent
Council
Representative of Chile, Ambassador Somavía,
this
month’s President of the Security Council, has already
spoken on behalf of members of
in
introducing the report. This debate provides a useful
occasion to consider the manner in which the Council
carries out its Charter responsibilities for the maintenance
of international peace and security and the way in which
it keeps the wider membership informed of its activities.
the Council
During the period covered by the report — June
1996 to June 1997 — the Council continued to be faced
with a challenging, often heavy agenda. There was some
good
the
implementation of the Dayton peace settlement in Bosnia,
and signs of hope that the indicted war criminals in that
country would be brought to justice; and renewed hope of
progress
steady
but
news:
slow,
in
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
lasting peace in Liberia and Tajikistan — two countries
whose plight has occupied the Council’s attention for much
of this decade. But, elsewhere, the news has been grim. The
Middle East peace process is stumbling. War continued to
ravage Afghanistan. And Africa, which continues to
dominate the work of the Council, saw further tragedies:
the brutal coup d’état against the democratic Government
in Sierra Leone, and the humanitarian suffering in the
region of the Great Lakes. Perhaps,
the
Council was too slow or timid in its reactions to some of
these challenges. All too often it lacked clear, timely and
well-analysed information on the crises, so many of which
were fast-moving and confused intra-State conflicts.
in retrospect,
The British delegation attaches great importance to
ensuring the greatest possible transparency to the Council’s
actions. I made a particular point of this during our
presidency of the Security Council in August. I hope you
will have received the assessment of the work of the
Council during that month which I prepared following
consultations with my colleagues on the Council, and which
I have sent to all permanent representatives. I hope that this
new means of enhancing Council transparency will become
a regular practice. It
is one of a number of welcome
innovations to the form and content of the Council’s future
reports to the Assembly which were agreed in June this
year.
All Members of the Organization need to make best
the series of changes which the Council has
use of
introduced to its working methods over the last few years.
That process of organic evolutionary change has been most
welcome. I was therefore surprised to see, when Council
President
that so few non-members of the
Council attend the daily briefings given by the Council
President or participate actively in the consultations
between Council members and troop contributors which the
Council President chairs. Like Ambassador Somavía before
me, I hope we can work together to remedy that situation.
in August,
This debate is an important occasion for interaction
between two of the principal organs of the Organization.
The British delegation will be listening carefully to the
views expressed today, both on the substance of the
Council’s work, and on the manner in which it conducts its
business. And you may rest assured that we will continue
to strive over the next year to ensure that the Council lives
up to its responsibilities under the Charter to take swift and
decisive action to maintain international peace and security,
and to ensure that the United Nations is equipped with the
necessary capacity for preventive action and peace support
operations.
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
Mr. Sucharipa (Austria): Austria,
like other
delegations, welcomes the introduction of the report of the
Security Council by its current President, the Permanent
Representative of Chile, earlier in the meeting. We
understand this presentation, like similar presentations by
the respective Presidents of the Security Council in earlier
years, to be an expression of the readiness of the Council
to engage in a dialogue on the discharge of its mandate
pursuant to Article 24 of the Charter with the General
Assembly. This practice, initiated four years ago by the
Permanent Representative
of Brazil, Ambassador
Sardenberg, adds to the ongoing enhancement of the
relationship between the General Assembly and the
Security Council, bearing in mind the responsibility of the
latter to act on behalf of the whole membership.
The newly experienced efficiency of the Security
Council after the end of the cold war had a direct impact
on the interest of the general membership in the Council’s
work. Owing, inter alia, to the increase in the number of
binding decisions adopted by the Security Council, the
General Assembly intensified its call for involvement in
the decision-making process of the Council, and for
improved interaction with, and transparency of,
the
proceedings of the Council. My delegation welcomes the
important steps taken by the Security Council over the
past few years with a view to responding to the General
Assembly’s request, and we are pleased to note the
Council’s intention to continue to consider and to review
ways to improve the Council’s documentation and
procedure.
An adequate flow of information towards non-
members is a necessary prerequisite to understand and
assess how the Council is dealing with political issues and
should therefore be facilitated as much as possible. In our
view the presidency of the Security Council should play
a crucial role in keeping the general membership fully
informed on the deliberations of
the Council. The
presidency’s monthly forecast should be complemented by
an exhaustive announcement of the items to be dealt with
by the Council in the daily Journal of the United Nations
as well as by daily briefings on the Council’s work as
announced in the Journal. The outgoing presidency
should wind up its work by presenting an analytical report
on the Council’s deliberations conducted and decisions
taken under its leadership. The overall information thus
offered by the presidency of the Council should be of a
quality suitable to satisfy the average demand for
information by delegations.
7
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
in its current
While the monthly forecast
form
constitutes, indeed, a useful tool for the daily work of
delegations,
the briefings offered by the respective
presidencies could in our view be improved. Although some
presidencies give a rather detailed survey of the Council’s
deliberations, others limit themselves to the enumeration of
agenda items. A continuous high standard of information
could help to meet the General Assembly’s demand for
more transparency and would lead to increased interest of
delegations in attending these briefings. But I also agree
with remarks made earlier by Ambassador Somavía and Sir
John Weston that
should be more
interactive. This also applies to the troop contributor
meetings.
these briefings
My delegation is pleased to note that the Security
Council members have reviewed the format of the annual
report, and that as of next year it will be changed, taking
into account views expressed on the existing format. In the
past, my delegation, like others, has made suggestions in
this regard, including the possibility of monthly reports,
which would then be put together to form part of the yearly
report of the Security Council. We are pleased to find this
concept of monthly reports reflected in this year’s report in
the section on “Security Council working methods and
procedure” (A/52/2, chap. 28 B), and we are looking
forward to seeing that implemented.
In order to add to the understanding of the Council’s
decision-making, the monthly report should mainly consist
of a detailed and, as far as possible, frank analysis of the
Council’s deliberations, including a description of diverging
opinions and negotiated compromises. The report should be
established under
the outgoing
presidency, without the requirement of formal approval by
the Council members. In order to be useful for delegations,
we believe it should be circulated in due course, possibly
during the first half of the following presidency.
the responsibility of
My delegation would, of course, like to take this
opportunity to express its appreciation to those delegations
that have already prepared such reports upon completion of
their respective presidencies.
Regular analytical reports on the work of the Security
Council will not only contribute to the transparency of the
Council’s work but also to the promotion of the interaction
between the Council and the General Assembly.
As much as the Security Council needs to be
transparent for non-members, it also needs to be open for
under
incoming
information. During
period
the
8
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
the Council continued to make use of
consideration,
informal mechanisms with a view to gathering important
information from different sources with special knowledge
on a given situation. This formula seems especially useful
since it allows the Council to canvass a wide range of
views in order to form its decision-making and to help
further to clarify different aspects covered by its work.
We therefore encourage the Council to continue this ad
hoc practice in a pragmatic manner.
Member States with a special interest in a specific
item should have increased opportunities to articulate their
views at an early stage of the Council’s consideration.
This kind of participation is especially important for
countries which are concerned or affected by a given
conflict or which, because of their geographic location,
would assume a particular role in the ensuing operations
mandated or authorized by the Security Council. Here
again, we welcome the progress made over recent years
and we hope that this trend will continue. A substantial
dialogue is of particular importance in the framework of
peacekeeping operations. Here, the current mechanism for
interaction between the Council, the Secretariat and the
troop contributors could,
in our view, be further
strengthened. However, I repeat that to my mind this also
requires increased efforts on the part of the troop-
contributing countries.
The relationship between the Council and the
General Assembly is undoubtedly a central issue of the
ongoing reform debate, which is essentially motivated by
the call for more legitimacy for the Council. We are
convinced that a high degree of transparency and close
interaction among delegations will contribute to fostering
this legitimacy, and should therefore be the guiding
principles for the future activities of the Council.
the Security Council and to consider
Mr. Eliasson (Sweden): I welcome this opportunity
for the General Assembly to review the past year’s work
of
its future
direction. I thank my friend and colleague, Juan Somavía,
for his thoughtful and incisive introduction of the annual
report of the Council. I also want to express how happy
I am to speak under the chairmanship of the President,
whom we all remember as a very effective Ambassador
of Ukraine here for some time and, of course, at present
the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine.
Many of the matters dealt with in the report are
complex and serious. The Security Council has had its
successes but, let us admit, also its setbacks. And its
agenda is constantly growing. The Security Council of
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
today deals with the vast majority of ongoing conflicts in
all parts of the world. From Sweden’s perspective, it is
important to emphasize that the Council’s responsibility is
global: no region or country can be excluded.
The Security Council always has the right — and I
would say the duty — to take the necessary action when
international peace and security are threatened.
is
legitimate for the Council to be concerned when great
numbers of
innocent civilians are killed, when gross
violations of human rights occur or when democratically
elected leaders are overthrown by violent means. Such
developments increasingly threaten regional peace and
affect international security. If they are not dealt with at an
early stage, disastrous conflagration is often the result.
It
It
is a source of great concern, and in my view
unacceptable, that Security Council resolutions are so often
defied by those to whom they are primarily directed: a
small number of States flouting the fundamentals of
international law, and ruthless parties to domestic conflicts
bent on securing victory on the battlefield.
Based on Sweden’s experiences from this year’s
Council membership, I would like to emphasize some
important
requirements for a more effective Security
Council: first, early warning and early information which
could lead to early action; secondly, action, according to
need, throughout the spectrum of conflict resolution, from
early warning to Chapter VII measures;
thirdly, closer
cooperation with regional organizations based on clear
principles; and, fourthly and lastly, stronger interaction with
United Nations Members outside the Council.
I want to emphasize that these four points should be
concerns not only for the Security Council but for the
whole of the United Nations. The success or failure of
Security Council action is in the hands of all of us and,
indeed, affects all of us. Effective conflict prevention,
peacekeeping and peace-building must, indeed, involve the
United Nations system as a whole.
As to my first point, the Security Council must be able
to take early action based on early warning and
information, preferably already at
the preventive stage.
Lessons should be learned from current cases such as the
former Zaire and the Republic of the Congo. And the
preventive mission in Macedonia may soon be pronounced
a success, but it has yet to set a precedent. The Security
Council must be politically prepared to consider preventive
measures at different levels, at short notice, on a case-by-
case basis.
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
The possibilities of conflict prevention could also be
considered from a regional or subregional perspective.
The situation in large parts of Africa today is worrying,
with a growing belt of conflicts stretching from the South
Atlantic to the Red Sea. There is here an increasing need
for a trustful and constructive relationship between the
United Nations, particularly the Security Council, and
regional actors.
Conflict prevention is admittedly a difficult subject
for the Security Council. Respect for sovereignty is of
course a fundamental principle in the work of the United
Nations, but affected countries all too often try at any
price to avoid what they perceive as outside interference.
Regional organizations and important neighbours often
take a similar approach. Council members are cautious —
often too cautious. As we have seen, missed opportunities
come at a high price, mainly to those directly concerned
in the end.
Strengthening the United Nations capability in
conflict prevention remains a priority for Sweden, as a
member of the Security Council. To this should be added
the development of a new generation of peacekeeping
operations and measures to improve openness and broad
consultations in the work of the Council. These, indeed,
were three main features of Sweden’s policy when elected
to the Council, with your support, a year ago.
As to my second point, it is fundamental that the
Security Council be able to decide on actions throughout
the spectrum of conflict resolution. You can visualize a
kind of ladder of preventive measures which we should
use, from early warning, prevention, political persuasion,
mediation and other Chapter VI
to
peacekeeping and, if need be, Chapter VII action.
instruments,
Here,
for his
observations
on the
I would like to commend Ambassador
need for
Somavía
humanitarian exceptions to sanctions regimes.
is
important to the credibility of the United Nations on
Chapter VII action that vulnerable groups not pay the
price for their leaders, who are the real and legitimate
objects of
the
establishment of new peacekeeping operations, all Council
members must quickly be ready to take the decisions
required according to this ladder of prevention and action.
sanctions. When conditions merit
It
Multinational forces may in some acute situations be
the best option for international action. It is vital that such
deployment take place with the endorsement of the United
Nations. And we should be aware of the risk of overuse
9
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
of multinational forces at the expense of United Nations
peacekeeping.
Member States which turn to the United Nations when
their security is threatened legitimately expect to be heard
and helped without delay. The Security Council, I stress
again, must show its willingness and ability to respond to
such requests from Member States in all parts of the world.
The credibility of
if
multinational forces become a substitute for direct United
Nations action due to lack of
funds or unrelated
considerations.
the United Nations will suffer
is growing in importance. This
Thirdly, the role of regional organizations in the work
of
is
the Council
welcome — but more could be done. In the Balkans, the
actions of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO),
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
(OSCE), the European Union and others continue to prove
essential for peace and stability. In other parts of the world,
regional organizations also play a positive role in conflict
prevention and resolution.
Yet
the Security Council can never abdicate its
primary responsibility for international peace and security.
It must defend fundamental principles of international law.
When regional peace efforts cannot produce results, or
when regional action has become a part of the problem and,
sadly, not of the solution, the Security Council must insist
on assuming its primary role.
increasing
openness
and
towards
particularly
non-members,
Lastly, stronger interaction with non-Council members
must be a priority. The Security Council has gone a long
way
broadening
consultations with
troop
contributors. Again, much still needs to be done, and of
course an active interest on the part of the non-Council
member States is essential, as Ambassador Somavía and
Ambassador Weston have underlined. The Council should,
for example, follow the proposals made for more frequent
orientation debates and for including affected non-members
in its discussions, as provided for by Article 31 of the
Charter.
Openness is essential as such, but in particular as a
means towards interaction. Non-Council members should do
their part by using the opportunities for substantive
discussions, at meetings with troop-contributing countries,
for example. And all United Nations Member States have
a role to play, we should always remember, in ensuring
compliance with Security Council decisions.
10
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
The format of Security Council reports has been
subject to much criticism. The Council has now decided
on some improvements, notably the introduction of
monthly presidential assessments. Here, I would like to
thank Ambassador Sucharipa for his comments about
those reports that have been issued this year.
But Security Council reports — annual or special —
can at best be instruments. They should help ensure that
the work of
the Security Council and the General
Assembly is mutually reinforcing. They should remind
both bodies of the United Nations that they have different
responsibilities, but also share the same constituency and,
indeed, the same vocation, namely, to build peace and
security for all.
Mr. Ople (Philippines): We thank both the Security
Council for the timely submission of its annual report to
the General Assembly and the President of the Security
Council, the Permanent Representative of Chile, for his
presentation of the report. We also appreciate the efforts
of the Council to improve the content of the report and
the measures it has taken in this regard, as stated in
section B of chapter 28 in part II of the report. We look
forward in particular
addendum
mentioned in paragraph 5 of the note contained in section
B, consisting of brief assessments on the work of the
Security Council by representatives who have served as
President of the Security Council.
to receiving the
We believe these efforts to improve the report are a
continuation of the positive changes that have occurred in
recent years to improve the work and documentation of
the Council. These changes have not gone unrecognized,
and we encourage the Council
to enhance its efforts
further in this regard.
Nevertheless, and despite the efforts to improve the
report, we are disappointed that, once again, the report
fails to measure up substantively to what the General
Assembly called for in resolution 51/193, particularly with
to the improvements suggested in operative
respect
paragraph 4 of that
resolution. These improvements
include the need for
substantial
information on the work and recommendations of the
Council’s
the sanctions
committees, on the informal consultations of the whole
undertaken prior to action by the Council on substantive
issues, and on requests received under Article 50 of the
Charter and actions taken by the Council thereon.
subsidiary bodies
the provision of
such as
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
As called for
in the same paragraph, a section
highlighting the extent to which resolutions of the General
Assembly on issues falling within the scope of both organs
have been taken into account by the Council would also be
a very useful addition to the report. A section of this nature
would provide a good basis for assessing and analysing the
Council’s work, and for considering ways to improve the
interaction between the Assembly and the Council.
The Philippine delegation believes the content of the
present report, which remains essentially a compilation of
official proceedings and decisions, continues to make it
difficult for the General Assembly to undertake a truly
substantive and in-depth consideration and analysis of the
actions of the Council, as well as its subsidiary bodies. We
therefore urge and encourage the Council to consider and
implement the various recommendations to improve its
report contained in resolution 51/193.
An analytical and substantive annual report would also
facilitate implementation of
the decision in General
Assembly resolution 51/241, calling upon the President of
the General Assembly, based on his assessment of the
debate on the report, to arrange informal consultations to
discuss the need and content of any action by the Assembly
on matters arising from the debate on the report. A report
in line with that envisioned by resolution 51/193 would, in
our view, encourage a more substantive debate and thus
enhance the President’s ability to determine the nature and
output of these informal consultations. We further believe
that holding such consultations on a regular basis would
contribute to a more detailed examination of the report and
lead to a more productive and interactive relationship
between the two organs, as well as help revitalize the
Assembly’s role in addressing issues affecting international
peace and security.
We therefore urge the President to take this decision
into account and, notwithstanding the observations we have
made on the contents of the present report, to consider
arranging for such consultations at an appropriate time
during this session. The President may wish to consider the
scope and particular matters which could be discussed in
the informal consultations. For this reason, we believe that
this agenda item should be kept open throughout the year,
as decided by the General Assembly in resolution 51/241.
The submission of special reports by the Security
Council to the General Assembly, during the course of each
session,
in accordance with Articles 15 and 24 of the
Charter and as encouraged in paragraph 5 of resolution
51/193, would also be a major vehicle for ensuring
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
continuous and up-to-date information on the Security
Council’s decisions and activities. In this regard, my
delegation suggests that special reports be issued on major
Council actions and/or situations affecting international
peace and security that occur in the period between the
submission of the annual reports. These actions would
include the establishment or termination of peacekeeping
or other operations or substantive changes in their
mandates. Decisions by the Council to impose or lift
sanctions on any Member State of the United Nations or
to change existing sanctions regimes should also be
occasions for issuing a special report.
The need for a more substantive Security Council
report is an essential element of the broader efforts to
reform the Council’s working methods in order to achieve
greater transparency in its work and secure more effective
participation of non-members in its decision-making
process. The Philippines, along with the other members of
the Non-Aligned Movement, has over the past few years
been actively supporting specific reforms towards this
end, particularly in the discussions of the Open-Ended
Working Group on the reform of the Security Council.
We shall continue to do so.
In addition to a more substantive report
to the
General Assembly, these desired reforms include more
effective consultations with troop-contributing countries,
measures to allow participation of non-members in the
Council’s informal consultations of the whole, through the
application of Articles 31 and 32 of the Charter; the
holding of open public meetings in lieu of informal
consultations of the whole; more frequent consultations
and meetings between the Presidents of the General
Assembly and the Security Council;
and clearer
procedures for requesting meetings of the Council in
accordance with Article 35 of the Charter. It is also
necessary to curtail and rationalize the use of the veto. In
this regard, we support the position of the Non-Aligned
Movement that
the veto power should apply only to
actions taken under Chapter VII of the Charter.
We believe that if such measures could be adopted,
in addition to those related to improving the report, the
United Nations would truly be strengthened and the
principles of democracy and sovereign equality of States
fully observed.
Mr. Hasmy Agam (Malaysia): I would like to
express my deep appreciation to the President of the
Security Council, Ambassador Somavía of Chile, for
introducing the report of the Security Council to the
11
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
General Assembly. My delegation is particularly grateful to
him for his oral presentation, which was an important
introduction and supplement to the report.
The debate on the report of the Security Council will
provide an opportunity for the other 170 Members of the
Organization that are not members of the Council to be
fully informed and to discuss the work of the Council over
the past year. The debate is meant to be not a ritual and a
mere formality, but an opportunity for the Security Council,
as the primary organ of the United Nations tasked with the
maintenance of international peace and security, to apprise
the Member States of the United Nations of its decisions
and actions. The debate also provides an opportunity for
Member States to make certain pronouncements on the
actions of the Council as they pertain to international peace
and security.
My delegation, along with other Member States, made
a number of pertinent observations and suggestions last
year on both the format and the substance of the Council’s
reports. Unfortunately,
the report continues to remain
largely a compendium of presidential statements and
Council resolutions and a compilation of communications
and documentation received by the Council during the
course of the year. Reading through this compendium, a
State that is not a member of the Council would have
difficulty in following the work of
the Council and
particularly in fully comprehending the decisions arrived at
by the Council. “As a guide to the activities of the Security
Council during the period covered” (A/52/2, introduction,
second paragraph), it would have been most helpful to non-
members if the report had been more analytical. It would
have been particularly useful if the report had contained a
brief and objective assessment of the work of the Council
during the period under review, covering both success or
lack of success in respect of the issues handled by the
Council. My delegation notes with interest some innovative
approaches that will be incorporated in future reports of the
Council, as indicated by the President of the Council in his
oral submission this morning. We look forward to reading
and scrutinizing these future reports. In the meantime, our
comments will be based on the report in its present form.
trend
of
the
Given
the
growing
increased
democratization of the United Nations, there is a need for
greater transparency in the work of the Security Council,
which, unfortunately,
remains the least democratic of
United Nations institutions. While the practice of closed
meetings of the Council cannot be discarded, and may be
necessary to enable members of the Council to facilitate
general
decision-making
sensitive
issues,
on
the
12
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
membership of the Organization also needs — and
expects — to be informed of the substance or thrust of
those closed consultations. There have been several
suggestions made to achieve increased transparency in the
work of the Council, such as the publication of summary
records of
the Council’s closed consultations. Such
summary records would supplement the annual report of
the Council in its present format and redress its many
inherent shortcomings. There is also merit to the proposal
that a Security Council bulletin, to be published on a
monthly basis, should include references to the positions
of members of the Council on actions taken by it. There
have also been suggestions to publish quarterly reports,
which would increase transparency and strengthen the free
flow of information between the Security Council and the
General Assembly. Any one of these proposals deserves
serious consideration. More important, there should be
more frequent formal meetings of the Council, which
would allow non-members to express their views on the
various important issues being addressed by the Council
before decisions are taken on them. Formal meetings of
the Council would be a clear manifestation of
the
institutional linkage between the Council and the larger
membership of the Organization, which should be further
strengthened.
Non-members should also benefit
from special
briefings given by the Special Representatives and Envoys
of the Secretary-General on issues before the Council.
Those briefings would update non-members of
the
Council on the latest developments on issues of
importance and concern to the international community.
the Council
My delegation welcomes the regular briefings given
by the President of
to non-members.
Unfortunately, very often little information is given during
these briefings beyond what is given to the representatives
of the press corps, and this really explains the general
lack of interest shown by Member States in the briefings.
While there is every reason for the President or his
representative to be prudent in the briefings, he or she
should be encouraged to be a little more forthcoming in
responding to questions posed by Member States than he
or she would be to questions posed by the press corps. At
the same time, it would be helpful to Member States if
these briefings were given immediately following the
consultations of the Council rather than some two or three
hours later and usually after the briefing of the press, as
is currently the practice. My delegation, however,
welcomes the monthly assessment by the President of the
Council, which has been helpful in giving an insight into
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
the Council’s work during that particular month. We hope
that this practice will continue and be formalized.
in
on
and
Increase
While the Secretariat and other organs of the United
Nations are undergoing reforms with a view to enhancing
the Organization’s effectiveness and efficiency, so too must
the Security Council. The discussions that have taken place
in the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of
Equitable Representation
the
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters
Related to the Security Council have generated many
concrete ideas and proposals pertaining to both the
decision-making process, or methodologies, of the Council
and its structure. All of these would contribute to making
the Council more effective and efficient. They would also
make it more transparent, representational and democratic,
in spite of its inherent limitations. My delegation therefore
looks forward to the early conclusion of these deliberations
so as to enable the reform of the Council to move ahead
without undue delay. The reform measures, once agreed
and implemented, would also serve to further enhance the
Council’s standing and legitimacy in the eyes of the
international community.
My delegation is particularly concerned about one
important aspect of the work of the Council: the imposition
of sanctions on Member States. We regret that sanctions
have of late been used, or have been perceived to be used,
as a tool in the furtherance of narrow national interests of
some of the Council’s members, to serve specific political
objectives or agendas. Such use or perception of use of
sanctions does not contribute to enhancing the image or
prestige of the Council. Sanctions, which are imposed on
behalf of Member States, have often brought untold misery
and hardship to an unintended target — the helpless
populace, particularly children, nursing mothers and the
infirm and aged. Here my delegation welcomes the
important comments made by the President of the Council
in respect to the humanitarian aspects of sanctions. My
delegation has always believed that sanctions should be an
instrument of last resort and should be applied only after
other measures have failed. At the same time, when they
are applied sanctions should have clear and specific
objectives and parameters and be subject to regular reviews
and evaluations by the Council.
In this regard, my
delegation had in the past called for a separate chapter in
the report to comprehensively reflect the activities and
decisions of the sanctions committee, a matter which,
regrettably, continues to be treated in a superficial fashion.
The establishment of an institutionalized system of
consultations between Security Council members and troop-
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
contributing countries has contributed to increased
coordination in peacekeeping operations. This practice
should be continued and further institutionalized. On a
related matter, Malaysia, as a troop contributor,
is
increasingly concerned that the continuing financial crisis
faced by the Organization has resulted in the subsidizing
of a sizeable portion of
the costs of peacekeeping
operations by the troop-contributing countries, many of
which, like Malaysia, are developing countries. In this
regard, my delegation would once again urge all Member
States to pay their peacekeeping contributions on time, in
full and without conditions. The United Nations should
not be put in a position of not being able to reimburse
troop-contributing countries on time. Such a situation will
only discourage the developing countries from coming
forward to contribute their
troops for peacekeeping
operations. On a positive note, Malaysia is gratified that
the question of equitable compensation to those men and
women who made the ultimate sacrifice in the service of
the United Nations has now been satisfactorily settled on
the basis of just and equitable principles.
Mr. Ayewah (Nigeria): Let me begin by thanking
the President of the Security Council, the Representative
of Chile, for his introduction of the annual report of the
Council covering the period 16 June 1996 to 15 June
1997, contained in document A/52/2.
the report of
The presentation of
the Security
Council to the General Assembly is important and serves
a number of purposes. First, it helps to enhance and
strengthen the cooperative relationship that should exist
between the Security Council and the General Assembly.
Secondly, it affords the General Assembly the opportunity
to further inform itself about the activities of the Security
Council and to make inputs and recommendations that,
hopefully, will influence the future direction of its work.
Thirdly, it underscores the importance of accountability.
After all, the Security Council acts on behalf of the entire
membership of the United Nations. By reporting to the
General Assembly,
the Council assures itself of the
support of the Assembly members for the activities and
decisions it has taken on their behalf.
of
an
1993,
informal working
Since the establishment by the Security Council, in
June
on
documentation and other procedural matters, and partly as
a result of the work of the Open-ended Working Group
on Security Council reform, a series of steps has been
taken by the Council to provide for greater transparency,
and increased interaction and consultation between
Council members and non-members. All these have made
group
13
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
a salutary contribution to the credibility of the Security
Council, but they still fall short of the desired transparency
which most United Nations Member States expect from the
Council. Closed-door consultations continue to be the
Council’s preferred approach. Besides, most of
the
improvements that have been proposed for the working
methods of the Council have not yet been institutionalized.
In this regard, we note the emerging consensus in the
General Assembly’s Open-ended Working Group on
Security Council reform about Cluster-II-related issues. We,
however, wish to underscore once again that no reform of
the Council will be complete without an expansion on an
equitable geographical basis of the Council’s membership
in both categories. We shall, of course, have more to say on
this issue under the proper agenda item.
As for the report itself, we note the improvements that
have been agreed upon by Council members aimed at
enhancing its analytical nature. I am referring to measures
approved by the Council, as listed in its President’s note of
12 June 1997, document S/1997/451. These include the
attachment, as an addendum to the report, of brief
assessments
the Council which
representatives who have completed their functions as
President of the Security Council prepare on their own
responsibility and in consultation with Council members.
The circulation of
such assessments by some past
Presidents is both responsive and instructive.
the work
on
of
Nonetheless — and we must continue to draw
attention to this — the report basically remains a
compilation of the various communications received by the
Council and of the decisions adopted by it during the
reporting period. We believe the report should provide an
analysis of the activities of the Security Council,
the
decisions that have been taken, and how far those decisions
have
over
the
implementation phase.
particularly
evolved
during
time,
It would be very useful to know whether a particular
decision has helped to move the process forward towards
the resolution of the problem and what lessons, if any,
could be learned. Although this would involve a lot more
work and the use of increased resources, we believe that it
is the only way to have a user-friendly report on the
Council’s activities.
The workload of the Council in the discharge of its
primary responsibility for the maintenance of international
peace and security continues to be heavy. It has increased
not only in volume, but in scope. Although the statistics for
14
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
this reporting period in terms of the number of formal
meetings, resolutions, presidential statements and hours of
consultations show a decline compared to the high
volume of two to three years ago, it is still a heavy
responsibility and a reflection of the changed international
political environment.
Similarly, although there has been a decrease in the
number of United Nations peacekeeping operations and
troop levels in comparison with the state of play two to
three years ago, one must admit that these operations
continue to be a major undertaking of the United Nations,
accounting for a greater percentage of United Nations
resources
the
peacekeeping operations currently being undertaken by
the United Nations are located in developing countries,
particularly in Africa. Efforts to find solutions to some of
these conflicts have become the responsibility of regional
or subregional organizations acting in concert among
themselves and in pursuit of the provisions of the United
Nations Charter.
expenditure. A majority
and
of
In some cases, the United Nations has continued to
In the West African
play a complementary role.
subregion, for example,
the solution of the Liberian
conflict benefited from a cooperative relationship between
the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) and the United Nations, including the co-
deployment of personnel on the ground. Although it took
a while before the Security Council became actively
engaged in the resolution of the Liberian conflict, its
involvement
the
international community at some crucial stages of the
process proved very helpful and useful.
and that of other members of
Following the overthrow of
the democratically
elected Government of President Kabbah of Sierra Leone
on 25 May 1997, the ECOWAS leaders have again seized
the initiative to resolve the situation. At the ECOWAS
summit meeting in August 1997, they decided to impose
sanctions and an embargo on the junta. The import of
these measures was subsequently endorsed by the Security
Council in its resolution 1132 (1997) of 8 October 1997.
With this combination of measures,
the ECOWAS
Committee of Five has now achieved a major
breakthrough in its dialogue with the junta. We hope that
the
restoration of
constitutional order
the
Government of President Kabbah will be faithfully
complied with by the junta. And for this to happen, the
continuing support of the Security Council, including
six-month peace plan for
reinstatement of
and the
the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
through the maintenance of
deployment of military observers, will be necessary.
the sanctions and the
However, there are some crisis situations in Africa
which have not received the full attention of the Security
Council. A case that readily comes to mind in this regard
is the situation in the Republic of the Congo. At the outset
of
the crisis, many African countries indicated their
readiness to make troops available to an inter-African force
to help stabilize the situation. Their expectation was that the
United Nations or the international community would
finance their participation. This never materialized. The
crisis in that country has resulted in the displacement of
over two thirds of the residents of Brazzaville and the
extensive destruction of the city’s infrastructure. The crisis
has been further complicated by the involvement of external
forces. We can only hope that these forces will pursue the
logic of peace rather than their economic, political or
strategic interests.
In concluding, we would like to underscore the
continuing primacy of the responsibility of the United
Nations in the promotion of
international peace and
security. International peace and security are indivisible.
This is the essence of collective security. We therefore hope
that the Council will, even at this late stage, get itself
properly seized of the situation in the Congo with a view to
the restoration of normalcy in that part of the world.
Finally, my delegation would like to thank the
Secretariat
that have gone into the
preparation of this report. We are aware that a lot of time
and resources have gone into its production.
the efforts
for
Mr. Tello (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish): The
General Assembly has before it the report of the Security
Council for the period June 1996-June 1997. Continuing the
sound practice begun by Brazil, the report was introduced
to us today by the Security Council President, Ambassador
Juan Somavía of Chile.
Mexico attaches special importance to the obligation
of the Security Council under Article 24 of the Charter to
submit annual reports on its work to the General Assembly.
The Member States, which have conferred upon the Council
the primary responsibility for
the maintenance of
international peace and security, must be apprised of the
activities undertaken by that organ on their behalf.
That is why it is a source of particular satisfaction to
note that, in recent years, the members of the Security
Council have made commendable efforts earnestly to fulfil
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
this duty. We seem to have moved beyond the time when
that provision of the Charter was considered to be a mere
bureaucratic procedure, devoid of substance.
The document before us today has the same basic
structure as last year’s report. We welcome the continued
desire for openness, which allows relations between the
Council and the General Assembly faithfully to reflect the
spirit of balance sought by the authors of the Charter.
Communication between the two organs must be fluid and
constant. It is appropriate to reiterate that the Security
Council acts not on its own authority, but on behalf of us
all. We are all affected by its decisions. Its activities are
of interest to us all.
The report also announces that, as of 1997, the
healthy trend of enhancing the analytical nature of the
description of the Council’s tasks will be strengthened.
We appreciate the assessments that have been prepared by
the successive Presidents of the Council in recent months.
These documents are useful instruments in helping us to
understand better what is happening. We welcome this
initiative, which could not be included officially in the
current report because it was adopted outside the period
covered by the document.
We urge future Presidents of the Council to continue
this practice. We assure them that we appreciate their
efforts to keep us informed, which benefits both the
Council and the General Assembly.
The first part of the report details the many items the
Council considered as it discharged its responsibility for
the maintenance of international peace and security. The
long list of conflicts and situations of tension shows that,
despite the hopes aroused by the end of the cold war,
there are lingering and new situations that threaten peace
and security everywhere in the world.
We note with concern that the Security Council has
often had to intervene in internal situations — situations
that were not envisioned by the authors of the Charter.
The clear line that should separate international action
from national
jurisdiction has been blurring. We are
witnessing a new scenario whose limits have not yet been
defined. Practice has been transcending law.
Mexico insists that it is critical to act cautiously. The
Security Council must not use an elastic interpretation of
Chapter VII of the Charter to become an organ with
limitless powers. The maintenance of peace cannot justify
the indiscriminate imposition of exceptional measures not
15
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
only upon States, as foreseen in the Charter, but also upon
entities not contemplated in the Charter, such as individuals
and internal factions — which, as we all know, has
happened recently. Abuse of Chapter VII weakens the
United Nations.
is of great
Among the issues before the Security Council, one, for
obvious reasons,
importance to Mexico:
Guatemala. The Council operation in that neighbouring
country shows that success is achieved when the principles
governing peacekeeping operations are strictly respected.
United Nations intervention in Guatemala could well serve
as an exemplar for other missions. The Security Council did
not try to supplant the will of the parties to the long-
standing Guatemalan conflict. It was those parties who,
with patience and dedication, resolved their differences at
the negotiating table and signed a peace agreement. It was
they who requested a United Nations presence to monitor
the implementation of what had been agreed. The Security
Council acceded to that formal request by the Government
of Guatemala and sent the small military mission needed to
supervise the ceasefire and the demobilization. The
operation had a defined mandate and it carried out its tasks
in full and on schedule.
These events prove the importance of acting in
accordance with principles. With political will, clarity of
purpose and unified resolve, the desired results will be
obtained.
We welcome the initiative taken in September —
outside the present reporting period — to hold a meeting to
consider the persistent problems afflicting the African
continent. We hope that its results will help Africa at last
to achieve the peace, stability and prosperity its peoples
deserve. We believe that the report to be submitted by the
Secretary-General, with specific recommendations
for
preventing and resolving conflicts there, will help lay the
groundwork
economic
development as a support for African efforts to build a
future of peace, democracy and justice.
sustainable
for
peace
and
The Security Council reports on growing cooperation
from regional organizations in the maintenance of peace.
Here my delegation stresses that the activities of regional
organizations in this sphere must fall within the framework
of Chapter VIII of the Charter and must strictly respect the
functions and areas of competence defined in their
respective founding statutes.
The report of the Security Council before us today is
quite different from the sterile document to which we had
16
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
become accustomed, and we reiterate how much this
pleases us. The Council has begun to heed the appeals of
the General Assembly, among which we highlight
resolution 51/193, adopted last year on the initiative of
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. Mexico voted
in favour of that resolution to demonstrate anew its
commitment to the openness and transparency that should
characterize the work of
the Security Council. We
welcome this trend, and hope that it will be strengthened
with the support of the members of the Council, and
especially that of its five permanent members.
the Security Council,
Mr. Fulci (Italy): First of all, let me congratulate the
President of
the Permanent
Representative of Chile, Ambassador Juan Somavía, for
his very clear and comprehensive presentation of the
Council’s annual report to the General Assembly. My
compliments go also to the Secretariat for its excellent
preparatory work.
There is little need to stress the importance of the
subject of today’s discussion. What the United Nations
Charter
requires is close and effective coordination
between the Security Council and the General Assembly,
consistent with the respective responsibilities of those two
principal organs. The Security Council’s report to the
General Assembly is therefore an essential
tool for
ensuring such coordination. Article 15 of the Charter sets
out in its first paragraph the legal framework for the
Assembly’s consideration of the report, focused on the
measures decided upon or taken by the Council
to
maintain international peace and security.
Previous and current debates
in the General
Assembly and other forums, such as the Working Group
on Security Council reform, have underlined the need for
a meaningful debate on the Council’s report, as well as
for greater transparency in the Council’s work and greater
accessibility to non-members of the Council. My country,
Italy, has constantly been and will continue to be strongly
in favour of pursuing these goals.
In particular, we must remain extremely vigilant to
increase — and not to reduce or undermine in any way or
form — the fundamental role of the General Assembly as
the major pillar of the United Nations. We should not
allow it; we should not allow a decrease in the leverage
of the General Assembly vis-à-vis other organs of the
United Nations, particularly the Security Council.
Reforms should take into account everyone’s views and
be the result of intense consultations, carried out in a true
democratic spirit and with equal involvement of all — I
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
stress “all” — United Nations Member States. The outcome
should not be such as to benefit the very few at the expense
of the great many — and, I should add, at the expense of
the General Assembly.
As Ambassador Somavía pointed out,
this year’s
report shows that the Council has continued its intense
activity in the maintenance of international peace and
security and related humanitarian aspects. The number of
meetings and informal consultations held, and decisions
and
taken, demonstrate
dedication in responding to the demands of
today’s
international community.
the Council’s
commitment
to highlight
In particular,
I would like
the
extraordinary speed and efficiency with which the Council
acted at the request of Albania and Italy to authorize the
multinational peace operation in Albania. The actual
decision of the Security Council came in a matter of only
12 hours from the time of our request, setting, I believe, a
record in the history of Security Council deliberations on
peacekeeping operations. As we are all aware, Operation
Alba was a complete success, helping to re-establish law,
order and a legitimate Government in Albania.
As a member of the Council during part of the period
covered by the report, Italy actively participated in the
Council’s efforts and work. The guidelines for our action
were the principles of reciprocal trust, transparency and
accountability, and the idea of promoting and defending the
interests of the United Nations, not
the interests of a
particular country or group of member countries. What we
did when we were in the Council — and I am delighted to
repeat it here — was to inform others of what we were
doing almost by the hour when this involved other parties,
other Governments. I really and truly think that that should
be the duty of every Council member.
take effect
In the area of the Council’s working methods and
procedure, we note with satisfaction the steps that were
taken to improve the format of the report to the General
Assembly. These measures will
in the
preparation of the next report, covering the period 16 June
1997 to 15 June 1998. As indicated by the President of the
Security Council’s note (S/1997/451) of 12 June 1997, they
relate to the timely submission of the report, as well as to
various information to be included in it, dealing in
particular with meetings of
the Council and related
decisions, matters brought to the attention of the Council
and the activity of subsidiary organs. More important, the
note provides for the attachment, as an addendum to the
report, of brief assessments on the work of the Security
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
Council, prepared under their own responsibility by
representatives who have completed their functions as
President of the Council. I believe that this is indeed a
significant achievement, which goes in the right direction,
the direction of promoting increased participation of all,
and exclusion of none, and true transparency in the work
of the Council. However, Italy believes that all these
measures, albeit commendable, are still insufficient to
adequately enhance the interaction between the Council
and the General Assembly.
on
In this respect, I would like to emphasize once again
the need for the report to provide substantive indications
of the process leading to the Council’s decisions. In
particular, we continue to believe that the report should
include a concise account of the Council’s informal
consultations
tensions,
humanitarian emergencies and other issues crucial to local
and global
stability. We look forward to further
improvements in the format and contents of the Security
Council’s report
to the General Assembly. For this
purpose, a good basis for analysis and discussion is
provided by General Assembly resolution 51/193, adopted
last December.
regional
areas,
crisis
The Italian delegation also wonders if the time has
not come to give serious consideration to ways and means
of implementing Article 44 of the Charter. This Article
states that when the Security Council has decided to use
force, before calling upon a Member not represented in
the Council to provide armed forces, it shall invite that
Member to participate in the decisions of the Security
Council concerning the employment of contingents of that
Member’s armed forces. We think that we need to ensure
that countries which are asked to risk the lives of their
soldiers — of their citizens — in peacekeeping operations
are given a voice in the decision-making process of the
Council.
Finally, Article 24 of the Charter states that the
Members of the Organization:
the maintenance
“confer on the Security Council primary
responsibility
of
international peace and security, and agree that
in
this
responsibility the Security Council acts on their
behalf”.
carrying
duties
under
out
for
its
The transparency of the work of the Council vis-à-
the United Nations is no less
vis all members of
important than the Council’s effectiveness in performing
17
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
its mandate. We are confident that today’s debate will
reaffirm both values, in the interest of Member States,
regional organizations and the United Nations as a whole.
report
states
that
the Council has
Mr. Amer (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): This discussion provides us with a further
opportunity to follow up the activities of the Security
Council, evaluate its work and consider whether
the
Council took note of our observations, responded to our
proposals and implemented our requests. In its introduction,
the
introduced
improvements into the format of the report, rationalized its
documentation and taken measures to make available draft
resolutions to Member States that are not members of the
Council, and organized briefings. Some may believe that
these measures are important, but we see nothing new in
them. They have not brought about the transparency on a
broad scale called for by Member States. Consequently, the
report remains a compilation of the official proceedings of
the Council throughout the year, which makes it difficult
for Member States to evaluate the work of the Council on
these bases.
The decisions and presidential statements are presented
without any background information about the consultations
surrounding them or the causes leading to their adoption. It
is very clear that the Security Council did not take into
consideration a request made emphatically and constantly
by Member States with regard to increasing the number of
plenary meetings and to limiting the scope of informal
consultations as strictly as possible. What causes us concern
is that the Security Council still acts completely counter to
this way. Its report states that it convened 115 plenary
meetings, during which 52 resolutions were adopted and 54
presidential statements issued. It also states that the Council
met in informal consultations for a total of over 342 hours.
The document we are discussing today contains no
information about the substance of those consultations. This
means that
the Security Council either still persists in
ignoring our requests, or considers that what took place in
its consultations is a secret that Members of the United
Nations that are not members of the Security Council are
not supposed to know, although the Council is supposed to
act on their behalf. The document before us states that the
Council undertook consultations during the period in which
three reviews of the sanctions imposed by Security Council
resolution 748 (1992) took place. But the report does not
reveal to us what took place during those consultations, the
most recent of which lasted for over two hours.
18
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
We should have liked the Assembly to know that,
during consultations, some States expressed their great
appreciation for the positive initiatives of the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya to resolve the conflict that took place as a
result of the Lockerbie incident, and that they appreciated
and valued Libya’s flexibility in addressing the problem.
We hoped that the report would mention that some of the
members of the Council supported proposals by the
League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity
and the Non-Aligned Movement to put on trial those
suspected of having any link to the incident involving Pan
Am flight 103. The report should have referred to the fact
that only two States rejected the request by other
members of the Council, using the Council’s mechanism
of the so-called consensus to obstruct the proposal that
would have brought about a swift resolution of the
problem and, accordingly, called for a lifting of the
sanctions imposed on the Libyan people and brought to
an end the anguish of the families of the victims.
Undoubtedly there are other issues which are of
interest to other Members. These issues could have been
addressed by the report with more clarity and in greater
detail. What we see before us is a simple briefing to the
Assembly on the dates of the Council’s meetings, and a
reproduction of
statements and resolutions already
adopted. This information is already known to Member
States, and may be of use to researchers and students, but
it cannot be used by Member States as the basis for a
discussion of the work of the Council and an evaluation
of that work.
Article 31 of the Charter allows States that are not
members of the Security Council to participate in the
discussion of any question brought before the Council,
whenever such a State considers that its interests are
specially affected. This Article has been applied to
plenary meetings, but not to the holding of informal
consultations, which have unfortunately become the real
framework for decision-making. On the basis of our
experience with the Council, we believe that
it has
become necessary to undertake a reform of this practice.
This is because of our belief that those who drafted the
Charter did not intend the application of that Article to be
confined only to plenary meetings, but to be extended to
all meetings of the Security Council. Allowing concerned
States to participate in the Council’s consultations has
great significance which becomes particularly apparent
when the other party to the question under consideration
is a member of the Security Council. This is the case with
us at present. As is well known, my country was thrust
into conflict brought about by permanent members of the
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Security Council. During informal consultations of the
Council, they are allowed to express their views, while we
are prevented from doing so, in contravention of the letter
and spirit of Article 31 of the Charter.
The rights of States that are not members of the
Council to clarify their positions during consultations has
been stressed by many Member States including,
for
example, States in the Non-Aligned Movement. Today we
reiterate this call and urge the swift implementation of this
principle. Allowing a State to participate in a plenary
meeting after the Council has already made its decision
cannot influence the decisions already taken. Consequently
it is only a formalistic practice, designed to rubber-stamp
decisions already arrived at in camera and in secrecy which
are totally unjustified.
The time has come for a drastic review of the working
methods of the Council and to consider ways and means of
enhancing serious and veritable cooperation between it and
the General Assembly. We must undertake measures that
will guarantee clarity in its work, so as to ensure that this
organ is not a tool used by certain States to further their
own objectives. That is why we must undertake several
steps.
First, we must review or substantively amend the
annual report of the Council so that it includes a full
presentation of the background to decisions adopted and
statements made by the Council. Furthermore, the report
must include details about the deliberations that took place
during consultations, together with more comprehensive
reviews with regard to the work of the subsidiary organs of
the Council, particularly the sanctions committees.
Secondly,
the Council must
follow proper work
methods in order to enable Member States to participate in
deliberations prior to the start of the decision-making
process. Such States would then not
find themselves
presented with faits accomplis, the decisions already taken
and their views with no influence on the outcome of the
deliberations.
Thirdly, the Council must broaden the basis of its
consultations with Member States and implement Article 31
of the Charter with regard to States involved in issues
which are before the Council in the context of informal
consultations.
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
the maintenance of peace and security. The Assembly’s
role should not be confined to the mere approval of
financial allocations for peacekeeping operations.
Fifthly, the Security Council must clarify its terms
of reference and the way in which it makes decisions and
arrives at positions. It must also make reference to
Charter provisions, or any other legal principles, used in
its decision-making process, with regard to every
resolution or measure issuing from the Security Council.
Sixthly, it must find a mechanism that allows the
General Assembly to hold the Council accountable, so
that democracy can be guaranteed in its decision-making
and double standards in its work can be avoided. We
must also guarantee that such acts conform to the
provisions of the Charter. This is extremely important,
because some States have dragged the Council
into
situations that are totally outside its purview and its
mandate under the Charter.
Seventhly,
the work methods of
the sanctions
committees should be reviewed with a view to enabling
Member States concerned to attend their meetings and to
express their opinions and views on matters under
consideration. There must also be a review of
the
guidelines for the work of these committees so that
democratic principles can apply to their decisions and
restrictions on applications submitted to these committees
can be avoided.
In conclusion, we hope that the Council will give the
proposals and observations which we and other several
States have made the attention they deserve, and that the
Council will, without undue delay, start improving its
methods of work and those of its subsidiary bodies. This
should be the beginning of a serious reform process that
will guarantee transparency in its actions in accordance
with the provisions of the Charter, thereby responding to
the requests of Member States, on whose behalf the
Security Council acts.
Mr. Gomaa (Egypt): Let me start by thanking
Ambassador Juan Somavía, Permanent Representative of
Chile and President of the Security Council for the month
of October, for his comprehensive presentation of the
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly
this year.
Fourthly,
the Security Council must enhance its
relations with the General Assembly and consult with it on
how to treat international issues, especially those relating to
Allow me also to thank the Security Council
Secretariat for its efforts in preparing the report in a
timely manner that allowed its publication at an early
19
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
stage of the session, thus responding positively to the need
for its timely distribution which has always been a concern
for us.
Since the discussion of the report of the Security
Council to the fifty-first session of the General Assembly
and the adoption of General Assembly resolution 51/193 on
this agenda item, the Security Council has taken some steps
towards improving the annual report of the Council to the
General Assembly, both in the descriptive and analytical
parts. These steps are reflected in the note by the President
of the Security Council which stated some agreed changes
to be introduced into the report to be submitted to the
General Assembly covering the period from 16 June 1997
to 15 June 1998. These changes, though minimal, give a
positive impression about the orientation of the Council
towards more transparency and openness.
The most noticeable development in the note is that it
opens the door for Presidents of the Security Council to
prepare at
the end of their presidency an assessment
reflecting their evaluation of the work of the Council under
their presidency. While we had hoped that these evaluations
would be approved by the Security Council
itself, we
welcome this development as a first step, and hope that all
Presidents of
these
evaluations in a manner that could provide a complete
evaluation of the year covered by the report.
the Security Council will present
Apart from these positive developments, there has
been no progress in other aspects mentioned in General
Assembly resolution 51/193.
The annual report before us, like those of previous
years, continues to present no more than a compilation of
documents
the
appropriate time, which constitutes a waste of effort,
material resources and time.
already provided to delegations,
at
In our view, a comprehensive report should include
the following.
First, it should contain a substantive, analytical and
descriptive part reflecting accurately the activities of the
Council in the year under review.
Secondly,
for
reasons of
transparency,
it should
contain a record not only of the formal meetings of the
Council, but also of its informal meetings, where most of
the actions and decisions of the Council are agreed upon
before being formally adopted, and which remain in total
obscurity. Records are also needed for the formal and
20
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
informal meetings of the sanctions committees. The
Security Council should periodically conduct an overall
evaluation of sanctions regimes and their impact on the
populations in question as well as on third States affected
by the imposition of sanctions. Also, an assessment of the
results obtained by implementation of sanctions would
the effectiveness of such
help in the evaluation of
sanctions. In this regard,
the working paper on An
Agenda for Peace prepared by the General Assembly and
adopted by consensus in resolution 51/242 gains particular
importance, as it reflects the general orientation of the
General Assembly in this matter.
Thirdly, it should contain a clear definition of the
presidential statements and statements to the press and
their value from the legal point of view, taking into
consideration the lack of any provisions regarding their
validity in the provisional rules of procedures of the
Security Council.
Besides the annual report,
the Security Council
to the General Assembly
should prepare and submit
special reports on specific situations, in accordance with
Article 24 of the Charter. In this regard, my delegation,
together with the delegation of Indonesia, submitted to the
Security Council in 1996, a non-exhaustive list defining
some of the cases in which the Security Council should
present special reports to the General Assembly. We
believe that this proposal should receive the attention it
merits so as to promote the inter-relationship between the
Council and the General Assembly, without affecting the
balance established by the Charter between the two
organs.
My delegation considers the exchange of information
and views between the Security Council and the troop-
contributing countries a successful example that should
enhance the work of the Council. We do not wish these
meetings to be transformed into routine or symbolic
occasions, but
to become a forum for candid and
transparent discussions on all issues related to specific
troops participating in peacekeeping operations. There are
still many ways and means to improve the relationship
between troop-contributing countries and the Security
Council. We urge the Security Council to continue its
efforts in exploring additional measures that would help
achieve a better relationship, which would certainly reflect
positively on the performance of such troops. We stress
in particular
the need to involve troop-contributing
countries in the decision-making process more actively
than is at present the case. This we consider both a
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
statutory responsibility and a pragmatic and rational
necessity.
Other measures to improve transparency of the work
of the Security Council on a daily basis should also be the
focus of our attention. Enhanced briefings by the presidency
of the Council continue to be a viable option in this regard.
Also, transparency is required with regard to oral reports
presented by the Secretariat to the Security Council. We
continue to urge the Security Council to take full stock of
various proposals made in this regard, including the Open-
ended Working Group on the reform and expansion of the
Security Council, in order to agree on the most appropriate
way to enhance the transparency with regard to the daily
functions of the Council.
Egypt is a few months away from the end of its term
in the Security Council and is more convinced than ever of
the need for an annual report, as well as special reports
which would establish a more transparent relationship
between the Security Council and the General Assembly.
We are sure that new non-permanent members of the
Security Council will carry on further development of its
reporting mechanism to the General Assembly and will
work towards more transparency and openness. My
delegation stands ready to participate in any collective
effort towards that end.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (interpretation from
Spanish): I should like to express my heartfelt thanks to
Ambassador Somavía for introducing this report and for his
constant, daily efforts in this field.
The presentation of the report of the Security Council
to the General Assembly should constitute a model of
substantive reflection and debate not only on the work of
the Council and the actions undertaken by that organ,
presumably on behalf of all Member States, but also on
existing and potential challenges facing the Organization in
the sphere of maintaining international peace and security.
The requisite interaction between the Security Council
and the General Assembly is provided for in Article 24 of
the Organization’s Charter, which states that the Council
shall submit annual and, when necessary, special reports to
the General Assembly for its consideration. At the same
time, by virtue of Article 15 of the Charter, the General
Assembly shall receive and consider annual and special
reports from the Security Council. The Charter also
provides that reports of the Security Council shall include
an account of the measures that the Security Council has
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
decided upon or taken to maintain international peace and
security. It is therefore clear that the role of the General
Assembly and the 185 Member States is to monitor the
activities of the Security Council and, in the light of that
exercise,
they are
authorized to do pursuant to Chapter IV of the Charter.
recommendations,
to make
as
Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that the report
submitted by the Council to the General Assembly once
again constitutes a repetitious
list of well-known
resolutions and presidential statements adopted by the
Council during the period in question and, unfortunately,
does not include the necessary analyses of the root causes
of the many and varied conflicts that the Security Council
has dealt with or the basic principles and norms that
guided the Council’s actions.
There is no doubt that the voluminous format of the
report of the Security Council is intended to reflect in
some way the intensive work it has carried out in the past
year. Nevertheless, in the opinion of the delegation of
Cuba, a document like the report before the Assembly
today is still of little use, and is valid only as a reference
document. It
is impossible to find in its pages, for
example, reasoned evidence that, in the maintenance of
international peace and security, the Security Council
really has acted on behalf of and represented all the
Organization’s Member States.
One of the main aspects of the report is that relating
to the Security Council’s documentation. The delegation
of Cuba recognizes that in recent years efforts have been
made to improve this aspect of the work of the Council.
We commend these efforts to the extent that they could
contribute to the necessary process of democratization and
transparency in the Council’s decision-making, procedures
and working methods. Nonetheless, we believe that these
measures
circumstances, be
compatible with the principles enshrined in the Charter of
the United Nations and with the spirit of respect for and
observance of the rights and obligations recognized by the
Charter, both of Member States and of the Security
Council itself.
should, whatever
the
We continue to attach special importance to the
process of preparing with Member States, and consulting
them on, the list of items under consideration by the
Council. Transparency in this exercise should be the basic
premise of the daily work of the Council, as well as a
reflection of the Security Council’s recognition of its
obligations towards the Organization’s vast membership.
21
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
our opinion, in current international circumstances, when
the conflicts besetting the world are increasingly
antagonistic and complex, the General Assembly must
utilize, de facto and de jure, the powers and authority
conferred upon it by the Charter.
The discussion of special reports of the Security
Council would enable the General Assembly to stay duly
informed of the decisions and solutions that the Security
Council is preparing to implement or has implemented in
connection with certain special issues, and it would give
the Assembly the chance to voice in timely fashion the
opinions and recommendations it feels are necessary on
a particular conflict or on possible action by the Council.
As in previous years,
the delegation of Cuba
reiterates its willingness to participate actively and
constructively in the consideration of the report of the
Security Council to the General Assembly.
At present, the General Assembly is witnessing and
participating in a process of reform of the Organization,
aimed, as the Secretary-General has said, at enabling the
Organization to meet the challenges of the day.
The Cuban delegation hopes that
the work and
actions of the Security Council, one of the principal
organs
the
maintenance of international peace and security, will not
be exempted from the spirit,
the scrutiny and the
objectives that inspire the process of reform.
this Organization,
of
entrusted with
Cuba also hopes that both in the consideration of the
report of the Security Council and in the process of
reform, the wisdom and sovereign will of the General
Assembly, the only universally representative organ of
this Organization, will receive due consideration.
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
My delegation has noted with concern that, yet again,
the report of the Security Council does not give any
information on or analysis of the main trends that emerged
during its debates in this period. We believe that such an
analysis should be the starting point for the adoption of any
decision by the Security Council. The opinions expressed
or the decisions promoted in informal consultations by just
some members of the Security Council, and in particular by
some of its permanent members, should not continue to
validate
substantive
consideration by the Council of the legitimate interests and
concerns expressed by Member States during the debates
can accurately guide the Council in its work and provide it
with the necessary and impartial
information that will
enable it to assess the real causes of conflicts, counteract
their consequences and take action to find just and lasting
solutions, free from politically motivated prejudices and not
dominated by the illegitimate interests of just one country
or a small group of countries.
the Council’s
actions. Only
Decisions adopted behind closed doors and ultimately
dictated by the hegemonic and political interests of some
permanent members of the Council have only led, and will
continue to lead, to artificial formulas and solutions whose
justification and effectiveness, sooner rather than later, have
been and will continue to be overmatched by the real
causes of the conflicts.
Recently, some degree of transparency has entered the
work of the sanctions committees of the Security Council,
and their decision-making processes have become more
independent. Nonetheless, we believe that these bodies are
still bound by the designs of some permanent members of
the Council that continue to impose their interests on the
decision-making process, in total disregard for the opinion
of the international community, the internal situation of the
countries that are subject to sanctions regimes and the
response of those countries to the decisions and measures
applied by the Council.
In this context, we would like to reiterate the view that
the annual report of the Security Council should contain a
substantive assessment of
the sanctions
committees, instead of confining itself to giving a factual
list of the resolutions and presidential statements adopted on
the question of sanctions or of the coercive measures
adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter.
the work of
On many occasions, many Member States have
advocated special reports by the Security Council on
measures that the Council has applied or decided to apply
or in order to maintain international peace and security. In
22
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) (interpretation from Chinese):
The Chinese delegation wishes to thank the President of the
Security Council for introducing the Council’s annual report
to the General Assembly.
In the past year the Security Council has done a lot of
work and made fresh efforts in maintaining international
peace and security. This should be duly recognized. We
have also noted that starting this year, some alterations will
be made to the format of the report. These efforts are
undoubtedly aimed at enhancing the transparency of the
Council’s work. We hope that after such alterations, the
report will help Member States better understand the work
of the Council for the period covered.
In the wake of the changes on the international scene,
particularly at this turn of the century, the Security Council,
as a major organ of the United Nations, shoulders important
responsibilities for the maintenance of international peace
and security, entrusted to it by the Charter. We hope that in
fulfilling its responsibilities, the Council will fully heed the
views of Member States so as to act truly on behalf of the
entire membership.
Here I would like to make three points regarding the
work of the Council.
First, for historical reasons and as a result of various
complicated internal and external factors, there has been
constant turbulence and conflict in some parts of Africa in
the past year. We are of the view that the Council should
attach importance to African issues and, in handling these
issues, fully respect the sovereignty, political independence
and territorial
integrity of African countries; carefully
consider the reasonable proposals and demands of the
Organization of African Unity and African countries; and
support and cooperate with African countries in their efforts
to maintain regional peace and security.
Peace and development are interrelated and mutually
complementary. Efforts by the Council
in the field of
peacekeeping alone are far from enough. The international
community should make greater efforts to bring about a
fundamental solution to the question of development in
Africa so as to help African countries move out of poverty
at an early date and achieve lasting peace and stability.
Secondly, in recent years the Security Council has
shown an obvious tendency to intervene in some countries’
internal conflicts. We are of the view that in handling these
important and complicated issues,
the Council should
observe the purposes and principles of the Charter, obtain
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
the request or consent of the States or parties concerned,
do its utmost to help resolve conflicts by peaceful means
and encourage a proper role for regional organizations
according to specific circumstances. It is necessary to
refrain from practices such as interfering in a country’s
internal affairs under pretext of alleviating a humanitarian
crisis, or authorizing military intervention by wilfully
invoking Chapter VII of the Charter.
Thirdly, we have noted that instances of sanctions
being authorized by the Council have increased in the
past year. In principle, we are not in favour of using
sanctions to settle disputes, and still
less of using
sanctions as a means of exerting pressure or meting out
punishment. We are of the view that rather than rendering
any help in the settlement of disputes and conflicts,
sanctions only bring suffering to the people of target
countries and cause economic loss and damage to third
countries implementing the sanctions. Resolution 51/242,
on sanctions, was adopted by consensus at the fifty-first
session of the General Assembly. The principles set forth
in that resolution should serve as guidelines for our
decision-making. In the few cases in which sanctions are
necessary, we should have a clear objective, scope and
time limit and should take humanitarian factors into full
consideration. It is not proper to impose sanctions readily
while making it difficult to lift them.
Today we are here to review the work of the
Council and hear the views of Member States, with a
view to helping the Council summarize its experience and
draw on our collective wisdom so that it can better fulfil
the mission entrusted to it by the Charter. We hope that
with the joint efforts of the general membership and the
Council members,
live up to the
expectations of the world’s people and make further
progress in maintaining international peace and security.
the Council will
the Security Council
Mr. Yel’chenko (Ukraine): Today’s discussion of
the report of
to the General
Assembly, comprehensively presented by Ambassador
Somavía of Chile, once again clearly demonstrates the
special level of attention which the Member States give
to this key political body in the United Nations structure.
It goes without saying that membership in this
authoritative organ is considered to be an extremely
important and honorary mission for each and every
Member State. The growing competition for election to
the Council is yet another proof of that.
23
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
At the same time, the right to hold one’s finger on the
planet’s pulse is not just an honorary duty but is, first of
all, tedious and strenuous work. This has been constantly
proved by the essence of the issues considered by the
Security Council and by its ability to prevent the further
escalation of a number of conflicts before they entered an
uncontrolled phase.
As recent positive examples of that, one may recall the
operation of a multinational force in Albania and the
assistance in holding free elections in Liberia and in
Bosnia.
At the same time, we should admit that, in spite of
substantial efforts on the part of the Security Council, many
acute problems have not yet found their solution and
continue to endanger international peace and security.
Therefore,
the Security
Council continue to concentrate its efforts on the remaining
unresolved problems.
is absolutely necessary that
it
I would also like to note some positive changes in the
organization of the Security Council’s activities. The work
of that body has definitely become more transparent, and its
methods, in our opinion, increasingly meet the requirements
of the present time. We believe that the present report
appropriately reflects this tendency, which is in conformity
with General Assembly resolution 51/193.
In this context, we must note the introduction of
orientation discussions held before the Security Council’s
adoption of responsible decisions. The participation of the
interested parties in such discussions not only makes it
possible to consider the problem in a comprehensive
manner, but also provides for a search for optimal ways to
achieve its solution.
Our delegation also notes with satisfaction the steady
improvement of the mechanism of periodical consultations
between contributing States, members of the Security
Council and the United Nations Secretariat. This useful
practice should be further developed. The Security Council
should always be prepared to arrange such consultations at
the request of potential contributing States in the event of
emergency situations.
The delegation of Ukraine also fully supports the idea
of introducing into the work of the Security Council the
practice of preparing monthly reports on the outcome of
that month’s presidency, since this would contribute to the
analytical essence of its report to the General Assembly. To
this end, we propose to request the Council’s working
24
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
group on documentation, methods of work and procedure
not only to study the issue of the preparation of the
Council’s annual report, but also to elaborate relevant
proposals with regard to the practical implementation of
such a concept.
should become
Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the
Assembly to the need to establish a closer interaction
between the Security Council and the General Assembly,
which would potentially improve the efficiency of the
activities both of the Security Council and of the entire
United Nations membership. We strongly believe that the
practice begun at the beginning of this session of the
Assembly of regular meetings between the President of
the General Assembly and the President of the Security
Council
regular. We would also
recommend that such meetings be attended by the
Secretary-General. Such meetings of the United Nations
troika — a format successfully applied with reference to
the activities of such recognized regional structures as the
European Union and the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) — could also be
instrumental
the United Nations.
Acceptance and implementation of such a proposal would,
in our view, serve to fulfil our desire to make the United
Nations more effective and able to withstand the
challenges of the present time.
in the
case of
I hope that the current discussion of the report of the
Security Council and the proposals of Members will help
that body better to fulfil its major mandate of maintaining
international peace and security.
Mr. Eitel
(Germany): Germany welcomes the
presentation of the report of the Security Council to the
General Assembly, and thanks the Council President,
Ambassador Juan Somavía of Chile, for his introductory
remarks. The report reflects the vast agenda the Council
had to deal with between June 1996 and June 1997. The
mere numbers tell us enough: 115 formal meetings held;
52 resolutions adopted; 54 presidential statements issued.
The main questions considered by the Council were
related to the former Yugoslavia, Angola, the Great Lakes
region, the Middle East, Afghanistan, Burundi, Iraq and
Kuwait and Tajikistan — without ignoring the importance
of the many other issues the Council had to deal with.
Most of these facts are familiar. I will therefore not
elaborate on them, but rather draw attention to three
simple questions. First, has the presentation of the report
changed since last year? Secondly, is there room for
General Assembly
Fifty-second session
38th plenary meeting
29 October 1997
further improvement? Thirdly, are there links between the
report and Security Council reform?
report may become a truly helpful instrument for more
transparency in the work of the Council.
I begin with changes since last year. Many of us still
remember
the widespread dissatisfaction expressed in
previous years in the General Assembly regarding the
report’s format and contents. With this in mind, the General
Assembly on 17 December 1996 adopted a resolution
(51/193) on the report containing various recommendations
to improve the interaction between Council and Assembly.
This year’s report demonstrates positive changes. It is again
shorter, and it is presented earlier.
In reply to the second question, there is surely a strong
need for further improvement in the report. A possible
silver lining seems to be the agreement among Security
Council members to take up some of the main concerns of
the General Assembly and to include background lists; a
description in chronological order of Council consideration
and action; information regarding subsidiary organs of the
Council such as sanctions committees; and information
regarding documentation, working methods and procedures
of the Council. The commitments are contained in the
presidential note (S/1997/451) of 12 June this year.
From an analytic point of view, the most far-reaching
future element will be the assessments of the work of the
Council prepared by the respective Presidents of
the
Security Council and attached as an addendum to the
report. Ambassador Monteiro of Portugal deserves credit for
having given much thought to this new instrument for
openness and transparency of the Council and for having
set an early and voluntary example of a presidential
assessment. The Republic of Korea, Sweden and the United
Kingdom have also submitted assessments since then. All
of them deserve applause and credit for providing analytic
elements to the reports. If this direction is followed, the
the “full-picture” proposal of
Thirdly, the links between Security Council reform
and our agenda item — the report of the Security
Council — are quite clear. The report
is frequently
mentioned in proposals for Security Council reform. For
instance,
the previous
President of the General Assembly (A/51/47, annex II)
devotes an entire paragraph to the report. But, as is the
case with other documents, it is only one out of many
points of the reform package, from number of seats to
elections to the veto right to transparency and working
methods. Only the full range of these measures will
finally bring about Security Council reform as we would
like to see it, with a new team, a new spirit of work, new
resources and new approaches.
Thanks to a surprising initiative taken last week,
there is again currently much talk at the United Nations
about Security Council reform. That initiative, which was
sponsored
of
transparency, was submitted — as far as my delegation is
concerned — out of
the blue and without earlier
discussion in the Open-ended Working Group. We shall
have to adapt to this new style.
champions
by,
among
others,
the
Even the best possible report of the Council will
remain an insufficient instrument of transparency if the
Organization does not take on the challenge of including
it in the full picture of Security Council reform. Let us
give the Security Council more tools and more people to
use them smoothly. Let us not lean back and expect
reform to happen. It has to be brought about. Germany
will continue to work with other Members towards that
end.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
25
