United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-third Session
31st plenary meeting
Wednesday, 7 October 1998, 10 a.m.
New York
A/53/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Opertti
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Uruguay)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 99
Commemorative meeting of the twentieth anniversary of
the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for
Promoting and Implementing Technical Cooperation
among Developing Countries
The President (interpretation from Spanish): This
commemorative meeting of the General Assembly is being
held in accordance with the decision adopted at its 3rd
plenary meeting on 15 September 1998 and pursuant to
resolution 52/205 of 18 December 1997.
I would request
that during this meeting of the
Assembly we strive to be as brief and concise in our
statements as possible, in view of the value that we attach
to our time.
in the history of
We are meeting here today to commemorate a key
event
international cooperation for
development. The United Nations Conference on Technical
Cooperation among Developing Countries, held in Buenos
Aires from 30 August
to 12 September 1978, was a
milestone in the United Nations system’s ongoing efforts to
promote international cooperation for development, which,
as we all know, is one of the primary objectives of the
Organization. The Conference adopted the Buenos Aires
Plan of Action as a normative framework designed to
improve the structure of international relations by placing
greater emphasis on the use of the increasing technical and
scientific capacities of developing countries in the
promotion of socio-economic development in the South.
As the ultimate goal of technical cooperation among
developing countries, the Plan establishes, on the one
hand,
the promotion of national and collective self-
reliance among developing countries, and, on the other
hand, the fostering of global partnership. Accordingly, for
the past 20 years the Buenos Aires Plan of Action has
provided a policy framework to enable developing
countries to enhance their self-reliance by harnessing and
exploiting their own capacities.
To
the
continued
underscore
importance
of
international partnership, the Plan emphasizes that its new
proposals are complementary to, not a substitute for,
traditional forms of North-South development cooperation.
Although it assigns primary responsibility to developing
countries
for organizing, managing and financing
technical cooperation among themselves, the Plan also
calls upon the United Nations development system to play
a catalytic and promotional
role in advancing this
cooperation.
The Plan sets forth a number of goals that require
developing countries to enhance their creative capacities;
share their human and technical resources; upgrade the
quality and scope of international cooperation; and expand
and refine communications among themselves on the
national, subregional, regional and interregional levels.
98-86012 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
The continuing validity of the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action has been repeatedly reaffirmed by the General
Assembly,
the Economic and Social Council and the
conferences and governing bodies of many specialized
agencies. In particular, General Assembly resolution 46/159
indicates that
technical cooperation among developing
in global economic
countries remains a key element
the Assembly went
cooperation. In resolution 48/172,
further by urging Member States,
the United Nations
Development Programme and other organizations of the
United Nations development system to give high priority
and full support to technical cooperation among developing
countries.
countries
of
policies
Since
the
1970s,
developing
establishing well-defined
have
increasingly used the technical cooperation framework to
strengthen the bonds of cooperation among themselves in
the context of formal subregional and regional integration
arrangements and through more flexible cooperative
exchanges. The developing countries have also sought to
promote genuine partnership among themselves on the
understanding that each country has
resources and
capacities that it can share and offer, as well as needs that
may be satisfied by others. Many countries have taken the
initiative
and
appropriate institutional arrangements in order to ensure a
coordinated approach and to find common solutions to
common problems within the framework of
technical
cooperation among developing countries. In the wake of
recent trends towards globalization, technical cooperation
among
being
countries
recognized as an important
for enabling
countries of the South to participate effectively in the
emerging new world order. This is all the more true given
the well-known trend among the industrialized countries to
reduce official development assistance,
in particular as
regards the allocation of funds to multilateral programmes
and agencies.
increasingly
developing
is
instrument
In order that the full potential of technical cooperation
among developing countries may be realized and to fulfil
the expectations raised 20 years ago by the Buenos Aires
Plan of Action, all Member States, developed and
developing alike, must seize the current momentum and
build upon the past achievements in technical cooperation
among developing countries. This will require tireless
efforts to make the potential of technical cooperation among
developing countries widely understood, to strengthen the
effectiveness of normative frameworks, procedures and
focal points for technical cooperation among developing
countries on the national level, and to promote information-
sharing among developing countries at the subregional,
2
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
international
interregional and global
the
levels. It will also
regional,
require
community to be more
forthcoming with financing for activities undertaken
within the context of
technical cooperation among
developing countries.
the
prevailing mix
Thus, this commemorative meeting is an opportune
moment for the international community to renew the
political will necessary to overcome the factors hindering
the optimal utilization of the existing capacities and
resources and to accelerate development throughout the
developing world. Given
of
opportunities and challenges presented by globalization,
the potential of such exchanges needs to be fully
exploited. The promising prospects of increased trade and
investment opportunities in the South are discernible in
the current demographic projections, which indicate that,
by the year 2025, nearly 7 billion of the projected world
population of 8.5 billion people will live in the South —
7 out of 8.5 billion. This suggests that there is tremendous
scope for the South to capitalize on increased market and
investment opportunities.
In conclusion, responding to the recommendations of
the Buenos Aires Plan of Action in the new context of
globalization — an issue to which this Assembly has been
paying particular attention — requires developed and
developing countries to work cooperatively to devise new
and improved approaches both for national institutions
and on the global scale, so as to promote public and
private enterprise, actions by economic players and by
States themselves, in order to achieve the lofty objective
of technical cooperation among developing countries.
I now give the floor to the Deputy Secretary-
General.
The Deputy Secretary-General: We are gathered
here to mark the twentieth anniversary of the Buenos
Aires Plan of Action,
in keeping with the General
Assembly resolution adopted to that effect last year. Over
these two decades, the international community has taken
seriously the recommendations contained in the Plan of
Action. Against the background of growing disparities
between rich and poor countries, the Plan was designed
to provide a road map for narrowing that gap.
The Plan urged all partners involved in international
development cooperation to bring South-South solutions
to shared development challenges by increasing the use of
the human capacities and material resources that exist in
the South.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
has
enjoyed
cooperation
South-South
official
recognition in the United Nations since the Buenos Aires
It encompasses
Conference in 1978.
two types of
partnership:
technical
cooperation among developing
countries and economic cooperation among developing
countries. The two interrelated approaches are intended to
enable the South to promote collective self-reliance and to
participate effectively in the international economic system.
Since
the 1970s
the benefits of South-South
cooperation have been most manifest in the formation of
regional groupings across the South. Through regional
integration, many countries have expanded their market
size, accelerated the pace of industrialization and laid the
foundation for a more systematic integration of production
structures across national boundaries. While some of these
integration schemes have stagnated, many have made steady
progress and gained vitality and momentum during the
1980s and 1990s.
The profound changes that have occurred in the
international system since the late 1980s have had an
equally profound impact on multilateral development
cooperation. They have established a new context and a
new rationale for promoting technical cooperation and
South-South cooperation in general. These developments
have underscored the futility of unilateral action in an
interdependent world.
Since the 1970s the United Nations has played an
important role in promoting technical cooperation. It has
provided guidance on policies and procedures. It has
supported institutional capacity-building, networking and
information systems. Many United Nations organizations
and agencies, including regional commissions, have actively
promoted policies that place great emphasis on South-South
cooperation.
In the area of capacity-building, UNDP has provided
support to the Association of South-East Asian Nations
(ASEAN),
the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS) and the Central American Common
Market and commodity groups such as the Union of
Banana-Exporting Countries in efforts to strengthen their
overall capacity. The Food and Agriculture Organization of
the United Nations
the International Labour
Organization (ILO), the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU) have provided similar
assistance to various regional groupings in the development
(FAO),
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
institutions of developing
of national and regional
countries in keeping with their respective mandates and expertise.
With support from the United Nations organizations
and agencies,
improved networking and twinning
arrangements have become a significant
feature of
technical cooperation in recent years. UNESCO has
supported educational networks in the Caribbean and
fostered exchanges among various scientific organizations
worldwide. The ILO has facilitated exchanges among
various centres of excellence in the field of labour
administration. Using networks to foster food security,
FAO has been instrumental in the creation of the Biogas
Network in Latin America and has supported the
establishment of food crops networks. The United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has
supported a trade information network linking a number
of Asian countries in addition to sponsoring the Global
Trade Point Network, which applies modern information
technology to trade promotion.
Many developed countries have been very supportive
of technical cooperation activities initiated by groups of
developing countries. Japan, Ireland and South Korea
have contributed generously to the United Nations
Voluntary Trust Fund for South-South Cooperation,
established in 1995 by the Administrator of the United
Nations Development Programme. Brazil and Chile have
set up special funds to assist other developing countries
in Latin America within the framework of TCDC. In light
of the declining trend in official development assistance,
as well as in core resources available to UNDP and other
United Nations agencies, increased contributions to the
Trust Fund for South-South Cooperation are needed.
The unprecedented changes which have occurred in
the international economic system since the 1980s —
principally the globalization of markets and production
structures — make South-South cooperation more valid
and relevant
than ever as an instrument for helping
developing countries to participate effectively in the
emerging economic order.
Several challenges lie ahead. First, despite the
accelerated differentiation in socio-economic performance
among developing countries, we must recognize that the
countries of the South still share a number of basic
development needs. These include the need for external
capital and development assistance; for access to export
markets and foreign exchange; for technologies; and for
an external economic environment that is fair, predictable
and stable.
3
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Secondly, these shared needs establish a new rationale
It
requires
for South-South cooperation.
developing countries to pool
their human and material
resources and to work collectively for a more just, equitable
and democratic world system. If the countries of the South
are to be masters of their destiny, they need to have an
effective voice in all international forums.
is one that
Thirdly, given the complex mix of opportunities and
challenges presented by globalization, the United Nations
system and the international community as a whole must
adjust to the demands of the new development context and
redouble their efforts in support of technical and economic
cooperation.
Fourthly, all organizations and agencies of the United
Nations system must
implement Economic and Social
Council resolution 1992/41. They must ensure that technical
and economic cooperation are given first consideration in
the design, formulation, implementation and evaluation of
their operational activities. The United Nations family
should also increase the allocation of resources for technical
and economic cooperation from their regular programme
budgets. United Nations organizations and agencies should
find
cooperative
arrangements and bring their various sectoral competencies
to bear on South-South cooperation activities. Regional
Commissions should play an active role in promoting and
supporting intra- and interregional activities of strategic
importance to subregional and regional groupings.
opportunities
promote
to
joint
This meeting, on the eve of the new millennium,
provides an opportune moment
the international
community to reflect upon the resources, strategies and
partnerships that developing countries need to seize the
opportunities our globalizing world presents.
for
and
knowledge
In this era of dwindling resources for development, it
is critically important to build new partnerships to draw on
mutual
capacities. United Nations
organizations and agencies should strengthen contacts with
organizations in the developing world and help foster
effective participation of the private sector in technical and
economic cooperation activities. And I urge all countries to
contribute to the Voluntary Trust Fund for South-South
Cooperation.
Renewed efforts to advance the goals of South-South
cooperation call for a coordinated approach among the
entire United Nations family. This session of the General
Assembly will be considering a revised version of the
the review of policies and procedures
guidelines for
4
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
concerning technical cooperation and the Secretary-
General’s report on strengthening the integration of
technical and economic cooperation approaches
to
development.
I encourage all members of the United Nations
family to include a South-South dimension in their
operational activities in keeping with the guidelines once
they are endorsed.
The President
commemoration of
(interpretation from Spanish):
I
remind representatives that this meeting is exclusively
devoted to the
an important
anniversary of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action. It is not
a regular working meeting to consider in depth the
question of South-South technical cooperation. I therefore
urge all speakers to manage their time in the most
cooperative way possible.
I call first on the representative of Nigeria, who will
speak on behalf of the Group of African States.
Mr. Akunwafor (Nigeria): It is my honour and
privilege to make the following statement on behalf of the
Group of African States at the United Nations.
Please allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your
recent well-deserved election to the presidency of our
General Assembly at its fifty-third session. In Nigeria, my
country, and Africa, my continent and region, we have no
doubt that the conduct of the Assembly’s affairs will
benefit a great deal from your experience and wisdom.
Granted that all African States are members of the
Non-Aligned Movement and of the Group of 77, whose
original
idea it was to establish the mechanism for
promoting technical cooperation among developing
countries (TCDC), my brief remarks this morning would
not be properly rooted should we fail
that
Africa’s love for and faith in the necessity and potential
of TCDC date back to 1977, one year ahead of the birth
of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action. Meeting at
its
twenty-ninth ordinary session in Libreville, Gabon, in July
1977, the Council of Ministers of the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) first recognized that
to recall
“TCDC is a historical imperative brought about by
the need for a new international order” [and] “a
conscious,
systematic and politically motivated
process developed to create a framework of multiple
links between developing countries”.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Within the same July 1977, the Assembly of Heads of
State and Government of the OAU endorsed the Ministers’
recommendations, which were again reaffirmed by the
OAU Council of Ministers in July 1978 at their thirty-first
ordinary session, held in Khartoum, Sudan. Consequently,
the then nearly 50 OAU member delegations became part
and parcel of the delegations from 138 States which, in
Buenos Aires on 12 September 1978, adopted by consensus
a plan of action now known as the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical
Cooperation among Developing Countries.
What
subsequently gladdened the hearts of all
Africans — and, I must add, the hearts of citizens of all
developing countries — was that singular display of
wisdom and sensitivity on the part of this Assembly in
December 1978, when it resolved to endorse the Buenos
Aires Plan of Action, as it concerns the development needs
of more than two thirds of United Nations membership, and
urged all Governments and elements of the United Nations
system to implement its recommendations.
Today, two decades later and on the threshold of a
new millennium, the twentieth anniversary of the blueprint
Buenos Aires Plan of Action should afford us all not just
an opportunity to roll out the drums and beat our chests in
celebration of the achievements we have made. Today, and
equally importantly, we all should undergo a sober
reflection, stocktaking and candid inward search that will
show us concretely how much we ought to have achieved
and the problems or
further challenges we need to
overcome.
Mr. Ka (Senegal), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Indeed, nothing implies the importance of the Buenos
Aires Plan of Action more than the words of our good
friend and the highly resourceful outgoing Administrator of
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
Mr. James Gustav Speth, when he reminded us in May this
year that, for the developing countries, TCDC and South-
South cooperation are no longer options, but imperatives in
our age of globalization. As we celebrate, we are therefore
justifiably joyful that UNDP has not abandoned the lot of
the developing countries. Particularly through its Special
Unit
for Technical Cooperation among Developing
Countries and its prolific publicity literature, UNDP has
helped in no small measure to increase awareness of the
importance of TCDC and the development needs of the
developing countries. As a reliable catalyst and active
partner of national Governments and organizations and
agencies of the United Nations system, the Special Unit has
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
been promoting and monitoring the global application of
TCDC in a variety of ways, including sponsorship of
TCDC activities-based
assessments,
enhancement of national capacities for the management of
TCDC, and matching capacities with needs.
studies
and
It
is out of such sensitization and enhancement
efforts that a number of countries have come to allocate
significant resources for TCDC activities from their
national budgets and/or UNDP country allocations. It is
out of such efforts that research — for instance, into
medicinal plants in one of the South countries — has
recently yielded a welcome lead into the network research
and management of the menace of the sickle-cell disease
in some other developing countries, thus raising hope for
a definite cure some day. We are also happy that
complementarities of natural endowments among the
developing countries
and their varying stages of
development, as highlighted in the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action, have deepened technical cooperation among some
countries in the South, thus providing them with vast
opportunities for knowledge transfer or exchange with
relative ease and at less expense than if they had had to
acquire similar knowledge from the developed countries.
to acknowledge at
Neither must we fail
this
gathering the supporting and positive role being similarly
played by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) for the promotion of South-
South trade and finance, the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO), the Non-Aligned
Movement and the South Centre in support of the G-77
initiatives for cooperation.
In conclusion, let me return to a point made in our
earlier outline. As we celebrate the twentieth anniversary
of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action, we will be doing our
collective memory and posterity a great favour if we also
spare a little time to highlight areas which our best of
efforts might have neither reached nor yielded desired
results from.
all
involving
programme,
First, even a full-course intra-South technical
cooperation
developing
countries, would still need official development assistance
to succeed in achieving its goal. The continuing decline
of success in achieving the agreed target of 0.7 per cent
of gross national product
for official development
assistance, which is a major external source for the
financing of development, therefore needs to be reversed
in order to enable TCDC to have the crucial input to
5
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
infrastructural and social sector development from the
developed countries.
Secondly, and made even worse by the recent adverse
global financial crisis, all developing countries, especially
the 40 least developed among them, most of which are in
Africa, are being severely hindered in their cooperating
efforts by excruciatingly heavy external debt burdens. This
handicap is especially bad for the heavily indebted poor
countries. One of the many measures to alleviate its
negative impact lies in the conversion of debt to promote
development investments, in accordance with the needs of
developing countries.
Thirdly, market access to exports from developing
countries is one crucial component that will enhance the
capacity of each developing country to cooperate more
gainfully and meaningfully. The current
international
trading system will assist developing countries, especially
those producing commodities, more gainfully if, and only
if, the system is made multilaterally equitable, secure, non-
discriminatory and predictable in its rules and thereby
capable of enhancing the economic capacity of
the
developing countries concerned.
These are the barest minimum of core needs of the
developing countries. If they are properly addressed, and if
there is the required increase in core resources for United
Nations Development Programme funding, as we are about
to enter the twenty-first year of the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action, a means will be generated to eradicate poverty and
appropriately protect and empower
the citizenry of
developing countries to access the benefits of globalization
in an interdependent world.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call next on the representative of Nepal, who will speak
on behalf of the Group of Asian States.
Mr. Shah (Nepal): I will heed the President’s repeated
advice and be as brief as possible.
On behalf of the member States of the Asian Group,
I should like to pay our tribute to the spirit and efforts of
the 138 countries which adopted the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical
Cooperation among Developing Countries 20 years ago in
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Today is an occasion to renew our commitment and to
South-South
reaffirm the
cooperation, with the ultimate objective of building a more
continued
relevance
of
6
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
equitable global partnership for development and peace.
It is also an occasion for all of us to review not only the
achievements of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action, but,
more
from its
implementation.
important,
learned
the
lessons
In the 20 years since the adoption of the Buenos
Aires Plan of Action, profound and almost unrecognizable
changes have taken place in international
relations.
Greater interdependence in the world, brought about by
globalization and economic liberalization, is posing new
challenges and risks, but it also provides a new impetus
and a new rationale for closer cooperation among nations.
We believe that further strengthening of South-South
cooperation is an essential instrument for ensuring the
equitable participation of developing countries in the
emerging global economy.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call on the representative of Poland, who will speak on
behalf of the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr. Wyzner (Poland): I am privileged to offer a
few observations today on behalf of the Group of Eastern
European States.
Twenty years ago the United Nations Conference on
Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries and
the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for
Promoting and Implementing Technical Cooperation
among Developing Countries marked a new perception of
the environment needed for international dialogue on
technical cooperation. For a long time this cooperation
had been concentrated almost exclusively along traditional
lines of North-South partnership, while the growing
potential of the developing countries themselves had not
been fully taken into consideration. The Buenos Aires
Conference generated a new type of
international
relations, based on closer
exchange of
experiences between developing countries, with the use of
a
cooperation among developing
countries (TCDC) modality anchored in the operational
activities of the United Nations system.
technical
regional
special
In the last two decades a number of developing
countries have emerged as areas of considerable economic
development and as important sources of technological
innovation. We note with satisfaction the increasing
economic potential of the South, which is becoming an
important player in the world economy. On the other
hand, this fact reinforces both the opportunities and the
further need of the developing countries to forge the links
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
and
cooperation
problem-solving
of cooperation among themselves. To this end, TCDC
offers effective tools for an exchange of experiences in
technical
between
developing countries in pursuit of their mutual interests
with the final goal of increasing the competitiveness of their
economies in the global markets. At the same time, regional
cooperation serves well the purpose of winning the support
of civil societies for national policies, as it is easier for
them to relate to regional problems before they look beyond
these to global ones.
We are pleased to note that the United Nations has
played a crucial role in the process of implementing the
TCDC modality in the operational activities of the system.
Special credit should be given to the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) for incorporating these
practices in programmes realized with a wide variety of
partners on local levels and for establishing a Trust Fund
which serves to intensify South-South cooperation.
By endorsing the Buenos Aires Plan of Action in its
resolution of 1978, the General Assembly gave tangible
proof of the commitment of the international community to
the spirit and the ultimate objective of the Plan. On a later
occasion the General Assembly endorsed new directions to
strengthen TCDC’s role in offering technical advice for
developmental activities. At the same time, the Economic
and Social Council recommended that first consideration be
given to TCDC for use in development efforts in the United
Nations system as well as with all other partners. As a
result, intensified actions by several entities of the United
Nations system, such as UNDP, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO),
the World
Health Organization
the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and
some of
commissions were
undertaken to include TCDC in the mainstream of their
activities. However, a lot of work has yet to be done in this
field, and it is our belief that strengthening of the TCDC
has to be encouraged as an inherent part of developing
effective regional cooperation.
economic
(WHO),
regional
the
Taking into account
the views expressed in the
Agenda for Development, as well as the position taken last
year by the General Assembly in its resolution on economic
and technical cooperation among developing countries, we
believe that the United Nations system should continue its
efforts to strengthen South-South cooperation, which, to
quote from that
resolution, “constitutes an important
element of international cooperation for development and is
an essential basis for national and collective self-reliance as
well as a means of ensuring the effective integration and
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
in the world
participation of developing countries
economy and ...
rather
complementary to, North-South cooperation”. (resolution
52/205, para. 2)
is not a substitute for, but
In the Group of Eastern European States we realize
that there is considerable unexplored potential for forming
new partnership ties among the countries of the South and
the countries of our Group. There is also a need to extend
these links beyond the old divisions of South and North
or East and West. On this solemn occasion, we reaffirm
our commitment to achieving that goal in the years to
come, in accordance with the theme of our meeting today,
“Towards
South-South
partnership
cooperation” in the new millennium.
global
for
a
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
the Dominican
I now call on the representative of
Republic, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Latin
American and Caribbean States.
Mrs. Aguiar (Dominican Republic) (interpretation
from Spanish): I am greatly honoured, as coordinator of
the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, to
hail this auspicious anniversary of the Buenos Aires Plan
of Action, which bears the name of a progressive and
forward-looking city in our hemisphere.
In 1978 the Buenos Aires Plan of Action gave
impetus to new forms of South-South cooperation among
developing countries. Its goals included promoting the
capacity of developing countries to harness their own
means to find solutions to the problems of development
in keeping with their own values, aspirations and specific
needs; promoting and reinforcing a collective capacity
among developing countries by exchanging experiences,
sharing
developing
complementary capabilities; increasing the volume and
enhancing the quality of international cooperation and
increasing the efficiency of the resources devoted to
technical cooperation through the pooling of
general
skills;
and promoting the
appropriate
technology and expertise. Since those goals were set, new
approaches to subregional, regional and interregional
economic cooperation have emerged, compelling our
countries to revitalize the channels of this cooperation.
transfer of
resources
technical
and
The Plan was proposed at the historic moment of the
most recent wave of decolonization, particularly in Africa
but also in Asia and the Caribbean, which marked a
milestone in international cooperation. Acknowledged as
an effective way of promoting development among
7
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
developing countries, the form, content and goals of South-
South cooperation have brought about significant changes,
which are now taking place, however, within a process of
globalization that affects vital organs of our national
economies and productive systems on the one hand, and, on
the other, the traditional mechanisms of social solidarity.
The Plan’s merits were immediately recognized by the
General Assembly, which, in resolution 33/134, endorsed
the Buenos Aires Plan of Action, considering it to be “an
important instrument of the international community to
intensify and strengthen co-operation among developing
countries”. (resolution 33/134, para. 4)
As an essential complementary component,
the
General Assembly established, by resolution 38/201, the
Pérez-Guerrero Trust Fund, designed to support technical
and economic cooperation among developing countries of
the Group of 77, and to finance feasibility and pre-
investment studies and assist the implementation of projects
for economic cooperation among developing countries.
The validity and force of the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action have been confirmed by the progress made towards
goals such as promoting the capacity of countries to harness
their own means, the fostering of collective capacity and
the exchange of experiences with a view to developing
complementary capacities. However, since the laws of the
market often prevail, our countries are forced to cope with
this unprecedented challenge by modifying their analytical
approaches and the strategies that should be implemented
in the developing world.
We are now seeing the emergence of decisive factors
that are transforming the usual framework, including the
end of the role of the State as manager and entrepreneur;
technological advances; the tightness of domestic markets;
and the globalization of decisions relating to direct foreign
investment. Therefore, to sustain successful South-South
cooperation, our countries must make use of competitive
advantages resulting from a better distribution of resources,
market
and
specialization.
economies
efficiency
scale
and
of
However, the principles of the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action remain as valid as they were in 1978: solidarity, or
the principle of brotherhood among nations, in which two
or more join forces to achieve common goals; sovereignty,
or the principle of self-determination of States and mutual
cooperation within the framework of the integration of
countries and regions; dignity, or
the principle that
reaffirms the legitimacy and equality of rights and respect
8
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
the diversity of countries without conditions or
for
dependency among cooperating partners.
We must keep in mind, however, that the successes
we have achieved thanks to the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action should in no way be presented as a smokescreen
to hide our priorities. We must work to pool our needs
and capacities in order to achieve better solutions in key
areas such as agricultural development, food production
and processing technologies.
A major obstacle to this is the shortage of resources
for development, which could be eliminated or alleviated
by the fact
that certain economies of the group of
developing countries are emerging as surplus economies,
meaning that they have the capacity to export capital. It
would be desirable to make greater use of such a
resource. In this regard, there is a need for the political
will to create regional mechanisms to promote the flow of
capital investment within each of the developing regions.
The modalities of technical cooperation among developing
countries, of
reciprocity, exchange and cooperative
common use and contribution, would thus reflect the
previously
balanced
cooperation among equals.
established
principles
of
a
It would be possible to make many other proposals
for analysis and discussion. And the very fact that today
we are discussing the Buenos Aires Plan of Action and
setting innovative tasks for ourselves speaks eloquently of
the achievements of the last 20 years in the area of
cooperation among the peoples and countries of the
South.
However, we must appeal to those countries that
have been left behind by this new plan — landlocked
countries, small
to
desertification and climate change. There is a place for
them as well in this bold new movement.
island States, and those subject
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the representative of Andorra, who will
speak on behalf of the Group of Western European and
other States.
(Andorra)
Mr. Minoves-Triquell
(interpretation
from French): The Group of Western European and other
States is pleased to be able to celebrate the twentieth
anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical
Cooperation among Developing Countries. The past two
decades have shown us that the growth in horizontal
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
is
element
an essential
for
South-South exchanges
development. In that way the developing countries can
control exchanges in a way that is absolutely fair with
partners whose technical and economic goals are similar but
whose concrete experiences are complementary to theirs. In
a world that is increasingly globalized, particularly at the
economic level, it is therefore important that developing
economies maintain steady relations with each other so that
the flow of information and cooperation can bring together
States that formerly did not know each other well or that
encountered each other only through their common partners
in the North. It is necessary for such solidarity and South-
South projects to come into being so that globalization, that
late
truly
multidimensional.
phenomenon,
twentieth
century
can
be
Development
is a process
from which all of
humankind benefits. The rich countries will, in fact, be
truly rich only when the living conditions of the majority of
humankind rise to the same level as those of the most
fortunate among us. Furthermore, because of globalization,
recent crises in emerging economies risk spreading to the
industrialized States, which again demonstrates
the
interrelationship that exists between the rich and the poor
countries. Development concerns all of us, as the Group of
Western European and other States is fully aware.
The States members of
the Group of Western
European and other States support all forms of development
efforts and take a very positive view of the proliferation of
South-South cooperation that followed the Buenos Aires
Plan of Action. The Bandung Framework for Asia-Africa
Cooperation, the varied cooperation activities that have
recently taken place between Latin America and Eastern
Europe and the implementation of the Programme of Action
for
Island
Developing States show the extent to which South-South
initiatives can and must spread. However, it is important to
note that
technical and economic cooperation between
countries is complementary to North-South relations, not a
substitute for them. Effective coordination between those
two types of cooperation will be increasingly required.
the Sustainable Development of Small
It is the duty of the Members of the United Nations to
devise in the months to come the best formulas so that
South-South and North-South cooperation can work
together and have a synergistic effect. We must define a
new partnership
and
developing countries in which we all take upon ourselves
our own responsibilities while leaving behind the errors of
the past. The new model for development will certainly
involve a combination of solidarity and responsibility in
developed
countries
between
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
which North-South action will be integrated with South-
South cooperation. Numerous small, but independent and
successful, South-South projects can create conditions for
setting up other
targeted and effective development
assistance projects.
(spoke in Spanish)
in
and
Progress
communications
information
technology has made globalization irreversible in all its
aspects. The developing countries
are discovering
possibilities for cooperation and mutual enrichment, which
we must encourage. In this,
the Group of Western
European and other States congratulates the United
Nations bodies that are acting to promote such exchanges,
such as the United Nations Development Programme and
the Special Unit
for Technical Cooperation among
Developing Countries. Here in the United Nations we are
starting a new debate on development that will not leave
out South-South cooperation. The Assembly can rest
assured that the States members of the Group of Western
European and other States will make their contribution.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the representative of the United States of
America, the host country.
Mr. Squadron (United States of America): I am
delighted, on behalf of the United States, the host country,
to join in this discussion of technical cooperation among
developing countries (TCDC). It provides us all with the
opportunity to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of
the Buenos Aires Plan of Action of 1978, which was
intended to encourage self-reliance and mutual support
among developing countries through the exchange of
technical information. Those goals are as valid today as
when the Buenos Aires Plan of Action was first adopted.
countries
developing
(ECDC). We
The United States supports economic cooperation
among
agree
wholeheartedly with the view of the Secretary-General,
who said in May last year that South-South cooperation
must be more than a slogan. At the same time, we agree
with the 1997 statement of the tenth session of the High-
level Committee on the Review of Technical Cooperation
among Developing Countries, which noted that South-
South cooperation should be viewed not as a substitute
for, but
to, North-South
cooperation. We have incorporated the principles of
TCDC into many of our bilateral development assistance
programmes.
rather as a complement
9
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee
also supports both TCDC and ECDC. The United States
applauds the current
the United Nations in
encouraging TCDC, in particular the efforts of the Special
Unit housed within the United Nations Development
Programme. We believe that TCDC fits very well within
broader efforts to promote coordination, cooperation and
reform among all the nations of the world.
role of
The United States believes that we should increase the
effectiveness of existing TCDC resources. Specifically, we
believe that it is critically important to continue developing
programme effectiveness indicators for those programmes.
Developing good feedback mechanisms that measure the
effectiveness of programmes benefits not only those who
fund the programmes but the beneficiaries as well. As
beneficiary countries contribute to and receive reports on
which programmes work best, they will be in a better
position to disseminate best-practice information to other
potential beneficiaries. That
is the essence of TCDC:
developing countries helping each other.
Good feedback reporting on programme benefits by
beneficiary countries will benefit everybody in another way:
programme analysis enhances the credibility of
those
to justify funding
programmes and makes
decisions.
the goal of
transparency, which benefits both those who provide funds
and the beneficiaries.
Insightful
it easier
advances
analysis
In conclusion, the United States is extremely pleased
to host this discussion. We thank representatives for their
attendance and participation. We look forward to a fruitful
exchange of views with the other nations of the world on
this subject.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now call on the representative of Indonesia, who will
speak on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Mr. Wibisono (Indonesia): On behalf of the Group of
77 and China, I would like to congratulate the President
and the General Assembly on having organized this
important commemorative meeting. We are very grateful to
all the Members that last year supported the initiative of the
Group of 77 and China that led to the adoption of the
resolution by the General Assembly to convene this
commemorative meeting.
Since its inception,
the Group of 77 has always
attached fundamental importance to promoting economic
10
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
for
accelerating
complementarities
and technical cooperation among developing countries.
Such cooperation is necessary to reduce the vulnerability
of the developing countries to external factors and to
maximize
the
development of their economies. The historic Buenos
Aires Plan of Action, adopted 20 years ago, in September
1978, and subsequently endorsed by the General
Assembly, was an expression of
the aspirations of
developing countries and a reflection of their desire to
promote economic cooperation among themselves as a
complement to North-South cooperation and as an integral
part of the collective action of the Group aimed at the
promotion of international cooperation for development.
It marked the beginning of a new phase of such
cooperation, providing a blueprint with a well-defined
mechanism for implementation and follow-up. The major
thrust of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action remains of vital
importance, and it is even more relevant today as a result
of globalization and liberalization. The Group of 77 and
China renews its commitment to intensify cooperation
among developing countries
the attainment of
collective self-reliance, as is evidenced in the recently
adopted Declaration of the summit of the Non-Aligned
Movement and the Declaration of Foreign Ministers of
the Group of 77 adopted last month.
for
In recent years,
the forces of globalization and
liberalization have brought dramatic changes on the global
economic scene. For developing countries, various
constraints beyond their control prevent them from fully
participating in this process. The majority of developing
countries and, in particular, the least developed and the
landlocked countries, with their meagre resources and
unfavourable external supportive environment, are faced
with the seemingly insurmountable challenge of global
competition, which has tended to marginalize them. In
this context,
if South-South cooperation were more
vigorously pursued, the developing countries would have
greater leverage on their external environment and on the
North-South cooperation dialogue. At the same time, it
would
of
development in the developing countries and thus enable
them to face the challenge of integrating with the global
economy more successfully on equitable and symmetric
terms.
solving many
contribute
problems
to
The developing countries have
always been
conscious of their own responsibility for promoting their
economic development and implementing economic and
technical cooperation among themselves. The potential of
economic
cooperation among developing countries
(ECDC) and technical cooperation among developing
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
countries (TCDC) for trade and development is particularly
great at this juncture in view of the increased liberalization
and openness of developing countries and the substantial
efforts to reform their trade policies. In this context, it is
imperative that the Global System of Trade Preferences
among developing countries (GSTP), whose origin is in the
Buenos Aires Plan of Action, be further strengthened. There
is a need to consider giving new impetus to GSTP
negotiations by adjusting past GSTP concessions to the
currently applied tariff and import measures resulting from
tariff and trade reforms, as well as from the
national
Uruguay Round agreements.
to
strengthen regional and interregional trade by enlarging
participation, expanding product coverage and deepening
mutual concessions. The potential effectiveness of the
GSTP has been substantially increased with the re-
evaluation of the tariff instruments in developing countries’
regimes following large-scale liberalization of non-tariff
measures by many developing countries.
is also important
It
For instance, the GSTP Agreement provides that the
special needs of the least developed countries, including
landlocked countries should clearly be recognized, and that
concrete preferential measures in favour of these countries
should be agreed upon. The least developed countries and
many landlocked countries will not be required to make
concessions on a reciprocal basis. These measures in the
GSTP Agreement are aimed at boosting the exports of the
least developed countries, thereby enhancing their living
standards.
The Pérez-Guerrero Trust Fund and the trust fund for
South-South Cooperation, established with a view to
supporting activities on economic and technical cooperation
among developing countries, were of critical importance to
the Group of 77 and China in order to achieve national
collective self-reliance. It is essential today to increase the
resources of both Funds in order to support South-South
cooperation. I would like to take this opportunity to appeal
to all countries, particularly to donor countries, to contribute
generously to both Funds with a view to enabling the
Group of 77 and China to continue supporting South-South
cooperative projects.
The United Nations system is uniquely placed to assist
developing countries in making the transition to a new
economic era. The ability of its institutions to objectively
analyse economic trends and to indicate policy options that
give primacy to developmental considerations is the
backbone of economic cooperation among developing
countries. The Group of 77 and China draws heavily on the
support provided to it by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the
United Nations system as a whole for the implementation
of objectives set out in the Buenos Aires Plan of Action
for TCDC. In this context, and with a view to marking
both this anniversary and the ongoing efforts of the
United Nations
system in supporting South-South
cooperation, I would like to propose that the General
Assembly should declare a United Nations day on South-
South cooperation. We
the work
undertaken by many institutions of the South aimed at
providing a valuable contribution to increasing the
awareness of the international community, particularly in
terms
cooperation
requirements in support of ECDC and TCDC. In this
regard,
the Non-Aligned
Movement’s centre for South-South technical cooperation
in Jakarta deserve our support.
the ongoing activities of
also recognize
international
need
the
for
of
Due to the present world economic situation, the
question of intensifying South-South cooperation needs to
be accorded top priority by the United Nations system
and the international community. The Group of 77 and
China thoroughly deliberated this question at the recently
held ministerial meeting in New York. The core of the
discussions was on the indispensability of collective self-
reliance not only as a vital instrument for accelerating
development and eradicating poverty, but also as crucial
for engaging the North in meaningful dialogue with the
South.
for
The main focus
intensifying South-South
cooperation centres on the Caracas Programme of Action
and the Buenos Aires Plan of Action on TCDC. While
the implementation of these two programmes has yielded
some results, much more needs to be done. In this regard,
the question of harmonizing both programmes was
squarely faced at
recently held South-South
Conference
rightly
recommended to the Group of 77 and China to
consolidate and coordinate its activities on various issues
and in various forums, in order to harmonize South-South
initiatives.
in San José. The Conference
the
to
our
With
obstacles
increasing
economic
development, with the North-South dialogue yet to get
under way, and with emerging complementarities among
developing countries, it is even more urgent today than it
was 20 years ago when the Buenos Aires Plan of Action
was adopted to broaden the scope of our own technical
and economic cooperation.
11
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
While it
is true that we must provide greater
momentum to ECDC and TCDC activities, we should guard
against undertaking projects without fully assessing their
potential. Indeed, this can greatly harm the very cause that
we seek to promote. We must at all times remember that
ECDC and TCDC projects must provide mutual benefits to
developing countries and should be economically viable. In
this context, I am pleased to announce that the office of the
Chairman of the Group of 77 will set up shortly a research
programme
close
collaboration with the Group of 77 chapters and with the
support of the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD), the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO) and other relevant
United Nations institutions, with a view to promoting
research studies in the field of South-South cooperation.
South-South
cooperation
on
in
As the Group of 77 and China have pointed out on
many occasions, the Caracas Programme of Action and the
Buenos Aires Plan of Action are unusual in concept. They
provide a plan of action with clearly laid down mechanisms
for support, follow-up and review with diverse components
woven together into a precise timetable for implementation.
They should have provided ECDC and TCDC with the
dynamism that was earlier lacking. The experience of the
past two decades has raised several questions, relating in
particular to such matters as the financing of South-South
cooperation. Today there is a need to find appropriate
organizational modalities effectively to tap resources from
various international organizations and financial institutions
that could be directed towards supporting South-South
cooperation activities and programmes and to outline a
common strategy to foster international support for the
regional and subregional economic groupings of developing
countries and encourage mutual
links and cooperation
among them. In this context, let me take this opportunity to
express our deep appreciation to countries that continue to
support
the
Government of Japan, which is generously supporting the
forthcoming conference on subregional and regional
economic integration, to be held from 1 to 4 December
1998 in Bali.
South-South
cooperation,
particularly
Let me take this opportunity to reiterate, on behalf of
the Group of 77 and China, our strong support for the
activities being undertaken by the UNDP and its Special
Unit for TCDC with a view to supporting South-South
cooperation. In their final declaration, the Ministers for
Foreign Affairs of the Group of 77 who met last month in
New York expressed their appreciation for the support
provided by the UNDP and its Special Unit for TCDC in
support of South-South cooperation, and encouraged the
12
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
UNDP to continue to expand this cooperation with the
Group of 77 for the benefit of all developing countries.
Finally, let me state that the United Nations system
should articulate a global strategy that could enable all
economic groupings of the South to respond adequately
to the challenges of globalization and liberalization. This
is an issue which should be discussed in depth by the
high-level conference on subregional and regional
economic integration to be held from 1 to 4 December
1998 in Bali, Indonesia.
I am confident that the forthcoming Bali conference
and the South Summit will set the stage for developing
countries to project their collective vision of international
cooperation for development and of the strengthening of
South-South cooperation for the next millennium.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I call next on the Permanent Representative of Austria,
who will speak on behalf of the European Union.
Mr. Sucharipa (Austria): I have the honour to speak
on behalf of the European Union at this commemorative
meeting of the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of
the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and
Implementing Technical Cooperation among Developing
Countries. The Central and Eastern European countries
associated with the European Union — Bulgaria,
the
Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania,
Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia — and the
associated country Cyprus, as well as the European Free
Trade Association countries members of the European
Economic Area, Iceland and Norway, align themselves
with this statement.
Today the General Assembly celebrates the twentieth
anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of
Action. We want to make use of this opportunity to
reflect on the lessons and accomplishments in promoting
technical
developing countries
(TCDC) over the last two decades, and to recognize the
changing environment for global partnerships in the era of
globalization.
cooperation among
Twenty years ago, the General Assembly endorsed
the Buenos Aires Plan of Action as an important
instrument of the international community to intensify and
strengthen cooperation among developing countries, and
it requested Governments, international organizations and
the United Nations development system to promote and
implement the objectives of the Plan.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
cooperation,
South-South
remains an important
through TCDC and
economic cooperation among developing countries (ECDC)
is a principal
strategy in support of national and
international development efforts. It is an indispensable
mechanism to ensure participation in the global economy.
Technical
cooperation characterized by North-South
relations
in promoting
sustainable human development. Since the adoption of the
Buenos Aires Plan of Action, profound changes have taken
place
relations. The deepening of
interdependence among nations, a phenomenon we call
globalization, provides new impetus, new opportunities and
a new rationale for closer cooperation, as well as new
challenges for States. We welcome the initiatives at
regional and subregional levels to strengthen cooperation
and integration among local economies.
in international
factor
We realize that we live in a rapidly changing world,
and we have gathered here today to look to the future. The
theme of our commemoration is “Towards a global
partnership for South-South cooperation in the new
millennium”, and at the panel meeting this afternoon we
should explore the role and relevance of technical and
economic cooperation among developing countries in an
increasingly interdependent world.
The European Union attaches great
importance to
technical cooperation among developing countries. The
Union reaffirms its commitment to supporting South-South
cooperation and technical and economic cooperation among
developing countries. In promoting TCDC, developing
countries harness and utilize the capacities that exist in their
own countries. TCDC is a useful
tool for and among
developing countries, but donor countries must play an
active and supportive role, fostering an increased use of the
TCDC modality in development cooperation. The United
Nations system has a key responsibility as promoter and
catalyst for South-South cooperation. In this context, the
European Union would like to reiterate that TCDC should
not be treated as a special programme, but should be
integrated in the overall work of the operational activities
of the United Nations system.
The potential development
impact of TCDC on
developing countries is increasingly recognized, and the
European Union notes with satisfaction the expansion of the
use of TCDC over the years. In this context, the European
Union would like to mention as an example the Partners in
Population and Development initiative supported by the
United Nations
enhanced
decentralization within the United Nations development
system will further TCDC as a tool for development
Fund. The
Population
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
programming and as a logical option for development
cooperation.
In this regard, the European Union commends the
work of the TCDC Special Unit within the United
Nations Development Programme and the ongoing
support of the United Nations Development Programme
for the TCDC modality, which is being given first
consideration in programming as a corporate policy by the
UNDP Administrator. This support is to be followed up
by other organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system.
The European Union believes that
the revised
guidelines for the review of policies and procedures
concerning TCDC have accentuated the continued validity
and relevance of TCDC as an instrument for assisting
developing countries to participate effectively in the
emerging global environment. With these tools in place,
we hope South-South cooperation can prosper in the next
millennium.
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
I now give the floor to the representative of South Africa,
who will speak on behalf of the Movement of Non-
Aligned Countries.
Mr. Jele (South Africa): I have the honour to speak
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement at this meeting
commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the adoption
of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and
Implementing Technical Cooperation among Developing
Countries.
Coming so soon after our summit in Durban, this
meeting could not be more timely. The issues and
concerns of developing countries at the Buenos Aires
meeting continue to challenge our commitment to South-
South
reason, South-South
cooperation continues to be one of the sound bases on
which the developing countries can extricate themselves
through
of
underdevelopment.
cooperation. For
from the mire
efforts
this
their
own
The theme for this commemorative meeting is fitting
and captures the interdependence of our global efforts for
the full realization of our objective. Like the Buenos
Aires Plan of Action, the advances made so far in South-
South cooperation help facilitate the construction of a
bridge across our experiences and efforts. It unites and
consolidates
and
interregional efforts through various bodies and delivery
systems. Through technical cooperation among developing
subregional
regional,
national,
13
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
countries (TCDC) developing countries will be able to
respond effectively and positively to the challenges of
globalization and liberalization, thus moving away from the
risk of marginalization. These efforts are indispensable for
ensuring an equitable mode of participation for developing
countries in the global economy.
Such efforts would also be underpinned by North-
South cooperation and be directed at strengthening and
accelerating technology transfers, skills, knowledge and
information dissemination in the framework of South-South
cooperation. To this end, we recall General Assembly
resolution 3251 (XXIX) of 4 December 1974, which
mandated the establishment of
for
Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries to
promote TCDC on a system-wide basis.
that
decision could not have been more timely and visionary,
given the significant distance we have travelled to fully
realize the aim, among others, of making TCDC a key
component of the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) poverty eradication strategy.
the Special Unit
Indeed,
appreciation
the marking
In underscoring the need for South-South cooperation,
we
note with
this
commemoration at various levels — the high-level plenary
session, the substantive panel discussion and the exhibit on
South-South cooperation. It is through similar efforts that
awareness-building and the need for the mobilization of
efforts to attain South-South cooperation may become a
reality.
of
We commend the Special Unit for continuing to
formulate its distinct programme to strengthen the capacity
of developing countries
and to mutually reinforce
cooperation in key areas for development. Resource
provision for capacity-building is crucial and needs to be
provided on a continuous, secure and incremental basis. To
this end, we continue to make a case for an increase in the
core resources of UNDP in order
to consolidate the
progress made thus far, as well as to cover the needs of
other developing countries.
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
the efforts of developing countries to participate equitably
in the global economy.
of
It is our belief that, taken as a whole, such efforts
would go a long way towards intensifying current
processes to strengthen various interregional dialogues,
cooperation and the exchange of experiences among
various regional economic groupings for South-South
cooperation. We hope that the report of the Secretary-
General (TCDC/10/2) on the review of the progress made
in implementing the Buenos Aires Plan of Action; the
decisions
the
recommendations of the South Commission; and its
analytical
information received from
Governments, other organizations in the United Nations
system and non-governmental organizations on the
policies and activities undertaken to promote TCDC will,
despite other constraints, prove that TCDC continues to
be
a widely used mechanism between countries,
underpinning many other local arrangements. This also
goes with the necessary awareness to adopt more effective
methods of delivery and policies.
the High-level
summary of
Committee;
The importance of
these initiatives lies in the
observation that most developing countries now allocate
significant resources from their national budgets for
TCDC ventures to complement an array of other efforts
which are also mirrored through regional institutions and
other actors, such as the South Centre and UNDP through
regional bureaus and country offices.
We hope that
and regional development
the Special Unit, by supporting
can
national
continue to be a catalyst and an active partner
in
promoting and monitoring the global trends in TCDC and
its application. The same applies to other United Nations
agencies which have continued in similar fashion in areas
of their own competence.
initiatives,
We also note with satisfaction progress made in the
strategy for
implementation of
technical cooperation among developing countries.
the new-directions
(UNCTAD),
the Special Unit
We call on the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development
for
Technical Cooperation among Developing countries and
UNDP, as well as other organizations, to jointly formulate
concrete
and
implementation of the San José Declaration and Plan of
Action, as adopted by the South-South Conference on
Finance, Trade and Investment. We believe that this would
have added value for all our efforts to enhance the
resurgence of interest in South-South cooperation to support
recommendations
follow-up
the
on
14
Finally, we underscore the need for developing
countries and the United Nations system to increase
support for TCDC and to strengthen the commitment to
promote it as a useful tool for development. The Special
Unit also needs to keep its separate identity within UNDP
in order to continue being effective in its work, while at
the
other
developmental agencies and actors.
complemented
being
same
time
by
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
The Acting
President
(interpretation
from
French): I give the floor to the representative of Japan.
Mr. Konishi (Japan): The concept of South-South
cooperation emerged in the 1970s as a means of
strengthening the solidarity of the South in its struggle
against the North and to promote among the developing
countries a collective self-reliance that would enable them
to participate in the international economic system.
When the cold war came to an end, this concept of
South-South cooperation changed. Today, South-South
cooperation has been widely accepted as an effective
modality of development cooperation in the spirit of
“sharing the experiences”. Moreover, a new modality of
triangular cooperation involving the new dimension of
cooperation between the North and the South has emerged.
Japan has actively supported South-South cooperation
because it provides useful assistance tailored to the specific
needs and conditions of individual developing countries and
because it contributes to broadening the spectrum of actors
involved in development cooperation. Japan hosted the
Tokyo International Conference on African Development in
1993 and the Asia-Africa Forums of 1994 and 1997. It also
convened the Conference on Promoting South-South
Cooperation in May this year. It has implemented various
triangular cooperation projects, cooperated in institution-
building of the organizations responsible for South-South
cooperation in developing countries, and provided financial
assistance for such cooperation through the Japan-United
Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) Human
Resources Development Fund: $2 million in 1996 and
1997, and $4 million in 1998.
Japan commits itself to continuing to play this role in
the future. The second Tokyo International Conference on
African Development, which will be convened from 19 to
21 October 1998 with the participation of the Secretary-
General of the United Nations and the heads of State of a
number of African countries, will emphasize the importance
of South-South cooperation, and in particular Asia-Africa
cooperation, including private sector development.
It
In further broadening the scope of South-South
cooperation on the basis of the concept of “sharing the
experiences”, ownership by developing countries is of great
importance.
that developing countries
themselves fully accept that South-South cooperation is an
effective modality of development cooperation that goes
beyond enhancing their solidarity. While South-South
cooperation is not a substitute for but a complement to
North-South cooperation, it embodies various comparative
critical
is
31st plenary meeting
7 October 1998
advantages to North-South cooperation, such as the
exchange of technologies and know-how more appropriate
to the actual conditions in developing countries.
to
In
order
further
strengthen South-South
cooperation, developing countries should make the most
of such comparative advantages, understanding that both
South-South cooperation and North-South cooperation are
key elements
their national
development programmes. And it is essential to develop
and strengthen the human resources who will be
responsible for
the implementation of South-South
cooperation.
in the realization of
Developed countries, in their turn, should support the
efforts of developing countries
through triangular
cooperation involving the private sector and non-
governmental organizations. Furthermore,
they should
convey to the developing countries the know-how and
expertise they have derived from their own experience in
development cooperation.
Finally, to promote South-South cooperation, it is
necessary to create an environment that permits easy
access to information on successful examples of such
efforts. It would be of great value to all if a system could
be established to collect those successful examples from
different countries and organizations and to make them
available to developing countries.
In
cooperation
conclusion,
potential
South-South
as
has
enormous
of
development cooperation in the twenty-first century. It is
up to developing countries to take the initiative for South-
South cooperation, and developed countries
should
continue to actively support such cooperation.
effective modality
an
The Acting President (interpretation from French):
The commemorative meeting to mark the occasion of the
twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires
Plan of Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical
Cooperation among Developing Countries
is now
concluded.
The meeting rose at noon.
15
