United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-third Session
39th plenary meeting
Friday, 16 October 1998, 10 a.m.
New York
A/53/PV.39
Official Records
President:
Mr. Opertti
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Uruguay)
In the absence of
(Lesotho), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Mangoaela
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
If there are any delegations that still wish to sponsor
the resolution that has just been adopted, they may sign
up with the Secretariat.
Agenda item 158 (continued)
Agenda item 166
World Solar Programme 1996-2005
Draft resolution (A/53/L.8)
The Acting President: I have been informed that
there are additional sponsors of draft resolution A/53/L.8:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Austria, Bangladesh,
Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Costa
Rica, Croatia, Greece, Lesotho, Malta, the Marshall Islands,
Myanmar, the Netherlands, Spain, the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia and Turkmenistan.
Election of judges of the International Tribunal for
the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious
Violations
International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia
since 1991
of
Letter from the President of the Security Council
(A/52/1023)
Memorandum by
(A/53/351)
the
Secretary-General
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
Curricula vitae (A/53/352)
resolution A/53/L.8.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt the
draft resolution?
Draft resolution A/53/L.8 was adopted (resolution
53/7).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
wish of the General Assembly to conclude its consideration
of agenda item 158?
The Acting President: The General Assembly will
now proceed to the election of three judges to an
additional Trial Chamber of the International Tribunal for
the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious
Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed
in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991.
By its resolution 1166 (1998) of 13 May 1998, the
Security Council decided to establish a third Trial
Chamber of the International Tribunal. It also decided that
three additional
judges should be elected as soon as
It was so decided.
98-86101 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
possible to serve in the additional Trial Chamber and that
the judges so elected should serve until the date of expiry
of the terms of office of the judges currently serving on the
Tribunal, that is, until 16 November 2001.
In connection with the election, I should like to bring
the following matters to the attention of the General
Assembly.
First, in accordance with article 13, paragraph 2, of the
Statute of the International Tribunal, the three judges of the
third Trial Chamber of the International Tribunal shall be
elected by the General Assembly from a list of candidates
submitted by the Security Council.
in
due
of
the
At
accordance with
its 3919th meeting, on 27 August 1998,
article
the
Security Council,
13,
subparagraph 2 (c) of the Statute of the International
Tribunal, established in resolution 1191 (1998) a list of nine
candidates,
adequate
representation of the principal legal systems of the world.
The list was formally conveyed to the President of the
General Assembly by a letter dated 27 August 1998 from
the President of the Security Council. The letter was issued
as document A/52/1023.
account
taking
39th plenary meeting
16 October 1998
appointment to the highest judicial offices. In the
overall composition of the Chambers due account
shall be taken of the experience of the judges in
criminal
including
international humanitarian law and human rights
law.”
international
law,
law,
As representatives know, the election of judges will
take place in accordance with the relevant provisions of
article 13 of the Statute of the International Tribunal.
In addition, given the similar nature of the election
of judge of the International Court of Justice and the
election of judges of the International Tribunal, it was
decided at the time of the previous elections of judges, in
1993 and 1997, to follow similar election procedures in
the General Assembly.
the
Secretary-General suggests that this precedent be applied
to the election of judges of the third Trial Chamber of the
International Tribunal.
In his memorandum,
May I take it
that
the Assembly agrees to that
suggestion?
It was so decided.
Secondly, in accordance with article 13, subparagraph
2 (d), of the Statute of the International Tribunal, the Holy
See and Switzerland, being non-member States, shall
participate in the election in the same manner as the States
Members of the United Nations. On this occasion, I am
happy to welcome here the representatives of the Holy See
and Switzerland.
The Acting President: In accordance with article
13, subparagraph 2 (d), of the Statute of the International
Tribunal, the candidates who receive an absolute majority
of the votes of States Members of the United Nations and
of the non-member States maintaining permanent observer
missions at United Nations Headquarters shall be declared
elected.
Finally, I should like to draw the attention of the
Assembly to the documents relating to the election. The
memorandum by the Secretary-General concerning the
election of judges of the International Tribunal is contained
in document A/53/351.
The list of candidates is to be found in paragraph 6 of
document A/53/351.
The curricula vitae of the candidates are to be found
in document A/53/352. In that connection, may I bring to
the Assembly’s attention article 13, paragraph 1, of the
Statute of
the International Tribunal, which reads as
follows:
“The judges shall be persons of high moral
character, impartiality and integrity who possess the
qualifications required in their respective countries for
The consistent practice of the United Nations has
been to interpret
the words “absolute majority” as
meaning a majority of all electors, whether or not they
vote or are allowed to vote. The electors, for this purpose,
are all 185 Member States and the two non-member
States, namely the Holy See and Switzerland.
Accordingly, 94 votes constitute an absolute majority
for the purpose of electing judges of the International
Tribunal.
If in the first ballot
the number of candidates
obtaining an absolute majority is less than three, a second
ballot will be held, and balloting will continue in the
same meeting, if and as necessary, until three candidates
have obtained an absolute majority. In any second or
subsequent ballot, each elector may vote for no more than
2
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
39th plenary meeting
16 October 1998
three candidates less the number of candidates who have
already obtained absolute majorities.
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the
Former Yugoslavia since 1991.
Justice,
Following the practice in the election of judges of the
International Court of
the Secretary-General
suggests in his memorandum that subsequent balloting
should be unrestricted — I repeat, that subsequent balloting
should be unrestricted. Votes may accordingly be cast in
any second or subsequent ballot for an eligible candidate
who has not yet obtained an absolute majority.
It is further suggested that if in the first ballot more
than the required number of candidates obtain an absolute
majority of votes, a second ballot will be held on all
candidates, and balloting will continue at the same meeting
until the required number of candidates, and no more,
obtain an absolute majority.
May I
take it
that
the Assembly agrees to the
procedures I have just outlined?
It was so decided.
Mr. Tello (Mexico) (interpretation from Spanish):
Once again, the delegation of Mexico will not participate in
the election of judges of the International Tribunal for the
former Yugoslavia. Mexico has consistently held that, in
establishing that Tribunal,
the Security Council acted
beyond its sphere of competence, since the Charter of the
United Nations contains no explicit provision giving the
Council the authority to create jurisdictional organs of this
nature.
Mexico remains convinced that, once it is operational,
the International Criminal Court, which was
indeed
established in conformity with the norms of international
law, will render the creation of new special
tribunals
unnecessary.
This position notwithstanding, Mexico will continue to
pay in timely fashion its assessed financial contribution to
the Tribunal, strictly abiding by the decisions that
the
General Assembly has adopted on this matter.
terms
The Holy See, and especially Pope John Paul II, has
unceasingly worked for the cessation of hostilities, the
reconciliation of the parties and international humanitarian
the victims, and has without any
solidarity with all
distinction condemned in the strongest
the
perpetrators of crimes, holding them responsible not only
before the tribunal of God but also in the courts of human
justice. From the beginning of the conflict, the Holy See
has supported, especially within the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the principle
of the personal responsibility of the parties, and it
therefore welcomes today the establishment of
the
International Tribunal as an instrument of the international
community to express its condemnation of violations of
international humanitarian law.
The Holy See equally welcomes the provisions of
the Statute of the International Tribunal, as amended on
13 May 1998, in article 13, subparagraphs 2 (a) and (d),
which acknowledge the Holy See’s active participation in
the establishment of the Tribunal, as a non-member State,
maintaining a permanent observer mission at the United
Nations.
However,
the Holy See,
in consideration of its
specific nature and of its objectives as a sovereign
international entity, and in accordance with recognized
practice in similar cases, has decided to abstain from
casting its vote on the individual candidates for the office
of judge of the International Tribunal.
The Holy See expresses its confidence in the choices
that will be made by the international community and its
sincere best wishes for success to the elected judges in
their service to the cause of justice. It is the hope of the
Holy See that the persisting culture of impunity will soon
be brought to an end and that all responsible for serious
crimes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, including
those in Kosovo, will be brought promptly to justice.
The Acting President: We shall now proceed with
The Acting President: I call on the representative of
the election.
the Holy See.
Monsignor Panikulam (Holy See): The Holy See has
closely followed the process leading to the establishment of
the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons
Responsible
International
for Serious Violations of
The voting process has now begun.
Representatives are requested to use only the ballot
papers now being distributed. Only those candidates
whose names appear on the ballot papers are eligible for
election. Representatives will indicate the three candidates
3
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
for whom they wish to vote by placing crosses to the left
of their names on the ballot papers. Ballot papers on which
more than three names are marked will be considered
invalid. Votes may be cast only for those whose names
appear on the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Ms. Tavora
(Brazil), Ms. Pavlova (Bulgaria), Mr. Mwangi (Kenya)
and Mr. Obeid (Syrian Arab Republic) acted as
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 10.45 a.m. and
resumed at 11.40 a.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. David Anthony Hunt (Australia)
Mr. Peter H. Wilkitzki (Germany)
Mr. Patrick Lipton Robinson (Jamaica)
Mr. Mohamed Bennouna (Morocco)
Mr. Húgo Aníbal Llanos Mansilla (Chile)
Mr. Per-Johan Viktor Lindholm (Finland)
Mr. Waldo Bandara Srinihal Wadugodapitiya
(Sri Lanka)
Mr. Jan Skupinski (Poland)
Mr. Luis Valencia Rodríguez (Ecuador)
174
0
174
1
173
94
88
74
70
69
62
46
40
28
22
The Acting President: Since no candidate has
obtained an absolute majority, the Assembly will have to
proceed to another unrestricted ballot in order to fill the
three vacancies.
Ballot papers are being distributed. All the candidates
whose names appear on the ballot papers are eligible.
39th plenary meeting
16 October 1998
Mr.
Izquierdo (Ecuador)
(interpretation from
Spanish): My delegation, in order to facilitate the election,
has decided to withdraw the candidacy of Ambassador
Luis Valencia Rodríguez.
The Acting President: The representative of
Ecuador has stated that one of the names on the list of
candidates established by the Security Council should be
removed. I take it that the representative of Ecuador is
informing the General Assembly that his national has
decided to withdraw his name from the list. On that
understanding, the name of Mr. Luis Valencia Rodríguez
of Ecuador will be removed from the next ballot.
Mr. Wyzner (Poland): With the same understanding
as that of the representative of Ecuador and in the same
spirit, I would like to inform the Assembly that the name
of Mr. Skupinski should be removed from the ballot.
At the same time I would like to express regret that
again this time, as a year ago, the region and school of
law that Mr. Skupinski would have represented will not
be represented in the Tribunal. I am afraid this will not
help the Tribunal in its work.
The Acting President: From the representative of
Poland’s statement that one of the names on the list of
candidates established by the Security Council should be
removed, I take it
that he is informing the General
Assembly that his national has decided to withdraw his
name from the list. On that understanding, the name of
Mr. Jan Skupinski will be removed from the next ballot.
In view of the fact that the ballot papers will need to
be revised in order to reflect the changes that have just
been announced, we shall suspend the meeting for 10
minutes.
The meeting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and
resumed at 12.05 p.m.
The Acting President: The General Assembly will
now proceed to another unrestricted ballot to fill the
remaining three vacancies.
Once again, I remind representatives to place a cross
at the left of the names of the three candidates for whom
they wish to vote. Any ballot paper on which more than
three names are marked will be considered invalid. Votes
may be cast only for those whose names appear on the
ballot papers.
Ballot papers are now being distributed. All the
candidates whose names appear on the ballot papers are
eligible. Once again, I would remind delegates to place a
cross at the left of the names of the three candidates for
whom they wish to vote. Any ballot paper on which more
than three names are marked will be considered invalid.
4
39th plenary meeting
16 October 1998
The Acting President: The name of Mr. Waldo
Bandara Srinihal Wadugodapitiya has been withdrawn and
will be deleted from the list.
There remains one seat to be filled. The Assembly
will now proceed to another ballot to fill the remaining
vacancy. In accordance with the decision taken earlier,
that ballot shall be unrestricted.
Ballot papers are being distributed. All candidates
whose names appear on the ballot paper, except those
who have just withdrawn, are eligible. Once again, I
remind delegations that the name of only one candidate
should be marked with a cross. Any ballot paper on
which more than one name is marked will be considered
invalid. Votes may be cast only for those whose names
appear on the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Ms. Tavora
(Brazil), Ms. Pavlova (Bulgaria), Mr. Mwangi
(Kenya) and Mr. Obeid (Syrian Arab Republic)
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and
resumed at 1.45 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
173
1
172
1
171
94
72
69
30
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Votes may be cast only for those whose names appear on
the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Ms. Tavora
(Brazil), Ms. Pavlova (Bulgaria), Mr. Mwangi (Kenya)
and Mr. Obeid (Syrian Arab Republic) acted as
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and
resumed at 1.20 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. David Anthony Hunt (Australia)
Mr. Patrick Lipton Robinson (Jamaica)
Mr. Peter H. Wilkitzki (Germany)
Mr. Mohamed Bennouna (Morocco)
Mr. Húgo Aníbal Llanos Mansilla (Chile)
Mr. Per-Johan Viktor Lindholm (Finland)
Mr. Waldo Bandara Srinihal Wadugodapitiya
(Sri Lanka)
175
1
174
1
173
94
113
98
87
76
57
30
19
The Acting President: Having obtained an absolute
majority, Mr. David Anthony Hunt
(Australia) and
Mr. Patrick Lipton Robinson (Jamaica) are elected members
of the International Tribunal to serve in the third Trial
Chamber.
Ms. Rasi (Finland): In order to facilitate the voting
process, I wish to request that the name of Judge Lindholm
be deleted from the list.
Mr. Mohamed Bennouna (Morocco)
Mr. Peter H. Wilkitzki (Germany)
Mr. Húgo Aníbal Llanos Mansilla (Chile)
The Acting President: Members have heard the
statement just made by the representative of Finland. The
name of Mr. Per-Johan Viktor Lindholm will be deleted
from the ballot papers.
The Acting President: Since no candidate has
obtained an absolute majority, the Assembly will have to
proceed to another unrestricted ballot to fill the remaining
vacancy.
Mr. De Saram (Sri Lanka): In light of the results of
the voting, I am withdrawing the name of the candidate of
Sri Lanka, Mr. Wadugodapitiya.
Mr. Larraín (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
In order to facilitate the election process, I should like to
state that my delegation withdraws
the name of
Mr. Llanos Mansilla.
5
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
39th plenary meeting
16 October 1998
The Acting President: Members have heard the
statement just made by the representative of Chile. The
name of Mr. Húgo Aníbal Llanos Mansilla will be deleted
from the ballot papers.
The meeting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and
resumed at 4.05 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Mr. Mohamed Bennouna (Morocco)
Mr. Peter H. Wilkitzki (Germany)
167
0
167
0
167
94
98
69
The Acting President: Having obtained an absolute
majority, Mr. Mohamed Bennouna (Morocco) is elected
a member of the International Tribunal to serve in the
third Trial Chamber.
The three judges so elected shall serve until the date
of expiry of the terms of office of the judges currently
serving on the Tribunal, that is, until 16 November 2001.
The beginning of their terms of office will be determined
by the President of the International Tribunal. The third
Trial Chamber of the International Tribunal has thus been
fully established.
I take this opportunity to extend to the judges the
congratulations of the Assembly on their election and to
thank the tellers for their assistance.
This concludes our consideration of agenda item
166.
The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.
In view of the lateness of the hour, we will continue
with the balloting this afternoon.
Mr. Maidin (Brunei Darussalam), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
The meeting was suspended at 1.50 p.m. and resumed
at 3.40 p.m.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now
proceed to another unrestricted ballot to fill the remaining
vacancy.
I
like
to
should
remind members
the
representative of Chile announced earlier the withdrawal of
his country’s candidate, Mr. Húgo Aníbal Llanos Mansilla.
Accordingly, the ballot papers to be distributed do not
contain that name.
that
Ballot papers are being distributed. All the candidates
whose names appear on the ballot paper are eligible. Once
again, I remind delegations that the name of only one
candidate should be marked with a cross. Any ballot paper
on which more than one name is marked will be considered
invalid. Votes may be cast only for those whose names
appear on the ballot paper.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Ms. Tavora
(Brazil), Ms. Pavlova (Bulgaria), Mr. Mwangi (Kenya)
and Mr. Obeid (Syrian Arab Republic) acted as
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
6
