United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-third Session
33rd plenary meeting
Thursday, 8 October 1998, 10 a.m.
New York
A/53/PV.33
Official Records
President:
Mr. Opertti
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Uruguay)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 15
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of the
Security Council
The President (interpretation from Spanish): This
morning the General Assembly will proceed to the election
of five non-permanent members of the Security Council to
replace those members whose term of office expires on 31
December 1998.
The five non-permanent outgoing members are the
following: Costa Rica, Japan, Kenya, Portugal and Sweden.
Those five States cannot be re-elected and therefore their
names should not appear on the ballot papers.
Apart from the five permanent members, the Security
Council will include in 1999 the following States: Bahrain,
Brazil, Gabon, the Gambia and Slovenia. The names of
those States, therefore, should also not appear on the ballot
papers.
Of the five non-permanent members which will remain
in office in 1999, three are from Africa and Asia, one is
from Eastern Europe and one is from Latin America and
the Caribbean.
Consequently, pursuant to paragraph 3 of General
Assembly resolution 1991 A (XVIII) of 17 December
1963, the five non-permanent members should be elected
according to the following pattern: two from Africa and
Asia, one from Latin America and the Caribbean and two
from Western European and other States. The ballot
papers reflect this pattern.
In accordance with established practice, there is an
understanding to the effect that, of the two States to be
elected from Africa and Asia, one should be from Africa
and one from Asia.
I should like to inform the Assembly that
the
number of candidates, not exceeding the number of seats
to be filled, receiving the greatest number of votes and a
two-thirds majority of those present and voting will be
declared elected.
In the case of a tie vote for a remaining seat, there
will be a restricted ballot limited to those candidates
which have obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): In
accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, the
election shall be held by secret ballot, and there shall be
no nominations.
98-86026 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Regarding candidatures, I have been informed by the
Chairmen of the respective regional groups that for the two
vacant seats from among the African and Asian States there
are two endorsed candidates, namely, Malaysia and
Namibia.
As for the Latin American and Caribbean States,
Argentina is the endorsed candidate for one vacant seat.
From among the Western European and other States,
two vacant seats. The
there are three candidates for
candidates are Canada, Greece and the Netherlands.
I call on the representative of Swaziland on a point of
order.
Mr. Dlamini
(Swaziland): Perhaps members are
surprised that something unusual is happening today. This
relates to the circumstances. A renowned scholar and lover
of African literature by the name of Chinua Achebe has
said, “When you see a frog crossing your path, you must
know that something is behind its life”.
My delegation has asked to make a few remarks; in a
way, I am uttering a prayer on behalf of my delegation, that
as we elect the new members of the Security Council may
God the Almighty give them wisdom as they carry out the
laborious tasks that lie before them. I want also to alert
them to the obstacles they will meet when they get to the
Security Council. Experience during my time here dictates
that they should be vigilant lest their purposes and aims be
interrupted in the Security Council when they set about
discharging their duties.
it
First, as is well known, the Security Council is by no
means supreme vis-à-vis the General Assembly;
is
expected to be accountable to the Assembly; it is expected
to be transparent in its activities. Hence, its operations
should be well known to us all, including to non-members
of the Council. That, according to the Charter, should be
done by making the debate a public one at times. But to the
dismay of my delegation, we have time and again seen
meetings of the Security Council conducted behind what I
may be permitted to call an iron curtain, loosely known as
informal consultations.
When one follows matters, slowly and carefully, in the
corridors, one learns that
informal
consultations, but meetings on matters of significance, on
which we would all be as interested as members of the
Security Council to make our views known.
these are not
just
2
33rd plenary meeting
8 October 1998
in the consultations
My delegation challenges the practice of informal
informal
consultations. Normal practice dictates that
consultations
room should be
followed by open meetings in which we can all request to
participate in an open debate. Therefore, to my colleagues
and to the Member States who will be going to the
Security Council, I reiterate my preambular prayer that
God Almighty give them power and courage so that the
practice of informal consultations and informal meetings
may come to an end, and so that the culture of the United
Nations may be properly followed.
We are about to exercise our right to vote, and I call
upon those who will be voting, which includes my
delegation, to pray for the courage to vote for those who
will heed all our requests. We are about to give birth to
a child;
is expected to take
instructions from the parents. So it is for the Security
Council; it must take heed of the General Assembly,
which is the supreme body of the United Nations.
if the child is born,
it
The President (interpretation from Spanish): In
accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, we
shall proceed now to the election by secret ballot.
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now be
distributed.
I request representatives to use only those ballot
papers that have been distributed and to write on them the
names of the five States for which they wish to vote.
A ballot paper containing more names from the
relevant region than the number of seats assigned to it
will be declared invalid. Names of Member States on a
ballot paper which do not belong to that region will not
be counted.
the invitation of
At
(Czech Republic), Mr.
Mr. Chang (Republic of Korea) acted as tellers.
the President, Mr. Holíková
(Mexico) and
Juárez
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 10.40 a.m. and
resumed at 11.20 a.m.
The President (interpretation from Spanish): The
result of the voting is as follows:
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Group A — African and Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Malaysia
Namibia
Philippines
Senegal
Zimbabwe
Group B — Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Numbers of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Argentina
Chile
Group C — Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Numbers of Members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Canada
Netherlands
Greece
176
0
176
0
176
118
174
167
1
1
1
176
0
176
4
172
115
171
1
176
0
176
1
175
117
131
122
87
33rd plenary meeting
8 October 1998
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority,
the following States were elected members of the
Security Council
for a two-year term beginning
1 January 1999: Argentina, Canada, Malaysia,
Namibia and the Netherlands.
The President
(interpretation from Spanish):
I
congratulate the States which have been elected members
of the Security Council. I also thank the tellers for their
assistance in this important election.
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (a) of
agenda item 15.
Programme of work
The President
(interpretation from Spanish):
I
should like to draw the attention of the General Assembly
to document A/INF/53/3/Add.1, which covers the period
from 8 October
through 3 November. Attention of
members is drawn particularly to the change of schedule
on the consideration of agenda item 11, “Report of the
Security Council”. Instead of being taken up on Monday,
12 October, agenda item 11 will now be taken up on
Wednesday, 21 October.
Other than the items already cited in the previous
the
programme of work,
additional
document
A/INF/53/3/Add.1 will be open as of Friday, 9 October.
the lists of speakers for
items mentioned
in
The General Assembly, in due course, will be kept
informed of the dates for the consideration of other
agenda items as well as of any additions or changes.
The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.
3
