United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-third Session
30th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 6 October 1998, 3 p.m.
New York
A/53/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Opertti
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Uruguay)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 37
May I take it
there is no objection to the
proposal to hear a statement in plenary meeting by the
Observer of Switzerland on this item?
that
Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit
for Social Development
It was so decided.
Report of
the Preparatory Committee for the
Special Session of the General Assembly on the
Implementation of the Outcome of the World
Summit
for Social Development and Further
Initiatives (A/53/45)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/53/211)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/53/210)
Draft decision (A/53/45, para. 87)
I should like to inform members of
The President (interpretation from Spanish): Before
the
proceeding,
Assembly that
in a letter dated 30 September 1998
addressed to me, the Permanent Representative of Germany
to the United Nations, in his capacity as Chairman of the
Group of Western European and other States for the month
of September, requests that the General Assembly hear in
plenary meeting a statement by the Observer of Switzerland
on agenda item 37, “Implementation of the outcome of the
World Summit for Social Development”.
Given the importance attached to the issue under
discussion, it is proposed that the General Assembly should
take a decision on that request.
Mr. Wibisono (Indonesia): On behalf of the Group
of 77 and China, I have the honour to address this
plenary meeting of the General Assembly, which is
convened
entitled
“Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development”.
item 37,
agenda
to
consider
It is my distinct pleasure to begin by extending
congratulations to you, Mr. President, on behalf of the
Group, on your well-deserved election and to express our
readiness to work together with you and the other
members of the Bureau in successfully addressing the
many issues on the agenda of the fifty-third session.
Let me also express our appreciation to the
Secretary-General for the several reports he has issued on
this agenda item and for his efforts to substantively
achieve the goals set out in Copenhagen at the World
Summit for Social Development.
Social development is one of the most critical issues
of the day. It was, in fact, the great importance which the
international community attaches to social development
that prompted the convening of a summit-level meeting to
consider its myriad aspects and complexities and to devise
a common world strategy which would lead to a general
98-86003 (E)
This record contains the original text of speeches delivered in English and interpretations of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to original speeches only. They
should be incorporated in a copy of the record and be sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, within one month of the date of the meeting, to the Chief of the Verbatim
Reporting Service, Room C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a
consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
improvement in living conditions throughout the world.
And, while the World Summit did succeed in strengthening
resolve at the highest levels of government to find solutions
to the perennial questions of poverty, unemployment and
resolve into
social
genuine,
serious
problems and obstacles nevertheless persist.
substantive and meaningful change,
integration and in translating that
Three years have elapsed since Copenhagen. In two
years’ time the General Assembly will meet in a special
session to assess how far we have come and what
constraints have been encountered in follow-up activity. Yet
at
this point in time a discouraging trend is emerging
whereby the enthusiasm so vocally expressed at the Summit
is translating into little more than a superficial improvement
in the human condition. Not only has the international
community failed to move significantly forward since the
World Summit, but the awesome force of globalization,
which held such promise, is being squandered. It is not
being harnessed for a decisive assault on poverty and
unemployment and to end social exclusion, but rather is
becoming yet another venue to press the advantage of the
strong over the weak and to increase the gap between haves
and have-nots.
The international community is now experiencing a
slowdown in the growth of world output and trade, and
stands at the brink of an economic abyss. At the same time,
despite the pronouncements at the World Summit for Social
Development, greater emphasis has been placed on anti-
inflationary policies at the expense of those necessary for
full employment. Within such a global environment, the
goals of the World Summit for Social Development have
become even more difficult to attain, particularly for the
developing countries. It is therefore of great concern to the
Group of 77 and China that the achievement of sustainable
human development is becoming further removed from
reality.
the international community to support
Today, in the absence of any substantial effort on the
part of
its
commitments with financial resources and development
assistance, even the best efforts to eradicate poverty remain
seriously hobbled. Three years after the World Summit, I
am compelled to restate an old refrain: that a multilateral
effort for development which includes a serious effort
towards financing for development is urgently needed. In
this regard, we can find some encouragement in the two-
day high-level dialogue of the General Assembly, convened
last month, which contributed to an increased awareness
and understanding of the economic and social impact of
2
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
globalization and the need for international cooperation to
effectively address the emerging global situation.
The Group of 77 and China readily accepted that
globalization and market liberalization presented new and
considerable opportunities to enhance national wealth
equitably, to increase employment and to further integrate
global society. However, the concept of development as
a special part of the multilateral support system has been
replaced by the laissez-faire approach to the globalized
economy. And recent history has brought to life the risks
and challenges that come with following a single doctrine,
with a number of countries now experiencing economic
downturns and others plunging into devastating economic
crisis and recession.
The recent financial crisis that has wrought havoc in
the world clearly
Asia and reverberated throughout
illustrates the need for the international community to
strengthen its management role in the world economy.
We need to establish surveillance and regulatory
frameworks on short-term capital flows and trade in
the same time allowing for the
currencies, while at
liberalization of economies at
their own pace. On a
broader level, the current state of the global economy has
proved that the economic development and stability of
developing countries is in the long-term interests of the
more developed countries, and that
the international
community as a whole has a vested interest in the social
and economic well-being of all its members, not merely
a select few.
lesson
demands
learned which
The Group would therefore draw attention to one
important
further
consideration: that the social and economic development
programmes of the developing countries need to proceed
within the context of multilateral cooperation for
development. We need to return to the Summit
Programme of Action and approach critical development
issues on a sound and predictable basis. Concurrent with
our efforts to revive this process through such means as
the North-South dialogue, we also recognize the need for
the developing countries to broaden and intensify South-
South cooperation. Of great importance in this regard is
the Group of 77 initiative on a South summit, to be held
prior to the Millennium Assembly in the year 2000.
Turning to the institutional level, let me note that we
in the Group of 77 and China welcome the efforts that
have been made through the United Nations to forge an
international consensus which not only recognize existing
problems but seek agreement on how best to solve them.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
In this regard, we would like to commend the efforts that
have been made within the Organization to promote an
integrated and coordinated implementation and follow-up to
all of the major international conferences in the social,
economic and related fields. The activities of
the
Administrative Committee
on Coordination, which
established its thematic ad hoc inter-agency task forces, and
the work of the Commission for Social Development, the
Economic and Social Council and the newly created
Department of Economic and Social Affairs is noteworthy.
We are confident that these efforts will greatly contribute
to the success of the special session in the year 2000.
Let me add also that we support the efforts of the
Organization to formulate general guidelines and a common
framework for national
reporting. Certainly, national
capacities to monitor and evaluate the progress made in
implementing the Summit outcome must be enhanced.
Equally important is an accurate and ongoing assessment of
the global trends. The issuance by the Secretary-General of
the report on the world social situation in time for
consideration by the Preparatory Committee for the Special
Session is therefore necessary. The Group would also join
in requesting that
the appropriate documentation be
prepared by the Secretariat focusing on implementation of
the World Summit commitments, particularly in the light of
the current economic situation.
In closing, the Group of 77 and China would once
again urge their developed country partners to join with it
in genuine partnership based on mutual interests, common
benefits and equitably shared responsibilities. The time for
the international community to reduce poverty has long
since passed; it should not merely echo the many cries for
help. We in the Group will redouble our efforts for a
strengthened role for the United Nations in promoting
international
social
development, and, within our limited capacity, we will
strive to implement the Declaration and Programme of
Action. We will work within our means to undertake
additional concrete work to move towards the goals set at
Copenhagen.
cooperation
economic
and
for
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
the
associated with the European Union — Bulgaria,
Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania,
Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia — and the
associated country Cyprus, as well as the European Free
Trade Association member of the European Economic
Area — Iceland — align themselves with this statement.
I gladly take up the invitation just proffered by our
colleague from Indonesia to engage in a genuine
partnership, and in that regard let me comment briefly on
the agenda item before us.
the ultimate aim of development
The outcome of the Social Summit represents a
milestone in the process of defining social development
as an important component of sustainable development.
The Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action
proclaim that
is to
improve the quality of life of all people. The heads of
State or Government gathered in Copenhagen stated that
the goal of social integration should be a society for all in
which people have the right and the ability to participate
in decisions affecting their
lives. The Copenhagen
commitments place the individual human being at the
centre of development and ask for particular efforts to
empower people belonging to vulnerable groups in order
to maximize their capacities, resources and opportunities.
They enjoin Governments to ensure the equal enjoyment
of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all
women and men. The Social Summit recognized that
democracy and good governance are essential building
blocks
sustainable
development, prosperity and peace.
for meeting the objectives of
as
and
valid
remain
in Copenhagen
The commitments adopted by representatives of 186
States
as
comprehensive today as when they were agreed. The
European Union is fully committed to the implementation
of the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit. We welcome
the establishment of a preparatory process leading up to
the special session of the General Assembly in the year
2000, dedicated to an overall review and appraisal of the
implementation of the outcome of the Summit.
Mr. Sucharipa (Austria): I have already on an earlier
occasion had the opportunity to congratulate you,
Mr. President, on the assumption of your high office. I
reiterate today our pledge to work with you and all other
delegations for a successful outcome of this session of the
General Assembly.
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European
Union. The Central and Eastern European countries
We pledge our support for a constructive discussion
on these issues involving regional groups, States and
international organizations, as well as all other actors in
the field of social development,
to bring about a
meaningful outcome of this important event. We stress
that the participation of civil society in these debates,
including the preparatory process, is crucial to ensure that
an even broader range of views is heard. This will help
enrich our discussion. An open exchange of views on best
3
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
including of obstacles
practices and lessons learned,
encountered, will allow strategies to emerge on ways to
further implement the commitments and objectives agreed
upon in Copenhagen.
Comprehensive and topical information provided on a
voluntary basis by United Nations Member States on the
progress made in the implementation of the outcome of the
Copenhagen Summit — in addition to the information that
is already available within the United Nations system —
will be useful in this context. We are looking forward with
interest to the general guidelines concerning the structure
and common framework for national reporting.
The World Summit for Social Development was not
an isolated event. Its outcome fed into and drew upon the
targets, strategies and calls for action adopted by a great
number of other United Nations world conferences and
summits held in this decade. Taken together, the outcomes
of these global conferences constitute a comprehensive
development agenda with many cross-cutting themes. While
the first
the
conference commitments lies with Governments, the United
Nations system is an important instrument for helping them
meet this challenge.
the implementation of
responsibility for
and
qualitative
data,
indicators
benchmarks
the Bretton Woods
for
It is in this context that we wish to stress that both
and
quantitative
internationally comparable
are needed to
effectively monitor progress in the implementation of the
outcome of the major United Nations conferences and
summits, including the Social Summit. The European Union
notes with interest that initiatives aiming at the elaboration
of common indicators have been launched by, inter alia, the
United Nations,
the
and
Organization
Economic Cooperation
Development/Development Assistance Committee
and
interested non-governmental organizations. We welcome the
decision taken by the Economic and Social Council to
devote an informal meeting in 1999 to the issue of basic
indicators for the integrated and coordinated implementation
and follow-up of the major United Nations conferences and
summits in the economic, social and related fields. We are
convinced
better
coordination of the ongoing initiatives within and outside
the United Nations system.
this meeting will
institutions,
stimulate
that
The European Union also welcomes the decision taken
by the Economic and Social Council to dedicate the high-
level segment of its substantive session in 1999 to the role
of employment and work in poverty eradication:
the
4
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
empowerment and advancement of women. These issues
figure prominently on the Copenhagen agenda.
local, national
Some days ago, on 1 October, we witnessed the
official
launching of the International Year of Older
Persons, which will be observed in 1999. “Towards a
society for all ages” was chosen as the overarching theme
for this year in order to highlight the fact that aging is a
multigenerational experience. Preparations for this year
have been pushed forward with remarkable enthusiasm at
levels. The
the
organization
conferences,
workshops, networks and media strategies, as well as the
activities of the United Nations consultative group for the
International Year of Older Persons, have stimulated
interest and action in support of the year. The European
Union notes with satisfaction that a gender perspective is
increasingly integrated into the preparations of the year,
thus fostering and deepening our understanding of the
role, the rights and the needs of older women.
and international
committees,
national
of
The European Union holds the view that the fight
against poverty must be placed at the heart and in the
mainstream of international development cooperation. The
Union reaffirms its commitment to meeting the target of
reducing the proportion of the world’s population living
in extreme poverty by 50 per cent by 2015. We believe
that policies that aim at energizing the capacity of poor
women and men to shape the processes and decisions that
affect
their lives will eventually enable them to lift
themselves out of poverty. Poverty eradication strategies
have to give particular attention to the specific constraints
faced by women in exercising their rights, claiming
resources and gaining equal access to quality education,
health care and other basic social services. Furthermore,
we believe that the path to social, economic and cultural
progress is largely determined by the living conditions
that are offered to the young generation. Social impact
assessments should be undertaken in the design of all
policies to ensure that all people, in particular the poorest
and those with special needs — including children and
persons with disabilities — can fully participate and
benefit from them.
We believe that
in helping foster an environment
the support of the international
community both at the bilateral and multilateral levels is
essential
in which
Governments take the lead in assessing poverty situations
and developing national poverty eradication strategies and
programmes. The mobilization of financial resources for
poverty eradication, including from private as well as
from new and innovative sources, and a more determined
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
orientation of development cooperation to this goal need to
be fully explored. The European Union remains concerned
about
the declining trend in total official development
assistance. We recognize the continued importance of
official development assistance and reiterate that efforts
should be strengthened to achieve the agreed official
development assistance target of 0.7 per cent of gross
national product as soon as possible. We note the work that
countries have undertaken in developing the 20/20 concept,
and we are looking forward with interest to the outcome of
the Hanoi conference that will be held on this issue this
month.
The European Union maintains that an enterprising
and inclusive society needs to give all citizens the
opportunity to work and to contribute to broader economic
and social development. We consider social protection as a
productive factor and underline that economic reform has
to be linked to social dialogue in order
to enhance
understanding and acceptance by all actors concerned. In
keeping with the agreement reached at the Luxembourg
jobs summit in November 1997, all 15 member States of
the European Union submitted employment action plans to
the Cardiff European Council in June this year. The new
employment strategies focus on the following policy areas:
enhancement of the employability of the active population,
in particular of the young, the long-term unemployed and
women; development of skills,
training and lifelong
learning; improvement of conditions for small and medium-
sized enterprises and the self-employed; and,
finally,
strengthening the policies for equal opportunities between
women and men as well as for people with disabilities.
The first ever World Conference of Ministers
Responsible for Youth was convened at the invitation of the
Government of Portugal and organized in cooperation with
the United Nations in Lisbon last August. Representatives
of some 140 countries, among them more than a hundred
Ministers, discussed the broad range of youth-related issues,
thereby intensifying cooperation between them. The
Conference was preceded by the third session of the World
Youth Forum of the United Nations System, which took
place in Braga. This youth gathering was organized by the
United Nations in partnership with the Portuguese National
Youth Council. Both Conferences provided contributions to
the further implementation of the World Programme of
Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond.
With these and many similar activities the European
Union and its member States wish to underscore their
ongoing strong commitment
to the results achieved in
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
Copenhagen three years ago and to their continued
validity for the benefit of all humankind.
the 1995 World Summit
Mr. Shen Guofang (China) (interpretation from
for Social
Chinese): At
Development leaders of various countries made solemn
commitments with regard to the goals
social
development and measures to reach such goals. Over the
past three years since then, the international community
has made great efforts and achieved positive progress in
effectively implementing the outcome of the Summit.
This is very heartening indeed.
for
The United Nations has now started preparations for
the special session of the General Assembly on the
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development and further initiatives, to be held in
the year 2000. At the special session achievements made
and lessons learned in the five years since 1995 will be
reviewed, and plans will be made for social development
in the new century. The Chinese delegation would like to
make the following observations in this connection.
First, social development strategies reflecting the
specific characteristics and national conditions of the
country concerned should be implemented. Countries
differ in their economic bases as well as their political
systems and cultural traditions. The priorities of their
social development and the difficulties they face vary
even more. Therefore, we believe that in identifying the
line of thought, methods and specific measures for social
development countries should seek to implement effective
social development strategies and plans that fit
their
national conditions.
Secondly,
international
cooperation should be
strengthened. Developed countries should contribute even
more to the promotion of the global social development
process. One of the three main themes of the Summit was
the eradication of poverty. This is also a priority issue
facing the vast number of developing countries. It is true
that national Governments should shoulder the main
responsibilities in realizing the goals of the Summit, but
international cooperation and support are crucial
to
helping the developing countries to wipe out poverty and
speed up their social development.
Thirdly, the role of the United Nations, as well as of
other international and regional organizations, should be
strengthened. Since the beginning of the 1990s a number
of
of
development have been convened within the United
international
conferences
on
the
question
5
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Nations system. The United Nations should play a central
and coordinating role in implementing the follow-up
activities. Specifically, the United Nations should mobilize
and pool financial resources and promote technological
cooperation. If
the United Nations can do something
concrete in these fields, that will be the most precious
contribution to the implementation of the commitments
made at the Summit.
China is a developing country with a population of 1.2
billion. It is faced with such formidable tasks as eliminating
poverty, creating jobs and promoting social development.
Since 1995 the Chinese Government has made tremendous
efforts in implementing the commitments made at
the
Summit.
The Chinese Government has always made the
elimination of poverty an important part of its programme
for national economic and social development. The central
Government strives to ensure resources input
into this
endeavour by earmarking funds and preferential loans for
these areas every year. After years of untiring efforts,
China’s poverty-stricken population had been reduced from
80 million at the beginning of the 1990s to 50 million at
the end of 1997. This summer China was hit by a huge
flood, unparalleled in the past hundred years. A total of
21.2 million hectares of land was flooded and 223 million
people were affected by the flood, which caused a direct
economic loss of over $20 billion dollars. This has made
our poverty relief task even more formidable.
China is rich in labour resources. Due to the reform of
State-owned enterprises and a major readjustment of the
industrial mix in the transition from a planned economy to
a socialist market economy, China is now facing severe
challenges in the area of employment, which has been
aggravated by the Asian financial crisis. The increasing
numbers of laid off and unemployed workers are putting
more pressure on the issue of employment. By the end of
1997, 12 million factory workers had been laid off. The
re-employment of unemployed and laid off workers has
become a hindrance to China’s economic development. To
solve this problem, the Chinese Government launched the
“Re-employment Project”, which calls upon enterprises,
jobless individuals themselves and society to mobilize, to
look for jobs and to create jobs. At the same time, a large
number of new jobs are being created by building more
infrastructure, expanding service industry, opening up small
and medium-sized enterprises and developing community
services. The Chinese Government is determined to try
every means to keep the unemployment rate in the urban
areas at around 3.5 per cent this year.
6
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
China is a multi-ethnic country. Enhancing social
integration and promoting ethnic unity are crucial
to
social stability and social development. For ethnic
minority areas the Chinese Government has instituted a
regional autonomy system. It also gives vigorous support
to the economic development of these regions, with a
view to realizing the common progress of the whole of
society. The Chinese Government also pays much
attention to the livelihood and well-being of vulnerable
groups, such as the young, the elderly and the disabled.
It has formulated a series of policies and laws to protect
their rights and interests, encouraging and helping them
to participate in social life and share society’s material
and cultural achievements.
With the twenty-first century just around the corner,
humanity is still faced with quite a number of difficulties
and has a long way to go on the road to social
development. The United Nations can play a more active
and important role in this connection. Countries should
strengthen their exchange and cooperation in the social
development field. We should draw on past experience
and take action to further promote sustained development
around the globe.
Ms. Arystanbekova (Kazakhstan): The World
Summit
for Social Development was an important
milestone in the history of the world community and was
universally acknowledged as a forum which made a major
contribution to solving the acute social problems that face
mankind. At the same time, the ways proposed to solve
these
improvement,
rationalization and adjustment to the real world economic
situation.
problems
require
further
It is therefore important, in our view, to further
improve the ways of
implementing the obligations
assumed by Governments, stimulating active international
and regional cooperation and disseminating positive
experiences as
securing their
implementation.
important means of
The delegation of Kazakhstan wishes to express its
gratitude to the Secretary-General for the report he has
submitted on the agenda item under consideration today.
It contains new information on the implementation of the
Summit’s
organs,
including the Preparatory Committee for the special
session of the General Assembly, the Commission for
Social Development and the Economic and Social
Council.
intergovernmental
decisions
by
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Moreover, while this information is important and
useful from the standpoint of choosing optimal ways to
solve existing problems, there is an urgent need for further,
broader and more effective action at all levels to eliminate
poverty, unemployment and social disintegration. The task
is to come up with more effective and concrete initiatives
for solving the problems identified at Copenhagen.
by
the Administrative Committee
The delegation of Kazakhstan notes with satisfaction
the activity of the three ad hoc inter-agency task forces
established
on
Coordination to develop a coordinated approach to follow-
up of the global United Nations conferences, as well as the
steady and comprehensive implementation at the country
level of the policy recommendations adopted at
these
conferences and at the Copenhagen Summit. Undoubtedly,
national mechanisms and structures will, in the future, have
to take due account of the work of these groups, which
have given additional impetus to activities to implement the
decisions of the Summit.
I
should also like to emphasize the important
coordinating role assigned in this respect to the newly
established Department of Economic and Social Affairs and
its Division for Social Policy and Development. We, for
our part, hope for fruitful cooperation with them in terms
of the participation of national experts in the work of the
seminars and workshops planned by the United Nations and
their support for research projects, which will undoubtedly
contribute to identifying the existing obstacles and methods
of overcoming them more effectively in order to attain the
goals of Copenhagen.
the work of
In our view,
the intergovernmental
institutions, programmes and funds of the United Nations
and its regional commissions, as well as of the international
financial institutions, is highly commendable. Acting in
accordance with their mandates,
they have made an
appreciable
productive
employment, combating poverty, incorporating the gender
element
into development programmes, conducting the
experimental phase of the United Nations Development
Assistance Framework, developing guidelines and initiatives
with respect to social capital, and so on.
contribution
to
promoting
Also noteworthy are the positive role of the United
Nations in promoting the socio-economic development of
the Central Asian region and, in particular, the development
by the Economic Commission for Europe and the Economic
and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific of the
special programme for the economies of Central Asia. The
purpose of this programme is to assist the States of the
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
region in intensifying their mutual cooperation and
promoting economic growth and integration into the
economies of the European and Asian countries.
joint
efforts of
the World Summit
Yet another concrete step in the implementation of
the decisions of
for Social
Development was the holding in Almaty in July this year,
through the
the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of
Kazakhstan, of the regional conference “Central Asia
2010: Economic and Social Development Prospects”. The
main purpose of the conference was to assess the progress
of the reforms and identify the main problems and tasks
of the countries with transition economies, including the
eradication of poverty.
Kazakhstan is committed to the ideas of renewal and
is carrying out radical economic transformations aimed
above all at raising the standard of living of its people.
The attainment of the goals of the World Summit for
Social Development
in Kazakhstan depends on how
effectively and consistently these transformations will be
implemented in the future.
this year,
On 30 September
the President of
Kazakhstan, Mr. Nazarbaev, put forward a comprehensive
programme of democratization, covering such important
areas as elections, political parties, Parliament, civil
society, the judicial system, the status of women and the
mass media. Serious steps will be taken to resolve acute
social problems, combat corruption and optimize the
national administration. All of these measures are aimed
at further protecting and guaranteeing the rights and
freedoms of every citizen of our multi-ethnic society.
One of the main tasks Kazakhstan faces today is to
create a broad and reliable system of protection for the
economic system and the socio-economic health of
Kazakhstan’s population.
In accordance with the
programme, an Economic Policy Council has been set up
on a permanent basis to agree on policy measures and
respond promptly to any turn of events in the foreign
countries affected by the economic crisis and in
Kazakhstan itself so as to protect the banking system,
economic agents, consumers and the economy as a whole
from harm.
The Government of Kazakhstan has also developed
new approaches to demarcating the budgetary sphere and
the entrepreneurial sector, drawing up and presenting a
more transparent programme budget, and reforming social
welfare mechanisms and new schemes for financing
7
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
education and health care. A broad range of measures has
been outlined, aimed at
increasing employment and
reducing unemployment levels.
The intention is to direct the resources of the State to
programmes that promote economic growth and directly
benefit
the population in such areas as health care,
education and vocational training. To ensure that the goals
set are attained and the programmes adopted implemented
in a coordinated manner, there are plans to organize the
Government of the Republic on a better structured basis
and to clarify the areas of activity and spheres of
responsibility of its component parts, with compulsory
subsequent accountability.
We are confident that these and other steps being
taken in the context of the broad socio-economic and
political reforms being conducted by the Government of
Kazakhstan in the light of the recommendations of the
World Summit for Social Development will yield positive
results. We hope that these results will be useful to the
work of the Preparatory Committee for the Special Session
of the General Assembly on the Implementation of the
Outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and
Further Initiatives.
Ms. Morgan-Moss (Panama) (interpretation from
Spanish): It is an honour for the delegation of Panama, in
its capacity as coordinator of the Rio Group, to make this
statement on agenda item 37, “Implementation of the
outcome of the World Summit for Social Development”.
First of all, the Rio Group would like to thank the
Secretary-General and the relevant offices of the Secretariat
for the note and the report presented on this subject,
contained in documents A/53/210 and A/53/211. These
documents will serve as a guide and will be very useful in
our work.
forum their commitment
The States members of the Rio Group wish to reaffirm
once again in this
to the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted
at the World Summit for Social Development and endorsed,
in General Assembly resolution 50/161 of 22 December
1995, as well as the importance they attach to the subject
of social development in all its aspects.
This commitment has been actively undertaken as a
matter of priority by the Rio Group. We are able to state
with satisfaction that in 1995 the Group adopted the Buenos
Aires Declaration on the implementation of the outcome of
8
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
the World Summit for Social Development, aimed at the
regional implementation of the Copenhagen commitments.
The meetings of the heads of State or Government
of the Rio Group, held in Bolivia and Paraguay in 1996
and 1997, respectively, reaffirmed regional determination
to eradicate poverty and the conviction that a sustained
process of
is
fundamental for democratic stability and improvements in
the population’s standards of living.
and social development
economic
Similarly, at the last meeting of the heads of State or
Government of the Rio Group, held in Panama on 4 and
5 September 1998, the Group emphasized that political
and economic progress in our region must be reflected in
a lessening of social inequality. It also expressed the
conviction that productive
transformation will be
sustainable over time only if we achieve higher levels of
equity.
In addition to making a political commitment to this
item, Latin America has defined in the São Paolo
Consensus concrete actions to achieve the objectives set
forth in the Declaration and Programme of Action of the
Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development. In
resolution 52/25, the General Assembly welcomed the
Consensus, to which the Rio Group reiterates its full
support and adherence.
We also welcome the results of the thirty-sixth
session of the Commission for Social Development,
whose agreed conclusions on the item, on “promoting of
social integration and participation of all people, including
disadvantaged and vulnerable groups and persons”, must
be used as a guide by Governments to adopt measures at
the local, national, regional and international levels in the
area of
the mediation of
responsible Governments.
social promotion, under
Mr. Mra (Myanmar), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The Rio Group takes this opportunity to thank the
Chairman of the Commission for Social Development,
Mr. Aurelio Fernández, for the important and professional
job he has done this year, which has made it possible for
the Commission to perform its work efficiently and in
new ways. The Rio Group looks forward with optimism
to the thirty-seventh session of the Commission. The
items “Social services for all” and “Initiation of the
overall review of the implementation of the outcome of
the Summit” will be of great importance in the review of
the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action,
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
planned for the year 2000. The latter item is particularly
important because it defines areas in which new initiatives
should be taken to promote the implementation of the
Copenhagen agreements.
full support
We give our
the
to the work of
Preparatory Committee for the special session of
the
General Assembly on the implementation of the outcome of
the World Summit for Social Development and further
initiatives. The Rio Group believes that the main objectives
to be pursued during the preparatory process and in the
year 2000 were clearly established at the first meeting of
the
committee, which was presided over by the
representative of a member State of our Group. Particularly
important is the decision of the preparatory committee that
the special
session will have the primary tasks of
reaffirming the commitments agreed on at Copenhagen and
of recommending concrete action to be taken at the national
and international levels that will make possible the full
implementation of the commitments entered into at the
Social Summit. In this regard, the members of the Rio
Group will devote all their efforts and creativity to placing
individuals and people at the heart of development.
In that context, we attach special
importance to
participation by civil society, including non-governmental
organizations and the private sector, both in the preparatory
process and at the special session of the General Assembly
in the year 2000. The contribution of these sectors will be
vital if the conclusions of the review process are to have a
high degree of realism.
Similarly, the Rio Group takes note of the generous
offer of the Government of Switzerland to host, in Geneva,
the special session of
the General Assembly on the
implementation of the outcome of the Social Summit and
the review of further initiatives in the year 2000. We hope
we will be able to contribute to the reaching of a consensus
so that the Assembly will be able to adopt a decision in this
regard.
Today, the world is in a difficult period characterized
by a number of prominent factors, both positive and
negative, whose coexistence, naturally, is confusing to the
average citizen. For that reason, all Governments must
make all efforts necessary to restore tranquillity to its
people and enable them to create a more just and equitable
society without any kind of social exclusions. The Rio
Group is prepared to commit all its efforts to this task,
which requires commitment,
imagination, unity and
idealism.
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
Ms. Montoya (United States of America): I would
like first to review briefly what the United States has
accomplished to achieve the objectives
the
Copenhagen Summit: alleviating poverty, creating jobs
and effecting social integration. I will then concentrate my
remarks on our views on the challenges to our work in
the future.
set at
The United States is committed to the goals of the
Copenhagen Summit of 1995. We have made substantial
progress to strengthen the family unit by initiating
programmes to connect fathers to children, and to develop
work skills to reduce dependency with welfare-to-work
projects. We have increased education funding with
federal investments and have endeavoured to set new
educational standards. We have enhanced our health care
policies to reduce infant mortality and to establish
indicators of child well-being. We have adopted policies
to renew our communities and to reduce crime with such
innovative projects as neighbourhood development grants.
and
international
Our Government has worked closely with various
domestic
non-governmental
organizations to promote civil society, create a social
atmosphere of tolerance and compassion and integrate
into our communities those who have been marginalized
because of their race, gender, age or physical disability.
United States Government policies have resulted in
expanding employment and in reforming the social
welfare systems in our country. The progress in these two
areas has contributed substantially to raising the living
standards of ordinary American citizens.
According to the most recent United States Census
Bureau report,
the typical
American household rose at twice the rate of inflation,
and the percentage of people in poverty declined.
in 1997 the income of
We still need to ensure that all members of our
society participate in and enjoy the benefits of this
economic growth. We are endeavouring to create a more
equitable social system to include minorities, women,
youth, the elderly and people with disabilities. We have
increased the minimum wage and are addressing the issue
of falling real wages in some sectors of our economy. We
have undertaken health insurance reform to increase the
welfare of working individuals and families.
I would now like to present our views on the future
challenges. Since the Copenhagen Summit, the objective
of the United States has remained the same: to work
9
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
the eradication of extreme poverty through
towards
sustainable development. This means, of course, economic
growth and investment
in social development while
respecting the environment. Respect for human rights, the
protection of children and the empowerment of women are
essential to that end.
One of the most serious challenges facing us continues
to be that of living up to the Copenhagen commitment to
place people at the centre of development in a globalized
economy.
As we work together to overcome the current financial
crisis, we cannot neglect social development. While
economies adjust, readjust and grow, Governments and
international organizations must accord high priority to
identifying policies which hurt the poor. Public policies
must enhance people’s lives, increase their earning power
and protect the most vulnerable from the negative impact of
essential adjustments with well-targeted safety nets.
When we review our work towards achieving the
Copenhagen objectives, we must place priority on important
social issues such as family, education, health, safety and
crime. We believe good governance is the key to achieving
these objectives.
Governance is a critical
international as well as national
issue that needs to be
addressed at
levels.
Democratic elections, the rule of law and transparency in
political processes are the necessary conditions for the
governed to have a say in government. We believe that an
active civil society constitutes an important part of good
governance. Civil
to
safeguarding civil, political, economic, social, and cultural
rights. A vibrant civil society should include the social and
economic groupings that represent the society’s interests.
society will
also
contribute
Another key element of our work towards achieving
the Copenhagen objectives is education. Rapid advances in
technology have placed a premium on new skills, new
knowledge and, above all, the ability to adapt and learn.
We must invest more in educating our children so they will
have the basic training to keep up with these advances. We
must also encourage working people to engage in
continuous training to find new and better paying jobs, so
they can earn a living wage. Governments and the private
sector play important roles in accomplishing these goals.
We believe that the worst forms of poverty should be
eliminated from the face of the earth by early in the next
century. We must pay great attention to problems of severe
10
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
malnutrition, unsafe drinking water and inadequate levels
of sanitation and health care, including family planning
and reproductive health care.
Despite the recent financial crises, the developing
world has made great strides in reducing the worst
symptoms of poverty: infant mortality, illiteracy, disease
and starvation. Much, of course, remains to be achieved.
We must pay particular attention to women. We
must recognize that women perform a disproportionate
share of “unwaged” labour, such as child-rearing and
family farming. We must make sure that their labour, is
valued, that they have equal access to essential services
such as education and health care and that they participate
fully in the political, economic and social life of their
communities.
We must provide equal opportunities for girls to
receive an education,
to participate in all aspects of
society and to achieve success in any endeavour they
choose. No doors should be closed to anyone.
We must also pay attention to the impact of
globalization on older persons and on the disabled. We
need to find ways to expand their participation in the
process of globalization and to prevent them from falling
victim to the new global trends.
Today, globalization has brought opportunities as
well as challenges to the world. We must make solid
progress on the important social issues I have outlined in
order to take advantage of the opportunities to achieve
sustainable social and economic development.
Finally, as we look towards meeting in Geneva in
mid-2000 for the five-year review of the World Summit
for Social Development, Member States and non-
governmental organizations must recommit themselves to
a global effort to achieve the goals set in Copenhagen.
Mr. Lee See-young (Republic of Korea): The 1995
World Summit for Social Development presented the
international community with a unique opportunity to
reformulate the concept of development. Human dignity
and welfare have been integrated into the idea of
development as its major components. Indeed, the Summit
has served as a catalyst
in moving the international
community towards human-centred development.
Since the Summit, Governments,
international
organizations, and non-governmental organizations have
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
endeavoured to implement the commitments agreed upon in
Copenhagen. Thus far, we have seen a number of positive
outcomes and activities in this important area, with the ever
growing involvement of civil society and the private sector
at national, regional and international levels.
While a great deal more remains to be done,
unfortunately the international economic crisis has struck
the world economy, making our endeavours even harder. It
has considerably undermined the political will and ability
of many Governments to carry out their commitments in
this field.
the unemployed,
low-income families,
It is particularly regrettable that the hardest hit by the
current crisis are the most vulnerable segments of
populations:
the
elderly, women and children. Without proper social safety
nets in place, human suffering can reach devastating levels.
A more daunting aspect of this crisis is the real danger that
the progress many of
these countries have so far
accomplished in poverty reduction could be undone. Any
economic readjustment programme of the Governments
affected by the current crisis should address the problems
of poverty, unemployment and social disintegration.
Moreover, long-term development objectives must never be
forgotten.
Under these circumstances, it has become all the more
important for the international community to reaffirm its
strong will and determination to fulfil the objectives of the
Social Summit. My delegation therefore appreciates this
opportunity to address the agenda item under discussion
today.
Allow me to share, in this context, the Republic of
Korea’s experiences in its process of social development
over the past four decades.
the
of
our
very
Since
beginning
economic
development, in the 1960s and 1970s, my Government has
attached great importance to poverty eradication. A great
deal of investment was put into building infrastructure,
creating labour-intensive projects, promoting export-oriented
industries and providing education. In the 1980s the focus
was on the creation of high-quality jobs. As a result of
these successive policies, the Republic of Korea was able
to achieve an unprecedented level of economic growth in a
very short period of time.
In this process, however, intrinsic weaknesses became
evident in Korea’s economic and social structure, which
contributed to an increasing desire for a more equitable
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
society and a more representative political system. The
1990s therefore augured the introduction of policies
oriented to greater social justice and social integration.
Unfortunately, it was precisely when the benefits of these
social integration policies began to emerge that the recent
financial crisis hit the Republic of Korea. Indeed, we are
now faced with large-scale lay-offs, negative economic
growth for the first time, after three decades of sustained
growth at an average rate of 7 per cent per annum, and a
decrease of per capita income due to the sharp increase of
the foreign exchange rate.
Although the current crisis has caused unprecedented
economic difficulties, my Government is committed to
continuing to strengthen the social safety net. In this
connection, my Government has opted to run a budget
deficit, for the first time in many years, to provide the
needed funds for consolidating the social security system.
With these financial means at
its disposal, my
Government has
reinforced its welfare policy and
unemployment assistance to vulnerable groups. A revised
Presidential Decree of Employment Insurance, beginning
1 October 1998, is meant to subject all workplaces to the
application
the
finalization of the Enforcement Decree on Employment
Insurance will permit employers who keep their workers
during the structural reform process to receive subsidies
for one year.
insurance. Also,
employment
of
the
For
support
low-income
unemployed,
livelihood
protection is assured by governmental
for
subsistence costs, tuition assistance and medical expenses.
Income support is provided with the goal of improving
the self-help abilities of the unemployed. At the local
to alleviate the sufferings of the
level,
unemployed, provincial governments
are providing
temporary jobs to those who wish to earn wages until a
permanent job is obtained.
in an effort
The Government has also been providing various
vocational training programmes for unemployed workers
and for workers suffering from job insecurity. We expect
that these programmes will allow participants not only to
find new jobs, but also to prepare themselves for more
sophisticated jobs.
In the area of unemployment, President Kim
Dae-jung initiated substantive negotiations among the
representatives of
labour, business and Government,
which enabled them to launch the first phase of the
Tripartite Commission in January this year. The principal
11
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
objective of this Commission was to work out an agreement
which would govern the labour-business relationship in the
months to come, with a view to fairly sharing the burden of
the economic crisis. The most significant development in
this process is that, for the first time in Korea’s trade union
history, all labour movements are involved in the current
negotiations — a significant step forward towards economic
recovery and social integration. Through the Commission,
labour,
committed
themselves to the faithful implementation of all aspects of
economic programmes
International
Monetary Fund (IMF) reform package. The second phase
of the Tripartite Commission’s work was set in motion in
June. The major economic actors in the Commission will
continue to have close consultations, with a view to finding
a consensus approach and integrating public opinion in the
common effort to surmount the economic crisis.
and Government
included in the
business
have
social development. While
Globalization has become the most important socio-
economic phenomenon of this generation. It has permitted
many economies to thrive over the past decades, opening
doors of opportunity. However, globalization has proved to
have its shortcomings and weaknesses, particularly in the
area of
an increasingly
globalized world has brought many developing countries
into the economic mainstream,
the least developed
countries, including many sub-Saharan African countries,
have been further marginalized. In addition,
the recent
Asian financial crisis has made it all too clear that rapid
globalization, without proper management, could seriously
erode economies and their social
integration processes.
Indeed, the world needs to respond collectively to maximize
its benefits and minimize its risks. As was agreed at the
recent high-level dialogue on the impact of globalization, a
new global partnership must be established, ensuring the
more active participation of the developing world. In this
global partnership, the United Nations is expected to play
a leading role in promoting a constructive dialogue among
all the actors concerned on the effect of globalization,
particularly in the field of social development.
The key philosophy long espoused by President Kim
Dae-jung is that democracy and free market principles are
inseparable. Based upon such a philosophy, the Government
of the Republic of Korea will continue to make determined
efforts for accelerated socio-economic reform and further
social integration in the struggle to overcome the current
economic difficulties and, in the long run, to realize a truly
democratic, market-oriented and socially secure economy.
In the meantime, we remain actively committed to
supporting the United Nations and the international
community in their common endeavour to work towards
12
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
poverty eradication and social justice. In this connection,
the Assembly can be assured of the full support and
active participation of the Korean Government in the
preparatory work for the success of the special session of
the General Assembly on social development in the year
2000.
Mr. Larraín (Chile) (interpretation from Spanish):
It is an honour and a pleasure to address the General
Assembly on the implementation of the outcome of the
World Summit for Social Development, on behalf of the
countries of
the Southern Cone Common Market
(MERCOSUR) and associated countries: Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Bolivia and Chile.
My comments are intended to supplement
the
excellent statements on this subject made by Indonesia on
behalf of the Group of 77, and by Panama, on behalf of
the Rio Group.
The international community is anxiously witnessing
turbulence in the financial markets that is threatening to
produce a global economic recession and consequent
social crisis. Globalization is today acknowledged as a
source of risk. However, not very long ago it was
celebrated as a source of opportunity for all nations,
particularly the smallest. Globalization and liberalization
have certainly shown themselves to be realities that bring
both benefits and risks to which all nations and the
international community must know how to react, mainly
so that we can take advantage of market forces for
everyone’s
forget
that
development must be at the service of individuals.
benefit. We must
never
from the
In order to deal with the insecurity of the present
global economic and social situation, we must derive
consensus
strength
represented
Social
Development. Today more than ever we must reaffirm the
political commitment reflected in the Declaration and
Programme of Action endorsed by the Summit.
international
the World
great
by
Summit
for
The Copenhagen commitments have been described
as a new social contract at the global level because they
place the individual at the centre of development. This is
a fair assessment of the value of the Social Summit.
Today we can add that, within the cycle of United
Nations economic and social conferences in the 1990s, it
represents the consensus of the international community
on how best to respond to the risks of globalization and
channel
the dynamic forces of globalization for the
benefit of everyone.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
individuals. The commitment of
In this sense, it is important to state that the Summit
commitments are the commitments of all — both developed
and developing countries. The social problems of poverty,
exclusion and unemployment are universal. We therefore all
committed ourselves in Copenhagen to put the economy at
the service of
the
developed world is to stand by the developing world, but
also to implement the Summit commitments in its own
societies, just as the developing countries bound themselves
to do the same in theirs. One of the strengths of the Social
Summit is that there is not a single North and a single
South. The southern part of the North counts and the
northern part of the South also counts in this new social
contract.
The Preparatory Committee for the special session in
the year 2000, Copenhagen +5, a Committee which Chile
is proud to chair, recently adopted as its primary objective
to reaffirm and not to renegotiate what was agreed at the
Social Summit. This is a fundamental starting point for the
Committee, which our countries firmly support, because the
Social Summit agreements are an appropriate response by
the international community to globalization.
on
proceeds
the
The Preparatory Committee
five cannot be a
assumption that Copenhagen plus
discussion about concepts or negotiation regarding texts. It
must be about action that can be taken at the national,
regional or global level to ensure that the commitments of
our Heads of State and Government in 1995 become a
reality in the lives of nations and individuals to eradicate
poverty, create full employment and prevent
social
marginalization. Today, our job is to promote the full and
faithful implementation of the Copenhagen commitments,
evaluating the progress made and the difficulties to be
overcome at all
levels — local, national, regional and
international.
The
countries of MERCOSUR and associated
countries give their complete support to the decision of the
Preparatory Committee that the prime aim of Copenhagen
+5 must be to identify and promote new initiatives and
action to ensure that the Social Summit commitments are
implemented. At the same time, we think it appropriate that
this task be focused on the 10 commitments of
the
Copenhagen Declaration.
Similarly, we think that
to achieve a successful
General Assembly session able to launch concrete new
initiatives, it must be open to all relevant actors. It must
have the capacity to stimulate the imagination and sense of
collective responsibility of all those active in the area of
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
social development — parliaments, political parties,
organizations of civil society, religious leaders, financial
institutions, local authorities and the media. Ideally, this
special session of the General Assembly will result in
these actors’ also taking initiatives within their own fields
of action to complement and reinforce the measures we
adopt during the special session.
The Commission for Social Development will begin
its work this year looking forward to the special session
in the year 2000, seeking the best way to carry out its
fundamental
reports and
identifying sectors where new initiatives are necessary in
order
to ensure compliance with the Copenhagen
commitments. In this task our delegations will give it
their full support.
task of examining national
This is not the time to go into the details of how
best to proceed with preparations for the special session.
This will be discussed at the first substantive meeting of
the Preparatory Committee in May, but we wish to
emphasize that among the matters to be decided two are
fundamental: first, the criteria regarding promoting and
identifying new actions and initiatives and how best to
move forward in compliance with the 10 Copenhagen
commitments; and, secondly, the participation of civil
society and non-governmental organizations at the special
session. We are confident
these matters will be
resolved by consensus.
that
Finally, it must be stressed that this Assembly has a
responsibility to decide on the place and date for the
special session, Copenhagen +5. In our opinion, these are
decisions that require the maximum consensus, and they
must be adopted on the basis of a single criterion: the
place and date which will ensure its greatest success.
the location deserves
We believe that the Swiss Government’s generous
serious
offer of Geneva as
consideration,
inter alia because Geneva gives the
possibility that Copenhagen +5 will have an impact that
might be lacking at Headquarters in New York, where so
many other events will take place in the year 2000. The
nature of Geneva as an important United Nations centre
is another factor that should be taken into account.
Mr. Rastam (Malaysia): My delegation wishes to
associate itself with the statement made earlier by the
representative of Indonesia on behalf of the Group of 77
and China. I also wish to express my delegation’s sincere
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his reports on
this agenda item.
13
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Three core issues were deliberated upon at the 1995
World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen: the
enhancement of social integration, particularly of the more
disadvantaged and marginalized groups; the alleviation and
reduction of poverty; and the expansion of productive
employment. The participating Governments committed
themselves to implementing the Copenhagen Declaration
and Programme of Action for social development. Within
two years the special session to review the implementation
of those commitments will be held. We are happy to note
that preparations have begun for the review, including the
finalization of a world poverty report by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP). While not wishing to
prejudge what the atmosphere will be like in the year 2000,
my delegation sincerely hopes that the enthusiasm and
optimism prevailing at Copenhagen will still be maintained
at the special session. Malaysia pledges its full cooperation
in ensuring the session’s success.
The subject which we are deliberating upon today is
of paramount
importance not only to the developing
countries, but also to the developed nations. The issues
require continuous dialogue and cooperation. Three years
after the Summit the implementation and follow-up to the
commitments made in Copenhagen remain unsatisfactory.
The human condition has barely improved in many parts of
the world. Today there are more than 1.3 billion people still
living in abject poverty, struggling to survive on less than
a dollar a day. The global unemployment rate has not
shown any sign of significant
Indeed,
unemployment may have been on the increase quite
significantly in recent months, given the effects of
economic slowdown, political turmoil and unprecedented
natural disasters experienced by many developing countries.
improvement.
Poverty is still pervasive in the developing countries.
This grim situation has been further exacerbated by the
unexpected financial crisis and the economic recession
currently facing a number of these countries. Countries that
until one year ago had progressed well, maintaining
respectable rates of growth and instituting sound economic
and social policies and programmes, are now seeing their
hard-earned
devalued
currencies, depleted capital markets, erosion of investor
confidence and economic and social regression arising from
unbridled market activities, including those of currency
speculators. Those Governments are now increasingly hard
pressed to meet their social obligations. Their capacity to
fulfil their commitments to the Copenhagen Declaration and
Programme of Action, unfortunately, has been affected in
many ways.
achievements
undermined
by
14
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
In view of
the current situation,
international
solidarity and cooperation are most urgently required. The
negative impact of globalization and market liberalization
is being increasingly felt worldwide. The world may be
teetering on the edge of a global recession. If no serious
measures are taken by all concerned, we may even slide
into a global depression. A serious effort has to be made,
first, to review and restructure the international financial
architecture and,
the various
commitments already made, through a greater flow of
resources and development assistance. The
financial
relevant
issues could be addressed appropriately in
ongoing discussions at the United Nations and within the
Bretton Woods institutions, as well as in the context of an
international conference on financing for development.
My delegation welcomes the discussions currently being
held in Washington.
to support
secondly,
In order to achieve the goals of social development,
of which the eradication of poverty is a central element,
the international community has to work seriously
towards ensuring that much needed resources can be
channelled to the development efforts of the developing
countries. The developed countries should make every
effort to meet the target of allocating 0.7 per cent of their
gross national product to official development assistance.
The efforts of many developing countries, especially
heavily indebted poor countries, in uplifting the quality of
life of their peoples, are still largely hampered by their
external debt burden. External debt servicing eats away at
meagre resources which could otherwise be used to cater
for urgent needs such as infrastructure development, basic
services, education and health. Therefore, there is an
urgent need for new financial flows to be channelled to
debtor developing countries through concessional financial
assistance and foreign investments.
and
new,
create
productive
Sound policies and strategies are needed to reduce
poverty
employment
opportunities. This task can never be handled single-
handedly by Governments alone. Non-governmental
organizations and the private sector can make a positive
contribution through partnership with Governments at
both the national and the international levels. Their efforts
would indeed complement the efforts of Governments in
meeting
and
obligations.
the necessary
responsibilities
social
My delegation welcomes the efforts made by the
coordinated
Secretariat
implementation of the outcomes of the United Nations
integrated
ensure
and
to
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
international conferences in the area of social development.
We note in particular the work of the Administrative
Committee on Coordination, including the establishment of
three thematic ad hoc inter-agency task forces, on basic
social services for all, on full employment and sustainable
livelihoods, and on an enabling environment for economic
and social development. We also commend the Department
for Economic and Social Affairs for its work in this area.
My delegation looks forward to the General Assembly
considering at
this session the decisions taken by the
Preparatory Committee for the special session during its
organizational session last May. My delegation supports the
recommendation of the Committee that the special session
should reaffirm and not
renegotiate the Copenhagen
Declaration
review
implementation so far, and recommend concrete actions and
further initiatives. We also support the decisions made on
issues to be addressed at future sessions of the Preparatory
Committee, in coordination with the Commission for Social
Development, on the role of the United Nations system, the
mobilization of voluntary resources and the participation of
non-governmental organizations.
of Action,
and
Programme
The General Assembly has deliberated on this agenda
item at the last three sessions. Clearly, fulfilment of the
Copenhagen commitments will not be an easy task. But it
will be possible if political will and resources can be
effectively combined, bringing together all concerned with
a renewed sense of purpose and urgency. My delegation
hopes to be able to make a useful contribution to the
current and future consideration of this item.
Mr. Carranza Cifuentes (Guatemala) (interpretation
from Spanish): For the third year running, the General
Assembly is considering this item, which is of special
importance to my country because of the major contribution
of this year’s report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development, and especially because of the work of
intergovernmental bodies in anticipation of the convening
of a special session of the General Assembly on this item
in the year 2000.
The year 2000 special session will be convened to
conduct a comprehensive study and evaluation of the
implementation of the outcome of the Summit; in the view
of my delegation, convening that session is the most
item that will be considered in the coming
important
months. It
is important because of the subject matter,
which — like extreme poverty and the effects of
globalization, among other issues — has a significant
impact on developing countries.
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
We also welcome the decision of the Economic and
Social Council to engage, in 1999, in a comprehensive
consideration of the question of the eradication of poverty
with a view to making a contribution to the special
session.
the Special Session of
The work in May 1998 of
the Preparatory
Committee for
the General
Assembly on the Implementation of the Outcome of the
World Summit
for Social Development and Further
Initiatives resulted in interesting proposals that will have
to be considered in depth. In that connection, we take
note of the proposal that the special session should take
place at the United Nations Office at Geneva; this would
give the special session the political impact needed to
achieve the agreed goals with a view to intensifying
efforts to achieve full and effective implementation of the
outcome of the World Summit. We are optimistic about
the proposal of
the Government of Switzerland on
economic assistance for developing countries requesting
it so that those which cannot afford to go to Geneva will
still be properly represented at the special session.
The conclusions adopted at the thirty-sixth session of
the Commission for Social Development on promoting
social integration and participation of all people, including
disadvantaged and vulnerable groups and persons, give
rise to thought concerning the level of participation of
various organizations, institutions and social groups that
have not been sufficiently taken into account but that
could work with great enthusiasm and loyalty on the
social problems afflicting the nations of the world. Such
popular participation could lead to the creation of the
machinery needed to ensure that society itself is capable
of achieving its social development goals and that the
progress that is made will also be sustainable.
In Guatemala, the Government’s policies to promote
social development are aimed at combating extreme
poverty. Directing public spending towards priority social
sectors and geographical areas is necessary in order to
achieve the desired result. In this connection, the General
Secretariat for Economic Planning, which is charged with
supporting governmental action to combat extreme
poverty, acts as
the technical
commissions charged with drawing up a proposal for
interorganizational
enabling increasing
investment in productive projects in the rural areas of our
country.
the coordinator of
coordination
Moreover, we have begun a process of coordination
with the National Institute for Statistics and the Ministers
15
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
of State to follow up the social policies established as part
of the Plan for Social Development and Peace-building
(PLADES) by identifying a series of social indicators and
by formulating implementation mechanisms to guarantee
reliable and timely information.
Even though we have a long way to go and the
problems of poverty and social inequality persist, we must
continue with our commitment to determine what further
initiatives will be the most effective in advancing the
goals set out in Copenhagen.
General drafting guidelines are necessary in order to
present the Secretary-General with national reports on the
implementation of the objectives and commitments entered
into at the World Summit. It is also necessary to have a
common framework for the presentation of these reports on
the progress that has been made in the field and the
obstacles that have been encountered along the way. These
guidelines will help countries by giving them the technical
assistance they need to present their reports in a uniform
manner.
With regard to Guatemala itself, the collaboration of
the United Nations system during the experimental stage of
the United Nations Development Assistance Framework is
an excellent opportunity to draw up joint country-by-
country evaluations that the organs and institutions involved
do on studies of sectoral support for the financing of basic
social services. In this connection, my Government supports
the Assistance Framework in actions to that end, actions
which, among other things, attempt to raise the national
capacity to collect and analyze data on the expenses
associated with the 20/20 Initiative and to promote
coordination within the United Nations system in the fight
to eradicate poverty in general.
takes
delegation
Furthermore, my
note with
satisfaction of the annual report prepared by the Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, the
Social Panorama of Latin America 1997. That report
evaluates the most important aspects of social development
in the region, especially those related to social equity. My
delegation is convinced anew that the work being done by
regional commissions plays an important role in regional
evaluations of social issues.
Finally, given the growing participation of non-
governmental organizations in the work of the Commission
for Social Development, and bearing in mind that their
participation ought to be directed in such a way that they
the
make a significant contribution to the work of
Commission
these
organizations help to make civil society more aware and
sensitive to complementary activities through seminars,
conferences and symposiums, it is necessary to draft rules
and regulations that will govern their participation in the
special session.
among
things,
other
and
that,
16
Mr. Nejad-Hosseinian (Islamic Republic of Iran):
My delegation wishes
to associate itself with the
statement made by the representative of Indonesia on
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
elements
the various
The World Summit
for Social Development
represents the actual advent of a continuing campaign at
the global level towards a better common comprehension
of
social
development of modern societies. The Summit, while
underlining the significance of social development and
human well-being for all, emphasized that our societies
must
respond more effectively to the material and
spiritual needs of individuals, their families and their
communities.
involved in the
It is encouraging to note that the General Assembly
decided to convene in the year 2000 a special session for
the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of
the outcome of the Summit and established a Preparatory
Committee to undertake and facilitate the organizational
and substantive preparations for the session. We were
active in the process leading to Copenhagen and in
Copenhagen itself and are pleased to participate actively
in and contribute to the preparatory process for the
appraisal of the implementation of the outcome of the
Summit. We are also encouraged by the deliberations of
the Preparatory Committee in its organizational session to
address organizational as well as substantive issues of the
review session, particularly that the main purpose of the
special
to
renegotiate the outcome of the Summit.
session would be to reaffirm and not
realistic
assessment
We believe that the review conference should focus
on
the
of
implementation of the Copenhagen outcome, including the
10 commitments, with particular emphasis on the three
core issues, at the national, regional and international
levels.
degree
the
of
We welcome and commend the role of
the
Commission for Social Development and its secretariat in
the preparatory process, in which it has been designated
reporting and for
to act as the forum for national
identifying areas for
initiatives. The priority
themes for next session of the Commission will contribute
further
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
to the preparatory process. We will await with keen interest
the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the 10 commitments, including the three core issues, and
the report of the world social situation due to be submitted
to the Commission in the year 2000. As for the venue of
the special session, my delegation takes note of
the
generous offer of the Government of Switzerland to host
the special session in Geneva.
Let me now turn to some substantive issues which we
consider to be of importance for the preparatory process
and the special session. While we all are committed to
carry out the outcome of the Summit at the national level,
the question of genuine international cooperation is a
serious matter and needs to be addressed in earnest. In this
context, we all remember that one of the most important
discussions
for Social
Development was the exploration of new and innovative
resources of financing for poverty alleviation programmes
and social development.
the World Summit
during
We believe that national efforts and resources will not
suffice to permit
the achievement of the goals of the
Summit, particularly in the fields of eradication of poverty
and creation of employment. With an eye to the
consequences and negative impacts of the still unfolding
processes of globalization and liberalization on the
developing societies, the preparatory process for the review
session should seek new and innovative approaches to these
twin processes. The Agenda for Development and the
notion of the right to development should be looked at in
dealing with the concept of social development.
societies,
We all agree that the ultimate objective of social
development is to help countries to establish a sound, stable
and well-functioning social system. Therefore, we should
take a new look at the notion of development. For us,
development, as a process contributing to the progress and
well-being of
should be in harmony and
consistent with the nature of the human being and the
culture and values of societies. In this context, we believe
that paragraphs 28 and 29 of the Copenhagen Declaration
constitute the theoretical basis and the umbrella for the
commitments of the Declaration. We consider it important
to underline that there is no universal method of promoting
social integration and full participation and that cultural,
ideological and philosophical diversity at the international
level should be respected.
My delegation is pleased to note the role of values in
the advancement of human societies. We firmly believe that
values are important elements in shaping policies and
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
for
of
the
ultimate
objective
and an enabling environment
social
attitudes
in each society. In this connection, we
development
emphasize
that
social
development is to assist societies to develop a humane
social structure and relations within their own cultural,
ideological and philosophical parameters. We look
forward to sharing these ideas with other delegations in
the course of deliberations in the review process of the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action.
I
In conclusion,
should like to assure you,
Mr. President, of the commitment of my delegation to
actively participate in and contribute to the two-year
process of preparing for the special session on the
appraisal and review of
the
Copenhagen Declaration.
the implementation of
Mr. Mangoaela (Lesotho): This statement is being
made on behalf of the member States of the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) — Angola,
Botswana,
the Congo,
Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia,
Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, the United Republic
of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
the Democratic Republic of
At
the outset, permit me, on behalf of
these
countries,
to join previous speakers in commending
Mr. Didier Opertti for the able manner in which he
continues to preside over the work of the fifty-third
session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Our congratulations go also to other members of the
Bureau. We wish to assure Mr. Opertti of the full
cooperation of the SADC member States in the discharge
of the heavy responsibility entrusted to him. Let me
further
this opportunity to congratulate his
predecessor, Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko, the former Foreign
Minister of Ukraine, for the able manner in which he
guided the work of the fifty-second session of the General
Assembly.
take
SADC would like to associate itself with the
statement delivered by the representative of Indonesia on
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
We would like to thank the Secretary-General for his
report entitled “Implementation of the outcome of the
World Summit for Social Development” (A/53/211). We
have also noted with appreciation the report of the
Preparatory Committee for the Special Session of the
General Assembly on the Implementation of the Outcome
of the World Summit for Social Development and Further
Initiatives (A/53/45).
17
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
The Preparatory Committee held its organizational
session here in New York in May this year. SADC is
emphatic that the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme
of Action should not be renegotiated. We agree with the
recommendations of the Preparatory Committee that the
preparatory meetings need to ensure the participation of
high-level Government officials, especially ministers, who
would be in a position to propose key policy and practical
recommendations for consideration by the Preparatory
Committee.
SADC also welcomes the invitation by the Preparatory
Committee to the Governments to contribute to the Trust
Fund for the Follow-up to the World Summit set up to
support the participation of the least developed countries in
the work of the Preparatory Committee and the special
session. Furthermore, we have also taken note with
appreciation of the offer of the Government of Switzerland
to host the special session in the year 2000. In this respect
we also take note of the practical implications of the offer
as contained in the Secretary-General’s note (A/53/210).
We therefore look forward to further consultations on this
issue.
SADC is pleased to note that most Member States
continue to report to the United Nations on measures taken
at the national level to implement the outcome of the World
Summit for Social Development. However, we believe that
further concrete measures need to be taken to facilitate the
implementation of the Summit’s goals.
of
the
expansion
eradication;
We have to continue to address various issues of
social development, particularly the three core issues:
poverty
productive
employment and the reduction of unemployment; and social
integration. Above all, we have to build on what we
achieved in Copenhagen. The success of the Copenhagen
commitments requires the joint effort of Governments and
of grass-roots and non-governmental organizations working
in close partnership towards the same objectives. In this
respect, SADC wishes to emphasize that in pursuing the
Summit goals, all actors should base their initiatives on the
cross-cutting themes of the global conferences: poverty
eradication,
enabling
environment and human rights.
gender mainstreaming,
the
The SADC member States have expanded the
provision of basic social services, particularly basic health
and education facilities. They are striving to promote social
integration by establishing country-wide administrative
structures in order to achieve grass-roots participation and
widen the decision-making base. But the economic reforms
18
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
compelled
embraced by the SADC States have
Governments to reduce expenditures on these activities.
As a result there is now a decrease in school enrolment,
and the delivery of essential services to the poor has also
been drastically affected, as have the health and food
production sectors.
has
known
We met in Copenhagen impelled by the need to
alleviate human suffering. There, we all heard the
heartrending chronicles of facts and figures that depicted
the wretchedness, poverty and marginalization of an
unacceptably high percentage of the human race. In this
generation, which
experienced
unprecedented affluence, it is disquieting to live with the
current high rate of the world’s population mired in abject
poverty. It comes as no surprise,
the
sources of conflict, armed or unarmed, have shifted
towards economic, social and environmental issues, with
more conflicts now arising within States than between or
among them. In Africa, for example, we have a large
number of intra-State conflicts that have their root cause
in the scarcity of resources.
therefore,
that
and
Eradication of poverty remains a priority goal for all
developing countries and SADC is concerned that there
continues to be a steady increase in the number of people
living under unacceptable conditions of poverty, mostly in
developing and the least developed countries. We consider
it most unfortunate that women have to bear a
disproportionate burden of poverty. Children and youth,
older people, people with disabilities, indigenous people,
refugees and displaced persons are also particularly
vulnerable to poverty.
It
of
lack
technology
appropriate
is commonly known that poverty in most
developing countries, particularly those in Africa,
is
aggravated by, among other things, falling terms of trade
for commodities, high tariffs for their exports, lack of
resources,
and,
particularly, these countries’ heavy external debt burden.
There is an urgent need to relieve these countries —
particularly the 33 sub-Saharan countries classified among
the least developed countries — of their debt burden. We
do not believe that rescheduling external debt will provide
the answer. Debt cancellation is the only solution and, in
this regard, we appeal to the Bretton Woods institutions
and the major Western creditors to accelerate debt
forgiveness.
We
commend the Secretary-General’s
report,
particularly paragraph 52 (a), which places emphasis on
the need for the World Bank to avoid weakening existing,
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
positive social capital and suggests that the Bank identify
institutions in need of strengthening. In the same paragraph,
the Bank is encouraged to invest directly in social capital
through training and assistance for the capacity-building of
local organizations.
that
globalization
SADC acknowledges
certain advantages. We
and
liberalization can have
are
concerned, however, that currently only the rich, who also
happen to be the minority, benefit. We wish to reiterate
that, for the globalization and liberalization of the world
economy to benefit all, developing countries must have free
and unconditional access to the world markets, without
which the marginalization of the developing countries will
continue unabated. There can be no equality between
unequal partners. It is therefore unfair to assume equal
leverage when the playing field is grossly uneven. We are
indeed gratified that
the United Nations Development
Programme’s 1998 Human Development Report has
acknowledged this factor.
SADC agrees with the view, expressed by the Group
of 77 and China in their statement, that the recent financial
crisis that has wrought havoc in Asia and reverberated
throughout the world clearly illustrates the need for controls
on financial markets and effective oversight.
of
voluntary
to
Full
and
development.
Productive work and employment are the central
appropriately
elements
is an effective method of
remunerated employment
combating poverty and promoting social
integration.
However, much unremunerated productive work — such as
caring for children and the elderly, producing and preparing
food for
the family, protecting the environment and
providing
and
disadvantaged individuals and groups — is of great social
importance. Thus, such work, although unremunerated,
should be fully accorded the recognition it deserves, first
and foremost by the communities and individuals who are
the direct beneficiaries of the services rendered.
vulnerable
assistance
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
people in our region. These efforts were focused on
poverty alleviation, employment expansion and social integration.
First,
in order to underline the importance the
Community attaches to providing equal opportunities to
its citizens, and in particular to the women within the
Community, the SADC heads of State or Government, at
their summit in Blantyre, Malawi, in September 1997,
adopted a declaration on gender and development.
Secondly, SADC adopted a statement and a Plan of
Action on HIV/AIDS for the Community and a policy on
HIV/AIDS and employment.
level. Hence, at
Thirdly, SADC is developing a regional programme
the
for demining to reinforce efforts being made at
in
national
the Blantyre summit
the Community also adopted a
September 1997,
declaration
entitled
“Towards a Southern Africa Free of Anti-Personnel
Landmines”.
anti-personnel
landmines,
on
Fourthly, in order to promote regional integration,
SADC is making steady progress in the establishment of
a single economic space which will give the region more
bargaining power in the global economy.
Fifthly, SADC is also proceeding with its regional
integration and community-building programme, formally
launched in 1993. To date, seven protocols have been
concluded and signed in a number of areas. They include
promoting the harmonization of national energy policies
and the balanced, sustainable and equitable utilization of
the region’s energy resources. They also include shared
watercourse systems to promote sound and sustainable
development and management of international waters for
the mutual benefit of all the riparian States. A water
sector has also been established to underscore the
importance SADC attaches
to the region’s water
resources.
The priority theme for the thirty-sixth session of the
Commission for Social Development was “Promoting social
integration and participation of all people,
including
disadvantaged and vulnerable groups and persons”. The
Commission unanimously agreed that social integration is
best promoted in close harmony with efforts to expand
productive employment and eradicate poverty, given their
mutually reinforcing interrelationships. In this respect, allow
me to share information on some of the efforts that SADC
has taken to improve the human development goals of the
Also included are transport, communications and
meteorology to promote the harmonization of national
transport policies and the cost-efficient management and
operation of the region’s transport and communications
network, in order to support trade and investment in the
region. Another area is combating illicit drug-trafficking
through promoting a joint regional effort in combating the
scourge of illicit drugs and preventing the use of southern
Africa as a conduit for trafficking in illicit drugs destined
for countries outside the southern African region. And,
19
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
finally, these protocols include promoting intraregional and
international trade.
in other
to conclude protocols
The protocols have been signed and are in the process
of being ratified by the SADC member States. Work is in
progress
areas of
cooperation. Notable among these is the food, agriculture
and natural resources sector, for which a regional food
security strategy and framework have been agreed upon.
The strategy and framework underline poverty alleviation
as a prime concern, and in particular address the issue of
improving access to food, availability of food and food
nutrition.
SADC welcomes the outcome of the first ministerial-
level global meeting on youth, held in Lisbon, Portugal,
from 8 to 12 August
this year and hosted by the
Government of Portugal in cooperation with the United
Nations. We are encouraged that more than 160 States
committed their Governments to placing national youth
policy formulation, implementation, follow-up processes
and funding at the highest political level. We call upon all
Governments to translate their commitments into concrete
actions in such areas as youth participation, development,
peace, education and employment.
funds,
and
promoting
awareness
of
programmes
international
Let me take this opportunity to urge the relevant
United Nations
agencies,
international financial institutions and bilateral donors to
continue
the
importance of the programme of the Social Summit and to
mobilize the resources necessary to assist
the SADC
member States in building their capacity for carrying out
the mandate of the
their programmes. In this regard,
Commission on Sustainable Development has
to be
broadened and strengthened in order
the
implementation of the Copenhagen Programme of Action.
to monitor
In conclusion, SADC wants to add a word of caution:
Poverty transcends boundaries and knows no immigration
laws. Social disintegration cannot be indefinitely confined
to ghettos or national borders. We appeal to the developed
nations to render assistance to the developing countries and
to enhance our regional endeavours in the provision of
basic infrastructure and the requisite services. We believe
that social development will be meaningful and durable if
our collective efforts, from all spheres of society, are
harnessed to achieve that goal. Let us not allow the lofty
goals of
to become meaningless
promises to the world’s poor and needy. In the view of
SADC, Copenhagen must be the beginning and not the end.
the Social Summit
20
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
Mr. Enkhsaikhan (Mongolia): At the outset, my
delegation wishes to associate itself with the statement
made earlier by the representative of Indonesia on behalf
of the Group of 77 and China.
The World Summit for Social Development provided
an invaluable opportunity to focus international attention
on the core issues of poverty, unemployment and social
integration. The Copenhagen Summit demonstrated that
social development
is indeed a question of global
concern; therefore, the implementation of its decisions
naturally acquires special significance.
In the three years since the Social Summit, there
have been encouraging signs of progress in fulfilling the
commitments taken by Governments at the Summit and
in creating the conditions for reducing poverty and
unemployment and encouraging comprehensive social
integration. At both national and international levels, there
have been many encouraging examples of both policy
formulations and concrete actions reflecting a stronger
commitment by Member States to social development.
My delegation welcomes the results of the special
session of the Economic and Social Council devoted to
the integrated and coordinated implementation and follow-
up of major United Nations conferences and summits, as
well as the work of the Preparatory Committee for the
special session of the General Assembly, concerning the
implementation of the outcome of the Summit. Likewise,
we welcome the established practice of holding panel
discussions on the priority issues as an important and
innovative input in the deliberations.
of
the Administrative Committee
More concretely, my delegation sees great value in
the work
on
Coordination to organically integrate the internationally
agreed programmes into national policies and actions. It
also highly evaluates the work of the Commission for
Social Development and the newly created Department of
Economic and Social Affairs.
Mongolia,
like many other countries undergoing
fundamental changes, has been grappling with the
challenges of transition for the past seven and a half
years. Market reforms have been boldly accelerated by
liberalization of trade and prices, large-scale privatization
and other economic measures. However,
the reform
process has not been without difficulties. The inherited
burdens of a weak financial system and inefficient State
enterprises, coupled with a lack of free market traditions,
have compounded the reform challenge.
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
To adequately address the above problems,
the
Government of Mongolia has been taking a host of
measures designed to reduce poverty and unemployment
and improve the living standards of the most vulnerable
segments of the society. Thus, in June 1994, it launched a
six-year multisectoral National Poverty Alleviation
Programme (NPAP), aimed at effective mobilization and
utilization of both national and external resources to reduce
the portion of the population living in poverty to less than
10 per cent by the year 2000. This would be done, inter
alia, by the revival of the national economy, promotion of
productive employment, creation of jobs, improvements in
health and education and the advancement of women as full
partners in development.
Allow me to speak briefly about the implementation
of the NPAP, which started in late 1994 with 65 pilot
projects in selected provinces and districts. The projects
include the build-up of institutional framework, both at the
local and national levels; creation of fund mechanisms;
establishment of project formulation, appraisal, selection
and implementation procedures; adoption of operational
guidelines; training of personnel; and so on.
The nationwide
implementation of NPAP was
launched in March 1996. By June of this year, six cycles of
projects, each requiring an implementation period of three
to four months, had been completed. The NPAP activities
undertaken within and outside the Poverty Alleviation Fund
mechanisms include the following: public works projects to
develop and strengthen local infrastructure providing short-
term employment to the unemployed and the poor; basic
education projects to substantially reduce school dropout
and non-enrolment rates as well as to renovate school
buildings and school heating systems in rural areas; rural
health projects to help the rural health services restore and
maintain their ability to provide primary health care; pre-
school strengthening projects to improve the quality of and
access
the
developmental and cognitive skills of school entrants; and
support projects
the disabled to create wider
employment opportunities for them by supplying training
equipment and learning materials to the institutions engaged
in their training and education.
pre-school
improving
for
to
education
by
United Nations agencies play an active role in the
implementation of NPAP. From the very inception of the
NPAP, the United Nations Development Programme has
been assisting the Government in resource mobilization and
in adopting a coordinated approach by the United Nations
system and the donor community to poverty alleviation in
Mongolia.
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
The United Nations Population Fund, the United
Nations Children’s Fund, the World Health Organization
and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization support our policy of improving
reproductive and primary health care, immunization, safe
motherhood, control of meningitis and respiratory
infections,
improvement of education and so forth. I
would like to note that the United Nations Volunteers also
play an important role in NPAP activities.
It should be pointed out that the United Nations
system’s operational activities have been consistent with
our country’s needs and our Government’s priorities. The
assistance and support programmes of the United Nations
system have been drawn up in full collaboration with the
Government and have focused on the areas where its
comparative advantage is most effective and feasible.
being
The NPAP is
implemented in
close
coordination with the Mongolian Action Programme for
the Twenty-First Century,
the Population Policy of
Mongolia and the National Programme of Action for the
Advancement of Women, all of which have been adopted
as follow-up measures to the Rio, Cairo and Beijing
conferences. In is also being implemented in coordination
with the National Employment Generation Programme of
1996.
is
launching,
My delegation is happy to announce that
the
Government of Mongolia
in close
partnership with the United Nations family bodies
stationed in Mongolia and with non-governmental
organizations, a One World Conference Series project,
aimed at ensuring a national and international integrated
follow-up to the world conferences and summits held in
the early 1990s.
To commemorate this year as “the year of the
youth”, the Government of Mongolia and the United
Nations system agreed on five areas of cooperation on
critical youth issues. This innovative process, and the
resulting memorandum of understanding agreement, will,
we hope, positively affect the nation’s youth situation in
the next millennium.
In order to celebrate the International Year of Older
Persons next year, the Mongolian Government recently
established a National Preparatory Committee
for
celebration of the Year and will
launch a series of
supportive activities.
21
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
The current decline in official development assistance
and in contributions to the United Nations core resources is
a matter of concern for Mongolia, as it is for other Member
States. As a developing landlocked country with weak
financial resources, at present Mongolia relies to some
extent on external
for development. My
delegation welcomes the cost-sharing practices in the
United Nations system’s operational activities and would
like to re-emphasize the need to increase core resources on
a predictable, continuous and assured basis. It also favours
increased non-core and earmarked funding, as well as the
mobilization of private sector support.
resources
In conclusion, may I express my delegation’s sincere
hope that the ongoing deliberations on the implementation
of the outcome of the Social Summit will help to generate
renewed political will at
the national and international
levels to attain the noble objectives of ensuring sustainable
human development.
Mr. Babaa (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (interpretation
from Arabic): I should like to express my support for all
the points made by the representative of
Indonesia,
speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, in which
he discussed the problems of the developing countries, the
challenges they face, and various matters relating to
economic and social development,
the
importance of reactivating the North-South and South-South
dialogues and the need for North-South and South-South
cooperation as a way of promoting participation in the
attainment of the objectives of the World Summit for Social
Development. I should also like to add one or two remarks
of my own.
in particular
the
international
The outcome of
the World Summit
for Social
Development, held in Copenhagen in 1995, reflected the
interest of
community in human
development. Humanity is both the axis and the end of
development. The
the
achievement of social development in any society requires
the eradication of poverty, the creation of employment
and
opportunities,
attainment of social
the
individual, and for the creation of opportunity to participate
in development and decision-making.
reduction of unemployment,
the good of
integration for
emphasized
outcome
that
the
Despite the efforts that have been and are still being
made by the developing countries to achieve the objectives
set out
in the Copenhagen Declaration on Social
Development and Programme of Action, the actual progress
achieved remains minimal. The poor are getting poorer.
More than a billion people are living in extreme poverty,
22
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
especially in Africa, which has the largest number of the
poor. Most of these are suffering from unemployment,
underdevelopment, social injustice and a lack of the most
elementary health and education services, food, drinking
water and housing. This is true despite the fact that it has
been three years since the Copenhagen Programme of
Action was adopted.
to
into
satellite
confront
institutions
The developing countries have a special and urgent
responsibility
the monopolies whose
imposition is fostered under the name of globalization and
its slogans: The transformation of their industries and
financial
and
institutions and the imposition of controls over their raw
materials with regard to production, distribution, and
pricing. This has all greatly harmed these countries, and
the damage will be even greater if they do not adopt
adequate formulas for eradicating the negative effects of
globalization and for a fundamental review of the Bretton
Woods institutions. Such a review should be an element
of these requisite formulas.
industries
Whereas we recognize that the primary responsibility
for social development falls to the States themselves, the
existence of a just and appropriate international economic,
social and political environment
is a fundamental
condition for the promotion of international cooperation
to consolidate the efforts of the developing countries in
the sphere of their own social development. This will
require the developed countries, the international financial
institutions and the United Nations development agencies
to fulfil the commitments which they undertook at the
Copenhagen Summit. Such compliance includes the
provision of adequate financial
resources and the
necessary development assistance for development plans
and programmes in the developing countries, aimed at
eliminating poverty and unemployment and at supporting
social integration, while providing for food, security and
the evolution of education and health services.
In view of the close linkages between economic and
social development, the deterioration of the economic
situation of many developing countries has negatively
affected their social development. The continuation of
Africa’s critical economic situation and debt burden
requires
the international community to affirm its
commitment to resolving the problems of that African
continent, to finding radical solutions to its debt problem,
and to helping its economies to diversify and to gain
access to the markets of the developed countries. They
must also be provided with the financial
resources
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
necessary to enhance their development and to market their
exports at equitable and just prices.
In this regard, my delegation wishes to affirm the need
for the current reform process in the United Nations to deal
with the Organization’s capacity to address the issues of
development in the developing countries and to enable them
effectively to meet
their needs and to finance their
development programmes. Here, I would refer in particular
to the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of
Africa in the 1990s.
Human and economic development requires peace and
justice. Peace calls for a level of development that provides
the citizen with his basic needs. Measures of economic
coercion, which some developed countries impose on some
developing countries with a view to exerting political and
economic pressure on them, as well as attempts to impose
their national legislation extraterritorially run counter to the
principles of development and peace. This requires the
entire international community to take effective measures to
eliminate such measures.
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
for Social Development. This offers
its Programme of Action, and to adopt
In conclusion, my delegation supports the holding of
a special session of the General Assembly in the year
2000 to undertake a comprehensive review and evaluation
of the outcome of the implementation of the World
Summit
an
opportunity to further the objectives of the conference
while evaluating progress achieved in the implementation
of
further
initiatives aiming at
the formulation of a long-range
strategy at the national, regional and international levels
to promote human development. We hope that
the
Preparatory Committee for that special session will be
able to prepare well for it in terms of organization and
content. We would also like to reaffirm our delegation’s
cooperation with that Committee in order to enable it to
accomplish its task in the best possible manner.
Mr. Dausá Céspedes (Cuba) (interpretation from
Spanish): First of all I would like to say that my
delegation is happy to share the views put forward by the
representative of Indonesia on behalf of the Group of 77
and China.
On the basis of my country’s full commitment to the
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development, we have adopted a number of
economic and social measures and policies aimed at
guaranteeing the optimum use of our human resources and
improving the economic and social conditions of all
members of society under the umbrella of legislative and
legal guarantees that take account of the need for balance
between the interests of the individual and of society. These
measures also include the promotion of human rights in the
Jamahiriya society based upon full participation in decision-
making. The development plans of
the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya
of
development
the
programmes of education, training, free health services, and
social security given free of charge to widows, the elderly,
the disabled and the needy.
priority
place
on
as
and
poverty,
unemployment
More than three years have passed since the World
Summit for Social Development, which consolidated
recognition of the fact that the individual is the subject
and the end of all development policies and strategies at
the national and global levels. There is now international
recognition of the urgent need to resolve such serious
problems
social
marginalization which still prevail
in the world.
Nevertheless, this important world event was only the
beginning of a long and difficult path which is becoming
increasingly complex because of
the inevitable and
unstoppable
globalization which,
combined with the delicate state of the world economy at
this end of century, threatens the world with a global
economic crisis with incalculable consequences and which
is already hitting several developing countries and
millions of people around the world.
phenomenon
of
However, the progress achieved by my country in the
area of human development faces a serious setback due to
the coercive measures and the sanctions unjustly imposed
on the Libyan Arab people. Their negative effects have
extended to impeding development programmes and plans
intended to improve the infrastructures of the country. This
constitutes a blatant violation of the right to development
and of all human rights guaranteed by international
instruments, and a flagrant violation of the provision of
human rights covenants.
in the 1990s
The progress of this neo-liberal globalization which
some are trying to impose on the world goes hand in
hand with growth in poverty and social polarization. It is
undeniable that
there has been an
unprecedented widening of the huge gap between the rich
and the poor. There has been a disturbing increase in
levels of unemployment
and social disintegration,
postponing increasingly the attainment of the noble goals
of social justice included in the Copenhagen Declaration
and Programme of Action.
23
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
On the threshold the new millennium, more than 1,313
million people live today below the poverty line. Of those,
80 per cent live in countries of the developing world.
Eighty per cent of worldwide production is concentrated in
the countries with developed economies, where only 16 per
cent of the world population live, while more than 84 per
cent of
the world population live in the developing
countries.
About 30 per cent of the population of developing
countries, 1,300 million people, do not have access to
drinking water. In the developing countries the infant
mortality rate up to the age of five exceeds 100 per 1,000
live births, and 89 per 1,000 live births up to the age of
one. Life expectancy at birth in developing countries
fluctuates between 50 and 60 years. About 600 million
persons will not survive to age 40 in 1998. 1,450 million
adults are illiterate. Thus, there are innumerable challenges
and obstacles as we strive to achieve social development,
and the international community must make every effort to
advance towards a world with economic, political and
social stability.
Globalization will not be viable if it continues to
pursue the narrow aims of a small number of industrialized
countries, multinational corporations and international
institutions controlled by them. The persistence and
seriousness of a large number of economic, social and
environmental problems make it necessary to promote an
awareness of the desirability of transforming international
relations with a view to creating a new kind of cooperation
as the only way to solve the burning problems afflicting the
overwhelming majority of the world population and to
make our world a stable and liveable place.
Special mention should be made of the difficult
situation relating to the international mobilization of
resources for development. This can only be viewed as an
integral process between the economic and social areas.
Official development assistance has declined over the past
five years, according to World Bank figures. Not only has
the dollar gone down in value, but many developed donor
countries continue to give less than the goal of 0.7 per cent
of their gross domestic product, while that same group of
countries designates approximately 3 per cent for military
expenditures, which is inconceivable in the light of the so-
called end of the cold war.
Official assistance can and must be supplemented by
other ways of mobilizing resources and by specific
structural changes in the developing economies. However,
together with changes in the present
this assistance,
24
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
international order, must continue to be fundamental
components of the strategy to achieve development.
The external debt burden continues to stifle a
significant number of developing countries. The proposed
relief measures in many cases are accompanied by the
imposition
structural
adjustments whose negative effects on the people of the
debtor countries have contributed to creating explosive
social situations in some of these countries.
reform programmes
and
of
The African countries continue to require special
attention,
including those in the group of the least
developed countries. For this group of nations, recent
developments have been significantly negative.
race.
The political will of States continues to be the key
to the resolution of the complex and distressing panorama
before us. The resources to resolve these problems exist,
but they are wasted in unbridled prosperity and in the
arms
If we do not build an international
environment which allows for economic growth and
sustained development,
impossible,
particularly for the great majority of the countries of the
third world, to progress without interruption along the
path of social development.
it will be almost
Allow me to express appreciation for the outcome of
our efforts to coordinate the follow-up to the Copenhagen
Summit, as well as our hope to achieve even greater
things in the future.
Cuba is honoured to welcome the outcome of the
first session of the Preparatory Committee for the special
session of
the General Assembly to be devoted to
reviewing, five years later, the commitments assumed at
the World Social Summit in Copenhagen.
In the last 40 years, Cuba has planned out and put
into practice, with significant
results, development
policies and strategies based on a more just and equitable
distribution of wealth.
In that way, we have achieved the following: 100
per cent of the population has access to health services
and free education; life expectancy at birth is now 74.7
years; the infant mortality rate is now only 7.2 per 1,000
births; 100 per cent of Cuban children are protected by
vaccinations against 11 preventable diseases; we have one
doctor for every 176 inhabitants of the island; and 97.4
per cent of children between the ages of 6 and 14 go to
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
school. These are just a few of the indicators that could be
mentioned.
In spite of my country’s difficult economic situation,
which has been aggravated by the tightening of the illegal
economic commercial and financial blockade imposed by
the Government of the United States and repeatedly rejected
by the General Assembly, Cuba continues to pursue a
programme of economic and social development aimed at
improving the well-being of the people, a programme
characterized by the most profound humanitarian feeling.
This has been possible, above all, because we have never
abandoned what are, for Cuba, the pillars of our social and
economic development — namely, our independence and
sovereignty — and because all the efforts of the past 40
years have been focused on human beings and the
enhancement of their dignity.
social
The fact that we have preserved the most important
social benefits achieved over decades, under circumstances
that are so abnormal and complex, underscores the idea that
within a framework of
justice and equitable
distribution of wealth, it is possible to meet certain basic
social development goals in situations of scant economic
growth and even decline. The infrastructure created during
the past decades, the implementation of policies of applied
social protection, creativity and the participation of the
people in this effort have allowed Cuba not only to preserve
the principal social successes we have achieved but even to
enhance them in many cases.
It will be the my country’s great privilege and honour
to host the South Summit to be held in the year 2000, an
event that arises out of the urgent need for all of the
developing countries
to prepare jointly to face the
challenges of the new millennium and to endeavour to ward
off the cruel reality that is advancing on humanity, in which
backwardness and poverty, unhealthy conditions, hunger
and illness are constantly gaining ground from well-being
and the full realization of humanity’s potential.
As ever, Cuba is prepared to share its experiences and
participate actively in whatever efforts are made by the
international community to bring about the implementation
of the commitments undertaken at the Copenhagen Summit
and to move towards a world of true social justice for all.
Mr. Babar (Pakistan): At the outset, my delegation
wishes to associate itself with the statement made by
Indonesia on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
My delegation is grateful to the Secretary-General
for his reports on the implementation of the outcome of
the World Summit for Social Development. We also
welcome the various initiatives of Governments and non-
governmental organizations to achieve the goals of the
Social Summit.
One of the major achievements of the Copenhagen
Summit was the recognition of human beings as the main
actors and beneficiaries of the development process. It
was realized that people should be given opportunities to
participate fully in development activities and to receive
a fair distribution of
fruits. However, despite
concerted efforts over the last three years, the goals of
social development envisaged in Copenhagen largely
remain unimplemented. The situation has been further
exacerbated by the downturn of the global economy,
resulting in an increase in unemployment, particularly in
the developing countries.
their
countries. Unemployment
Unemployment and poverty, both human and
economic, are the major challenges confronting the
developing
and
underdevelopment generate social unrest and undermine
cohesion and stability. Unemployment in many cases is a
major cause of political instability in various parts of the
world. The
International Labour Organization has
estimated that approximately 1 billion people — about 30
per cent of the entire global labour force — are either
unemployed or underemployed. It should be our collective
endeavour to draw upon this enormous human resource
and benefit
contribution to
development.
from these people’s
Poverty generates deprivation. It reflects denial of
choices and opportunities. The 1998 report of the United
Nations Development Programme has estimated that
approximately 1.3 billion people — almost a quarter of
world’s population — live below the poverty line of one
dollar a day; well over 1 billion people are deprived of
basic consumption needs; out of 4.4 billion people living
in developing countries, approximately three fifths lack
basic sanitation; one third have no access to clean water;
one quarter do not have adequate housing; one fifth do
not have enough dietary energy and protein; over 1.94
billion are anaemic; and one fifth have no access to
modern medical services.
The recent South-East Asian economic crisis
threatens to push more than 50 million people into
poverty in one country alone. The social costs of one-
dimensional globalization are too high for the developing
25
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
countries. This calls for urgent action by the international
community.
The prevalence of social unrest, violence and armed
conflicts in various parts of the world have also added to
the economic deprivation and the deepening of poverty and
social disintegration of societies. South Asia is one such
region, where continued conflicts and tensions remain a
major cause of poverty and economic backwardness.
that
to
the
core
problems
of
it will give
We hope that
the Preparatory Committee for the
special session, which started its work in May of this year,
will undertake a detailed evaluation of the world social
situation. We also hope
special
consideration
poverty,
unemployment and social exclusion for inclusion in the
priority themes of the special session. The Preparatory
Committee
impact of
globalization and the stabilization of the financial markets,
as they directly affect developing countries’ endeavours for
achieving
social
development.
also needs
to consider
the
economic
sustained
growth
and
Pakistan has taken a number of policy initiatives to
implement
its Copenhagen commitments. To create a
conducive economic environment, we have accelerated our
economic liberalization programme by introducing reforms
in the corporate, banking and financial sectors. Maximum
tariff rates have been reduced; most import restrictions have
been withdrawn. Investors, both Pakistani and foreign, can
now invest in Pakistan without governmental approval,
except in a few specified areas.
We believe that transparency in governance constitutes
a prerequisite for the creation of a suitable economic
environment. Pakistan has accordingly established an
Independent Accountability Commission, headed by a
retired judge of the Supreme Court, to deal with corrupt
elements in the highest echelons of authority and to ensure
probity in public life. This has helped in efforts to eradicate
corruption from public life to make the governance fully
accountable. Recently, a freedom of information law has
also been enforced to ensure
information on
governance becomes available to all segments of society so
as to encourage participatory and transparent governance.
Efforts are also under way to establish an environmental
protection authority to ensure compliance with national
environmental quality standards.
that
As a modest effort to tackle the twin menaces of
poverty and unemployment, Pakistan has launched a five-
year Social Action Programme, with an outlay of 500
26
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
billion rupees. The main focus of this programme will be
on poverty alleviation, education, primary health care,
population welfare, rural water supply and sanitation
programmes. Employment generation, environmental
protection,
the
the
decentralization
enhancing
community participation have also been included in the
framework of the Social Action Programme.
empowerment
of management
of women,
and
Pakistan also plans
to generate 5.72 million
additional employment opportunities through its eighth
five-year plan encouraging private investment in labour-
intensive industry and expanding agriculture and informal
sectors. The focus on employment generation will also
continue in the next five-year plan.
Pakistan believes that no society can achieve the
objective of true development without the full and equal
participation of women. The Constitution of Pakistan
ensures equal opportunities and equal
rights for all
citizens without any discrimination on the basis of caste,
creed, religion or gender. Pakistan has already ratified the
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination Against Women. Various
legislative,
judicial and administrative processes have been initiated
to bring the laws into conformity with the provisions of
the Convention. The Women’s Commission of Inquiry,
which was headed by a sitting judge of the Supreme
Court, has already submitted its
to the
Government
to expedite this process. To bridge the
existing disparity in the job market, the Government has
decided to give preference to women candidates in all
future recruitment under the Social Action Programme.
findings
Pakistan has also taken steps to eliminate all forms
of child labour. A National Commission on Child Welfare
and Development has been created in the Ministry of
Social Welfare. The Commission formulates policies and
coordinates activities of provincial institutions working for
the welfare and development of the child. The 1995
Compulsory Education Act has been enforced in the
Punjab province. Other provinces are formulating similar
laws. The by-laws under the 1991 Employment of the
Child Act have been finalized and are being enforced
effectively. A Child Offenders Act, which provides for
the rehabilitation of juvenile delinquents and bans the
death penalty for young offenders,
is already in the
process of being enacted.
As its modest contribution to the development of
Africa and the least developed countries, Pakistan has an
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
30th plenary meeting
6 October 1998
ongoing Africa Technical Assistance Programme. Under
this programme, Pakistan provides technical assistance in
the form of training courses, donations and expert services
to least developed countries in various fields. Pakistan also
offers scholarships in medicine, engineering and dentistry
to students from least developed countries. The Ministry of
Foreign Affairs
to
professionals from African countries in the field of
language and diplomacy.
providing
facilities
training
is
The steady decline in external aid creates enormous
difficulties for developing countries to sustain their efforts
pursuant to the objectives of the Social Summit. Pakistan,
as a developing country, is no exception to this rule. We
hope
their
commitments by earmarking 0.7 per cent of their gross
national product for official development assistance. This
would go a long way towards realizing the goals we agreed
upon in Copenhagen.
countries will
developed
honour
that
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
27
