United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
40th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 27 October 1999, 10 a.m.
New York
A/54/PV.40
Official Records
President:
Mr. Gurirab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Namibia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
Agenda item 99
Sustainable development and international economic
cooperation
(h)
Implementation of the Programme of Action of the
International Conference on Population and
Development
Draft resolution (A/54/L.18)
The President: This morning the General Assembly,
in accordance with the decision taken at its 3rd plenary
the
meeting
commemoration of
the
operations of the United Nations Population Fund.
holding
thirtieth anniversary of
17 September
1999,
the
on
is
Statement by the President
The President: We are here today to register the
many successes achieved in the field of population and
development policies of States and the contributions made
by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) since its
establishment in 1969.
In the 30 years of UNFPA's work, countries have
made appreciable progress in understanding population
issues and in undertaking measures to find solutions. This
is the result of the unstinting labour of thousands of women
and men all over the world, especially in the developing
countries. These people have worked tirelessly to improve
health care, raise educational standards, especially of rural
women and girls,
and introduce population and
development policies. Their efforts have reduced the toll
of poor health and improved the quality of life for the
people.
Better health and education mean more and wider
choices. Everyone has the right to reproductive health,
and today more and more people are able to exercise this
right. This in turn will result in smaller families and
slower
and
population policies are now effectively included in public
policy discussions and development plans.
growth. Health
population
education
and the
the decisions
The historic 1994 Cairo International Conference on
Population and Development was a watershed and a
pathfinder for a new approach. The gathering itself was
unprecedented, while
final
Programme of Action opened up new opportunities for
integrated development strategies for Governments and
citizens of the world. This commitment to the Cairo
Programme of Action was further
the
General Assembly's special session in June last, when,
after five years of action, 185 countries reaffirmed their
support
and added new
benchmarks for its continued implementation.
the Cairo decisions
illustrated at
for
The focus of population challenges has shifted from
controversy to consensus in the span of UNFPA's 30
years. The Fund's practical contribution is visible in many
parts of the world. It
is helping to build integrated
99-86261 (E)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original speeches only.
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room C-178. Corrections will
be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
are
all
reproductive health programmes, enlarge partnerships and
recognition of women's rights and their
promote full
contribution to development. Women have
asserted
themselves into the mainstream of development, and their
voices are being heard as never before in the corridors of
government and business, in professions and in other key
areas of human activity. These
important
achievements, and they are due to UNFPA’s leadership and
initiatives. UNFPA has worked hard to ensure that
its
programmes and projects become locally owned and
managed by the beneficiaries themselves. Working closely
with Governments, parliaments and non-governmental
organizations, UNFPA has
a workable
relationship of trust and mutual cooperation. With the
passage of
time, population management has become
widely accepted as an element in development planning.
The sharing of experiences and mutual support have further
enhanced UNFPA’s activities.
developed
Recent national and international events marking the
day on which the 6 billionth human being was born on
planet Earth illustrated that the international community is
today concerned not merely with numbers but with
individual human lives in trying to balance population
growth with economic growth. This is in line with the
message of the 1994 Cairo Conference that population
issues and development strategies affect equally individual,
national and global
is possible to
acknowledge population growth as a factor influencing
development. Moreover, countries can deal with population
increase, together with matching demographic issues, such
as migration and ageing, as part of an integrated population
policy. Countries can now give due priority, in all aspects
of their development policy, to reproductive health care,
including family planning, as part of an integrated health-
care system; to education for women and girls, as part of an
integrated education service; and to gender issues.
interests. Today,
it
Today countries can allocate the needed resources to
these and other aspects of social development without
risking public criticism for misappropriating funds and
resources. At the same time, international institutions are
now beginning to understand better the role of health,
education and gender factors in national development and
are prepared to support them. Today we have a clear idea
of what our social development goals are and what it will
take in the form of national and international resources to
achieve them.
On the question of resources,
to
recognize those private foundations which have given so
international population and
generously to promote
is important
it
2
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
development goals. In this context, major corporations
have recently made significant contributions or have
pledged to do so. We commend them for this and urge
others to emulate their wonderful example.
Ms. Nafis Sadik, Executive Director of UNFPA, has
earned a global reputation as an untiring crusader for
international understanding of and support for population
issues, particularly as regards gender equality. She is
known for her strong views and her forthright way of
expressing them. At the same time, she has earned respect
and admiration as a diplomat and a consensus builder.
This is the kind of leadership that
the international
community must demonstrate in tackling the social issues
on UNFPA’s agenda. In doing so, it must ensure that
such efforts do not ignore respect for the human rights of
all the world’s 6 billion people, as well as the national
interests of States.
I now give the floor to Ms. Nafis Sadik, Executive
Director of the United Nations Population Fund, to deliver
a statement on behalf of the Secretary-General.
Ms. Sadik (United Nations Population Fund): I am
very honoured to read the following message from the
Secretary-General
to the General Assembly on the
occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the operations of
the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
“Thirty years ago, my predecessor, U Thant,
transferred a small trust fund to the United Nations
Development Programme. A small group of donors
provided a small amount of money for the new
fund’s operations. Such were the modest beginnings
of what we know we today as the United Nations
Population Fund — one of the leading success
stories of the United Nations of the last half century.
“Many here will
recall how delicate and
sensitive population issues were in the 1960s. It was
hard to agree even on a basis for discussion. Of
course, the United Nations Population Division had
been in existence since 1945. But there was great
controversy over whether the United Nations should
take a leading part in action on population, and if so,
what it should do.
“Controversy may have abated only somewhat
since then, but 30 years have also brought a long
record of achievement. That success has been built
on three pillars: good information, good programmes
and good understanding. When UNFPA started
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
work, most developing countries had only rudimentary
systems for collecting and analysing population data
as a basis for policy. UNFPA has worked with the
Population Division and with the Statistical Unit of the
United Nations to build national statistical offices, take
censuses, make projections and disseminate reliable
data. This has meant significant increases in national
capacities to plan ahead, to incorporate population
policies into development planning and to take sound
economic and social decisions.
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
organizations, north and south, as well as with the
private sector.
“I wish I could say that all problems have been
solved, but you know as well as I do that there is
one area where performance has been lacking. If we
could mobilize the resources envisaged at Cairo, we
would be in a much better position to attain the
progress we seek.
in
put
place
“UNFPA has also been a close partner in helping
developing
countries
effective
programmes
for voluntary family planning and
integrated reproductive health programmes. When
coupled with economic growth, improved education
for women and girls and other factors, the result has
been a decline in the average number of children per
family from six to three during the 30 years of
UNFPA’s efforts. This in turn has meant better care
for children; more choices for women; decreased
pressure on the environment; slower, more balanced
population growth; and better living standards in
general.
on
Population
the historic consensus reached at
“And then, of course, there was the breakthrough
the
at Cairo:
International Conference
and
Development five years ago on the global need for
slower population growth overall, on the national right
to sovereign decision-making and on the individual
right to reproductive health. The special session of the
General Assembly just four months ago showed that
Member States
remain committed to the Cairo
Programme of Action. We must build on this political
will.
“The success of UNFPA is also a success for the
United Nations process:
the painstaking work of
debating proposals, airing differences and, finally,
achieving political consensus. This is the harmonizing
role of the United Nations as envisaged in its founding
Charter. Combined with our operational programmes,
it is the path of real progress.
“All Member States, and all parts of the United
Nations system, have contributed. UNFPA has been
very effective in forming alliances within and outside
the United Nations system; this has led to greater
cohesion and better use of resources. UNFPA was also
quick to realize the indispensable role of civil society,
and has worked closely with non-governmental
be
“Life would
unrecognizable without
difficulties to overcome. So we shall continue our
work on an issue that has individual, national and
global repercussions. We shall persist in our struggle
for the development of nations and the human rights
of people. And we shall continue looking to UNFPA
for
and
programmes.
leadership,
renowned
advocacy
its
“In that spirit, I would like to salute UNFPA,
its dynamic Executive Director, Dr. Nafis Sadik, her
predecessor, the late Rafael Salas, and UNFPA staff
all over the world for the great service they have
rendered humankind.”
The President: I call now on the representative of
Burkina Faso, who will speak on behalf of the Group of
African States.
agenda
consideration of
Mr. Kafando (Burkina Faso) (spoke in French): The
Assembly's
item 99 (h),
“Sustainable development and international economic
cooperation: implementation of the Programme of Action
of
the International Conference on Population and
Development”, gives us this opportunity to commemorate
the thirtieth anniversary of the operations of the United
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). In the life of an
undertaking or a programme, 30 years is the age of full
maturity. This means we must look back not only to
assess what progress has been achieved, but also to see
whether all the efforts, all the work, have lived up to our
expectations and have achieved the results for which we
had hoped.
We believe that on the whole the record of UNFPA
is a positive one, even if diverse obstacles and constraints
have sometimes hampered progress, complicated efforts
and even given rise to doubt.
With respect
seem
enormous, starting with the very issues involved. Africa
is the continent where controlling population growth has
the challenges
to Africa,
3
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
posed the most daunting challenge, for many reasons from
psychological resistance to a lack of acceptance of family-
planning methods. The result is that uncontrollable and
uncontrolled population growth constantly challenges
economic projections and thus thwarts all our efforts. The
United Nations has signalled the overriding importance of
population and its impact on the promotion of sustainable
development in Africa by including it as a priority area in
the United Nations System-wide Special
Initiative on
Africa.
Moreover, the world economic situation itself is not
conducive to investment in social areas, to the point where
a prominent United Nations economist has said that this
century is ending with a crisis of development — and, we
might well add, with a crisis of international solidarity. The
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has
recently reported that,
the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
saved $60 billion by paying less for commodities. Of
course, that sum, levied on the poor, exceeds what the rich
nations spend on official development assistance.
countries of
in 1998,
In addition to these more or less external factors, there
are also purely African internal considerations, such as
inter-State and inter-ethnic conflict; in his report on the
causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and
sustainable development
the
Secretary-General stressed the harmful effect of this on
African development. Other factors include: low levels of
education; the still excessive marginalization of the most
underprivileged groups, such as women; meagre progress in
democracy; underemployment of young people, who
nonetheless constitute a most valuable workforce; refugee
flows; along with other factors.
in Africa (S/1998/318),
the Programme of Action of
These negative considerations only put UNFPA's
performance in greater relief, since despite these pitfalls the
Fund has for 30 years been playing an irreplaceable role in
providing technical and financial assistance in many areas,
in addition to its advocacy work. Above all, UNFPA has
been mandated by the United Nations to follow up the
implementation of
the
International Conference on Population and Development in
53 African countries, in cooperation with the operational
system of the United Nations, regional institutions, non-
governmental organizations, civil society, et cetera. In
cooperation with the Economic Commission for Africa,
UNFPA has the responsibility of reviewing what has been
achieved with respect to adolescent reproductive health, the
advancement of women, partnership with civil society and
problems such as economic difficulties, lack of qualified
4
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
personnel and the ineffectiveness of advocacy strategies.
It continues to help many African States to define and
formulate their national population policies and strategies,
and sometimes to revise them,
in particular to take
account of goals recommended by the International
Conference on Population and Development.
These achievements have been made possible thanks
to technical assistance teams at Dakar, Addis Ababa and
Harare, and thanks also to the regional training institutes
that have helped most of these countries in national
capacity-building with a view to implementing their
population and development policies.
sphere.
in this
Similarly, UNFPA supports the activities of regional
and subregional organizations
In
cooperation with the Permanent Inter-State Committee on
Drought Control in the Sahel, UNFPA has helped in
creating an information-management system to monitor
maternal mortality,
the use of contraception and the
implementation of population and migration programmes
in the sub-Sahel region. In cooperation with the Southern
African Development Community (SADC), the Fund has
also been engaged in preparatory work for the census
planned for 2001 in the 14 countries members of the
Community.
The
great
is
illustrated
progress made
by
achievements including:
the adoption of laws against
female genital mutilation in countries such as Ghana,
Togo, Benin, Côte d'Ivoire, Senegal and Burkina Faso;
the implementation in many countries of new health
policies relating particularly to reproductive health for
young people and adolescents; and the promotion of
women's rights, in particular to combat discrimination and
violence. Here, we should stress that UNFPA has set up
an African women's network, the goal of which is to
promote implementation of the Programme of Action of
the
and
Development and the Beijing Platform for Action.
Members of this group, who meet every two years, have
become important allies in promoting reproductive health
rights, gender equality and for
the mobilization of
resources to implement national population programmes.
The Fund furthermore supports the Forum of African and
Arab Parliamentarians on population and development.
Finally, among UNFPA's achievements we must highlight
its activities in raising awareness,
in particular about
HIV/AIDS prevention.
International Conference
on Population
Thirty-seven African countries out of 61 group-A
countries still need UNFPA to attain the goals of the
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
Programme of Action of the International Conference on
Population and Development. For a long time to come,
UNFPA will be essential
to our continent, which is
eloquent testimony to its usefulness and, above all, of its
effectiveness. This is why we urgently appeal to beneficiary
countries,
to donors and to the entire international
community to increase financial resources for the Fund so
that it can properly and effectively discharge its mission.
If this appeal is heeded, it will be the best gift that we
can offer to Ms. Nafis Sadik and her associates, to whom
we pay sincere tribute for the high quality of the work they
have done and to whom we would like to say “happy
birthday”.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Uzbekistan, who will speak on behalf of the Group of
Asian States.
Mr. Vohidov (Uzbekistan): Today we celebrate the
thirtieth anniversary of the foundation of the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA). I would like to take this
excellent opportunity to express my gratitude to Ms. Nafis
Sadik,
the United Nations
Population Fund, for her tireless efforts and for her broad
insight into the process of solving problems of population.
the Executive Director of
The history of the creation of the Fund has deep and
strong roots in the United Nations system. For the past
three decades the discussion of problems of population has
become an inalienable part of the global dialogue on issues
of economic and social development. In each country, it has
become a part of the process of formulating political
decisions in the field of planning. Issues of assistance to
States and the creation of development strategy in the field
of population have been incorporated in the Fund's
functions and tasks since the moment of its creation in
1969.
It is necessary to note that enormous changes have
taken place since the end of 1960s: for instance, significant
growth in the scale of assistance for childbirth and a sharp
reduction in population growth rates, the level of birth rates
and the size of families. The success over the three
previous decades has been a result of the political will of
nations, international information activities, and the joint
and coordinated efforts of countries and donors, as well as
of the UNFPA and other United Nations agencies.
I wish also to note the innovative approach of the
Fund, including its search for new aspects of cooperation in
the field of development and the attraction of financial
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
support from non-governmental sources. This should,
undoubtedly, serve as a model for other international
organizations.
Over the past
three decades, Governments of a
number of countries have managed, thanks in most cases
the
to the active assistance of
parameters of child and maternal death,
to improve
indicators of life expectancy and to increase the number
of children attending elementary and high schools.
the Fund,
to lower
The Programme of Action adopted by consensus at
International Conference
and
(ICPD), held in Cairo, has become a
the international
in a history of
on Population
the
Development
significant event
community.
and
implementation of
During the process of
the
Programme of Action, countries members of the Asian
Group have carried out and continue to carry out efforts
to improve their policies and programmes in the field of
population
the
provisions of
their
particular demographic, socio-economic and political
situations. It is worth mentioning that since the day of the
approval of the Programme of Action, Asian countries
have always maintained a political adherence to the goals
of the Programme.
consistent with
the Programme and in view of
development,
It is necessary to note that financial and economic
shocks, natural disasters and local wars and conflicts
create obstacles in the process of achieving the objectives
of the Programme of Action. It is widely recognized that
safe maternity is both a factor for development and an
imperative factor for the protection of human rights. Rates
of maternal and child death in some countries of the
Asian region, however, remain high due to the adverse
economic situation of women, the absence of access to
maternity services and insufficient access to services for
the protection of reproductive health and for family
planning.
the practice of
Countries of the region are also concerned by the
expansion of
smuggling migrants,
especially women and children, who are exposed to
violence, to compulsory work and to sexual exploitation.
The assistance of the UNFPA appears to be most valuable
for completing the long and difficult process of solving
problems, as well as in reviewing previous programmes
and projects of the Fund and developing new ones within
the
of
mechanisms for partnership of the Fund with other
ICPD + 5. Establishment
framework
of
5
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
the United Nations
system and
relevant bodies of
international
and non-governmental
organizations has become an important achievement of the
Fund.
intergovernmental
Countries members of the Asian Group welcome the
positive
contribution made by the United Nations
Population Fund and its personnel over the years to solving
problems of population and development,
and we
congratulate the Fund and its staff on the occasion of the
thirtieth anniversary of its operations and wish them further
success in the achievement of the tasks before them.
In
to
recall
allow me
the
that
thirtieth anniversary of
the
conclusion,
commemoration of
the
operations of the United Nations Population Fund coincides
with two remarkable events:
the approach of a new
millennium and the birth of the 6 billionth citizen of our
planet. The symbolic and joyful concurrence of events
should encourage all of us to make more active and
effective
and future
generations will enjoy a brighter future, free from the
current problems challenging the international community.
to ensure
current
efforts
that
The President: I now call on the representative of
Bulgaria, who will speak on behalf of the Eastern European
States.
Mr. Sotirov (Bulgaria): It is truly a privilege to speak
on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States on this
significant occasion: the commemoration of the thirtieth
anniversary of
the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA).
the review and appraisal of
The last year of the twentieth century is a special year
for population issues. In July the General Assembly held its
special session for
the
Programme of Action adopted at
International
Conference on Population and Development in Cairo. On
12 October the 6 billionth citizen of our planet was born.
Today we are marking the thirtieth anniversary of the
creation of UNFPA.
the
Despite the limited funds made available to it, UNFPA
is now an international development agency with a broad
mandate: to raise awareness of population issues throughout
the world and, especially, to assist developing countries and
countries with economies in transition in solving their
population problems.
Under the leadership of Ms. Nafis Sadik the United
Nations Population Fund has become the undisputed
6
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
international leader in the population field, leading the
drive towards the goals agreed at
the International
Conference on Population and Development in 1994. We
believe that the key to UNFPA's success is its careful
attention and quick response to national needs and
priorities, as well as its close working relationships with
Governments and civil society.
Since it became operational
the United Nations
Population Fund has had a profound effect on national
attitudes
towards population issues, helping bring
population issues into the mainstream of development
policy. Governments are increasingly integrating sectoral
development efforts,
inter-agency
development teams that work consistently together. This
approach has been extended to international assistance;
many countries have established mechanisms to avoid
duplication and promote rational use of
resources.
UNFPA's approach has also promoted cooperation at the
country level within the United Nations system.
forming permanent
Activities and programmes at the regional level, in
particular
in the Eastern European region, have
demonstrated the efficiency of UNFPA's operations. We
hope that
the United Nations Population Fund will
continue to render strong support to the endeavours of the
Governments of
the region to solve the specific
population problems.
At
the international
level, UNFPA has helped
promote understanding and awareness on what needs to
be done in the field of population and development.
Devising an appropriate population policy is now
accepted globally as part of a sound development strategy
and is increasingly seen to be part of the foundation of
sustainable development.
Although much remains to be done, UNFPA's
success speaks for itself. Nearly 60 per cent of women in
developing countries now have access to reproductive
health services, including family planning. As a result,
fertility is falling and population growth rates are slowing
in all parts of the developing world.
Now, on the verge of a new millennium, the United
Nations Population Fund is in the process of updating its
programmes to reflect the new international consensus on
and
reproductive
education. We hope
continue
successfully to revitalize itself in order to become a
model
institution. We wish it a happy
anniversary.
that UNFPA will
health, women's
empowerment
international
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
The President: I now call on the representative of
Peru, who will speak on behalf of the Latin America and
Caribbean States.
the population to education and the
access of
incorporation of women into the labour market have led
to marked changes in family patterns.
Mr. Picasso (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): The Peruvian
delegation, on behalf of the Group of Latin America and
Caribbean States, would like to hail and recognize the
United Nations Population Fund's successful first 30 years
of existence.
Three decades ago the international community had
only a nascent understanding of population issues and of
the effect of these issues on the welfare of individuals.
Thus, it is important to note that the Population Fund
performed an educational and at the same time enlightening
role by promoting the subject of population as a
multidimensional issue and, consequently, by emphasizing
the need to deal with these issues from several angles.
In 1994 the international community defined a
programme of action that was based on a broad
international consensus. The Cairo Programme of Action
emphasizes the need to assign priority to improving the
quality of life and well-being of the population of the
world; promoting human development in order to eliminate
poverty; supporting sustained economic growth within the
framework of sustainable development; ensuring access to
education, particularly for girls; promoting gender equality
reducing infant and maternal mortality;
and equity;
reproductive health services;
the search for sustainable
production and consumption patterns; and the development
of human resources. All of these efforts were to be
undertaken within a framework of respect for human rights.
The five-year review of the Cairo Programme of
Action was successfully concluded with the support of the
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). The Latin
American and Caribbean States participated actively in this
process and are deeply satisfied with the outcome of the
review. They have also embarked on a study of the
recommendations in order to implement them.
The countries of our region are undoubtedly now in
good shape to implement the Cairo agreements. Observing
the events of the past century from a historical perspective,
all delegations present here will agree that
important
progress has been made in the living conditions of most
countries of the Latin American and Caribbean region.
Significant social and economic transformations have
produced relatively sustained rates of economic growth and
some improvement in the well-being of individuals and the
delivery of basic social services. Moreover, the sustained
Most programmes in our countries acknowledge
institutional reinforcement and the decentralization of
their services as a priority measure in the application of
reproductive health services. Many countries have
incorporated new actors, acknowledging the work of non-
governmental organizations, particularly those for women
and young people, and the rest of civil society. There has
also been recognition of
the new principles on
reproductive rights outlined in Cairo and of the need to
supply access to quality services.
The various levels of poverty include ethnic and
gender differences, which are also reflected in limited
access to basic health and education services. The
indicators reflect the reality of life for women. Fifty per
cent of Latin American and Caribbean women have
suffered some kind of domestic violence; fewer than 50
per cent of births in the Central American and Andean
area countries are attended by trained personnel; maternal
mortality rates remain high within the region, pointing to
marked social, economic and gender inequalities that
persist within the region.
The situation of our youth is also worrying. In some
countries, adolescents make up more than 50 per cent of
the total population. One third of all girls under the age
of 20 have already had their first child; they are thus
unable to finish their schooling or obtain adequate
training and are doomed to the perpetuation of their social
condition and to seriously restricted opportunities for
development. In reality, many youthful pregnancies occur
as a reaction to the reality of unemployment and the
limited economic opportunities for individual progress. It
is obvious that teenagers need special care commensurate
with their needs.
There is a clear commitment in Latin America and
the Caribbean to continued implementation of
the
resolutions adopted at the 1994 International Conference
on Population and Development. The achievements made
to date prove that the financing of programmes within the
region has concrete results, since they have produced a
context of greater political and economic stability than in
the previous decades.
Although these achievements have been meaningful,
it is important to emphasize that the Latin American and
Caribbean situation requires the sustained technical and
7
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
economic support of the international community. We
therefore take this opportunity to acknowledge and
commend the work of the Population Fund, as well as that
of
In this same
conviction, we repeat our request for increased support
from the donors for the region generally and for population
affairs specifically.
the international donor community.
Within this framework, it is important to support and
to be able to count on the cooperation of the Population
it may continue to work with regional
Fund, so that
Governments and civil society,
in accordance with its
mandate, and to improve the quality of life of our peoples,
particularly women, adolescents and young girls.
We are convinced that, in the twenty-first century, the
United Nations Population Fund will continue actively to
exercise its role in making the Cairo Programme of Action
a reality. We in the Latin American and Caribbean region
wish it
the greatest success and pledge to continue to
strengthen its links of cooperation with our countries. In
this way, we may one day be able to claim in full
satisfaction that every family lives in an environment that
is conducive to its well-being and development and enables
it to freely organize its own living conditions in accordance
with its perceptions and individual situation, within a
framework of equity and equality for women and men and
in full respect for human rights.
The President:
to the
representative of Italy, who will speak on behalf of the
Western European and Other States Group.
I now give the floor
Mr. Fulci
(Italy): 12 October 1999 marked the
crossing of a major threshold in human history: the birth of
the world's six billionth child. This extraordinary moment
compels us to reflect on the remarkable growth of the
world's population and on the collective responsibility of
the international community in seeking to stabilize this
phenomenon. For the past 30 years — and, I am sure, for
many more in the future — we have been and will be able
to count on the most invaluable work of the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA), which has always remained in
the forefront on issues related to the field of population. On
this special occasion, it is my privilege to speak on behalf
of the Western European and Other States Group, which
wants to express its profound appreciation for the Fund's
mission and achievements.
UNFPA was established in 1967 as the United Nations
Trust Fund for Population Activities. By the time of the
1974 World Population Conference in Bucharest, it was
8
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
already acting globally. It was, however, at the Cairo
Conference of 1994 that the linkage between population
and development was finally acknowledged.
The mission statement of UNFPA inscribes the
laudable goals of contributing to improving the quality of
life and stabilizing world population. In the field of
population and development, UNFPA provides leadership
and advocacy and, above all, helps Governments
formulate
and
supports developing countries by
programmes.
providing practical development assistance,
forging
partnerships and mobilizing resources.
and implement population policies
It
UNFPA has played a remarkable role in helping
developing countries and countries with economies in
transition to implement population and development
strategies. It has also done commendable work in the
population census area and in building capacities to
collect, process and maintain basic population data in
programme countries.
In the implementation of its overall mission, UNFPA
recognizes that all human rights are universal, indivisible
is proclaimed in many
and interdependent. This
international
instruments,
including
the Vienna
Declaration on Human Rights, the Programmes of Action
of
the United Nations International Conference on
Population and Development and of the World Summit
for Social Development and, last but not least, in the
Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on
Women.
The Group of Western European and other States
cannot but
commend UNFPA for promoting the
empowerment of women, gender equality, women’s
reproductive health and rights and male responsibility.
The five-year review of the Cairo Programme of Action
showed that almost two thirds of the Member States have
already introduced policy or
legislative measures to
promote equity and equality of women in areas including
inheritance, property rights, employment and protection
from gender-based violence, such as female genital
mutilation.
Among its many significant achievements, UNFPA
has helped combat the spread of HIV/AIDS and other,
similar diseases, both through its own programmes and as
a sponsor of the Joint United Nations Programme on
HIV/AIDS.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
The countries of the Group of Western European and
other States are committed to the goals of the Cairo
Programme of Action and support the implementation of
the Programme of Action and of the key actions identified
in the recent five-year review.
I wish to close by thanking in particular Ms. Nafis
Sadik, the dynamic Executive Director of UNFPA, for her
leadership and wisdom in the sensitive field of population
and development. The Group of Western European and
other States would also like to take this opportunity to
express its appreciation to the staff members of UNFPA all
over
their dedication, hard work and
considerable achievements.
the world for
The President: I now call on the representative of the
United States of America, the host country.
agreed
that
family
and
support
guidance
Ms. King (United States of America): Over the past
30 years an unshakable worldwide consensus has emerged
that underscores the integral and mutually reinforcing
linkages between population and development. For the first
time, Governments
planning,
reproductive and sexual health, safe motherhood, healthy
newborns,
and
empowerment of women were closely linked to the
provision of adequate food, water, education, sanitation,
shelter and other primary health services. This new
consensus replaced human numbers with human needs,
replaced coercion with choices and moved from a
demography-centred to a democracy-based approach to
stabilizing global population growth. Behind this historic
consensus — indeed, acting as the vanguard of the global
partnership that has grown out of this consensus — stands
the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).
for
youth
The United States is proud of the role it played in the
founding of UNFPA in 1969. Over these 30 years, the work
of UNFPA has been critical in ensuring that women and
their families are at the heart of our collective economic,
social and political development efforts. UNFPA has taken
the lead in expanding access to reproductive health services
throughout
in recognizing and upholding
women’s fundamental rights and in forging progress in the
critical areas of maternal mortality, family planning and
HIV/AIDS prevention.
the world,
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
With UNFPA’s support, Governments are doing a
better job of meeting the needs of youth by developing
and investing in plans that will ensure they will lead
healthy and productive lives. Because of UNFPA,
Governments are better able to build lasting partnerships
with non-governmental organizations; and thanks in large
measure to UNFPA’s Herculean efforts, we have a
plan — the United Nations International Conference on
Population and Development Programme of Action —
agreed to by 179 Governments, that focuses on meeting
the needs of individual women and men and urges the
empowerment of women both as a highly important end
in itself and as a key to improving the quality of live for
everyone.
On behalf of the United States Government, I want
to congratulate Ms. Nafis Sadik for her visionary
leadership of UNFPA over
the past 12 years. She
continues to be a tireless champion of reproductive rights
around the world. We owe Ms. Sadik and the multitude
of UNFPA staff members across the globe a debt of
gratitude for all they have done over the past 30 years to
place women at the very centre of development. We
salute them and wish them all, and UNFPA, many, many
happy birthdays to come.
The President: I now call on the representative of
Guyana to introduce the draft resolution contained in
document A/54/L.18.
Mr. Insanally (Guyana): I am pleased, on the
occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA), to introduce draft resolution
A/54/L.18 for the consideration of the General Assembly
at its fifty-fourth session.
the Group of 77 and other
As can be seen from the long list of sponsors, the
document enjoys widespread support among member
countries of
important
constituencies within the Assembly. I am pleased to
announce that, in addition to the names appearing on the
document,
the following countries have joined as
sponsors: Algeria, Angola, Austria, Bangladesh, Bulgaria,
China, Cuba, Finland, France, Greece, India, Indonesia,
the Islamic Republic of Iran, Portugal, the Republic of
Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Saint Lucia,
South Africa, Tunisia and Venezuela. And I have no
doubt that by the end of this morning there will be many
more. This extensive endorsement
is by no means
surprising, since the underlying purpose of the draft
resolution is clear and uncontroversial. Quite simply, it
commends the significant achievements of UNFPA during
9
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
prerequisites for the creation of a vibrant and productive
society. It is therefore essential that adequate attention and
support be given to such important areas of reproductive
and
of
adolescents — as access to needed family planning,
planning services, reduction of maternal mortality rates
and the creation of education and training services.
health — including
sexual
needs
the
is
dedicated
The sponsors of draft resolution A/54/L.18 are fully
satisfied that
the United Nations, more particularly
UNFPA, under the enthusiastic and enterprising leadership
of Ms. Nafis Sadik,
full
implementation of
the Cairo Programme of Action.
However, to do its job, UNFPA must be provided, as
Ms. Sadik reminded us only yesterday, with adequate
resources. With a gap of almost $5 billion between the
current commitments and the target of some $7 billion set
for 2015, UNFPA’s future can hardly be said to be fully
assured.
the
to
On this occasion,
therefore, when we meet
to
celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the founding of
UNFPA, we should also resolve to honour the obligations
undertaken at Cairo. There can be no better birthday gift
to UNFPA than a renewed pledge to raise the levels of
financial support. With this appeal, I wish to convey to
the Fund, its Executive Director and its staff our warmest
congratulations and good wishes and to call for the
unanimous adoption of draft resolution A/54/L.18, which
formally places on record the Assembly’s appreciation of
the great work being done by the Fund in the cause of
development.
The President: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/54/L.18, entitled “Thirtieth
anniversary of the operations of the United Nations
Population Fund”.
Since the introduction of the draft resolution, Brazil
and Cyprus have joined the list of sponsors.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/54/L.18?
Draft resolution A/54/L.18 was adopted (resolution
54/11).
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
its three decades of existence in implementing the important
areas of its mandate and calls for increased international
support in furtherance of its activities in the years to come.
May I just point out that there is a small typographical
error appearing in the title: the world “operation” should be
in the plural. The error recurs in operative paragraph 1,
where the word “operation” should also be made plural.
In formally presenting the draft resolution to the
Assembly, it is perhaps apropos to recall that five years ago
in Cairo, the international community came together to call
for an action programme to address the challenges of
population. The result was a set of firm objectives which all
States committed themselves to pursue in the interest of a
peaceful, healthy and stable world. In demonstration of this
commitment, a pledge was made then to try to reach a
target of $5.7 million dollars in the year 2000. The outcome
of the meeting was a landmark in international cooperation
on issues that are admittedly sensitive and susceptible to
different perspectives and priorities.
Regrettably, however, as was evident at the special
session to review the status of implementation of the Cairo
Programme of Action, which was held some four months
ago with the Ambassador of Bangladesh ably and
effectively chairing the Ad Hoc Committee of the Whole,
it does not appear likely that the targets set will be easily
met. Indeed, there is an anticipated shortfall of $3.5 million
in contributions, resulting in a reduction of activities to a
mere one third of
those originally planned. By any
yardstick, this cannot be deemed satisfactory.
As a consequence of this financing gap, to take just
one example, the target of providing basic education for all
children by the year 2015 will elude us. So, too, down the
line, as the heads of the multilateral financial institutions
have already told us, will the other social targets, the most
important of which is to halve global poverty by the year
2015.
the international
community must seriously ask itself whether it is doing
enough to address the many social ills that continue to
plague it. For to fail to live up to commitments freely given
is to place in doubt the value of the hard negotiations in
which we continuously engage in the ostensible hope of
finding common solutions to common problems.
In the light of
this setback,
As the Secretary-General makes clear in his report on
the special session contained in document A/54/442 and the
recent debate within the Second Committee, population
issues are at the heart of sustainable development. Health
of women — are
and
education —
particularly
10
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
The Assembly has thus concluded the commemoration
of the thirtieth anniversary of the operations of the United
Nations Population Fund and this stage of its consideration
of sub-item (h) of agenda item 99.
The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.
40th plenary meeting
27 October 1999
11
