United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
44th plenary meeting
Monday, 1 November 1999, 3 p.m.
New York
A/54/PV.44
Official Records
President:
Mr. Gurirab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Namibia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Cyclone in India and crash of an Egyptian aeroplane
The President: Before turning to the item on our
agenda for this afternoon, may I, on behalf of all the
members of the Assembly, extend our deepest sympathy to
the Government and the people of India for the tragic loss
of lives and the extensive material damage which has
resulted from the recent cyclone.
It was also with deep sadness that I learned yesterday
of the crash of EgyptAir flight 990, which was lost in
international waters during the early hours of Sunday, 31
October, off the coast of Nantucket Island, Massachusetts.
I wish to join other world leaders and concerned
people everywhere in expressing deep sorrow and profound
sympathy over this terrible tragedy, and offer condolences
to the bereaved families, relatives and friends of all those
on board whose lives ended so tragically.
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work:
request for the inclusion of an additional item
Note by the Secretary-General (A/54/234)
The President:
In document A/54/234,
the rules of procedure of
the
Secretary-General has the honour to request, pursuant to
rule 15 of
the General
Assembly, the inclusion in the agenda of the fifty-fourth
session of an additional item entitled “Financing of the
United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone”. Owing to the
nature of the item, the Secretary-General further requests
that the item be allocated to the Fifth Committee.
Unless there is an objection, in view of the urgency
of this request, I shall take it that the General Assembly
agrees that the relevant provision of rule 40 of the rules
of procedure, which would require a meeting of the
General Committee on the question of the inclusion of
this item on the agenda, can be waived.
I invite representatives to stand and observe a minute
of silence.
It was so decided.
The members of the General Assembly observed a
minute of silence.
99-86309 (E)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original speeches only.
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room C-178. Corrections will
be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
44th plenary meeting
1 November 1999
take it
that
The President: May I
the General
Assembly, on the proposal of the Secretary-General, wishes
to include an additional item in the agenda of the current
session entitled “Financing of the United Nations Mission
in Sierra Leone”?
The President: May I further take it
the
General Assembly, also on the proposal of the Secretary-
General, wishes to allocate this item to the Fifth
Committee?
that
It was so decided.
It was so decided.
The President: The Chairman of
the Fifth
Committee will be informed of the decision just taken.
The meeting rose at 3.25 p.m.
2
