United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
55th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 17 November 1999, 3 p.m.
New York
A/54/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Mr. Gurirab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Namibia)
In the absence of
(Nigeria), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the President, Mr. Mbanefo
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 154 (continued)
United Nations Decade of International Law: marking
of the end of the United Nations Decade of International
Law
Report of the Secretary-General (A/54/362 and
Add.1)
Letter dated 10 September 1999 from the
Permanent Representatives of the Netherlands and
the Russian Federation addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/54/381)
Report of the Sixth Committee (A/54/609)
Mr. Santos (Mozambique): I have the honer to speak
on behalf of the Southern African Development Community
(SADC) member States, namely, Angola, Botswana, the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Malawi,
Mauritius, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland,
Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe and my own country,
Mozambique. The SADC countries would like to associate
themselves with the statements made by South Africa and
the Sudan on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and the
African Group, respectively.
As the United Nations Decade of International Law
is now reaching its end, we think it is time to pause and
take stock of the achievements and the work undertaken
during the Decade. At the dawn of a new millennium, this
exercise is not only appropriate but also necessary as a
way to gather momentum and inspiration to face the
many challenges that still await the world in the years
ahead.
The world is witnessing the phenomenon of
globalization, making
nations
imperative. On the other hand, war and violence still
ravage many parts of the world, claiming millions of
innocent lives and causing social and economic havoc.
cooperation
among
It is a tragic reality that the African continent is one
which is characterized by strife and conflicts, the majority
of which are internal conflicts. Southern Africa,
in
particular, has been and continues to be subject to these
types of conflicts, which have resulted in untold suffering,
destruction and loss of life and property.
If we truly want to avert such situations, all nations
of the world must be guided in their relations by the
principles and rules of international law and resolve their
disputes by peaceful means, as proposed in the statement
of the Decade’s main purposes.
It is in this spirit that SADC countries participated
actively in many international forums, at the subregional,
regional and international levels, where important treaties
were adopted. In this regard, we must acknowledge the
99-86485 (E)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original speeches only.
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room C-178. Corrections will
be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
undeniable and remarkable advances achieved during the
decade in the area of progressive development and
codification of international law, one of the main purposes
of the Decade.
The Rio Declaration adopted in 1992 built on the
Stockholm Declaration of 1972 and created the guiding
principles of international environmental
including
Agenda 21. Subsequently, several conventions have been
adopted in compliance with these principles and in order to
regulate specific areas of international environmental law,
thus creating a new and autonomous body of international
law.
law,
Many other extremely important conventions have also
been adopted, such as the Ottawa Convention on landmines
and the Convention on the Law of the Non-Navigational
Uses of International Watercourses.
The adoption in Rome, in 1998, of the Statute of the
International Criminal Court constitutes a landmark of the
Decade. SADC countries participated actively in the
negotiation of the Rome Statute. We believe that the early
entry into force of the Statute and the commencement of
the Court’s operations will put an end to the culture of
impunity and will help establish a culture of peace
worldwide.
Certainly another major achievement was the entry
into force in 1994 of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea and the subsequent establishment and
effective functioning of various organs provided for in the
Convention, including the International Tribunal for the
Law of the Sea. That Tribunal constitutes an additional and
specialized forum for the peaceful settlement of disputes,
complementary to the International Court of Justice.
Adequate resources must be provided to these bodies in
order to permit them to function adequately.
theme
Summit
on wildlife
regional
and
adopted
conservation
This year the Summit of SADC heads of State or
Government had the
“SADC in the Next
Millennium — Working Together for Peace, Progress and
Prosperity”. That
legal
instruments
law
enforcement. The Summit also noted the entry into force of
the charter of
the Regional Tourism Organization of
Southern Africa and of the regional protocols on shared
watercourse systems, energy, transport, communications and
meteorology. Previously, SADC countries had adopted or
ratified a wide range of protocols and agreements that
regulate areas such as tourism, wildlife conservation, drug
trafficking, energy and transport.
on
2
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
settlement of disputes
The organization reiterated its strong commitment to
the peaceful
through local
mechanisms of conflict prevention, management and
resolution, thus assuming its role in contributing to the
maintenance of peace and security in the region. It was
also in southern Africa that the first meeting of States
parties to the Ottawa treaty on landmines took place in
May of this year. This was a demonstration of the
importance of the involvement of all nations, regardless
of their economic capacity, in the effort to attain the goals
of peace and stability in the world.
The SADC countries would like to express their
sincere gratitude to the Governments of the Kingdom of
the Netherlands and the Russian Federation for having
initiated and co-hosted — as a well-deserved tribute at the
close of the United Nations Decade of International
Law — the
first
International Peace Conference. The meetings at The
Hague and St. Petersburg were excellent occasions for
reflecting
disarmament,
humanitarian law and the peaceful settlement of disputes,
which today are as much a part of the world’s main
agenda as they were a hundred years ago.
celebrations
centennial
important
issues
the
on
of
of
In southern Africa, representatives of SADC member
States, as well as of all sectors of society, were invited to
participate in a seminar held earlier this year in Pretoria
to commemorate the first International Peace Conference
of 1889. The seminar
re-evaluated the aims and
aspirations of the Hague Conference in the light of the
specific problems and needs of the African continent, and
in particular of the southern African region.
It was emphasized at the seminar that, although the
potential use of nuclear weapons remains an ever-present
danger and a very real threat, the real and present danger
of all conflicts is the threat posed by small arms. Small
arms are responsible for the killing of millions of people,
the world,
mostly civilians,
particularly in Africa.
the Hague
Conference are to be pertinent and relevant to the African
continent,
then the pressing problem of the use and
proliferation of small arms will have to be addressed.
in many regions of
the ideals of
If
The southern African region in particular suffers
from a surfeit of available weapons. The proliferation of
small arms in the southern African region is a product
both of the past and of the current demand for arms for
specific security needs and criminal purposes. The task of
regulating and controlling these arms is huge and
multifaceted, and the most effective means to accomplish
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
it is through regional cooperation. Fortunately, there is a
growing willingness to engage in such regional cooperation
and a genuine desire for peace and development in the
southern African region. Practical steps are under way in
this regard.
currency of such vital issues, rather than dwindling, is
growing daily. My delegation believes that the declaration
of the 1990s as the Decade of International Law, with its
programme of activities, provided a strong impetus for
doing this work.
The spirit of The Hague should guide us to the next
millennium. It proposes seeking an end to violence, through
the peaceful settlement of disputes and a humanitarian
approach. Every
remain
committed to the spirit of the Hague Conference and to the
goals of the Decade if we are indeed to create a better
world guided by the international rule of law.
nation must
peace-loving
The strong wind of change in the world, calling for
the establishment of democratic,
transparent and just
systems of governance based on full respect for the rule of
law, must also reach the international-relations scene. We
call on all the nations of the world to work together for a
better millennium, free of violence and poverty — a world
without haves and have-nots, a world where peace is the
rule rather than an exception.
The objectives of the Decade remain as valid today as
they were 10 years ago. It is our wish that the United
Nations will continue to be active and vigilant in promoting
the objectives of the Decade into the next millennium.
Mr. Vázquez (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): The
delegation of Ecuador would like to express its gratitude to
the Secretary-General for his far-reaching report on the
United Nations Decade of
International Law, which
provides a comprehensive look at the many diverse actions
undertaken by States, the United Nations system, regional
organizations and the academic sector, with the goal of
fulfilling the Decade’s purposes, which were set out in
resolution 44/23.
As regards the results that have been achieved in the
progressive development and codification of international
law, my delegation feels that
the bottom line is quite
positive. This can be seen in the many multilateral
instruments that have been adopted in the course of the
Decade.
The United Nations in particular has been able to
respond effectively to the challenge of providing proper
legal responses to many vital issues on the international
agenda. With international society now characterized by a
complex interdependence among its members and requiring
the ongoing development of norms that reflect and adapt to
the
the changing realities of the contemporary world,
Law Commission
Special mention should be made of the work of the
International
progressive
development and codification and of the consultative
work and concrete
and
international norms carried out by the International Court
of Justice.
application of principles
on
law, we cannot fail
International law, however, is not shaped by the
negotiation of conventions alone. When we talk of the
development of international
to
recognize the important role played by international
custom and the interrelationship between conventional and
customary
official
jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice. Indeed,
the Court has acknowledged the validity, as international
custom, of fundamental norms of the international legal
order that transcend those contained in a convention.
enshrined
the
norms,
as
in
Moreover,
the International Court of Justice has
recognized that customary law does not necessarily evolve
entirely independently of
treaties, but can also be
expressed in general multilateral conventions or at
codification conferences that are widely attended. The text
of a convention can declare a prior customary norm; it
can also define a norm that is still evolving; or, finally,
the de lege ferenda provision of a treaty or a proposal
made at an international conference can eventually
become the axis of a subsequent state practice that,
following a consolidation period, becomes a customary
norm. This can also apply, to a certain degree, to the
content of quite a few resolutions of
the General
Assembly.
in certain cases,
It should be pointed out that resolutions in and of
themselves are not a formal source of international law.
Nevertheless,
interaction can arise
between customary law and the content of certain
resolutions of the General Assembly, the principal organ
of the United Nations. This content can be seen as
evidence of what States may consider to be law in a
specific area, especially if it has been formulated as a
norm or principle to which States must adjust
their
behaviour.
If the validity of law in international relations is to
be ensured, it is not enough to develop norms. It is also
3
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
crucial to ensure their respect and observance, for which we
must redouble our efforts and identify mechanisms to
ensure that all States take international law and respect for
its principles as a model of conduct.
There is no room for half-hearted positions in the
commitment of States to international law, much less for
those that would discredit
it. The strengthening of
international law is certainly not promoted by unilateral
interpretations of clear international obligations contained
in legally binding instruments.
It has been said that, in the wake of the cold war, the
international order is in a state of transition and that, while
the harmful effects of the cold war shaped the future of the
international community for several decades, international
actors knew what to expect, even if it was only to expect
the worst. In the current period, however, which some call
transitional, a sense of uncertainty is emerging that will
persist if we do not enshrine respect for law and if there is
law based on
a will not
cooperation to the mutual benefit of all, but
to create
international law allowing unilateral or group advantages to
be won.
to consolidate international
As a result, it is not only proper, but crucial that
international actors behave on the basis of international law,
respect for which is the only way to achieve certainty and
strengthened confidence and cooperation at all levels. In
this context, we can appreciate the validity of the words set
down four centuries by Hugo Grocio, who anticipated the
principle of interdependence among all States members of
the international community and stressed the certainty that
emerges through respect for law:
“Law is not based on utility alone. There is no
State so powerful that it does not sometimes require
the assistance of others, be it in commerce or even to
protect itself from the forces of foreign nations united
against it. As a result, we see that even the most
powerful and sovereign people seek alliances, which
are totally meaningless to those who would confine
law within state boundaries. Nothing is truer than the
saying that everything becomes uncertain once men
stray from the law.”
Another main objective of the Decade is promoting
means and methods for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
As my delegation stressed before the Sixth Committee, the
best contribution that two countries have been able to make
towards its achievement was the overall peace agreement
signed just over a year ago between Ecuador and Peru,
4
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
which resolved the border conflict that they had waged
for over 150 years. This overall agreement
included,
inter alia, the demarcation of the shared land border, a
trade and navigation treaty, a broad agreement for border
integration, development and good-neighbourliness, and
the establishment of a binational committee on confidence
and
important
achievement for the consolidation of peace and security
in Latin America and can serve as an example to the rest
of the world of how to settle disputes peacefully and to
develop cooperation in a post-conflict era.
security measures. This was
an
of
the First
My delegation reiterates
its gratitude to the
Governments of the Russian Federation and the Kingdom
of the Netherlands for having prepared the centennial
commemoration
International Peace
Conference at The Hague and for submitting the report on
its results. Undoubtedly, this commemoration highlighted
the historic
the First Conference,
particularly as the birthplace of multilateral diplomacy to
develop concerted and coordinated action in the quest for
peace.
importance of
Ecuador
feels that
the commemoration was an
important opportunity for reflection on and analysis of the
three topics of the First International Peace Conference.
It is clear that the noble goals and objectives of those
who participated in it 100 years ago in defence of peace
and international law remain fully valid today in our
turbulent world.
The United Nations must redouble its efforts to
pursue the objectives of the Decade, which will always be
valid. We must also stress the importance of
the
commitment that all States should make to international
law — a commitment that should include increasingly
effective compliance with international law and respect
for its principles.
Mr. Nejad Hosseinian (Islamic Republic of Iran):
My delegation would like to associate itself with the
statement made by the representative of South Africa,
who spoke on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Ten years ago this Assembly made a historic
decision. Upon the initiative of
the Non-Aligned
Movement and in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 44/23, the period 1989-1999 was proclaimed
the United Nations Decade of International Law. The
proclamation of the Decade of International Law was
indeed a timely measure,
indicative of the growing
in a highly interdependent
conviction of nations that
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
world everyone’s interests are best served by a more
principled and orderly system based on law. This cardinal
goal and the four main objectives of the Decade that were
relevant at the time of the declaration of the Decade are
applicable today and will continue to be pertinent in years
to come. This is the message that we should convey to
succeeding generations: peace and security in the world can
be preserved only through the predominance of the rule of
law in international relations.
At this stage, when the Decade is approaching its
termination, a glimpse at the Secretary-General’s report
(A/54/362), which reflects the programmes carried out in
the past 10 years, shows that much has been accomplished
in implementing the Decade’s concepts. First and foremost,
the establishment of two ad hoc Tribunals by the United
Nations to bring to justice the perpetrators of the most
heinous crimes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia
and in Rwanda, as well as the adoption of the Statute of the
International Criminal Court in Rome in 1998, were among
the major achievements of the community of nations during
the Decade. We remain convinced that the establishment of
a universal and effective Criminal Court will provide
succeeding generations with the best hope for achieving a
world spared the scourges of aggression and genocide,
which over this century have caused the loss of millions of
people’s lives worldwide.
Moreover, various activities carried out in the course
of the Decade have helped disseminate its noble goals
among various sectors of the society of nations. The United
Nations Congress on Public International Law, which was
convened upon the proposal of the Islamic Republic of Iran
and Mexico in this Assembly in 1995, was a successful
exercise in involving pertinent institutions, academicians
and individuals in the promotion of the Decade’s purposes.
Celebrations of the centennial of the first International
Peace Conference of 1899, convened upon the initiatives of
the Netherlands and the Russian Federation at The Hague
and St. Petersburg in 1999, were also meaningful
contributions to the Decade’s activities.
to
all
and
commend
Thus, we wish
individuals,
institutions, Governments
non-governmental
agencies that have contributed to the dissemination of the
lofty objectives of the Decade around the world and those
who have helped to enrich the content of its programme of
activities. The working group of the Sixth Committee on
the United Nations Decade of International Law, as the
main coordinating body of the activities of the Decade, and
the United Nations Office of Legal Affairs deserve credit
for their tireless efforts. Certainly, their endeavours have
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
development
immensely
implementation of the Decade’s programmes.
facilitated
the
and
the
The end of 10 years of focused work to promote the
prevalence of the rule of law in international relations
does not necessarily mean that all objectives of the
Decade have been fully realized. I venture to take this
opportunity to pinpoint two areas requiring serious and
close attention in the coming years.
Firstly, it is crystal clear that in a well-organized
world system based on the rule of law, decentralized
reactions to possible cases of violation of norms and
principles of international law cannot be permissible. It is
equally true that in a law-abiding society of nations,
States cannot and should not take the law into their own
hands and be the judges of their own conduct. Obviously,
the very nature of unilateral measures of a punitive
character, which have unfortunately been on the rise in
recent years, is detrimental to the cause of promotion of
and respect for the principles of international law, which
constitutes one of the main objectives of the Decade. The
strong opposition demonstrated by various Governments
around the world vis-à-vis the application of unilateral
sanctions, including in particular the adoption of General
Assembly resolutions 53/10 and 54/21, illustrates the firm
determination of the community of nations to reject
unilateralism in its entirety. Undoubtedly, the Charter of
the United Nations, which has passed the test of time,
provides appropriate mechanisms to counter those who
challenge the basic norms of international society. It is
therefore imperative for all States and international
organizations to continue to act
in accordance with
international law and the Charter provisions. This is an
important recommendation contained in the programme of
activities of the Decade, which must be fully kept in
perspective,
in words and programmes and, more
importantly, in deeds and decisions.
Secondly, I wish to underline the important duty
assigned to the United Nations with respect to promoting
disarmament and arms control, which undoubtedly is an
essential factor for the preservation of world peace and
security. Beyond doubt, years of negotiations in this field
have led to some success in the prohibition of certain
types of weapons of mass destruction. But despite the
incremental success, achievements have been minimal
with regard to the elimination of nuclear weapons.
Moreover, recent developments in some regions have not
only called into question the credibility of the non-
proliferation regime, but have also seriously challenged
the effectiveness of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban
5
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
Treaty. Therefore, nuclear disarmament should be the focus
of our attention for years to come. In these circumstance,
we will not be comforted by believing that the turn of the
millennium will easily bring about a secure world for
humankind.
purposes
At the threshold of the new millennium, people around
the world, in whose name the United Nations Charter was
drawn up, continue to aspire towards full implementation of
the Charter’s
the
representatives of the Governments elected by those people,
should spare no effort to realize a world with full respect
for human dignity, a better standard of
living, strict
adherence to international law and justice and, above all,
the materialization of a secure world, free from weapons of
mass destruction of any kind and the evil of war.
principles. We,
and
Mr. Enkhsaikhan (Mongolia): My delegation would
first of all like to associate itself with the statement on this
item made earlier by the representative of the Republic of
South Africa on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Ten years ago, on this very day, the General Assembly
declared the Decade of International Law in its resolution
44/23. The main purposes of the Decade were to promote
acceptance of and respect for the principles of international
law;
to promote means and methods for the peaceful
settlement of disputes between States, including the resort
to and full respect for the International Court of Justice; to
encourage the progressive development of international law
and its codification; and to encourage the teaching, study,
dissemination and wider appreciation of international law.
that
it has been a success.
The Secretary-General’s report on the Decade vividly
demonstrates
Important
international treaties and conventions have been concluded
in such fields as environmental and human rights
protection, disarmament and maintenance of international
peace and security. In the latter field alone, the international
community has witnessed the establishment of
the
International Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia, for
Rwanda and for the law of the sea. The adoption of the
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court marked
another milestone in strengthening both the concept of
individual criminal responsibility and deterrence to the
commission of heinous international crimes. The report also
points out that recourse to the International Court of Justice
has significantly increased. These points alone demonstrate
that the Decade contributed significantly to the development
and promotion of international law, thus promoting the
strengthening of the rule of law.
6
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
international
Enormous work has been undertaken during the
Decade to encourage the teaching, study, dissemination
and wider appreciation of
law. Many
important and useful conferences, seminars, symposia,
training workshops and other activities have been
successfully held. On its part,
the Secretariat of the
United Nations, especially the Office of Legal Affairs, has
undertaken many useful measures, including promoting
the implementation of the programmes and activities of
the Decade, strengthening the Treaty Section’s electronic
database, expediting the registration of treaties and their
publication, eliminating the enormous backlog in the
publication of the United Nations Treaty Series and
establishing Internet Web sites and an audio-visual library
in international
the Secretariat
should be commended for taking these measures.
law. We believe that
Within the framework of the Decade, the General
Assembly, on Mongolia’s initiative, last year adopted
resolution 53/101 containing the principles and guidelines
for international negotiations. We are confident that these
principles and guidelines will prove useful
the
management of
the peaceful
settlement of disputes and the creation of new norms of
international conduct.
international
relations,
for
Mongolia welcomes the results of the celebrations of
the centennial of the first International Peace Conference.
The themes of
the Hague Conference of 1899 —
disarmament, humanitarian law, laws of war and peaceful
settlement of disputes — remain as relevant today as they
were 100 years ago. In this connection, we believe that
the celebrations have contributed to further developing
those broad themes. Thus, the spirit of the Martens Clause
has found further development and embodiment in many
international instruments. Therefore, my delegation joins
previous speakers in expressing its gratitude to the
Governments of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and of
the Russian Federation for contributing to the organization
of the celebrations of the centennial.
Although the Decade is drawing to a close, that does
not mean that the international efforts in advancing the
rule of
law and the codification and progressive
development of international law should be weakened. On
the contrary, the end of the Decade marks a new stage in
the efforts of the international community to strengthen
and promote further
the principles and norms of
international law. If we look around, we all realize that
much more still needs to be done in this respect.
Moreover,
progressive
development of international law, the existing principles
codification
besides
and
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
and norms need to be strengthened, strictly enforced and
fully implemented.
As rightly reflected in the draft resolution before us on
this item, Member States should consider becoming parties,
if they have not yet done so, to the multilateral treaties
adopted during the Decade, including those listed in the
annex to the Secretary-General’s report. We believe that the
wider recognition and appreciation of international
law
achieved as a result of the Decade will undoubtedly serve
to achieve these aims.
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
study of
customary rules of
the formation of opinio juris and customary law deserves
closer scrutiny. The International Committee of the Red
Cross
international
humanitarian law, now in progress, will reveal whether
States are prepared to accept an expansive interpretation
of international customary law without much supporting
practice. We have not yet invented any method acceptable
to all in achieving the necessary consensus before certain
principles can be ordained as prescriptions which all
States are willing to accept as obligations admitting no
reservations.
Mr. Singh (India): The Indian delegation expresses its
appreciation for the efforts of the Governments of the
Netherlands and of the Russian Federation for organizing
and hosting activities to commemorate the centennial of the
first International Peace Conference of 1899, held in The
Hague. The centennial provided a valuable opportunity for
experts from all over the world, including the Asian and
African continents, to participate actively and make their
contributions. The three important areas covered were
peaceful
and
international humanitarian law. We would like to commend
the four eminent Special Rapporteurs for their erudite and
extremely well-researched reports, which provided the basis
for participants to present
their views. As one of the
Friends of 1999, the Government of India was happy to be
associated with this exercise. In this regard, we also
commend the regional meeting held under the auspices of
the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee at New
Delhi in February 1999.
disarmament
disputes,
settlement
of
evolution of
trend in the
The Hague Peace Conferences of 1889 and 1907
initiated a
international
organizations and international
law by eliciting wider
participation of States in deliberations on critical issues of
international concern, and in the evolution of responses by
the international community. While we recognize that
achieving a consensus on difficult and sensitive matters in
which the interests of the international community are
divided is not easy, imposing a set of interests of one group
of States rather than another, through the manipulation of
conference techniques and procedures — a practice that has
unfortunately become common of
late — is equally
undemocratic in a world where States are struggling at
different stages of economic development and are hence
faced with different sets of priorities in their national
agendas.
The scope of crimes under international humanitarian
law has increasingly been the subject matter of liberal
interpretation. In this regard the impact of public opinion on
Whether it is the role of the Security Council under
the United Nations Charter to establish a permanent
international criminal court, to set up ad hoc international
criminal tribunals or to enforce humanitarian law through
such forums, the trend has been to push through certain
ideas without making adequate efforts to develop suitable
consensus at the universal level. An enhanced role for the
Security Council, beyond the strict confines of
the
Charter,
its composition is
geographically representative and its decision-making is
in accordance with the well-established norms of equality.
the boundaries between international
Blurring of
law, and the
humanitarian law and human rights
increasing
of
violations of human rights, gives rise to the imperative
need for such crimes to be defined with the same clarity,
precision and specificity required by criminal law.
is not acceptable until
universalization
criminalization
and
We must, as we enter the new millennium, reflect on
the root causes that impede the emergence of a legal
community of mankind despite the evident physical and
psychological interdependence that exists today and look
for solutions to rapidly eliminate negative factors or
forces. This is a challenge which we all have to meet as
Asian, African, American or European people, each
according to our capacity but with the same singular
commitment.
Mr. Hanson-Hall (Ghana): My delegation supports
the statement made by the representative of the Sudan on
behalf of the African Group and the statement made by
the Permanent Representative of the Republic of South
Africa on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
My delegation wishes to commend Zimbabwe and
the
the Coordinating Bureau of
Non-Aligned Movement
initiative in the
for
declaration of the period 1990-1999 as the United Nations
Decade of International Law.
the countries of
their
7
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
As we mark the end of the United Nations Decade of
International Law, we reflect on a period in which many
significant developments have called into question the
adequacy of contemporary principles of international law as
well as the rules of diplomacy and relations between States.
We have witnessed the demise of the cold war,
the
fragmentation of empires resulting in the birth of new
nations and the dismantling of unjust political systems. At
the same time, armed conflicts proliferated while mankind
witnessed human catastrophes of unprecedented proportions.
Meanwhile, the so-called new international order remains
ill-defined. All
the
Organization to search for new mechanisms to preserve
international legality.
compelled
factors
these
have
It is within this context that the significance of the
declared purposes of the decade, as contained in resolution
44/23 of 17 November 1989, should be viewed. On the
whole, the report of the Secretary-General contained in
document A/54/362 shows that the programme has achieved
some successes in all the areas outlined. Notable among the
successes was the achievement of the objective of the
promotion of means and methods
the peaceful
settlement of disputes between States, including resort to,
and full respect for,
the International Court of Justice
Committee to which there is increasing recourse by States.
The allocation of additional resources to the Court shows
the determination of
the
Organization to strengthen the Court as the world’s highest
judicial body.
the entire membership of
for
My delegation considers the establishment of the
International Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and
Rwanda and the adoption of the Statute of the International
Criminal Court
in Rome in July 1998 as welcome
developments in our collective effort to provide legal and
institutional frameworks to hold perpetrators accountable for
crimes against humanity, war crimes, and serious violations
of international humanitarian law. The full establishment of
the Court will underscore the determination of
the
international community to put an end to criminal impunity
wherever it occurs. In this connection my delegation is
pleased to announce that Ghana ratified the Statute of the
International Criminal Court on 11 November 1999 and
steps are being taken to deposit
the instrument of
ratification with the Secretary-General.
By including the encouragement of the teaching, study,
dissemination and wider appreciation of international law in
the
the
Organization displayed great vision.
decade-long
programme,
purposes
the
of
8
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
The report of the Secretary-General demonstrates
that it is critical that the principles of international law be
known by policy makers, all Government functionaries
and the judiciary.
My delegation considers the teaching of international
law to youth as critical in strengthening its acceptance as
the foundation for the conduct of relations among nations
for the promotion of peace and security. We agree with
those who believe that studying abroad is an important
means of widening one’s perspective and narrowing the
gap to avoid future misunderstandings. In this regard, the
teaching of international law continues to be an important
part of the curricula of universities and other institutions.
report
in his
Furthermore,
to the Advisory
Committee on the United Nations Programme of
Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and
Wider Appreciation of International Law, the Secretary-
General outlined a wide range of activities being
undertaken. The extent of the activities is illustrated by
the range of the activities themselves, which include
annual awards from voluntary funds to applicants for
various fellowship programmes — seminars, courses and
publications — not only of the United Nations but also of
the United Nations Institute for Training and Research
(UNITAR) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). These fellowship
programmes
include the Geneva International Law
Seminar, which is held in conjunction with the annual
sessions of
the
International Law Fellowship Programme, which is held
at The Hague Academy of International Law in the
Netherlands, and the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe
Memorial Fellowship on the Law of the Sea, whose
fellows study at participating universities and institutions.
the past decade 242
participants have benefitted from the Geneva International
Law Seminar and that 185 fellowships were also granted
under the International Law Fellowship Programme. Since
its inception in 1965, 783 participants of 146 nationalities
have taken part in the Geneva International Law Seminar
during the sessions of the International Law Commission,
with 443 of them having received fellowships.
the International Law Commission,
Data indicate that over
We have said before that despite this impressive
number of fellowships awarded, many more applications
could not be favourably considered due to the lack of
funds. Consequently, with the demand for grants for the
execution of this Programme being far higher than the
resources can support, the lack of financial resources is
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
hampering the greater achievement of the potential that
exists under this Programme.
Despite
this
resource
constraint,
the Advisory
Committee wishes to express its appreciation to all Member
States, organizations, universities, philanthropic foundations
and other institutions that have contributed in diverse ways
to make the implementation of various categories of the
Programme relatively successful. With the reasonably
notable successes achieved under the Programme, we hope
that States and organizations will feel encouraged to make
more voluntary contributions to make possible a higher
level of achievement
in promoting the noble ideals
envisaged under the Programme. We believe that it would
be beneficial to developing countries if UNITAR’s efforts
under the Programme could be enhanced.
information on the Internet. In this regard,
My delegation also commends the Office of Legal
Affairs for its efforts to bring up to date the United Nations
Treaty Series and the United Nations Juridical Yearbook,
as well as its efforts to place the Treaty Series and other
legal
the
technical details slowing down the efforts being made to
create access to the Treaty Series electronic database should
be remedied.
In addition, my delegation notes with
appreciation the compilation of the United Nations audio-
visual
law, which covers very
important areas of international law.
library on international
All
to its
in all, my delegation is gratified to note that
delegations
thirty-fourth session unanimously
adjudged the Advisory Committee’s Programme of
Assistance an important component of United Nations
Decade of International Law. It
the
Programme will continue in operation after the closure of
the Decade. It is indeed regrettable that such a programme
cannot be expanded due to financial constraints. We
commend for the support of all delegations the guidelines
and recommendations regarding the execution of
the
Programme in the biennium 2000-2001 contained in the
Secretary-General’s report.
is heartening that
At
this juncture, permit me to acknowledge the
significant contribution made to the Programme by the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC).
The AALCC has established itself as a major forum for
international cooperation. The orientation of
its work
programme to meet the challenges posed by contemporary
international society, especially within the framework of the
activities of the AALCC’s cooperation with the United
Nations, is enviable.
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
My delegation would like to thank the Governments
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Russian
Federation for
the organization and the successful
celebration of the centennial of the first International
Peace Conference. The active participation in the
centennial celebrations of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, was most gratifying and attests to the high priority
attached to the rule of law in international
law. My
delegation also recognizes the singular role played by the
Office of Legal Affairs of the United Nations Secretariat
and the contributions of other dignitaries.
My delegation ventures to say that as we conclude
the celebration of the Decade we should remind ourselves
about the dangers facing United Nations staff members,
both at Headquarters and elsewhere, who undertake
dangerous missions in order to foster international peace
and security. Our attention has been drawn to the fact that
during the Decade several regular and locally recruited
United Nations employees have been killed in the line of
duty and that some staff members are still missing. My
delegation is convinced that if Member States were to
undertake the sustained education of their citizens about
the important role United Nations employees play in our
desire to encourage the acceptance of the primacy of
international
they gave
practical effect to the Convention on the Safety of United
Nations and Associated Personnel — greater respect for
the activities of the United Nations and its staff would be
forthcoming more readily. To this end, we would like to
emphasize that the United Nations will continue to be the
conscience of mankind and the wheel around which
international law will revolve. My delegation therefore
encourages all Member States to show commitment to the
ideals of the Organization in order to strengthen the
respect for the rule of international law.
law — and in particular
if
Mr. Franco (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): It is a
true honour for my delegation to participate in this debate
to share some observations regarding the United Nations
Decade of International Law. Colombia participated in the
preparation of the visionary evaluation given by the
delegation of Mexico on behalf of the Rio Group, as well
as in the thoughtful presentation made by the delegation
of South Africa on behalf of the Movement of Non-
Aligned Countries. We therefore associate ourselves with
the contents of both statements.
During the general debate on 20 September 1999,
the President of the Republic of Colombia, Andrés
Pastrana, highlighted one of the central elements that best
9
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
illustrates how my country views its international relations
by saying that
rules in which the behaviour of other Governments would
be unpredictable, indecisive and erratic.
it
“Colombia is not a military or economic power.
Nonetheless,
is respected by the community of
nations for its unlimited and unconditional support for
the norms and principles of
law.”
(A/54/PV.5, p. 11)
international
The consideration of the agenda item entitled “United
Nations Decade of International Law” at a time of such
complexity for the international community compels us to
reflect on the validity, relevance and significance of the
general principles of
law, because these
principles are a sine qua non for the peaceful coexistence
of nations.
international
It bears repeating time and time again,
in all
international, multilateral and bilateral forums, that there is
a real need for strict compliance with every one of the
general principles of law enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations. More than ever before, our community of
nations must accept this commitment by respecting justice
and order, and by harmonizing the moral commitments of
our Governments with the political realities that they may
face domestically and internationally.
We take the unique opportunity offered by this
commemoration to call on those Governments that in one
way or another may not be basing their actions on these
principles to begin to do so without delay and in every
circumstance. The people of Colombia are convinced of the
negative consequences of State action that
in
accordance with these minimum guidelines of behaviour,
which the community of nations has accepted as the
foundation of international peace and security. Respect for
the general principles of law is a sign of democracy,
pluralism and respect for individual human rights.
is not
The principle of pacta sunt servanda cannot be
ignored by any State under any circumstance. Naturally,
Colombia complies strictly and in good faith with those
international obligations that it has accepted. Consequently,
we expect other States also to comply in good faith with
the international obligations they have assumed in the
context of multilateral or bilateral negotiations. This kind of
behaviour must be mandatory in dealing with all issues, be
they security- or trade-related, in bilateral and multilateral
forums. Rejection of this principle would be tantamount to
enabling the gradual establishment of an international
system based on anarchy and insecurity. It would also
facilitate the consolidation of a system of relations without
10
Compliance with, and strict respect for, the principle
of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of other States
is the basis of all international relations. Regrettably, there
have been many recent examples of violations of this
principle. In some cases, powerful nations have ignored
it; in other instances, smaller States have intervened in the
domestic affairs of other States. The truth of the matter is
that,
this approach,
unquestionably the good intentions underlying an
intervention have the potential of leading to bad results.
regardless of who champions
By complying with the two general principles I
referred to earlier, we will also strengthen the United
Nations. However,
there are other principles that we
should not overlook. These include good-neighbourliness
and friendly relations among nations; the non-use of force
in international relations in violation of the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of States; the peaceful settlement
of disputes; the independence and sovereign equality of
States; and the right of peoples to self-determination.
General principles are at
the heart of peaceful
coexistence among nations. They are valid for all
societies because they were devised, and are applied, with
the very nature of the human individual in mind. These
principles do not belong to a particular legal system but
to all of them. They are values of international protection
that are reflected in several
international treaties that
Colombia considers to be most useful.
With these brief comments we have tried to show
that we must avoid the temptation of viewing the Decade
as the end of a process. Instead, this moment should be
regarded as the beginning of an effort
to build an
international society of nations. Now is the time to
implement the international rules of law that the 188
States Members of the Organization have adopted as the
norms, standards, principles, institutions and procedures
that make up international public law.
Mr. Mangoaela (Lesotho): My delegation fully
associates
itself with the statements made by the
representative of the Sudan on behalf of the African
Group; the representative of South Africa on behalf of the
Non-Aligned Movement; and the representative of
Mozambique on behalf of
the Southern African
Development Community.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
The United Nations Decade of International Law,
whose closure we are commemorating today, has coincided
with a momentous period in international affairs. There
have been significant achievements, but
it must be
acknowledged that in the course of the Decade there have
been terrible disasters — wars and internal conflicts that
reflect the continued deficiency in the development of, and
adherence to, international law. As we commemorate the
progress of this important Decade — and there have been
extraordinary achievements — we must also reflect on the
great amount of work which must still be done to achieve
the noble goals of the Charter.
The main purposes of the Decade, as reflected in
resolution 44/23, were, inter alia, to promote acceptance
and respect for the principles of international
to
promote means and methods for the peaceful settlement of
disputes between States, including resort to and full respect
for the International Court of Justice; to encourage the
law and its
progressive development of
codification; and to encourage the teaching,
study,
dissemination and wider appreciation of international law.
international
law;
The Decade was the initiative of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries, and we should express our
appreciation to the Movement, in particular to the then
Chairman, Zimbabwe, and to Foreign Minister Shamuyarira,
who provided vital vision and leadership in 1989. My
delegation would also like
sincere
appreciation to the Government of the Russian Federation
and to that of
the Netherlands for
co-hosting the centennial celebrations of the International
Peace Conference. The centennial and related forums
provided substantive
the progress of
international law during the past century and identified
essential goals which must be achieved in the next.
the Kingdom of
evaluation of
to express
its
the question of armaments,
The centennial process adopted the themes of the 1899
Conference:
the peaceful
settlement of disputes, the laws of war and humanitarian
law. It must be noted that the great hopes and aims of the
1899 and 1907 Hague Peace Conferences were not realized
in the twentieth century, which has been the bloodiest and
most war-ridden in all of human history.
During the past 100 years, in particular during the past
decade, the peaceful settlement of disputes has been the
exception rather
the
compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice
remains a distant goal; respect for the World Court’s
decisions is essential if the next century is to be more
peaceful and lawful. The goal of the 1899 Conference of
rule. Acceptance of
than the
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
Instead,
imaginable. For
limiting the production of armaments has also gone
unrealized.
this century has witnessed the
development and proliferation of the most destructive
weapons
the world
community has lived with the threat of annihilation. The
hopes that the end of the cold war would usher in a
period of unparalleled cooperation and progress have not
been supported by the stagnation of negotiations and the
development and testing of new weapons by some
nations.
five decades,
As we approach the end of the twentieth century, the
world community is horrified that
this century has
witnessed the tendency for civilians to become the main
victims of war. We have witnessed the escalation of the
use of children as soldiers and the devastating use of
weapons, such as landmines, which slaughter more
victims — almost all of them civilians — after the
cessation of war than during the hostilities.
For Africa, especially my country’s region of
these failures have been profoundly
southern Africa,
devastating. Conflict and strife, now mostly internal,
continue to engulf the African continent. It is not weapons
of mass destruction, but small arms which are causing the
greatest suffering,
instability and loss of life. Africa
cannot emerge from its terrible economic and political
turmoil unless respect for international humanitarian law
is enforced in the new century. In this sense, the purposes
and goals of the Decade have had the greatest relevance
for my country and my region.
Although our journey has been long and painful,
major strides have been taken during this fateful century.
During the past decade alone, important new international
laws and regimes have been established and have come
into force, protecting the oceans, the air and water; trying
to achieve for the next generation the goal of stopping the
proliferation
the
development of other weapons of mass destruction;
advancing
and
cooperation; and confronting terrorism, drug trafficking
and other forms of organized crime.
nuclear weapons;
outlawing
regional
of
human
rights,
security
The
adoption of
the Rome Statute of
the
International Criminal Court has been hailed as the
greatest advance in the rule of law since the adoption of
the United Nations Charter. My country and region are
committed to its ratification and early entry into force.
This new world Court, and the complementary system of
international justice that it will anchor, provides one of
humanity’s best hopes that millions of lives in the next
11
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
century will be spared the devastation and horrible suffering
experienced during the past 100 years.
The United Nations cycle of world conferences and
summits — the largest gatherings of nations, leaders, treaty
bodies and civil society in history — has coincided with the
Decade of International Law. The Secretary-General has
reinforced these processes with agendas
for peace,
development and democracy. The agendas, plans of action
and new international laws emerging from these historic
conferences and processes offer the vision and step-by-step
goals which, if implemented, will guide the international
community towards the most secure and sustainable
international legal order that the world has ever known.
One of the most extraordinary conferences — the Hague
Appeal for Peace Conference — was convened not by the
United Nations, but by non-governmental organizations of
civil society. The report on the centennial Conference, in
document A/54/381, notes the close cooperation between
the organizers of the centennial celebrations and the non-
governmental organizations, whose 10,000 delegates from
1,000
international
organizations put forward the Hague Agenda for Peace and
Justice in the Twenty-first Century.
organizations,
countries
and
in
outlines
substantial
achievements
The report of the Secretary-General
in document
A/54/362
the
encouragement of the teaching, study, dissemination and
wider appreciation of international law. A great thinker
once described history as a race between education and
disaster. It is vital that all sectors of the world community
better understand the importance and role of international
law. Thus, we commend the efforts made during the
Decade to expand the knowledge and training of educators,
young people, parliamentarians, the media and others. It is
indeed important that in addressing the objective of the
progressive development of international law, as well as its
teaching, study, dissemination and wider appreciation, we
do not forget those who are not part of these negotiations
but who are strongly affected by them:
the younger
generation, which is still groping for a stable concept in an
ever-more rapidly changing world. Today’s youths are
tomorrow’s leaders. Hence, it is through our strong and
sincere efforts today to engage them that the goal of the
wider knowledge of international law among Governments,
national administrations and the judiciary can be achieved
tomorrow. We thus commend the United Nations and the
Office of Legal Affairs for their efforts to extend access to
its treaties and processes via the United Nations Internet
Services.
12
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
The Secretary-General’s report, in documenting the
significant progress achieved in the development and
codification of international law, notes the important work
which is being done by the
International Law
Commission and, increasingly, by the Sixth Committee.
The enhancement of the legislative role of the Sixth
Committee may be one of the least known, but most
significant, achievements of the Decade and one of the
most important ways in which the General Assembly is
improving its effectiveness and accountability.
My country welcomes the advances in the promotion
of means and methods for the peaceful settlement of
disputes which have been made during the Decade.
Tribunals to settle disputes relating to the law of the sea
and to trade have begun; and two Tribunals to address
war crimes and crimes against humanity have been
established.
Enhancing support for the International Court of
Justice was a key goal of the originators of the Decade.
The International Court of Justice is the principal judicial
body of the international legal order; it is as unique as it
is universal. The acceptance of the jurisdiction of the
International Court of Justice by powerful and weak
nations alike is perhaps the world’s best measure of the
acceptance of the rule of law in international affairs. The
“opt in, opt out” treatment of the Court and its decisions
by some nations
state of
international law. The rights of sovereignty cannot excuse
impunity under fundamental international legal principles
and laws.
the precarious
reflects
In this regard, my country notes with optimism the
increased use of the International Court of Justice in
recent years. Growing confidence in the International
Court of Justice is evident in its increasing role in global
issues, such as the legality of the use of force, genocide,
reprisals, maritime delimitation and territorial questions.
We take special note of the Court’s Advisory Opinion on
the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, for
in no other matter is the stark contrast between the choice
of war and peace more clear. The opposite of mutual
assured destruction is the just rule of law in international
affairs. This was at the heart of the purpose of the United
Nations Decade
our
commitment to this goal must not end with the closure of
the Decade. For the International Court of Justice to
develop to its full potential, it is necessary that a greater
number of countries, especially those that are in position
to be world leaders in the next millennium, resort to its
jurisdiction and respect its decisions. With the added
International Law,
and
of
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
confidence in the International Court of Justice comes the
obligation to ensure adequate resources and improvements
in working conditions for
relative to its
expanding global importance.
the Court,
In
thanks
delegation
conclusion, my
the
Secretary-General for his report and supports the call for it
to be disseminated as widely as possible. For us, today’s
commemoration offered an opportunity for genuine
reflection on and rededication to the noble principles of the
Decade.
Mr. Kolby (Norway): Over the past 10 years we have
observed an increasing acceptance of the rule of law as the
governing principle in relations between States. Likewise,
the body of international law has been strengthened by the
adoption of several ground-breaking instruments such as the
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
Norway welcomes the Secretary-General’s report on
the United Nations Decade of International Law. Norway
further welcomes the outcome of this year’s celebrations of
the centennial of the first International Peace Conference.
In particular, we would like to congratulate the Government
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Government of
the Russian Federation for their efforts to arrange the
meetings that
took place at The Hague and at Saint
Petersburg. They constituted a major contribution to the
appropriate commemoration of the 1899 Peace Conference.
As to the agenda of the centennial, the issues are no less
important today than they were 100 years ago: they are
issues of disarmament and demobilization, humanitarian law
and the laws of war, and the peaceful settlement of
disputes.
With respect to humanitarian law, we share the view
that priority should be given to promoting compliance with
existing law rather than to adopting a number of new
instruments — although some development of existing law
remains desirable in some important fields. Continued
efforts must at this stage be directed at activating national
signature and ratification procedures to secure the early
establishment of the International Criminal Court. The
existence of a permanent global institution of that kind will
significantly enhance deterrence against the most heinous
international crimes. It will be significant not
in
reducing the reaction time of the international community
as compared to that involved in establishing new ad hoc
tribunals. Norway’s preparations are well under way with
a view to prior parliamentary approval of ratification.
least
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
civilians
On the threshold of a new century, the Secretary-
General has submitted a timely and comprehensive report
on the protection of
in armed conflict
(S/1999/957). We welcome this addressing of a dimension
of humanitarian law which regrettably requires more
attention than ever. It seems fundamental that the United
Nations and the international community must remain
seized of the challenging task of pursuing means to
prevent conflicts, and pending success, of ensuring the
protection of civilians in armed conflict,
including
compliance with the essential principles and rules of
conduct of armed conflict contained in, inter alia, the
Geneva Conventions of 1949 and their Additional
Protocols of 1977.
Within this context, the safety of United Nations
personnel is a critical issue. We welcome the entry into
force in January this year of the 1994 Convention on the
Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. The
Convention represents a major contribution to this cause.
We encourage more States to commit themselves to the
Convention. In this context we would like to touch also
upon the question of the applicability of international
humanitarian law in United Nations peacekeeping
operations. Norway supports
idea of
guidelines for peacekeepers. However, we are of the
opinion that the guidelines published by the Secretariat
through the Secretary-General’s bulletin need further
study and consultations before they are ripe for
implementation in peacekeeping operations.
the general
and
competence
The promotion of means and methods for
the
peaceful settlement of disputes between States, including
resort to and full respect for the International Court of
Justice, was in our view a core purpose of the Decade of
International Law. The International Court of Justice is
the principal international judicial body and possesses a
unique
universality. The Court
contributes considerably to the settlement of international
disputes as well as to the interpretation and development
of international law. During the past decade there has
been an increase in the number of cases brought before
the Court. We welcome
that development while
acknowledging the financial constraints of the Court.
Norway is pleased to learn that the Advisory Committee
on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has given
favourable
consideration to the budgetary request
concerning the Court.
Norway urges all States to take advantage of the
competence of the International Court of Justice. That
institutions are
court and other international
judicial
13
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
cornerstones of an international community built on respect
for treaties and the rule of law. Moreover, we must ensure
that the Decade’s achievements in consolidating an orderly
law-based international system are carried on into the next
century.
Recently,
the issue of humanitarian intervention
involving the use of force has been a matter of public
debate. In academic publications there have been attempts
to develop new doctrines of humanitarian intervention to
justify the use of armed force outside the framework of the
United Nations Charter. Such attempts are a matter of
serious concern to us. We fear that
introducing new
doctrines of humanitarian intervention could be hazardous.
It could easily lead us away from an international order
founded on international law towards one based on power
politics. We fear that might — the prerogative of the
strong — could come to replace right. We fear also that
new doctrines on humanitarian intervention may be misused
to legitimize aggression. This could be highly detrimental
to the security interests of small States such as Norway.
History has also repeatedly shown the need to be extremely
cautious about using new doctrines to justify military
intervention in the name of overriding necessity.
the vital
Awareness of
interplay between the
international protection of human rights and fundamental
freedoms on the one hand, and measures to maintain or
restore international peace and security on the other is
gaining ground. This is also manifest
in the Security
Council’s response to the conflicts of the 1990s. In the
former Yugoslavia, Somalia, Rwanda and East Timor the
Council has invoked Chapter VII of the United Nations
Charter to react to gross violations of human rights, to
grave breaches of humanitarian law,
to crimes against
humanity and to acts of genocide.
Thus,
throughout
this decade,
the practice of the
Security Council establishes beyond any doubt that when
faced with such massive crimes, the Council may act under
Chapter VII of the Charter and decide on measures to
maintain or restore international peace and security. The
establishment of the ad hoc tribunals for the former
Yugoslavia and for Rwanda,
the Security Council’s
management of the situations in Bosnia and Herzegovina
and in Kosovo and its authorization of the use of armed
force in Somalia are pertinent cases in point. As these
examples illustrate, such measures may be peaceful, but
they may also involve the threat or use of force.
In addition, international law allows for a broad range
of peaceful responses to serious violations of human rights
14
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
or other standards of humanity. Recourse by a State or a
group of States to such mechanisms would never amount
to interference in matters which are essentially within the
domestic jurisdiction of
to
infringement of its sovereignty.
the State at
fault or
We are convinced that the threat or use of force in
international relations must have a legal basis in the
Charter of the United Nations. A difficult humanitarian
situation may be part of the Security Council’s assessment
of whether a situation constitutes a threat to international
peace and security. It is, however, not in itself a sufficient
legal basis for employing the threat or use of force. We
therefore fully concur with the Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan, who in his important address in The Hague
on 18 May 1999 eloquently summed up the challenge that
confronts us in the following way.
“Unless the Security Council is restored to its
preeminent position as the sole source of
legitimacy on the use of force, we are on a
dangerous path to anarchy... But equally
important, unless the Security Council can
unite around the aim of confronting massive
human rights violations and crimes against
humanity on the scale of Kosovo, then we will
betray the very ideals that inspired the founding
of the United Nations.”
We do not
find the concept of humanitarian
intervention to be particularly useful in a constructive
discourse on the crucial but highly difficult question
raised by the Secretary-General.
has
this Organization
Mr. Shobokshi (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic):
For over five decades, since the establishment of the
United Nations,
assumed
responsibility for maintaining international peace and
security. The activities undertaken by the Organization to
achieve that goal have covered many fields, including
human rights, disarmament, outer
space, economic
development, international trade, crime prevention and
criminal justice, the environment, fighting terrorism and
the establishment of an International Criminal Court. As
a result of all those activities, many relevant resolutions
and decisions have been adopted by various United
Nations organs. The General Assembly, in its resolution
44/23 of 17 November 1989, proclaimed the period 1990-
1999 the United Nations Decade of International Law, the
purposes of which include promoting acceptance of the
principles
for
of
international
respect
strengthening acceptance
international
law and
of
law by
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
multilateral treaties and providing technical assistance and
advice to States to facilitate their accession to such
multilateral treaties.
teaching,
study
and
for States
by
providing
opportunities
Also among the purposes of the Decade was the
encouragement of peaceful settlement of disputes among
States
and
international organizations to express their views and to
make proposals in order to find the most effective means
for the peaceful settlement of disputes. Another major
purpose of the Decade was to encourage the progressive
development,
of
international law. The programmes offered by the world
Organization to teach and disseminate international law
cover many areas,
including offering fellowships and
holding seminars on international law, such as those held in
Geneva.
In addition, States promote the teaching of
international law at all levels of education and organize
seminars, conferences, workshops and relevant lectures at
the national, regional and international
this
underlines the importance attached to international law by
the Organization and the genuine desire of States to
promote a wider appreciation of it.
codification
levels. All
On this occasion, my delegation wishes to stress the
need to maintain and extend this exercise beyond the time-
frame of the Decade so that the expected goals of the
Decade can be achieved. Furthermore, we would like to pay
tribute to the role undertaken by the United Nations through
its Office of Legal Affairs to supervise the international
legal Web site which the United Nations has set up to make
available and update information on its programmes and
functions in many areas,
including the United Nations
Treaty Collection, international trade law, the codification
and progressive development of international law and the
International Law Commission and its updating. My
delegation would like to pay tribute to the United Nations
for establishing a new Web site this year devoted to the
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. We also
pay tribute to the United Nations Office of Legal Affairs
for
the guide published in 1997 on international
environmental law.
A few months ago, we celebrated the centennial of the
first International Peace Conference. Today we observe the
end of the United Nations Decade of International Law. It
is our hope that peace and security will prevail throughout
the world and that, learning from the horrors of the past,
parties will resolve all their disputes by peaceful means.
This hope highlights the need to respect the resolutions and
decisions adopted by the United Nations so that these noble
purposes and principles can be fulfilled.
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has supported and
will continue to support any efforts and international
endeavours aimed at achieving the purposes of the United
Nations Decade of International Law. On this occasion,
we call upon other delegations to work, under
the
constantly changing conditions of our world, towards
achieving those purposes and unifying and coordinating
efforts so that optimum results can be attained.
Today we observe the end of the United Nations
Decade of International Law, during which conventions
and protocols have been adopted in many areas. Many are
still being debated and negotiated. Efforts by the United
Nations to encourage peaceful methods and means for
settling disputes among States, achievements made in the
progressive development and codification of international
law and the encouragement of its study, teaching and
wider appreciation — all these demonstrate the relevance
of the United Nations endeavour to fulfil the purposes of
the Decade. This endeavour acquires even greater
significance as we stand at
the threshold of a new
century, which we hope will see closer and more
harmonious international
relations analogous to the
breakthroughs in the fields of science and technology.
These efforts by the United Nations should be
matched by increased international commitment to the
provisions of instruments aimed at permanent security,
peace and progress for all peoples of the world.
Mr. Kafando (Burkina Faso) (French): First of all,
I would like to associate myself with the statements made
by Mr. Omer Mohamed of the Sudan on behalf of the
African Group and by Ambassador Dumisana Kumalo of
South Africa on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The United Nations Decade of International Law,
established under resolution 44/23 of 17 November 1989,
is coming to an end. My delegation, like so many others,
would like to participate in this very special event by
sharing with the Assembly a few thoughts.
The President took the Chair.
First of all, it is fitting and essential to recognize the
contribution of international law to the elaboration of an
international society in which, whether we wish it or not,
the role of the law is daily becoming more predominant
than that of
from
Anzilotti to Kelsen and Duguit, from Poulanzas to our
eminent
International Law
shared in designing the
Commission — they all
force. From Grotius to Jellinek,
internationalists on the
15
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
contemporary positive law that governs international life.
Their efforts and good qualities are certainly praiseworthy,
but
the
codification of international law is like Penelope’s cloth,
forever being woven with no hope of completion.
in the context of an ever-changing world,
That is why the United Nations, in embracing such a
gigantic enterprise, conferred it on distinguished experts
whose work in the International Law Commission is
universally lauded. This is also why the United Nations
declared a Decade of International Law, with four main
objectives: to promote acceptance of and respect for the
principles of international
to promote means and
methods for the peaceful settlement of disputes between
States,
the
International Court of Justice; to encourage the progressive
development of international law and its codification; and
to encourage the teaching, study, dissemination and wider
appreciation of international law.
including resort
law;
to and full
respect
for
The commemoration of the end of the United Nations
Decade of International Law naturally raises the question of
what it has achieved. Where do we stand?
From this point of view, we would like first of all to
express our pleasure at the major achievements noted in the
Secretary-General’s report. Major advances in various
important areas of international law have been observed.
The Secretary-General’s report makes it possible to
assess the Decade’s achievements from two perspectives.
First, from the point of view of the activities of States, the
Decade was marked, inter alia, by the promotion of the
acceptance of and respect for the principles of international
law through participation and involvement in the drafting
and implementation of multilateral treaties; the promotion
of means and methods for the peaceful settlement of
disputes between States, which is seen in the number of
cases brought before the International Court of Justice or
before arbitration bodies; the promotion of the progressive
development of international law through intensive bilateral
and multilateral efforts to regulate international relations;
and the encouragement of
study and
dissemination of international law, inter alia, by means of
educational programmes, United Nations assistance for
training — particularly under the auspices of the United
Nations Institute for Training and Research — and the
publication of documents.
the teaching,
With respect to the activities of the United Nations to
promote the progressive development of international law,
the report of the Secretary-General cites codification efforts
16
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
in such important areas as human rights, disarmament,
outer space, economic development, international trade,
the prevention of crime, penal justice, environment and
the law of the sea.
Burkina Faso is thus quite right in regarding the
bottomline as positive, though there remain issues on
which the international community could enhance its
efforts. In many respects and as regards several issues,
the developing countries have been treated as mere extras
in the precess of drafting multilateral treaties. Therefore,
assistance and technical advice to States should be
increased, according to States’ level of development, so
as to allow them to participate more easily in the drafting
of multilateral treaties. Similarly, training and education
programmes in the field of international law should be
increased.
Without wishing in any way to diminish the
importance of other issues raised within the context of the
Decade, Burkina Faso nonetheless gives special priority
to two particular aspects:
the teaching, study and
dissemination of a wider appreciation of international law,
and the provision of assistance and technical advice to
States so that they can participate more easily in the
process of drafting multilateral treaties. In our view, these
two objectives could help enhance the aptitude,
the
capacity and the involvement of States in the field of
international
law, because working to enhance the
capacity of States is a means of increasing the acceptance
of, understanding of and respect for international law.
The Decade is coming to a close, but
it has
indisputably created a momentum that must endure. The
considerations it has brought forth must continue to guide
our Organization and its Member States in their activities,
because much remains to be done in implementing and
enhancing respect for the many instruments that have
been adopted, in regard to condification in new areas and
in regard to the willingness to have recourse to the
International Court of Justice and to arbitration bodies and
to respect their decisions.
All human activities are perfectable, and the results
of the Decade should allow us to aim even higher and
more accurately.
It is my firm conviction that if we remain committed
to continuing our activities aimed at attaining the
objectives of the Decade, together we will be able to
build an international society that is more harmonious,
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
fairer and, consequently, more capable of meeting the
challenges of our times.
Mr. Tudela (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Peru supports
the statement made this morning by the delegation of
Mexico on behalf of the Rio Group and the statement made
by South Africa on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
A decade has passed since 17 November 1989, when
the General Assembly declared 1990-1999 as the United
Nations Decade of International Law, in order to promote
the acceptance of and respect
the principles of
international law to promote means and methods for the
peaceful settlement of disputes between States, to encourage
the codification of
to
encourage the teaching, study, dissemination and wider
appreciation of international law.
international
law and,
for
lastly,
With respect
to promoting the acceptance of and
respect for the principles of international law, we note a
significant increase in the number of legal instruments in
force, as well as a greater number of States parties to each
of them. Peru, in keeping with its traditional attachment to
international law, has also taken part in this process.
We are pleased that resort to the International Court of
Justice is becoming more frequent, and we urge all States
involved in disputes not to stop trying to find negotiated,
peaceful solutions to them.
the
With respect
to the promotion of
study,
dissemination and wider appreciation of international law,
the use of computers and the Internet have been extremely
valuable. In this regard we commend the Codification
Division of the Secretariat for its important and vigorous
work in placing on the Internet both the Treaty Series and
other important
instruments. In this context, we
welcome in particular the recent opening of a site that
offers specific information on the topics currently being
dealt with by the Sixth Committee.
legal
the
Furthermore, we welcome
continuation of
international law programmes and seminars being organized
in various countries and,
the annual
fellowships to the Geneva International Law Seminar, the
International Law Fellowship programme at The Hague and
the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe Memorial Fellowship.
We hope that the donor countries will continue to support
these programmes, which are an important educational tool.
in particular,
All of these activities are a source of satisfaction to
Peru. Nonetheless, serious doubts remain about the role of
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
law in the future, not only for
the
international
Organization but also for international relations as a
whole. We have reached the end of the century and many
wonder about the future. We will not venture to provide
an answer, but we do believe that the maintenance of
peace and friendly relations among Member States will
depend largely on how this question is resolved.
International law emerges as the embodiment of a
legal norm accepted by States. Thus, it will be effective
only if this desire is supported by the political will of
States to adhere to this order. As a result, we are deeply
concerned by the possibility that, instead of an effort to
shape an inter-State opinio juris to develop legally
binding provisions, an attempt should be made to apply
ideological dogma, a pseudo-declarative international law.
Before concluding, we wish to convey our gratitude
to the Governments of the Netherlands and the Russian
Federation for having prepared the commemoration of the
centennial of the First International Peace Conference in
The Hague, in which both nations played a major role.
This was an historic occasion at which the international
community met to promote law as an effective means of
preserving the stability of the international system, thus
laying the cornerstone of contemporary international law
and its subsequent development.
Mr. Amer (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (spoke in
Arabic): The representative of the Sudan spoke on behalf
of the States of the Organization of African Unity, while
the representative of South Africa spoke on behalf of the
States members of the Non-Aligned Movement. My
country is a member of both organizations. I endorse their
statements and wish to add the following.
On this day, as we mark the end of the United
Nations Decade of International Law, we feel that this is
an appropriate opportunity to assess the achievements
made in the course of the Decade in codifying and
strengthening international
law and to review the
obstacles that have hindered the implementation of the
specific objectives set out in General Assembly resolution
44/23 of 17 November 1989. These objectives include,
inter alia, the promotion of the acceptance of and respect
for the principles of international law; the promotion of
means and methods for the peaceful settlement of disputes
between States; the encouragement of the progressive
development of international law and its codification; and
the encouragement of the teaching, study, dissemination
and wider appreciation of international law.
17
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
We note the important progress achieved in the course
of the past 10 years in the progressive development of
international
law. Several conventions and international
instruments have been adopted, including the Rome Statute
of the International Criminal Court and the elaboration of
an international convention for the suppression of terrorist
bombings. The International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea has been established as one of the mechanisms of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. A
number of conferences, seminars and workshops have been
organized. All this highlights the broad achievement of one
of the main objectives of the Decade: the encouragement of
the teaching, study, dissemination and wider appreciation of
international law.
Our delegation wishes to take this opportunity to
express its full appreciation of the work undertaken by the
United Nations Office of Legal Affairs and its efforts to
facilitate access to information on the activities of the
Organization in the field of international law, particularly
the posting on the Internet of the United Nations Treaty
Series and the Advisory Opinions of the International Court
of Justice. We look forward to that Office’s redoubling its
efforts to make all its publications in that field, including
the United Nations Juridical Yearbook, accessible in all the
official languages of the United Nations.
One of the objectives of the Decade was to promote
the peaceful settlement of disputes through resort to United
Nations mechanisms, particularly the International Court of
Justice. It is indeed satisfying to note that the Decade has
witnessed recourse to the Court by an increasing number of
States, my country among them. We have resorted to the
Court on more than one occasion in order to settle several
boundary-demarcation disputes with our neighbours and
have faithfully implemented its judgments, including those
not in our favour. We have done so out of respect for
international law and our commitment to implementing all
the decisions of this principal judicial mechanism of the
United Nations. We believe that the International Court of
Justice is the central point of reference for the international
community in interpreting international law. My country
has resorted to the Court once again to settle its dispute
with the United States of America and the United Kingdom
over the Pan Am 103 incident over Lockerbie. We consider
this dispute to be under the exclusive jurisdiction of the
International Court of
in accordance with
international law.
Justice,
Our celebration today underscores once again the
importance attached by the international community to the
law.
strengthening and development of
international
18
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
laid
Peace Conference, which
Unfortunately, despite the passage of 10 years since the
declaration of the Decade and of 100 years since the First
International
the
foundations for
the establishment of many rules of
international law, the international community has yet to
achieve full compliance with and respect for these rules,
particularly in the field of the peaceful settlement of
disputes between States. Some States have resorted to the
use of force to settle their disputes, while others have
resorted to international mechanisms, especially the
Security Council, to impose sanctions before all attempts
to settle these disputes peacefully have been exhausted, as
the Charter dictates that they should. The international
community has failed to end such practices, which
contravene international law and the objectives of the
Decade.
In several instances, these practices and laws have
transcended regional boundaries, such as the Helms-
Burton and D’Amato-Kennedy Acts, promulgated by the
United States Congress and applied by the United States
Government against
individuals and entities of other
States, and which it threatens to apply against other States
and persons if they deal with States that stand up to the
United States attempts to impose hegemony.
While fully realizing that most members of the
international community have repeatedly stated their
rejection of such practices, we believe that today, as we
mark the conclusion of the Decade,
the international
community has the opportunity to reaffirm its intention to
adopt all the measures necessary to do away with such
laws because they contravene the purposes and principles
of the Charter of the United Nations and the need to
respect commitments based on treaties, conventions and
other sources of law.
conventions
international
My country, like other States, has adopted several
measures to reinforce international law and to encourage
the study and dissemination thereof. Libya is a member
of most
dealing with
disarmament, international terrorism and human rights.
International law and humanitarian law are mandatory
subjects at Libyan universities and military academies.
We have organized several seminars to disseminate
information on international law. Our delegation would
like to take this opportunity at the end of the Decade of
International Law to reaffirm that Libya will always
maintain its respect for the rules of international law and
its adherence to its provisions because we firmly believe
that this can help create a world where justice rules and
peace and security prevail.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
Mr. Gao Feng (China) (spoke in Chinese): The
United Nations Decade of International Law has registered
many tangible achievements, as is faithfully reflected in the
Secretary-General’s report. I would like to express my
appreciation for this. The Chinese delegation has already
made its comments on these achievements in its statement
to the Sixth Committee. Moreover, we believe it
is
necessary, against the backdrop of some of this year’s
major events in international relations, to reflect further on
major issues that have an important bearing on the direction
of the development of international law.
international
The development of
law is at a
crossroads. Since the end of the cold war, regional or
subregional conflicts resulting from intra-State ethnic
problems have become new threats to the international
peace and security, subjecting the international order,
embodied in the United Nations and its Charter,
to
unprecedented challenges. Humanitarian intervention under
the pretext of protecting human rights is being used by
some influential politicians as an answer to such challenges.
We
been
always
doubtful
law has
all know that
examples of humanitarian
intervention are not hard to find — at least that has been
the case over the past 150 years — but its legality under
international
and
controversial. This is because in the past 150 years there
has never been a case in which the intervening State has
not abused humanitarian principles for the sake of its own
interests. The unlawfulness of this is clearly stated in the
United Nations Charter. Post-cold-war examples in Africa
and the Balkans have shown that humanitarian intervention
is still being used as an excuse for certain countries to
realize their own strategic interests. Such intervention is
selective. It is an unlawful act carried out by one or two
countries or a group of countries on the basis of double
standards. Its nature did not, does not and will not change.
It is ironic that even those who have carried out such
interventions might also be reluctant to discuss or develop
criteria for humanitarian intervention to acquire legality
under international law because doing so would limit their
freedom in making such interventions. Such humanitarian
intervention will not bring peace to the world, nor will it
eliminate humanitarian disasters. Intervention can be useful
for
is decided by the
collective security regime, guided by the United Nations
Charter.
resolving crises only when it
It is true that the current collective security regime is
not perfect, but the consequences of abandoning such a
regime would be very disastrous to world peace and
security and would far outweigh the defects of the regime.
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
Besides, we still have opportunities to correct or mitigate
those defects through the reform of the United Nations.
or
right
rights
human
people’s
Certain humanitarian disasters in the context of
regional conflicts require prompt action by the United
Nations, but such action has to be taken within the legal
framework of the United Nations Charter. Protecting and
respecting
to
self-determination do not render the State insignificant.
Truly meaningful human rights protection can be realized
only under the effective law and order of a State or the
international community. The unbridled freedom of an
individual or a group of individuals outside the law will
lead to the oppression of one group of people by another.
The incessant splitting of States since the end of the cold
war has not made States disappear. On the contrary, it has
and social
increasingly demonstrated the political
significance of national culture and national
spirit
embodied in States, and the unity between human rights
and State sovereignty is also more obvious.
It
is
Facts have shown that unlawful armed encroachment
on a nation’s sovereignty is by definition a serious
violation of human rights, and of that nation’s right to
self-determination.
totally unconvincing and
extremely dangerous to argue that in order to protect a
nation’s human rights, armed encroachment, in violation
of international law, must be carried out against that
nation’s sovereignty, and that in order to protect the
human rights of a group of people of a nation, the human
rights of another group of people of the same nation must
be forcibly denied, including their right to survival. The
act of protecting human rights does not have the special
status of being above international law. A legitimate goal
should be achieved only through legitimate means. This
is a basic principle that a society based on the rule of law
follows as a matter of course.
carrying
and wisdom. When
The world legal order, with the United Nations
Charter at its core, did not come into being out of thin
air. It is the crystallization of hundreds of years of human
experience
out
commemorative activities for the United Nations Decade
of International Law and the centennial of the Hague
International Peace Conference, we have emphasized,
without exception, the utmost importance of the world
legal order centred on the United Nations Charter. The
changes in international relations since the end of the cold
war have posed certain new questions for us, but these
new questions are far from being significant enough to
require the destruction of the principal pillars of this legal
the
order.
trend of globalization,
In the general
19
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
be
community will
increasingly
international
institutionalized and based on law. If we deviate from the
principles of law, whether in pursuit of global or regional
peace and security or for the protection of human rights, we
will find ourselves farther and farther from our goals and
from international justice. Returning to a state of anarchy
or to the law of the jungle offers absolutely no future.
The President: In accordance with the decision taken
this morning, I now call on the Observer of Switzerland.
Mr. Staehelin (Switzerland) (spoke in French): Today
we are commemorating the end of the United Nations
Decade of International Law. The year 1999 has also been
marked by other celebrations. I might mention first the
centennial of the first International Peace Conference, the
fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Conventions and the
tenth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the
Child.
In launching the Decade, the General Assembly rightly
recognized the important place of the law of nations in
international relations. Law constitutes the framework of
these relations, and it promotes harmonious, peaceful and
orderly development. The Assembly believed, more
specifically, that the United Nations should promote better
acceptance of and respect for the principles of international
law and that
the progressive
development and codification of that law. The Decade,
inter alia, was to promote the acceptance of and respect for
the principles of the law of nations, promote peaceful
means of settling disputes and encourage the progressive
development of international law, as well as the education,
study and dissemination of that law.
should encourage
it
During the past 10 years, many initiatives have been
taken to promote knowledge of and respect for international
law. Study programmes have been developed. International
bodies, scholarly societies and all types of associations have
made efforts with the same purpose in mind, and new
cooperation has been established. The Swiss delegation is
pleased at this and hopes that the attention focused on
international
law will continue to be developed in the
future.
Since
1990
law has
international
undergone
remarkable developments. Its evolution was undoubtedly
marked by the end of the East-West confrontation. Several
important instruments were adopted both within and outside
the framework of the United Nations system. Let us recall
first the Statute of the International Criminal Court, as well
as the Statutes of the two International Criminal Tribunals,
20
for the former Yugoslavia and for Rwanda; but we might
also think of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
personnel Mines and on Their Destruction or
the
International Labour Organization Convention on the
Prohibition of the Worst Forms of Child Labour; or
revised Protocol II and Protocol IV of 1995 added to the
1980 Convention on Certain Convention Weapons. The
evolution was particularly striking in international
humanitarian law, one of the three areas dealt with by the
first
International Peace Conference in The Hague.
Furthermore, new machinery was established to promote
the application of the law. One thinks, for example, of the
periodic meetings on international humanitarian law that
Switzerland has been called upon to convene as the
The
depositary
commemoration of
the
International Court of Justice provided the opportunity to
reflect deeply on the judicial settlement of international
disputes and to expand awareness of
the Court’s
activities.
the Geneva Conventions.
the fiftieth anniversary of
of
too often disregarded,
Unfortunately, the assessment made at the end of the
Decade does not include only positive elements. We are
reminded every day that many efforts will continue to be
necessary if we want
law to be fully
international
respected. In particular,
this pertains to the peaceful
settlement of disputes and humanitarian law, whose rules
are
even overtly flouted.
Unfortunately, some parties continue to prefer to resort to
weapons rather than to settle their disputes peacefully.
New forms of conflict have appeared. Some acts that
have been committed in disregard of the law constitute an
affront to the human conscience. The Security Council
debates devoted to humanitarian law in recent months
have unfortunately confirmed the magnitude of
the
problems to be resolved. However, we are pleased that
they also drew attention to the urgency of
taking
decisions. The development of international law has also
encountered certain impediments. As we know, major
difficulties arose in negotiations on certain instruments;
that was the case, in particular, in the area of human
rights. The Swiss delegation hopes, in particular, that the
two protocols to supplement the Convention on the Rights
of the Child will be adopted next year on the occasion of
the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the
Convention.
To improve the application of law, first of all one
must make its content known, and for that purpose one
must provide a proper education about
rules.
Innovative methods of dissemination must be developed
its
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
and applied so as to enhance the effect of education and to
reach all people who might apply the law. Along the same
lines, we must give more thought
to the means of
monitoring the application of law, whether by States or by
individuals. The most recent developments — in particular,
the adoption of the Statute of the International Criminal
Court — open up new prospects. A more systematic
incrimination of
those responsible for violations can
strengthen the authority of and respect for the law. But, no
doubt, one should not place an exclusive emphasis on
enforcement. States should not rule out other means that
might,
less
spectacularly, help ensure better respect for the law of
nations.
in some appropriate way, but perhaps
In this regard, in terms of humanitarian law the Swiss
delegation would like to recall the importance of common
article I of the Geneva Conventions. This provision sets
forth the obligation for States parties to respect and ensure
respect for the Conventions in all circumstances. The Swiss
authorities are determined to continue considering means of
promoting respect for international humanitarian law and to
take the appropriate initiatives to that end. We should take
stock of existing means, seek the reasons why they have
not performed in a fully satisfactory manner and identify
new methods.
Generally, States should give full effect to the rules
that bind them and, on the basis of the obligations imposed
by international
law, undertake commitments likely to
promote the development of law and respect for its rules.
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
with the United Nations Decade of International Law, and
its satisfaction at having been given the opportunity to
contribute to the Secretary-General’s report on this
subject.
However, as the Decade draws to a close, we must
confess to having somewhat mixed feelings. In fact, even
though there have been considerable developments in the
field of international law, the reality is that there is still
a long way to go before an international order founded on
law and justice can prevail. The number and magnitude
of the armed conflicts we have had to deplore during the
Decade obviously represent a setback for international
law — as do the grave and large-scale violations of
humanitarian law committed during those conflicts.
The many hotbeds of war in Africa, Asia and Latin
the tragedies which have unfolded in the
America,
Balkans and the Caucasus region, the disintegration of
State authority in certain contexts,
the international
community’s belated reaction to the genocide in Rwanda,
the lack of coherence and consistency in the use of armed
are violated or when
force when human rights
international security is threatened,
the controversies
surrounding the legality of the use of such force, in
particular during the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
operation in the Balkans — all these serve to demonstrate
that giving thought to a stronger international order based
on clear and respected international law is even more
urgent today than it was ten years ago.
The Swiss delegation hopes that in commemorating
the end of the United Nations Decade of International Law,
States will recognize the importance of respect for that law
and that they will commit themselves to continuing their
efforts to promote the application and awareness of
international
the dynamic
created by the proclamation of the Decade will go on. We
hope that the General Assembly will proclaim other decades
in this area — not just for their own sake — but as a
means of promoting respect
law in
international relations.
law. Switzerland hopes that
the rule of
for
positive
deserving
developments
We must not, however, wallow in an assessment of
catastrophe, especially since there have also been
indisputably
of
commendation. For example, the marked increase in the
number of cases brought before the International Court of
Justice is an encouraging sign when assessing the
progress of international law as a whole. However, we
will limit ourselves to a few comments with regard to
humanitarian law which relate specifically to the role and
mandate of the International Committee of the Red Cross
(ICRC).
The President: In accordance with General Assembly
resolution 45/6 of 16 October 1990, I now call on the
Observer of the International Committee of the Red Cross.
(spoke in French):
Mrs. Junod (International Committee of the Red
Cross)
I would like to begin by
expressing the gratitude of the International Committee of
the Red Cross (ICRC) for having been so closely associated
the
subject-matter
An assessment of
reveals
undeniable progress in codification to which a number of
recent developments bear witness. Among those, we
would mention the adoption of the Chemical Weapons
Convention; the Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons; the
amended Protocol on Mines, Booby Traps and Other
Devices; the Ottawa Treaty banning anti-personnel mines
and an additional Protocol for the Protection of Cultural
Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. Besides these,
21
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
of course, there are also the international treaties related to
humanitarian law, such as the instruments for the repression
of international terrorism and the Convention on the Safety
of United Nations and Associated Personnel.
In the
area of
repression of violations,
the
establishment of the ad hoc International Criminal Tribunals
for the Former Yugoslavia and for Rwanda paved the way
for the adoption last year in Rome of the Statute for the
future International Criminal Court, which is a significant
advance.
Moreover, humanitarian law has been reaffirmed and
clarified in a number of areas such as naval warfare,
protection of the environment, displaced persons and,
recently, thanks to an initiative of the Secretary-General,
the observance by United Nations forces of international
humanitarian law.
The ICRC is pleased and very proud to have been
involved, in its capacity as expert on and guardian of
humanitarian law, in almost all these developments. In this
respect, it is worth mentioning here its close cooperation
with the San Remo International Institute of Humanitarian
Law with regard to naval warfare, its organization of expert
studies and the publication of reports relating to the
protection of
the
protocols on conventional weapons and the drafting of the
ICC Statute and its participation in the elaboration of the
Convention on the Safety and Security of United Nations
and Associated Personnel.
the environment, displaced persons,
Furthermore, during these years, the ICRC has striven
to develop a constructive relationship with States and with
all
those who must apply humanitarian law. For this
purpose, the ICRC set up an Advisory Service to provide
technical assistance in the drafting of domestic legislation
for the implementation of humanitarian law. It has also
pursued its dissemination efforts regarding humanitarian
law, notably among the armed forces and bearers of
weapons.
Another ICRC initiative has been the launching of a
wide-ranging study on customary norms of humanitarian
law, involving specialists and research teams from all parts
of the world, the results of which will be published next
year. This study responds to concerns for gaining a better
understanding, beyond the mere texts of how humanitarian
law is actually applied, and thereby going beyond the
purely formal framework. It should give new impetus to the
crucial debate on humanitarian law and its implementation.
22
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
insight
into the perceptions of
Along similar lines, with the assistance of National
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies,
the ICRC
conducted an in-depth survey, particularly in several
countries having experienced war, in order to gain a
clearer
local
populations and the role of humanitarian law in the
conflicts they had lived through. The opinions of these
“People on War”, as we have dubbed them, will serve as
an invaluable contribution to the debate on humanitarian
law and action, and perhaps — let us hope — to the
development of international law and order better able to
prevent and contain armed conflicts.
the
Respect for human dignity in all circumstances,
compassion for those who suffer, and solidarity are the
principles which are the very foundation of the Geneva
Conventions. The 14 world-renowned signatories of the
Solemn Appeal launched in commemoration of the fiftieth
anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, among them the
United Nations Secretary-General,
their
conviction that “disregard for these principles sets the
stage for war and that respecting them during wartime
facilitates the restoration of peace”. This conviction is
also ours, and I have no doubt that it is the conviction of
the Assembly as well.
expressed
The President:
In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 48/3 of 13 October 1993, I now call
on the observer for the Permanent Court of Arbitration.
Mr.
van den Hout
(Permanent Court
of
Arbitration): It is only appropriate that at the conclusion
of the United Nations Decade of International Law we
reflect on the centennial of the first International Peace
Conference, held in The Hague. Last year the United
Nations Secretary-General remarked that:
“At that landmark gathering, the seeds were planted
that later germinated into the League of Nations and,
ultimately, the United Nations and its judicial organ,
the International Court of Justice.”
That gathering, in 1899, also established the Permanent
Court of Arbitration, to which the participating States at
the time entrusted the peaceful settlement of international
disputes.
The Secretary-General acknowledges that:
“today, the Permanent Court of Arbitration and the
International Court of
Justice are not merely
neighbours in The Hague Peace Palace; they are
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
complementary institutions offering the international
community a comprehensive range of options for
peaceful resolution of disputes.”
He notes that:
justice
“settling international disputes by peaceful means, in
conformity with the principles of
and
international law, is one of the central purposes of the
United Nations set out in Article 1 of the United
Nations Charter. Arbitration is among the methods of
peaceful settlement cited in Article 33 of the Charter,
and the Permanent Court has a long and distinguished
history in this regard.”
With the Permanent Court of Arbitration the
international community has at its disposal a facility to
administer the settlement of disputes in an efficient and
cost-effective way.
As one of the judges of the International Court of
Justice remarked earlier this year:
“A number of the Permanent Court’s awards have
become classic, and dicta of
law
pronounced in a number of its awards have been
widely cited and relied on by jurists and arbitrators, as
well as by the International Court of Justice”.
international
Since 1996, the International Bureau of the Permanent
Court of Arbitration has administered six arbitral tribunals,
providing legal, administrative and logistical support to
those arbitrations. One of those concerns the arbitration
between Eritrea and Yemen. In its first stage it dealt with
the sovereignty over a number of islands in the Red Sea.
Now, in its second stage it will, in a number of weeks,
decide on the maritime delimitation between the two
countries. The International Bureau of the Court has also
recently taken on the registry role for the Confidentiality
Committee of the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons in The Hague. Other international and
regional organizations have approached the Court
in
connection with their desire to entrust to it a specific role
in their procedures for dispute resolution.
Although the Permanent Court of Arbitration is
involved in administering international
currently not
commercial arbitration,
is closely in touch with
developments in that field. First, this can be attributed to
the responsibility entrusted to the Secretary-General of the
Court by the United Nations Commission on International
Trade Law (UNCITRAL) to break deadlocks that might
it
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
occur in the establishment of arbitral tribunals under its
Arbitration Rules. The Secretary-General designates an
appointing authority or himself assumes the role of
appointing the second and/or third arbitrator. Since 1996,
the Permanent Court of Arbitration has handled more than
50 complicated requests regarding the appointment of
arbitrators where parties in dispute were unable to
constitute the tribunals themselves.
Secondly, several years ago the International Council
for Commercial Arbitration (ICCA) sought cooperation
with the Permanent Court of Arbitration to help realize its
important publications. This arrangement has proven to be
mutually beneficial. As far as this organization is
concerned, it gives the Court access to systematically
catalogued developments in the field of international
commercial arbitration. It is against this background that
the International Bureau will be implementing one of the
proposals expressed during the commemorative session of
the Court’s Members Conference held on 17 May. I am
referring to the call to act “as a repository of information
concerning alternative methods of dispute resolution”. Use
of modern information technology will be the key to
success here.
Another proposal submitted to the Court’s Members
Conference on 17 May that will be included in the
International Bureau’s programme of work is the carrying
out of a comparative analysis of the institutional and
procedural aspects of the various mass claims settlements
systems currently operational. I am referring to the
Iran-United States Claims Tribunal, the United Nations
Compensation Commission,
the Claims Resolution
Tribunal for Dormant Accounts and the Real Property
Claims Commission, Bosnia, to mention four. Such an
undertaking would catalogue information of great use to
Governments and other parties entrusted with the
responsibility of setting up new claims tribunals and help
them build on the experience of earlier tribunals.
range of dispute
themselves of
resolution mechanisms
The Bureau has also taken up the challenge
addressed at the Conference to help fill the current gap in
the
for
international environmental disputes. To allow parties to
avail
these advantages, new rules of
procedure will be drawn up for this specific field. In
addition, other measures will be taken to properly equip
the Court and its Bureau to handle such disputes. It
should be noted that compared to judicial settlement,
arbitration offers parties a greater comfort level because
they themselves decide on the procedures according to
which the settlement procedure should take place.
23
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
Furthermore, it allows for participation in the tribunals not
only of expert witnesses but also of arbitrators who
themselves are experts in this increasingly technical and
complex field. This project has a relationship with the
previous one mentioned, namely,
in those cases where
environmental disputes or disasters lead to mass claims.
Mr. Klisovic´ (Croatia): I have the honour to present
to the General Assembly the report of
the Sixth
Committee on agenda item 154, entitled “United Nations
Decade of International Law”. The report of the Sixth
Committee on this item is contained in document
A/54/609.
The United Nations Secretary-General has encouraged
States, international organizations and private parties to
make greater use of the services of the Permanent Court of
Arbitration, which also include fact-finding and conciliation.
In his words, such recourse would “help ease the workload
of
Justice and fill gaps
involving private parties and
concerning arbitrations
international organizations”.
the International Court of
He has also urged States that have not ratified the
Hague Conventions to do so. I would like to quote him
once again:
“Developing countries in particular could well find the
flexible instruments of dispute resolution to be an
invaluable asset.”
Arbitration thrives as an alternative to the formal
judicial resolution of disputes by reasons of economy,
efficiency and focus possible in an ad hoc adjudication.
Hence I would, in concluding, like to draw the attention of
delegates to the operative paragraphs of the resolution
adopted by the members of
the Permanent Court of
Arbitration at its commemorative session on 17 May, which
is printed on page 4 of document A/54/381, as well as to
operative paragraph 11 of draft resolution II, on page 8 of
the report of the Sixth Committee in document A/54/609,
currently before the Assembly. It seems most appropriate
that at
the United Nations Decade of
International Law, Member States that have not yet done so
heed the appeals to make greater use of the existing
mechanisms of dispute resolution, and in particular of the
services offered by the Permanent Court of Arbitration.
the close of
The President: We have heard the last speaker in the
debate on the occasion of the marking of the end of the
United Nations Decade of International Law.
The Assembly will now consider the report of the
Sixth Committee on agenda item 154, entitled “United
Nations Decade of International Law” (A/54/609).
I request the Rapporteur of the Sixth Committee, Mr.
Joško Klisovic´ of Croatia, to introduce the report.
24
The Sixth Committee recommends to the General
Assembly for adoption two draft resolutions, which are
contained in paragraph 15 of the report. Under the terms
of the draft resolution entitled “Outcome of the action
dedicated to the 1999 centennial of the first International
Peace Conference”, the General Assembly would, inter
alia, take note of the outcome of the centennial; commend
all who contributed to the success of the celebration of
the centennial of the First International Peace Conference;
and invite States, organs of
the United Nations,
international organizations and other relevant international
forums to take note of the outcome of the centennial and
to consider, where appropriate, giving attention to the
outcome of the thematic discussions and making use of
the format of the centennial discussions.
The Assembly would also invite the Governments of
the Russian Federation and the Kingdom of
the
Netherlands to file the records of the centennial in their
archives and to provide access to these records to
interested parties. It would invite all who contributed to
the centennial to file their records in this respect with
either of these Governments.
With regard to the draft resolution entitled “United
Nations Decade of International Law”, I should like to
draw the Assembly’s attention to a small typographical
error on page 8 of the report. At the end of operative
paragraph 14, the footnote should read “5” instead of “1”.
Under the terms of the draft resolution entitled
“United Nations Decade of
the
General Assembly would, inter alia, acknowledge that the
Decade has contributed significantly to the strengthening
of the rule of international law and reaffirm the continued
validity of the main objectives of the Decade.
International Law”,
The Secretary-General would be requested to
continue developing the Treaty Section electronic
database and to keep the list of
the
multilateral treaties deposited with him updated in all
official languages of the Organization. The Secretary-
General would be further
requested to implement
vigorously the plan to eliminate the backlog in the
publication of the United Nations Treaty Series and to
the titles of
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
bring the resolution to the attention of States, international
organizations and institutions working in the field of
international law.
The General Assembly would also invite States,
organs of the United Nations, international organizations
and other relevant international forums to continue to give
attention to the themes and outcome of the centennial of the
first International Peace Conference.
It would also invite States
and international
organizations to continue promoting the acceptance of and
respect for the rules and principles of international law and
the strengthening of the use of means and methods of
peaceful settlement of disputes, as well as encouraging the
publication of materials on subjects of international law and
the holding of meetings aimed at promoting a wider
appreciation of international law.
The General Assembly would further invite States to
consider making full use of the facilities of the Permanent
Court of Arbitration. It would invite States to become
parties to the multilateral
treaties adopted during the
Decade.
States would also be invited to continue to pay
attention to the identification of areas of international law
that might be ripe for progressive development or
codification. Educational institutions would be encouraged
to introduce or
increase the number of courses of
international law.
The General Assembly would finally decide to
continue considering developments in the progress made in
the implementation of the purposes of the Decade beyond
its conclusion, in the framework of the agenda item entitled
“United Nations Programme of Assistance in the Teaching,
Study, Dissemination
of
International Law”.
and Wider Appreciation
The President: If there is no proposal under rule 66
of the rules of procedure, I shall take it that the General
Assembly decides not to discuss the report of the Sixth
Committee that is before the Assembly today.
It was so decided.
The President: Statements will therefore be limited to
explanations of vote or position.
The
the
recommendations of the Sixth Committee have been made
delegations
regarding
positions
of
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
clear in the Committee and are reflected in the relevant
official
remind members that under
paragraph 7 of decision 34/401 the General Assembly
agreed that
record. May I
“When the same draft resolution is considered
in a Main Committee and in plenary meeting, a
delegation should, as far as possible, explain its vote
only once, i.e., either in the Committee or in plenary
meeting unless that delegation’s vote in plenary
meeting is different from its vote in the Committee.”
May I remind delegations that, also in accordance
with General Assembly decision 34/401, explanations of
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
to
take
begin
Before we
the
recommendations contained in the report of the Sixth
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that we
are going to proceed to take decisions in the same manner
as was done in the Committee.
action
on
The Assembly will now take a decision on the two
draft resolutions recommended by the Sixth Committee in
paragraph 15 of its report.
The Sixth Committee adopted draft resolution I,
entitled “Outcome of the action dedicated to the 1999
centennial of the first International Peace Conference”,
without a vote.
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the
same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 54/27).
The President: The Sixth Committee adopted draft
resolution II, entitled “United Nations Decade of
International Law”, without a vote.
May I take it
that
the Assembly wishes to do
likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 54/28).
25
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of the
General Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda
item 154?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
55th plenary meeting
17 November 1999
26
