United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
45th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 3 November 1999, 10 a.m.
New York
A/54/PV.45
Official Records
President:
Mr. Gurirab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Namibia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 15 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c) Election of five members of the International Court
of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General (A/54/305)
List of candidates (A/54/306/Rev.1)
Curricula vitae (A/54/307)
Justice for a nine-year
The President: This morning, the General Assembly
will proceed to the election of five members of the
International Court of
term
commencing on 6 February 2000. The terms of office of
the
expire on 5 February 2000:
Mr. Gilbert Guillaume, Ms. Rosalyn Higgins, Mr. Gonzalo
Parra-Aranguren, Mr.
and
Mr. Christopher G. Weeramantry.
following judges
Raymond Ranjeva
In connection with the election, I should like to bring
the following matters to the attention of the members of the
General Assembly.
First, in accordance with General Assembly resolution
264 (III) of 8 October 1948, a State which is a party to the
Statute of the International Court of Justice but not a
Member of the United Nations shall participate in the
General Assembly in electing the members of the Court
in the same manner as the States Members of the United
Nations. Therefore, on this occasion, the representative of
Switzerland may participate in the election.
Secondly, I should like to confirm that, at this time,
the Security Council,
the General
Assembly, is also proceeding to elect five members of the
Court. This procedure is in accordance with Article 8 of
the Statute of the Court, which provides that
independently of
“The General Assembly and the Security
Council shall proceed independently of one another
to elect the members of the Court”.
Accordingly, the results of the voting in the General
Assembly will not be communicated to the Security
Council until five candidates have obtained the required
majority in the Assembly.
is
Finally, I should like to draw the attention of the
Assembly to the documents relating to the election. The
consolidated list of candidates that have been nominated
by national groups
to be found in document
A/54/306/Rev.1, which supersedes documents A/54/306
and the reissued A/54/306/Add.1. In this connection,
members will note that document A/54/306/Add.1 was
reissued on 27 October 1999 for technical reasons in
order to correct the references to the “United States of
America” by replacing them with references to “New
Zealand”. Thus, it is the national group of New Zealand,
not the national group of the United States of America,
which has nominated Mr. Christopher G. Weeramantry.
99-86333 (E)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original speeches only.
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room C-178. Corrections will
be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
I should like to inform members that the Secretariat
has received a note verbale dated 1 November 1999 from
the Permanent Mission of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo stating that the national group of that country has
decided to withdraw the candidature of Mr. Mikuin-Leliel
Balanda. As the national group of the Democratic Republic
of the Congo is the only national group to have nominated
Mr. Mikuin-Leliel Balanda, he is therefore no longer a
candidate, and his name has thus been deleted from the
ballot papers.
The curricula vitae of the candidates are to be found
in document A/54/307. The Assembly also has before it
document A/54/305, containing a memorandum by the
Secretary-General on the present composition of the Court
and on the procedure to be followed in the Assembly and
in the Security Council with regard to the election.
In accordance with article 10, paragraph 1, of the
Statute of the Court,
those candidates who obtain an
absolute majority of votes both in the General Assembly
and in the Security Council shall be considered as elected.
The consistent practice of the United Nations has been
to interpret the words “absolute majority” as meaning a
majority of all electors whether or not they vote or are
allowed to vote. The electors in the General Assembly are
all 188 Member States, plus the one non-Member State
which is a party to the Statute of the Court, namely
Switzerland, for a total of 189 electors. Accordingly, for the
present election, 95 votes constitute an absolute majority in
the General Assembly.
The General Assembly will now proceed to a secret
ballot. If in the first ballot fewer than five candidates obtain
an absolute majority, it will be necessary to proceed to
further ballots until five candidates have obtained that
majority. Pursuant to the decision taken by the General
Assembly at its 915th meeting, held on 16 November 1960,
these ballots shall be unrestricted.
I should like to remind representatives that, pursuant
to rule 88 of the Assembly's rules of procedure,
“After the President has announced the beginning
of voting, no representative shall interrupt the voting
except on a point of order in connection with the
actual conduct of the voting”.
Therefore,
such as
those
concerning withdrawals of candidatures, should be made
prior to the commencement of the voting process, that is to
any announcements,
2
45th plenary meeting
3 November 1999
say before the announcement of the beginning of the
voting process.
May I take it
that
the Assembly agrees to the
procedures I have just outlined?
It was so decided.
The President: We shall now begin the voting
process. Ballot papers will now be distributed.
Representatives are requested to use only the ballot
papers now being distributed. Only those candidates
whose names appear on the ballot papers are eligible.
Representatives will indicate the five candidates for whom
they wish to vote by placing crosses to the left of their
names on the ballot papers. Ballot papers on which more
than five names are marked will be considered invalid.
Votes may be cast only for those whose names appear on
the ballot papers.
the President, Mr. N'Dry
the invitation of
At
(Côte d'Ivoire), Mr.
(Greece),
Mr. Mihut (Romania), Ms. Smolcic (Uruguay) and
Mr. Al-Ethary (Yemen) acted as tellers.
Sgouropoulos
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 10.40 a.m. and
resumed at 12 noon.
The President: The result of the voting is as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Ms. Rosalyn Higgins (United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
Mr. Gonzalo Parra-Aranguren (Venezuela)
Mr. Raymond Ranjeva (Madagascar)
Mr. Gilbert Guillaume (France)
Mr. Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh (Jordan)
Mr. Christopher G. Weeramantry (Sri Lanka)
176
0
176
0
176
95
157
156
155
152
132
98
In the ballot
just completed, more than five
candidates have obtained an absolute majority. This
situation has never before occurred in the General
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
45th plenary meeting
3 November 1999
Assembly. However, the same situation has occurred in the
Security Council on several previous occasions. In this
connection, I draw the attention of representatives to
paragraph 14 of the memorandum of the Secretary-General
contained in document A/54/305, which reads as follows:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
0
177
0
177
95
162
159
155
152
144
76
“Cases have arisen in the Security Council in
which more than the required number of candidates
have obtained an absolute majority on the same ballot.
The practice followed by the Council has been to hold
a new vote on all the candidates, and the President of
the Council made no notification to the President of
the General Assembly until only the required number
of candidates, and no more, had obtained an absolute
majority in the Council”.
I therefore suggest that the Assembly proceed in the
same manner as in the Security Council, and that a new
ballot be conducted.
Ms. Rosalyn Higgins (United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
Mr. Raymond Ranjeva (Madagascar)
Mr. Gonzalo Parra-Aranguren (Venezuela)
Mr. Gilbert Guillaume (France)
Mr. Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh (Jordan)
Mr. Christopher G. Weeramantry (Sri Lanka)
The following five candidates have obtained an
absolute majority in the General Assembly: Mr. Awn
Shawkat Al-Khasawneh, Mr. Gilbert Guillaume,
Ms. Rosalyn Higgins, Mr. Gonzalo Parra-Aranguren and
Mr. Raymond Ranjeva.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to this
I have communicated the result of the voting to the
procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: We shall accordingly proceed to
the remaining five
to fill
another unrestricted ballot
vacancies.
We shall now begin the voting process. Ballot papers
will now be distributed.
All the candidates whose names appear on the ballot
papers are eligible. May I again remind delegations that the
names of only five candidates should be marked with a
cross. Any ballot paper on which more than five names are
marked will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast only
for those whose names appear on the ballot papers.
the invitation of
At
the President, Mr. N'Dry
(Côte d'Ivoire), Mr. Sgouropoulos (Greece), Mr. Mihut
(Romania), Ms. Smolcic (Uruguay) and Mr. Al-Ethary
(Yemen) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and
resumed at 1.10 p.m.
President of the Security Council.
I have received from the President of the Security
Council the following letter:
“I have the honour to inform you that at the
4059th meeting of the Security Council, held on 3
November 1999, for the purpose of electing five
members of the International Court of Justice for a
term of office beginning on 6 February 2000,
Mr. Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh, Mr. Gilbert
Guillaume, Ms. Rosalyn Higgins, Mr. Gonzalo
Parra-Aranguren
and Mr. Raymond Ranjeva
obtained an absolute majority of votes.”
As a result of the independent voting in the Security
Council and in the General Assembly, the following five
candidates have obtained an absolute majority in both
organs: Mr. Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh, Mr. Gilbert
Guillaume, Ms. Rosalyn Higgins, Mr. Gonzalo
Parra-Aranguren and Mr. Raymond Ranjeva. They are
therefore duly elected members of the International Court
of Justice to serve for a nine-year term commencing on
6 February 2000. I take this opportunity to extend to them
the Assembly's congratulations on their election and to
thank the tellers for their assistance.
We have thus concluded our consideration of sub-
The President: The result of the voting is as follows:
item (c) of agenda item 15.
Number of ballot papers:
177
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
3
