United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
31st plenary meeting
Friday, 8 October 1999, 10 a.m.
New York
A/54/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Gurirab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Namibia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 37 (continued)
Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit
for Social Development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/54/220)
Report of
the Preparatory Committee for the
Special Session of the General Assembly on the
Implementation of the Outcome of the World
Summit
for Social Development and Further
Initiatives (A/54/45 and Corr.1 and Add.1)
Draft decisions I, II and III (A/54/45, para. 71 and
Corr.1); and IV (A/54/45/Add.1, para. 6)
Mr. Reva (Ukraine): The course of development of
world society since the Copenhagen Summit has vividly
proved that the significance of social development and
human well-being for all should be recognized and given
the highest priority both now and into the twenty-first
century.
The preliminary assessment of the implementation of
the outcome of the World Summit indicates one major
positive development, namely the evident shift towards
recognizing social development as a political priority of the
international community. At
the same time, we all
understand that the achievement of the goals established at
Copenhagen will be a lengthy and complicated process.
the Special Session of
In the report on the first session of the Preparatory
the General
Committee for
Assembly on the Implementation of the Outcome of the
World Summit
for Social Development and Further
Initiatives, it is rightly noted that improvements in the
social area have to be an integral part of any effective
strategy of development, both at
the national and
international levels.
Fully sharing this view, I would like to underline
that, among other global activities in the social area, the
World Summit became a landmark on the road of the
of
world
international
social
development.
advancement
field
towards
in
cooperation
community
the
the
of
all
the
and
policy,
national
The Summit reaffirmed the commonly upheld view
that social development should be an integral part of
domestic
economic
programmes lay serious responsibility on Governments
before their societies, because all such programmes have
social consequences. In this context, my delegation would
like to point out the necessity of strict observance by all
the Member States of the World Summit decisions, which
assigned concrete tasks and defined common approaches
towards ensuring further social progress and improving
the living conditions of the people of the world. Common
positions outlined in Copenhagen reflect a focused view
on prospects for development both for individual States
and for world society. The Summit decisions, despite
being of a non-mandatory character, set out stable ethical
and moral standards which are to become the goal of the
social development of mankind in the twenty-first century.
99-86077 (E)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original speeches only.
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room C-178. Corrections will
be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
As we see from the report of the Secretary-General,
the process of
implementing these goals has been
progressing at various degrees of speed and success. While
the Summit objectives have been
assessing how far
implemented,
it seems necessary to know how much
progress has been made since March 1995. In this regard,
we need to share positive experiences, to learn lessons and
to carefully study the existing difficulties in this matter.
Therefore, we lay our hopes on the success of next year's
special session of the General Assembly, called to evaluate
the ability of the community of nations to respond properly
and adequately to major social challenges and to fulfil our
charted commitments.
competitiveness of the labour force and to minimize the
negative social consequences of unemployment.
Our State employment policy fully meets relevant
international standards and is based on the principle of
ensuring equal rights and opportunities for all citizens,
irrespective of their origin, socio-economic status, race,
nationality, gender, age, political views or
religious
beliefs. Such a national policy envisages that every citizen
of Ukraine can exercise a free choice of activity
according to his or her abilities and professional skills,
personal interests and social needs.
steady
Bearing
tendency
in mind a
towards
globalization at the international level, coupled with that of
liberalization and economic reform at the national level, it
is time to enhance international cooperation based on the
principles of non-discrimination, open competitiveness,
partnership and mutual benefit. The United Nations should
play the key role in establishing effective mechanisms for
such cooperation.
In our opinion, United Nations activities in the social
and economic area should focus more on the specific
requirements of countries with economies in transition in
order to facilitate the process of their integration into the
world economic space.
International cooperation and
assistance in this regard will ensure more effective
implementation of economic reforms in these countries and
help to overcome the unavoidable difficulties inherent in the
transition process. As a result of
these
countries will reach much earlier a high level of economic
development which corresponds to their potential. Such a
perspective will enable them, in turn, to provide assistance
to developing countries. The experience of some Central
and Eastern European countries
that have achieved
remarkable economic and social progress during the last
decade proves that this perspective is absolutely real.
this process,
The social sphere is considered a decisive factor in our
country's
economic development. The Government's
strategy in this field is embodied in the “Main social policy
trends in Ukraine for the years 1997-2000,” approved by
presidential decree. The main task of this programme is to
set up specific mechanisms aimed at the implementation of
the principles of a socially oriented economy and at the
enhancement of social policy based on the efficient use of
existing resources. Among of the priority goals of social
policy in my country are to provide for fully productive
employment
and
people,
quality
raise
of
to
the
2
The social insurance system of our country is also
now undergoing a reform process aimed at raising the
level of citizens' social protection and motivation to work,
as well as the personal responsibility of employers and
employees for accumulation of Ukraine's insurance funds.
The parliament of Ukraine has adopted the State concept
of social security, as well as basic legislation on
mandatory State social insurance. The Government of my
country makes
successful
implementation of its national programme of action aimed
at establishing a stable system of social relations in a
market economy, promotion of social
integration and
social justice.
towards
every
effort
Ukraine will continue the consistent implementation
of the commitments it entered into in Copenhagen and
will continue to actively participate in the preparations for
the General Assembly special session for the year 2000.
We believe that the consolidation of international efforts
to solve existing social/development problems will create
the necessary conditions for further economic growth and
social progress. It will promote further implementation of
the goals established at the World Summit to the benefit
of all peoples and for the sake of creating a civilized
society for each and everyone.
at
find ourselves
Mr. Gold (Israel): As we reflect on the years since
in
the 1995 World Summit for Social Development
Copenhagen, we
a momentous
crossroads. Globalization and the new information age
promise to bridge geographic distances, transcend borders
and replace traditional sources of global wealth — based
on natural resources — with information technology. In
the decades to come, global wealth will be generated not
by what is in the ground, but by what is in the minds of
men. This may have some unsettling consequences, but it
also opens the door to unprecedented opportunities.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
in
the
The
previous
coalitions
international
community — driven by petrodollars and the cold war —
have crumbled. In their place lies a new reality, in which
geography will be less important
than communication
channels. Alliances can be built on joint ventures, not
geopolitical grievances; cooperation can start from shared
challenges and not common hostilities. in the new era
responsibility will
lie with those nations that possess
specialized expertise and the willingness to cooperate on
social development.
The State of Israel has accepted this mantle for 50
years. In Israel, cooperation in development has become a
national raison d'être, a fulfilment of the ancient Jewish
tradition of Tikkun Olam: mending the world. Less than 10
years after Israel's birth, the Israeli Foreign Ministry had
already established the Centre for International Cooperation
(MASHAV). Quietly, while other problems loomed larger
in the foreground, Israel built this Centre into a wide-
ranging network of projects, courses and programmes that
have trained some 70,000 people from more than 150
countries. These programmes work directly to meet the
commitments laid out in the World Summit for Social
Development,
decision
A/AC.253/L.7, submitted to the Preparatory Committee by
its Vice-Chairman.
enumerated
draft
as
in
Commitment 1 from Copenhagen is to create an
enabling environment for social development. One of
MASHAV's main branches is its Cooperative Development
Programme (CDP), which aims to train professionals in
new ways of enhancing their society's economy and policy-
making. A prominent example is China: hundreds of
Chinese professionals were given special training on the
function of Israel's market economy, the role of research
and development,
the modernization of management
systems and the way Israel taps the creativity of its people.
They used this expertise to implement new programmes in
China itself.
Commitment 2 from Copenhagen is to seek to
eradicate poverty. Israel views poverty eradication as a
long-term goal, and seeks to develop ways in which nations
cannot only overcome poverty, but also maintain the ability
to continue to keep it at bay on their own. That means
developing potential industry. Examples of this strategy
include Peru, where Israel's Cooperative Development
Programme helped to revitalize the fruit export trade, and
El Salvador, where Israel worked to rehabilitate the dairy
industry, which had been all but destroyed.
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
Commitment 3 from Copenhagen is to promote the
goal of full employment. In today's times we cannot
ignore the harsh price that some nations are paying for
changes in the global economy, particularly as certain
sectors, such as the elderly, are forced out of long-held
jobs. The impact
is especially severe in agricultural
societies. In an effort to reverse this trend, Israel has
initiated some special programmes, notably in countries
such as Georgia and Armenia. MASHAV's CDP has
sought
to link family farms to collectives and to
industries. This has helped preserve employment, while
increasing food security and the overall productivity of
the industries. In the case of Uzbekistan, Israel's linking
of family farms to the dairy industry actually sparked a
Government decision to establish 40 additional dairy
plants.
Commitment 4 from Copenhagen is to promote
social integration. MASHAV recently initiated a number
of conflict-resolution courses,
in accordance with the
recommendations of draft decision A/AC.253/L.7.
Recently, a workshop of Greek Cypriots and Turkish
Cypriots was held in southern Israel, with encouraging
results. In addition, MASHAV has pioneered programmes
to integrate young people into the development process,
by supporting the development of youth frameworks in
various countries. It is worth noting that this area has
become a focus of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation, as may
Palestinians participate in MASHAV's youth leadership
workshops.
Commitment 5 from Copenhagen includes the
promotion of equity between men and women.
In
accordance with the international drive to integrate
women into the larger society — from the workforce to
the policy-making sphere — Israel has had some major
successes. One of the training centres in Israel,
the
Golda Meir Mount Carmel International Training Centre,
brought in 7,050 participants, from countries in Asia,
Africa, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean, to
attend some 300 courses for women engaged specifically
in community development. A noteworthy example is Ms.
Salimata Kante, a social worker in Senegal, who trained
in Israel and then returned to establish a successful string
of savings and credit cooperatives.
Commitment 6 from Copenhagen is to promote and
attain universal and equitable access to high-quality
education and health services.
Israel has developed
courses for training hundreds of education professionals
from countries around the world, who have returned to
make tangible progress in their own States. An interesting
3
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
example is Chile, now in the midst of a major educational
reform programme in the areas of science and technology.
Israel worked to train some 200 Chilean teachers and
principals in specialized science teaching. Similarly, in Peru
the National Committee of University Rectors has adapted
Israel's system of community educational centres for
training in agricultural technology.
Commitment 7 from Copenhagen is to accelerate the
development of Africa and of the least developed countries.
As mentioned earlier, Israel invests much of its cooperative
efforts in sharing know-how with developing nations,
especially in Africa. Yet, beyond agriculture, Israel has also
helped to reform the health-care systems of many nations.
These efforts have included programmes covering primary
health care, legislation for national medical care, insurance,
the use of computers in medical services, upgrading
hospital and clinic facilities, mobile eye clinics and training
courses for nurses.
for
example, Israel's eye clinics have cured literally thousands
of blind people.
In Ethiopia and in Namibia,
Commitment 8 from Copenhagen is to include social
development goals in structural adjustment programmes.
MASHAV has made a top priority of insisting that its joint
ventures with partner
to
decentralize the planning and increase participation by the
in the development process. Thus,
various players
MASHAV seeks
to personalize development at
the
community level. This
strategy is highlighted by
MASHAV's series of post-graduate courses in integrated
regional rural development.
countries
include
efforts
Commitment 9 from Copenhagen is to provide
resources for social development. MASHAV tries to use its
programmes as a means to generate investment in various
developing countries in order to spur economic and tax
reform. This was the case, for example, in Ethiopia, where
Israel helped create a pilot agricultural project in Kobo,
designed to attract investors and aid privatization. A viable
taxation system is among the primary goals of MASHAV's
economic training seminars.
Commitment 10 from Copenhagen is to ensure
international cooperation for social development. This
commitment might well be a credo of the Israeli Foreign
Ministry's Center for International Cooperation. Nearly all
of MASHAV's activities and programmes serve to enhance
international cooperation for either social or sustainable
development. This includes such programmes as the
Cooperative Development Programme; the Development
Study Centre, specializing in economic and social training
4
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
for development;
leadership seminars; and a host of
personalized on-the-spot programmes.
the International
Institute, offering
localized and
It remains our hope that these projects will not only
enhance social development, but embody the central
principle of the World Summit for Social Development,
namely, that the human being remains the prime focus of
our global development aims. We have waited 50 years
to break down the walls of hostility and outmoded
coalitions based on a reality that no longer exists in this
Hall, so that we can together deal with the pressing
problems posed by a changing global environment. I call
upon Members to join us and to let
the spirit of
cooperation triumph over poverty, strife and resignation.
Mr. Seif Iddi (United Republic of Tanzania): My
delegation wishes to express its appreciation to the
Secretary-General for the reports before us. They provide
a sound basis for discussions.
The statement made by the Chairman of the Group
of 77 and China, with which we associate ourselves,
reflects our concerns on the follow-up to the World
Summit for Social Development. Permit me therefore to
underscore a few points and to share with the Assembly
the experiences of my country.
In our statement
the Special Session of
last May to the Preparatory
Committee for
the General
Assembly on the Implementation of the Outcome of the
World Summit
for Social Development and Further
Initiatives, we pointed out the gap between aspirations
and reality and we acknowledged the difficulties involved
in bridging that gap. Now, as we stand on the threshold
of the new millennium, the most challenging task is to
decide on the next course of action.
a
undertook
comprehensive
Since Copenhagen, a number of developments have
taken place locally and internationally. In Tanzania, the
Government
reform
programme covering all the social, political and economic
sectors with the objective of making them more
responsive, efficient and accountable to the people. In this
connection, a poverty-eradication strategy was developed
to guide and improve the delivery of services to the
people.
In recognition of
the negative impact
the
that
the
phenomenon of unemployment has on society,
the Human Resource
implementation strategies of
Deployment Act that was passed in 1983 were reviewed
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
and vocational education and training were set up so as to
expand vocational training, mostly for youths.
In a bid to address the volatile international financial
situation, the Government has instituted a stable, predictable
and conducive macroeconomic framework. Institutional
reforms have been introduced and measures to improve
revenue collection adopted. In this case, the value-added tax
introduced in 1998 accounted for
improved revenue
collection. Tax administration has improved and so has
deficit financing, while strict budgetary controls have been
put in place. The Investment Promotion Policy of 1990 was
reviewed in 1996 and a new Investment Policy adopted that
emphasizes maximum mobilization and utilization of
domestic capacity, including enhanced cooperation with
other developing countries, as well as developed ones.
Furthermore, the role of the private sector was redefined to
give it a more central role. Political pluralism, which has
been in place since 1992, was re-emphasized in order to
enhance democracy.
“business
It is evident that in Tanzania, after Copenhagen, it was
no longer
as usual”. The Government's
commitment to implementing the Copenhagen Declaration
and Programme of Action should be looked at in the light
of the bold and decisive measures that it had taken towards
this end. However, as we stand on the threshold of the new
millennium, the reality is painfully brought home to us that,
because we operate in the international milieu, unilateral
action can be effective only up to a point, after which
international cooperation becomes necessary.
The experiences that we have gone through have
demonstrated to us that positive national as well as
international environments are a prerequisite in supporting
efforts aimed at implementing not only the Copenhagen
commitments, but also all other commitments made at
major international conferences of the 1990s. We need a
holistic and complementary approach that will include both
the economic and the social dimensions and we need the
cooperation of the international community, in particular
those who are better endowed than us. In this connection,
improved terms of trade, access to international markets,
increased direct foreign investments, alleviation of the
external debt burden and an expanded resource base are
some of the crucial
issues that have to be seriously
considered.
In his report contained in document A/54/220, the
Secretary-General points out that the review process has
highlighted the fact that several of the targets specified in
the Programme of Action will not be met within the period
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
agreed and that in some instances there have been severe
setbacks. Significantly, we note that the fight against
poverty has also been eroded by the severe economic
difficulties experienced in some countries brought about
by the financial crisis and related developments.
These problems have had a ripple effect even in
countries far from the scene of crisis. This phenomenon
should help elucidate the fact
in this era of
globalization the potential to globalize poverty is as great
as the potential to globalize prosperity. For humanity the
only way to go is to build on the positive while avoiding
carrying the baggage of poverty into the next century.
that
Let us seize the moment at the special session to
rededicate ourselves at the highest level to improving our
record relative to that of the last five years. Posterity will
judge us not by the number of times we fail, but by the
efforts we made to overcome our failures.
Miss Durrant (Jamaica): I have the honour to
address the General Assembly on agenda item 37,
“Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development”. At the outset, my delegation wishes
to align itself with the statement made earlier by the
Permanent Representative of Guyana on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China. We also wish to thank the
Secretariat for the documents before this Assembly. The
Secretary-General's report
imparts useful
information on activities being undertaken by the United
Nations system, as well as by Member States,
in
preparation for next year's special session of the General
Assembly.
(A/54/220)
An assessment of the world social situation indicates
that, while progress has been made in some areas over the
four years since the Copenhagen Summit, significant gaps
remain within and between countries. Divergent trends in
world economic growth and the persistence of inequalities
are evident and are influenced by the process of
globalization.
Many developing countries remain severely indebted,
and current per capita income levels remain below those
of the 1980s in much of Africa, Latin America and the
Caribbean and parts of Asia. The alarming statistics on
the world's poverty levels are cause for extreme concern.
In a number of developing countries, violence, crime and
illicit drugs are major symptoms of social disintegration.
Economic difficulties,
5
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
such as high levels of unemployment and the resulting
social isolation, are often reflected in antisocial behaviour.
While improved methods of policing and narcotic
trafficking controls are important, these are not sufficient to
solve the linked problems of violent crime and illicit drugs.
There must also be emphasis on removing the underlying
causes. As the United Nations Development Programme
Human Development Report has reminded us, poverty
means more than the lack of material well-being. It also
stems from a lack of opportunities and choices basic to
human development.
Market economies and democratic political institutions
have generally been viewed as promoting universalism
through the removal of barriers to equality. However, in
many societies there are limitations to the operations of
meritocratic principles. Among these are unequal access to
material
earning
opportunities and status factors, such as gender, race, colour
and ethnicity, which reinforce social stratification.
differential
resources,
access
to
In spite of these gaps and challenges, we cannot lose
sight of the vision for the creation of a society for all,
characterized by respect
for all human rights and
fundamental freedoms, equity, social justice and equality,
which underlies the essence of the commitments made at
Copenhagen.
My delegation wishes to give special recognition to
the work done by the Commission for Social Development
in the follow-up to the Copenhagen Summit. We will also
continue
actively in the Preparatory
Committee for next year's special session of the General
Assembly, and in this regard we look forward to receiving
the
requested
corresponding to the Summit's 10 commitments.
recommendations
to participate
information
and
“The
theme
and work in poverty eradication:
We also welcome the fact that the 1999 substantive
session of the Economic and Social Council conducted
role of
high-level discussions on the
employment
the
empowerment and advancement of women”. The resulting
ministerial communiqué recognized the central role that
productive employment plays in poverty eradication and
that the mainstreaming of a gender perspective into policies
aimed at poverty eradication is all the more crucial since
women constitute the majority of people living in poverty.
My delegation intends to remain seized of the issue of
poverty eradication and to ensure that it retains a central
role in the special session.
6
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
Jamaica's social agenda embraces the three core
the Social Summit: poverty eradication,
of
social
employment
productive
and
themes of
expansion
integration.
The Government of Jamaica is committed to the
promotion of policies which encourage self-employment,
and has designed and implemented programmes in pursuit
of that goal. The Micro Industry Development Agency,
which promotes micro industrial ventures by providing
low-interest
loans, and the Human Employment and
Resource Training National Agency are but two examples
of programmes which the Government of Jamaica has
established to achieve the goal of full employment as a
vehicle to reduce poverty. In addition, programmes are in
place to provide a basic social safety net.
On the basis of our experience in Jamaica, we
believe that the following points, which were first made
by Jamaica's Minister of Labour, Social Security and
Sports at the Preparatory Committee meeting in May,
should form part of our thrust if we are to achieve social
development for all in a globalizing world.
Jamaica believes that an appropriate macroeconomic
policy mix must be maintained. Such policies must be
balanced, credible and stability-oriented with the potential
to promote economic growth and employment. Job
creation must be a central feature of these policies. We
believe that businesses should adopt a culture of social
responsibility in which they support the communities in
which they operate.
There is an urgent need for
the international
community to assist in cancelling or significantly reducing
the debt burden of developing countries. Here, we
recognize the steps that have been taken in regard to the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. It must
also be recognized that economic and social policies are
mutually reinforcing and that
social policy should
therefore be considered as a productive factor which can
have a positive impact on development.
Efforts to ensure access to credit and appropriate
technologies for small-scale enterprises must be critical
policy objectives in stimulating economic growth and
reducing poverty. In responding to the challenges of the
global market, it must be recognized that human resource
development is one of the most crucial elements, as the
performance of other resources, including capital, land
and technology, are directly linked to the performance of
labour.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
to
link
interventions
force. Policy
We believe that much greater emphasis must be placed
on relevant education and training for a more productive
work
training
programmes to meet the demands of the economy and to
adequately prepare young job-seekers for the labour market
are critical. In addition to conventional education and
training programmes, new and creative strategies must be
introduced to address the needs of the poor and other
groups with limited access to the formal education system.
Also, rural/urban differences in manifestations of poverty
must be clearly understood and addressed accordingly.
In closing, I wish to reaffirm the commitment of the
Jamaican Government to the principles and goals embodied
in the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action,
which reflect our collective desire for a better world for all
our people.
Mrs. Al-Nadari (Yemen) (spoke in Arabic): The
delegation of the Republic of Yemen would like to express
its support for the statement made by the representative of
Guyana on behalf of the Group of 77 and China on the
item 37 under discussion.
in order
to strike
the basis
We are committed to the obligations and directives of
the World Summit for Social Development. Allow us to
mention the following steps we have accordingly taken
within the framework of the first five-year plan: first,
restoring economic growth as
social
development, through implementing structural adjustment
programmes
the
macroeconomic level and to promote market economies;
secondly, developing social services through increasing the
share of public and private sector spending on those
services;
thirdly, combating poverty and increasing job
opportunities;
fourthly, consolidating the principles of
democracy as the basis for development; and fifthly,
promoting female participation in economic activities and
giving women a chance to participate directly in decision-
making.
a balance
for
at
The objectives of our five-year plan are in keeping
with the Copenhagen Declaration's call for the creation of
an economic, social, political, health and educational
environment enabling the peoples of the world to achieve
comprehensive social development and to address the root
causes of poverty. In the light of those objectives we have
tried to do the following at the national level.
First, an imbalance between our
resources and
population growth, as well as structural problems in the
national economy, have led to increased poverty. The
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
average wages in the period 1991-1996 were reduced by
17 per cent, unemployment increased and subsidies were
lifted, which meant that the poor had to shoulder very
heavy burdens. Thus, the living conditions deteriorated. In
reality, population growth in Yemen is among the highest
in the world, 3.7 per cent annually. Therefore, combating
poverty has become a major priority challenge that we
have to face.
Secondly, as regards education, we have achieved
some degree of progress over the past three decades.
However, it is far from being enough. Therefore our
Government has taken several steps. Basic education for
all by the year 2015 is one goal, and a second is basic
education for children from ages 6 to 15 in order to
increase the percentage from 65 per cent in 1994 to 90
per cent in the year 2006. We intend to reduce illiteracy
rates among women from 76 per cent in 1994 to less than
40 per cent by the year 2006, and to reduce the gap
between rural and urban areas.
As far as the health sector is concerned, we are
trying to spend more money on health policies and health
services, as well as encouraging the participation of the
private sector. In order to live up to our commitments in
the area of health services, we have adopted the following
measures: reducing contagious and parasitic diseases,
improving the nutritional situation, protecting women and
children from health hazards,
improving health care,
attempting to reduce death rates and increase the average
age to 60 years by the year 2000, and reducing infant
mortality from 138 per thousand to 75 per thousand.
In the area of housing, we have adopted policies
which take into account
the population increase and
finding solutions to this problem through the provision of
soft loans to individuals and groups.
Since 1995 we have taken the measures in the field
of social security aimed at reducing the burden on the
poor, providing job opportunities for the unemployed,
increasing popular participation and bolstering social
interdependence. We have also adopted a number of
programmes in order to reduce the effects of contractive
economic policies and to create job opportunities for the
poor and the unemployed. We have provided training
facilities for the handicapped, and we have undertaken a
number of projects.
In the field of
integration and social
development in Yemen, we have been trying to achieve
social
7
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
the importance of human
this goal on the basis of
resources. This is very important in terms of development.
Youth and childhood are another concern. Promoting
the care of children is one of the major policies adopted in
Yemen. We provide protection for children and enable them
to benefit from education facilities. Regarding youth, the
State has adopted an ambitious policy to ensure their
participation in the labour market by providing training
facilities and national institutions designed for this purpose.
Regarding women, equality between the sexes is a
very important objective for my country. In order to
improve the situation of women and achieve equality, the
State has promulgated laws and legislation to enable women
to participate, making it possible for women to receive
education and to work. In 1994, 20.2 per cent of the total
labour
force was composed of women. Women also
participate in the political life of the country.
imbalances. This has meant
Yemen is among the least-developed countries and
faces serious economic difficulties that have led to
structural
the rate of
economic growth is low, and therefore success in abiding
by the commitments of Copenhagen can be achieved only
through cooperation among States, local authorities and
non-governmental organizations.
that
At
the international
level, we need to establish a
framework for cooperation and assistance because of their
extreme importance for the implementation of the outcome
of the World Summit.
Finally, we hope that the international community will
increase its efforts to ensure a successful outcome of the
Summit.
The President: In accordance with the decision taken
by the Assembly at its 28th plenary meeting, on 6 October,
I now call on the Observer of Switzerland.
Mr. Staehelin (Switzerland) (spoke in French): Since
time that I am addressing this year's
this is the first
Assembly, allow me first of all
to congratulate you,
Mr. President, on your election to the presidency and to
extend to you my best wishes for success in carrying out
this important function.
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
Switzerland is proud to host the General Assembly
in Geneva. The Swiss federal, cantonal and communal
authorities would like to take advantage of
this
opportunity to express their gratitude to the United
Nations Secretariat in New York and in Geneva, the
Chairman of the Preparatory Committee and the various
specialized agencies for their outstanding cooperation and
the enthusiasm they have been demonstrating in preparing
this important event.
During its informal meeting at the end of August the
Swiss delegation informed the Preparatory Committee and
its Bureau of the state of progress of preparations.
What I wish to emphasize today are the objectives
of our special session. They are clear and far-ranging.
We need to reach agreement regarding innovative
approaches and solutions to forge the economic and social
framework of tomorrow's world. The Swiss delegation is
encouraged and welcomes the spirit of cooperation
displayed by the participants at the last informal session.
This atmosphere made it possible to reach agreement in
time on such issues as
the participation of non-
governmental organizations and their accreditation. These
issues are important from an organizational point of view
for the General Assembly and also for the host country.
In addition, substantial progress has been made in
drawing up the text to be submitted to the special session.
These recent developments augur well for the follow-up
to our work.
We
are gratified to be
receiving significant
contributions which the specialized agencies entrusted to
do between now and the end of the year.
The impact of the special session will depend both
on its content and on the level of participation, which
should therefore be as high as possible. The preparations
for the follow-up are well advanced, and therefore we
hope that Governments will be represented in Geneva at
the highest possible level. Governmental participation,
however,
sufficient. The need to find and
implement
synergetic
interaction
international
organizations, the private sector and non-governmental
organizations.
between Governments,
innovative
is not
solutions
requires
Less than nine months from now,
the General
Assembly will be meeting at the Palais des Nations in
Geneva for the special session on the follow-up to the
World Summit for Social Development.
In close cooperation with the United Nations
Secretariat, the Swiss Government will be organizing a
forum which will act as a general round table for
non-governmental
discussion by
bringing together
8
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
organizations, the private sector, trade unions, academics
and those involved in research, as well as governmental
representatives.
This forum is designed to strengthen public interest
and to create the new impetus which is required for the
implementation of the results of the follow-up process. We
therefore call upon Governments to participate in the forum,
and we also encourage participation at the highest level of
non-governmental organizations and of the private sector.
Allow me to conclude by conveying to you, Sir, how
pleased the Swiss authorities are that you will be opening
and presiding at the end of next June of the special session
of the General Assembly in Geneva.
The President: We have heard the last speaker on this
item of the agenda.
The Assembly will now take a decision on draft
decisions I, II and III, contained in paragraph 71 of
document A/54/45 and corrigendum 1, as well as draft
decision IV, contained in paragraph 6 of document
A/54/45/Add.1.
turn
first
to
I,
We
entitled
“Arrangements for the special session”. May I take it that
the Assembly decides to adopt draft decision I?
decision
draft
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: We turn next to draft decision II,
entitled “Title of the special session”. May I take it that the
Assembly decides to adopt draft decision II?
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: We turn now to draft decision III,
entitled “Provisional agenda for the second session of the
Preparatory Committee for the Special Session of the
General Assembly on the Implementation of the Outcome
of the World Summit for Social Development and Further
Initiatives (3-14 April 2000)”. May I take it
the
Assembly decides to adopt draft decision III?
that
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: We turn next to draft decision IV,
entitled “Arrangements regarding participation of non-
governmental organizations in the special session of the
General Assembly on the implementation of the outcome of
the World Summit for Social Development and Further
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
Initiatives”. May I take it that the Assembly decides to
adopt draft decision IV?
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: I should like to inform members that
a draft resolution on this item will be submitted to the
Secretariat at a later date.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its
consideration of agenda item 37.
Agenda item 16
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and
other elections
(a) Election of twenty members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/54/400)
The President:
In accordance with General
Assembly decision 42/450 of 17 December 1987, the
Assembly elects the members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination upon their nomination by
the Economic and Social Council.
The Assembly has before it document A/54/400,
which contains the nominations by the Economic and
Social Council to fill the vacancies in the Committee that
will occur as a result of the expiration on 31 December
1999 of the terms of office of Argentina, Austria, Brazil,
Cameroon, Congo, Germany,
the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Italy, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Thailand, Trinidad and
Tobago, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and Zimbabwe. Those States are
eligible for immediate re-election.
Indonesia,
I should like to remind members that, after 1
January 2000, the following States will still be members
of the Committee: the Bahamas, Benin, China, Comoros,
Egypt, France, Japan, Mexico, the Republic of Korea, the
Russian Federation, Uganda,
the United States of
America, Uruguay and Zambia. Accordingly, those 14
States are not eligible in this election.
I should now like to inform members that
the
following States have been nominated by the Economic
and Social Council. There are four African States for four
vacancies: Cameroon, Gabon, Mauritania and Zimbabwe.
9
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
There are four Asian States for four vacancies: Bangladesh,
Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan. There
are three Eastern European States for three vacancies:
Poland, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine. There are
four Latin American and Caribbean States for
four
vacancies: Argentina, Brazil, Cuba and Peru. There are five
Western European and other States for five vacancies:
Germany, Italy, Portugal, San Marino and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure,
all elections should be held by secret ballot. However, in
accordance with paragraph 16 of decision 34/401,
the
Assembly may, in elections to subsidiary organs, dispense
with secret balloting when the number of candidates
corresponds to the number of seats to be filled.
the Asian States,
The number of States nominated from among the
African States,
the Eastern European
States, the Latin American and Caribbean States and the
Western European and other States is equal to or does not
exceed the number of seats to be filled in each of those
regions.
May I therefore take it that the Assembly wishes to
declare those States nominated by the Economic and Social
Council from among the African States, the Asian States,
the Eastern European States,
the Latin American and
Caribbean States and the Western European and other
States — namely, Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil,
Cameroon, Cuba, Gabon, Germany, Indonesia, the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Italy, Mauritania, Pakistan, Peru, Poland,
Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Ukraine,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and Zimbabwe — elected members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination for a three-year
term
beginning on 1 January 2000?
It was so decided.
The President: I congratulate the States that have
been elected members of the Committee for Programme
and Coordination.
We
have
stage
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 16.
concluded
thus
this
of
our
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
Agenda item 168
Granting of observer status in the General Assembly
for the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/54/L.8)
The President: I give the floor to the representative
of Greece to introduce draft resolution A/54/L.8.
Mr. Rokanas (Greece): It
is an honour and a
pleasure for me to briefly take the floor in order to
introduce draft resolution A/54/L.8 on the granting of
observer status in the General Assembly for the Black Sea
Economic Cooperation Organization. Greece
has
submitted this draft resolution, under item 168 of the
agenda, in its capacity as holder of the presidency of the
organization, a post that rotates on a six-monthly basis.
The Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) came
into existence in 1992 as an intergovernmental mechanism
aimed at establishing a network of economic cooperation
among its 11 founding member States, namely Albania,
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece,
Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Turkey and
Ukraine.
BSEC functioned effectively, in its initial form as an
intergovernmental forum, until 1 May 1999, when it was
transformed into a regional
international organization
under
the name “Black Sea Economic Cooperation
Organization”. According to its Charter, adopted at the
summit meeting in Yalta on 4 and 5 June 1998, the
BSEC institutional structure consists of,
inter alia, a
Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, a Chairman-in-
Office, a Troika, a Committee of Senior Officials, a
permanent
international secretariat, and a number of
working groups on a variety of topics such as economies,
finance, science and technology, communications, tourism
and the environment.
In addition, since its inception, BSEC has been
gradually extending its scope by developing a grid of
international relations. Nine States have already acquired
observer status: Austria, France, Germany, Egypt, Israel,
Italy, Poland, Slovakia and Tunisia. Many others have
applied for such status, and their requests are currently
under consideration. Observer status has also been
exchanged with the Energy Charter Conference.
10
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
international organizations
Furthermore, BSEC has been productively cooperating
with various
the
European Union and the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe, as well as within the framework
of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe.
such as
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
to
the Black Sea Economic
General Assembly
Cooperation Organization (BSECO). The granting of such
status would represent additional support for the States
members of
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
Organization in their efforts for regional integration as
well as in the broader global integration process.
good-
neighbourliness, mutual
The principles and objectives enshrined in BSEC's
Charter are broadly supportive of, and in complete harmony
with, those embodied in the United Nations Charter. Since
its very first steps, BSEC has energetically pursued
friendship,
respect,
confidence, dialogue and cooperation in a wide variety of
fields ranging from development, economies and finance,
health care, and science and technology to the fight against
terrorism and organized crime,
including the illicit
trafficking of drugs. BSEC has, in effect, consistently used
economic means with a view to promoting also politically
significant goals and, in particular, peace, security and
stability in the entire Black Sea region.
in Yalta,
Two years ago,
the heads of State or
Government of BSEC decided to seek observer status in the
United Nations General Assembly in the conviction that this
would substantially benefit both organizations and enable
them to promote and enhance their economic and social
efforts, contribute to the establishment of a common
approach and joint policies, and avoid unnecessary
contradictions and duplication.
Furthermore, obtaining observer status would greatly
assist BSEC itself not only in consolidating the positive
results already achieved so far, but also in continuing, with
renewed vigour, its endeavours in pursuance of its noble
goals and principles.
Before I conclude, I would like, on behalf of the
member States of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
Organization, to extend our heartfelt thanks to the numerous
delegations that sponsored this draft resolution. I should
like also to mention some others that have joined the list of
sponsors: Denmark, Estonia, Fiji,
the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Slovenia and Uruguay. Our heartfelt
thanks go also to those delegations.
India,
I would be grateful if all the delegations present here
would kindly lend their support to this draft so that it could
be adopted by consensus.
Mr. Gorita (Romania) (spoke in French): I should
like at the outset to express the Romanian Government's
satisfaction at the inclusion on the agenda of this session
the item regarding the granting of observer status in the
The
June
establishing
1992 Declaration
the
Organization demonstrates the will of the participating
States to develop among themselves broad economic
cooperation, to work together to transform the Black Sea
region into a zone of peace, stability and prosperity and
to promote friendly and good-neighbourly relations.
relations with other
For Romania, participating in this cooperative
structure enables us to accelerate our economic and social
development and our process of integration into the
European Union. As a founding country, Romania
actively supported the idea of transforming the Black Sea
Economic Cooperation Organization into a regional
economic organization with its own identity and a unified
position in its
international
international
organizations. Hence,
organizations
as
the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the
Council of Europe,
the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe, the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization,
the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and the European
Investment Bank have expressed an interest in granting
observer status to the BSECO or are already supporting
the activities of the organization.
the European Union,
prestigious
such
Cooperation with the BSECO is being strengthened
by the initiation, in June 1999, of the activities of the
Black Sea Trade and Development Bank, whose
headquarters are in Thessaloniki, and which will be
providing financial support for cooperation projects in the
region. Likewise,
the memorandum of cooperation
between the BSECO and the European Union, adopted on
30 April 1999, attests to the interest that the organization
attaches to relations with the European Union. In this
context, particular importance is accorded to the European
through its
Union's decision to provide assistance,
regional programmes,
the
organization so as to carry out the projects initiated within
the organization as well as to participate on a permanent
basis in BSECO meetings.
to countries members of
Starting on 1 November 1999 and for the duration of
its chairmanship of the BSECO in 2000 — and in the
context of its membership, with Greece and the Republic
11
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
of Moldova, in the troika of the organization — Romania
intends to identify specific ways of cooperating with other
neighbouring cooperative organizations,
including the
Central European Initiative, the Mediterranean Initiative, the
Baltic Council, the Commonwealth of Independent States
and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe.
The step that we are taking today is being given
concrete expression in draft resolution A/54/L.8. Initiated
by Greece on behalf of the Chairman of the organization
and supported by Romania and all the members of the
organization, that draft resolution would grant observer
status to the BSECO in the General Assembly and
represents an important step in affirming the role of the
BSECO on the political and economic stage at
the
international level.
Mr. Abelian (Armenia): The delegation of Armenia
is pleased to join the sponsors of draft resolution A/54/L.8,
on the granting of observer status in the General Assembly
for the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization,
which was introduced today by the delegation of Greece.
Throughout its centuries-long history, the Black Sea
basin has been a region with many problems and an area
where the interests of different countries have intersected.
Meanwhile, the tendency towards strengthening cooperation
in the region is becoming more and more dominant. The
establishment of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
Organization is a remarkable manifestation of this positive
tendency. At the current stage, the States members of the
BSECO differ both in the level of
their economic
development and in their approach towards the regulation
of the economic process. They also have different views on
regional problems, the solution of which will require a
determined stance and resolute political will on the part of
the leaders of the States of the region. It was the desire to
create a real basis for regional economic integration that
drove 11 countries of the Black Sea region to found an
organization which will
lead their societies towards a
common understanding of the indivisibility of their political
destiny.
The objectives of
the BSECO remain clear and
understandable: to develop an equal partnership, to strive
for a better life for the peoples of the region and to achieve
the prosperity of all Black Sea countries in the interest of
peace and stability. Regional economic cooperation, which
aims to transform the different national economies through
dialogue, mutual respect, confidence and conciliation, will
significantly contribute to success in the complex process
12
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
of transition to a market economy and will ultimately lead
to the consolidation of a beneficial partnership in all
fields of common interest.
Since independence, Armenia has been expressing its
firm commitment to developing regional cooperation, and
we are a founding member of and an active participant in
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization.
Armenia has always considered the BSECO to be a
promising model for fostering interaction and harmony
among the participating States, and we believe that it will
undoubtedly contribute to the creation of a Europe-wide
economic space in the future and promote understanding
and security in the region.
that
efficient
Armenia believes
and effective
cooperation among the Black Sea countries will help
consolidate the strategic economic potential inherent in
this area, promote free trade, open roads and other means
of communication and foster the welfare of peoples, thus
stimulating the peaceful settlement of existing political
disputes and reinforcing the independence, sovereignty
and democratic development of the BSECO member
States. We attach great importance to the financial pillar
of the BSECO, the Black Sea Trade and Development
Bank, which has recently started operations. The Bank is
to become the principal mechanism of the BSECO in
working out, financing and implementing joint regional
projects and providing financial
the
participating States.
resources
for
Much has been done in the seven years since the
BSECO was founded, although there are still certain
difficulties. These may be accounted for by the fact that
the majority of countries in the organization are going
through a period of reform and transition to a market
economy and are searching for an economic model for
their development and role in regional processes.
Accordingly, they need to search for new, adequate ways
and means of strengthening the BSECO process. Putting
the main emphasis on discovering additional reserves in
the BSECO region itself, the member States must use the
significant resources that are at the disposal of other
international organizations and regional structures. A
number of them, including the Council of Baltic Sea
States, the Central European Initiative, the South-East
European Cooperative Initiative and the Economic
Cooperation Organization, are interested in collaborating
with the BSECO in areas of common interest. The
tendency of a number of countries to pay greater attention
to the activities of the BSECO and to apply either for
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
observer status or full membership in the organization is
also worth noting.
Guided by the principle of BSECO openness towards
the global economic environment, member States are
further developing activities aimed at promoting fruitful
working relations with other international organizations and
institutions whose own experience could be beneficial to the
needs of the BSECO countries. Contacts between the
BSECO and other regional and international organizations
include exchanges of
information and documentation,
working visits and participation in each other's events. It
was the principle of openness towards the outside world
which motivated the member States when, two years ago in
Yalta,
they took the important decision to apply for
observer status for the BSECO in the General Assembly of
the United Nations.
Good traditions of partnership already exist with the
Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) and with the
Industrial Development Organization
United Nations
(UNIDO). The ECE has provided support
in the
organization of joint workshops for BSEC countries on
specific
economic
cooperation, while UNIDO is engaged in projects in the
field of environmental protection.
regarding multilateral
subjects
31st plenary meeting
8 October 1999
Armenia believes that observer status in the General
Assembly would facilitate the fulfilment of BSEC's
mission and significantly increase the organization's
weight in the international arena. I would like to conclude
by expressing the hope that the General Assembly will
give its unanimous support to the draft resolution before
us.
The President: The Assembly will now take a
decision on draft resolution A/54/L.8. May I take it that
the General Assembly decides to adopt
that draft
resolution?
Draft
(resolution 54/5).
resolution
A/54/L.8
was
adopted
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 168?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 11.40 a.m.
13
