United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
30th plenary meeting
Thursday, 7 October 1999, 3 p.m.
New York
A/54/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Gurirab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Namibia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 37 (continued)
Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit
for Social Development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/54/220)
Report of
the Preparatory Committee for the
Special Session of the General Assembly on the
Implementation of the Outcome of the World
Summit
for Social Development and Further
Initiatives (A/54/45 and Corr.1 and Add.1)
Draft decisions I, II and III (A/54/45, para. 71 and
Corr.1); and IV (A/54/45/Add.1, para. 6)
Mr. Moura (Brazil): Less than five years ago heads
of State and Government and high-level authorities of 186
countries met in Copenhagen and adopted a Declaration and
Programme of Action that are considered a new social
contract of worldwide scope.
While we still do not have a full assessment of the
implementation of the Copenhagen decisions, clearly the
global environment has undergone significant change —
and not always for the better, especially in relation to the
crucial problems of unemployment and poverty.
Over these last few years the world community has
experienced the opportunities and the risks associated with
an increasingly globalized and interdependent world. The
international financial crisis has caused severe social
dislocation in many countries. We continue to suffer the
consequences of protectionist trade practices that impact
negatively in particular commodity exports of developing
countries. We feel the effects of the external debt that is
draining
for
development, and we see the consequences of cutbacks in
international cooperation.
resources
scarce
urgently
needed
As we approach the year 2000 special session of the
General Assembly on Copenhagen + 5, let us bear these
facts in mind so as to better focus our discussions on the
challenges ahead. Under Chile’s competent coordination,
the preparatory process for the special session is well
advanced. The decision to reaffirm the Copenhagen
commitments and the consensus that came out of the first
substantive session of the Preparatory Committee bode
well.
Social development requires sustained economic
growth.
In Brazil — as a result of macroeconomic
stability over the last few years — a significantly greater
proportion of our population has shared in the benefits of
development. Yet only by assuring long-term stability will
the complex social evils that have long plagued Brazil be
overcome.
In the quest to improve living conditions for all
Brazilians,
reforms are being
carried out. The State machinery is undergoing basic
re-engineering, fiscal reform is under way and basic
fundamental structural
99-86071 (E)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of speeches
delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original speeches only.
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room C-178. Corrections will
be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
I
recall
social services are being reorganized. Education has
received special attention.
that during the
preparatory work for
the Copenhagen Summit Brazil
advocated the inclusion of universal access to education as
one of the 10 commitments necessary to achieve social
development. By means of its “All children in school”
programme, Brazil has achieved 96 per cent school
enrolment for children between 7 and 14 years old. More
important, drop-out and repetition rates have fallen
significantly.
As regards health matters, the various programmes
recently set up have contributed to a 45 per cent reduction
in infant mortality country-wide in the 1994 to 1998 period.
The eradication of poverty and the overcoming of
social exclusion are Government priorities. As a result of
specifically targeted policies, the proportion of people living
below the absolute poverty line has declined from 30.4 per
cent to 20.9 per cent.
Mr. Stanislaus (Grenada), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
In this context, we have witnessed the success of
initiatives that reinforce governmental action. Such is the
case of the “Comunidade Solidária”, which set out to forge
partnerships with civil society organizations. Its basic
premise is that only through joint action involving the
different levels of Government and the different segments
of civil society will it be possible to eradicate poverty and
put an end to social exclusion.
These are a few examples of the many initiatives
under way in Brazil to improve social security, provide
employment opportunities, generate new income sources
and promote agrarian reform. A detailed report on these
programmes will be submitted to the Commission for
Social Development, which was mandated to assess the
progress made and the obstacles encountered in the
implementation of the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit.
Although much progress has been made, a long and
difficult road still lies ahead. Among the obstacles that
persist, many are no doubt of an internal nature. Despite
their complexity and the economic difficulties that constrain
public policy, the Brazilian Government is committed to the
goals
the
administrative, fiscal and social security reforms presently
under way. Yet there remain other obstacles that stem from
the current adverse international environment, and therefore
require a joint commitment to action from all countries.
field. Such is
the case of
in this
set
2
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
If we are to achieve the goals drawn up in
Copenhagen we should all work together. In Geneva in
the year 2000 we will have a further opportunity to
reaffirm our commitment to social development so as to
translate it into concrete measures for the benefit of all in
our society.
Mr. Sergiva (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (spoke in
Arabic): At the outset, my delegation wishes to reaffirm
its support for the statement made by the representative of
Ghana on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
throughout
The Declaration and Programme of Action of the
World Summit for Social Development has made the
world aware of social development issues and helped
them to become an integral part of national, regional and
international plans and programmes for development. It
also recognized that human beings were the focal point
and object of development efforts. And it invited all
States
their
responsibility for the social development of their peoples
and for increased efforts to improve their quality of life
and to guarantee prosperity through the eradication of
poverty. These efforts are essential to the stability of the
international community and to the creation of full and
productive employment and social integration, so that
people in all social sectors will be able to take part in
development and in decision-making.
the world
recognize
to
to fulfil
The developing countries have recognized their
primary responsibility for national social development.
They have made significant efforts
their
commitments under
the Copenhagen Programme of
Action. Nevertheless, progress has been minimal — the
rich are growing richer while the poor are growing
poorer. More than 1 billion people live in abject poverty;
the number of unemployed is growing; and social
inequities are on the increase and threaten the stability
and territorial integrity of countries.
Given the close link between economic and social
development, the exacerbation of the economic situation
of many developing countries has led to a shortfall in the
financial resources necessary for social development and
thus had a negative impact on it. Aware of the challenges
facing the developing countries in their efforts to meet the
objectives of the Copenhagen Programme of Action, we
hope that
the international
financial institutions, the development agencies of the
United Nations and other international organizations will
all work to establish an equitable environment conducive
to social and economic development that would guarantee
the developed countries,
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
in official development
in order
assistance
to achieve the goals of
for
an increase
development
the
Copenhagen Summit. It is also hoped that they would
cancel or alleviate the foreign debt and its servicing,
facilitate access of the products of developing countries to
world markets, and offer equitable prices for their basic
commodities, which have continually fallen in relation to
the cost of manufactured goods.
food
projects,
especially
We also need to create an international environment
providing long-term concessions to developing countries for
production
projects, with
international guarantees, so that these countries can respond
to priorities in the area of food. The Bretton Woods
institutions should be re-examined and overhauled so that
the developing countries can confront their financial crises
and have easier access to concessional loans in order to
finance their development projects. We should not link
international cooperation to the imposition of political
systems for political purposes, which would run counter to
the economic and social choices made by States and would
violate the United Nations Charter and international law.
The President took the Chair.
We need to work to integrate the developing countries
into the international economy and facilitate their access to
technology and the flow of financial resources on the
bilateral and multilateral levels. Certain developed countries
also need to renounce all coercive measures to exert
economic and political pressure on developing countries.
Furthermore, we need to eliminate all the negative social
and economic repercussions of globalization, which restricts
the ability of the developing countries to control the world
market and marginalizes their role in the international
economy.
to fulfil
The social situation in Africa remains precarious
the
despite the efforts of African States
commitments they made at
the Copenhagen Summit.
Indeed, poverty is on the rise in most African countries,
with 44 per cent of Africans living in poverty. This
situation is compounded by the AIDS pandemic throughout
the continent; by other endemic diseases, such as malaria;
by the deterioration of health and education services; and
by the foreign debt burden, which stood at $350 billion in
1998.
In
this
respect, my
the
recommendation adopted by the Preparatory Committee for
the Special Session of the General Assembly to be held in
the year 2000 for a comprehensive review and assessment
delegation
supports
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
the outcome of
the Copenhagen Summit. This
of
recommendation pertains to the inclusion of the question
of the acceleration of development plans in Africa and in
the least developed countries,
in the context of the
additional initiatives that should be included in the results
of the special session.
the
of
My
country
supports
outcome
the
recommendations of the Copenhagen Summit. In the
context of legislative and legal guarantees and taking into
account the balance between the needs of the individual
and those of society, my country has adopted several
political, social and economic measures aimed at the
maximum utilization of human resources and the
improvement of living standards. We have guaranteed
free education, including primary education, free health
services and social security for widows, the disabled and
the elderly. We promote the role of women in society; the
protection of the family as the nucleus of society; and the
protection of human rights, based on the supremacy of the
rule of law and universal participation in decision-making.
All this has had a positive effect on the quality of life in
Libyan society, as has the provision of all basic social
services, despite the coercive economic sanctions that
have been imposed on the people of Libya in 1990s,
caused serious human and material damage and hampered
programmes and plans devoted to social development.
support
for Social Development. We
In conclusion, my delegation pays tribute to the
efforts of the Preparatory Committee for the Special
Session of the General Assembly to be held in the year
2000 on the Implementation of the Outcome of the World
Summit
its
recommendation aimed at adopting a global poverty-
reduction target to reduce by one half the number of
people living in extreme poverty by the year 2015. There
is no doubt that, as we enter the new millennium, the
proper preparation for the special session to be held in
Switzerland will allow the international community to
reaffirm its political commitment
to the Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action on Social
Development, to review progress made and to consider all
the obstacles and the new initiatives that aim at improving
the social situation throughout the world.
3
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
of
importance
“people-centred
Mr. Farar (United States of America): The year 2000
will mark the fifth anniversary of the World Summit for
Social Development. In 1995, when the Social Summit took
place in Copenhagen, Vice-President Al Gore underscored
the
sustainable
development”. His words were as significant then as they
are now: we cannot succeed if we treat the poor solely as
passive recipients of assistance, whether for welfare, food
or medical care. An approach needs to be designed that
empowers people to be active partners in the management
of their own fates. We have to find new links to our own
people, with a Government that works better, costs less and
focuses on results.
To promote sustainable development and social
progress for those trapped in poverty, new ways need to be
found, such as Government/private sector partnerships,
technical assistance for institutional development and policy
reform and support for South-South partnerships.
Economic policies cannot be divorced from the social
and political context in which they function. The United
States has been supportive of the trend in the international
community, as well as within multilateral lending agencies,
to take into account social impacts when formulating and
implementing structural adjustment programmes. We
welcome the fact that the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) has recalibrated fiscal targets and has placed new
emphasis on poverty reduction and the maintenance of
adequate levels of social spending. We also welcome the
World Bank's Comprehensive Development Framework
initiative. It is clear that it, too, recognizes that development
requires the right social and economic policies, carried out
within a supportive institutional framework.
is
a
critical
element
in
At
of
an
political
processes,
the same time, we firmly believe that good
governance
enabling
environment. Free and regular elections, the rule of law,
transparency
accountable
Governments and independent and free media are basic
building blocks of a stable society. At the core of our
approach to social development are political and religious
freedoms and respect for human rights. Our work is guided
by the principle of
sustainable
development
equality. Human capacity
development, economic growth, civil society and a safe,
healthy
sustained
development. Copenhagen reinforced the concept
that
poverty is substantially alleviated only through policies that
promote job creation, and that workers who enjoy the
protections of core labour standards are most likely to fulfil
their human potential.
and gender
environment
form the
individual
initiative,
basis
of
4
As a conference of commitments, the Social Summit
broke new ground with a specific commitment to equality
for women, paving the way for the forward-looking
human rights action plan in Beijing. We must continue to
pay particular attention to women. We must recognize
that women disproportionately shoulder the burden of
unwaged labour, such as child-rearing and family farming.
We must make sure that their labour is valued and that
they have equal access to essential services such as
education and health care, and that they participate fully
in the political, economic and social
their
communities. With this in mind, we would like to
underscore
equal
opportunities for girls to receive an education,
to
participate in all aspects of society and to achieve success
in any endeavour they choose. No doors should be closed
to anyone on the basis of gender.
importance
providing
life of
the
of
The United States remains committed to the goals of
the Social Summit. We have made substantial progress in
strengthening families by initiating programmes
to
connect parents to children, and through welfare-to-work
projects to develop work skills that encourage our citizens
to become economically independent. We have increased
education funding with federal
investments and have
endeavoured to set educational standards. We have
enhanced our health care policies to reduce infant
mortality and to establish indicators of child well-being.
We have adopted policies to reduce crime with such
innovative projects as neighbourhood development grants.
We have undertaken policies to expand employment and
to reform the social welfare systems. The progress in
these two areas has contributed substantially to raising the
living standards of ordinary American citizens.
We still need, however, to ensure that all members
of our society participate and enjoy the fruits of economic
growth. We are endeavouring to create a more equitable
social system, with attention to the concerns of minorities,
women, youth, older persons and people with disabilities.
There have been increases in the minimum wage and
health insurance reform to benefit working individuals
and families.
I would like to say a few words about the ageing.
We are all
familiar with the various demographic
estimates of what the ageing population will be in the
next century. They all point to people over 60 years of
age as the fastest growing sub-group in the population
worldwide. We need to have policies and programmes in
place that address the needs of the ageing population. We
need to ensure that when we discuss issues such as
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
poverty and human rights, that we are also including older
people. We hope that the many complex and interdependent
issues of longevity continue to be addressed by nations and
by international organizations beyond the International Year
of Older Persons.
economic growth. Among many steps that should be
taken are the establishment of clear property rights for
small
landholders and homeowners, elimination of
discrimination in the work place and focusing government
social spending on health care and basic education.
My Government remains committed to improving the
quality of
life of older persons. To demonstrate our
commitment, our Assistant Secretary for Aging in the
Department of Health and Human Services, Jeanette
Takamura, underlined the many steps we are taking to
continue the momentum with which the International Year
of Older Persons began.
I would like now to say a few words about
the
challenges of globalization.
Globalization has brought important opportunities as
well as challenges to the world. As ideas and information
spread more freely and investments continue to expand
globally, our collective interdependence has grown. Our
security and economic welfare have become increasingly
intertwined. Economic and social problems in one part of
the world can have rapid repercussions in another part.
Globalization has contributed to raising living standards in
much of the world and to unprecedented reductions in
poverty in the last 25 years,
international
financial tumult not withstanding. As we look towards the
future, we can draw from the lessons of the recent past.
The economies hardest hit shared key vulnerabilities, such
as bad investment decisions or weak and inadequately
supervised banking systems.
the recent
The financial crisis and its social impact call for a
fresh look at social policies that can mitigate any negative
effects of globalization. Volatility in the global economy
can translate into reductions in real wages and temporary
job losses. In the worst cases, some families are no longer
able to afford food, clothing or shelter. To be willing to
front the changes that accompany economic liberalization
and globalization, families must have some confidence that
a social safety net is in place to help them weather any
shocks.
Let me briefly address some of the social strategies
that we believe are essential for resilient growth.
The most
investment any economy can
make is in its people. All
families should have the
opportunity to contribute to economic growth and share in
its benefits. These opportunities
enhanced by
Government policies that help create the environment for
important
are
Job creation is the core of any sound social society.
Small and medium enterprises typically create more jobs
more quickly and flexibly than larger enterprises. An
open, transparent investment climate, grounded in the rule
of law, supports the creation of these businesses. Policies
should be put in place to ensure fair, equitable and broad-
based access to credit by small and medium-sized
enterprises.
Donor coordination is also important. As stated
earlier this year by Ambassador Alan Larson before the
Economic and Social Council, the World Bank, regional
multilateral development banks and the IMF need to work
together closely to ensure that economic and social
problem issues are integrated in each institution's
programmes. Donors
should work with borrower
Governments to ensure that their programmes fit into a
coherent overall development framework.
The United States has been a strong advocate of
expanding debt relief provided to the poorest countries.
The G-7 and other Ministers have endorsed the Cologne
debt initiative to provide faster, deeper and broader debt
relief under an enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) framework. This initiative will strengthen the link
between debt relief and poverty reduction for qualified
HIPC countries which pursue approved economic reform
programmes.
In addition, President Clinton recently announced
that the United States would seek to write off up to 100
per cent of the debt owed by HIPC countries, when the
savings funded by such debt relief will be used by those
countries to finance poverty reduction programmes and
address the basic human needs of their people. The
United States is hopeful that other creditor countries will
join in this extra effort.
As President Clinton said at the recent Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Council meeting in New Zealand,
we must continue our efforts to put a face on the global
economy. Working with the World Bank and regional
development banks, we must strengthen safety nets so
people have unemployment insurance and job training and
so that
the first and
hardest-hit victims of an economic downturn. The IMF
impoverished children are not
5
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
now has special financing available to help a country head
off a financial contagion — something the United States
worked very hard to set up. We must continue to develop
such tools.
decided that further meetings would be held five years
later to evaluate the implementation of what had been
proposed and to consider whether it would be advisable
to explore additional actions and initiatives to adopt.
President Clinton also stressed in New Zealand that
emerging economies have to work to do this. They still
have to continue to restructure their banking systems, make
their corporations more accountable, reduce reliance on
short-term loans and encourage greater direct investment.
Developed countries and international financial institutions
also need to do more to increase transparency, strengthen
risk management and increase disclosure by financial
institutions.
While all of these are very important measures and
recommendations, we would like once again to underscore
the primal importance of good governance and the rule of
law. Corruption eats away at the vital organs of economic
activity and democratic
institutions, weakening the
foundation on which growth is based. We believe that
governance is a critical issue that needs to be addressed at
international as well as national levels. The rule of law and
a democratic political system in which the people determine
who governs them, and how, are essential elements of a
stable environment in which people can live and prosper.
While international assistance and debt relief are clearly
important, their positive effects depend on sound national
efforts towards economic and structural reform and good
governance, under which the private sector and civil society
are able to play productive roles.
Finally, we need to work together and continue our
efforts to improve the quality of life of our citizens as we
enter the new millennium. We are prepared to work with
the international community to make sure that our children
can grow in a safe, healthy, and prosperous environment.
(Guatemala)
Mr. Carranza-Cifuentes
(spoke in
Spanish): Our debate is just beginning, and I would like to
restrict my remarks to a few general comments. Unlike in
previous years, when we evaluated the outcome of the
World Summit for Social Development in all its substantive
aspects,
immediate task:
preparing for the special session of the General Assembly
that is to deal exclusively and in depth with the evaluation.
focus on our
today I shall
This was done last June, for example, regarding the
Cairo Plan of Action and, only a week ago, regarding the
Barbados Programme of Action. The Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action on Social
Development lend themselves particularly well to this
kind of exercise. The 10 major commitments contained in
the Declaration set a hierarchy of issues, thus facilitating
the appraisal of accomplishments and shortcomings in its
implementation at both the national and international
levels.
Instead of
succumbing to the
temptation of
negotiating a new set of commitments or a revision of
what has already been set out, we must adhere to what
was decided by the General Assembly in paragraph 24 of
resolution 50/161:
“to hold a special session of the General
Assembly in the year 2000 for an overall
review and appraisal of the implementation of
the outcome of the Summit and to consider
further actions and initiatives”.
In other words, the objectives of that session must be to
reaffirm — not
negotiate — the Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the
Summit.
to
Perhaps the confusion that might exist between these
two conflicting approaches explains the disappointment of
several delegations, including my own, with the progress
made to date by the Preparatory Committee, which held
its first substantive session last May. This disappointment
is due to the fact
the
Preparatory Committee between May 1998 and September
1999 have resulted solely in the adoption of decisions that
have settled basically formal issues, rather than issues of
substance that, ideally, the Preparatory Committee should
have addressed. We still have the substantive part ahead
of us. This will be the most difficult part, and time is
passing.
the main activities of
that
As we all know, beginning in 1990 the United Nations
promoted several high-profile conferences, some of them at
the level of head of State or Government,
to explore
various issues that were deemed to be of priority for our
countries’ development. In almost all of these cases, it was
Although circumstances will unquestionably have
changed between 1995 and 2000, we must not forget the
difficulties encountered in similar processes that sought to
renegotiate declarations and/or programmes of action.
These processes were complicated by the emergence of an
6
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
overabundance of elements that were not only new but also
controversial and had been rejected at
the respective
Summits. This gave rise to interminable negotiating rounds
whose only result was an unnecessary waste of delegations’
energy.
of
an
enabling
international
It may be that the difficulties that the Committee is
facing have also been influenced by recent
relevant
developments. As is well known, an indispensable condition
for the fulfilment of all the objectives set forth in the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action is the
existence
economic
environment. Since 1997, this requirement has not been met
as regards the majority of developing countries. Rather, in
the last two years we have witnessed desperate efforts in
many countries, including my own, to defend jobs against
a backdrop of pronounced deceleration of economic activity
and to justify an increasingly large expenditure of public
funds to prop up social sectors in the midst of a contraction
of the capacity to generate fiscal revenues, which renders
belt-tightening policies unavoidable.
The advances made in upholding the spirit of
Copenhagen, negated by setbacks
in a real world
characterized by lower levels of economic activity, conjure
in our minds the image of countries running fast just to
remain in place, though they still might fall behind. But the
special session will deal with all these subjects. What we
should ask ourselves now is how to make progress in
preparing for that session.
If we bear in mind that the General Assembly is the
true embodiment of the intergovernmental process, we
could expect it to provide us with a specific framework for
following up the implementation of the Declaration and
Programme of Action. This framework could be concretely
defined in the Economic and Social Council and,
in
particular, in the Commission for Social Development.
My delegation believes that we should take maximum
advantage of this opportunity. We welcome the decision
designating as a high priority of the thirty-eighth session of
the Commission for Social Development consideration of
how the Commission can contribute to a general review of
the implementation of the outcome of the Summit. The
coordinating function to be performed by the Commission
at that session is of vital importance. The Commission will
itself function as a coordinating body in which national
reports will be presented and experience will be shared
prior to the submission of the results of the Commission's
work to the Preparatory Committee next February.
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
We believe that the Preparatory Committee should
adopt a new agreed text reflecting a compilation of
summaries and proposals based on documentation
presented by countries and the United Nations system. It
should
suggestions
concerning progress on the implementation of
the
Copenhagen commitments and the Programme of Action
prepared by the Secretariat as a contribution to the
preparatory process for the special session.
observations
reflect
also
and
inter-sessional consultations of
In conclusion, delegations should in our view strive
in the informal
the
Preparatory Committee to be able to present a new
revised working text
its second
session. That text should be consistent with the objectives
and also facilitate its adoption. We could thus conclude
the substantive work of the special session more speedily.
to the Committee at
Mr. Suh (Republic of Korea): Five years ago we
gathered in Copenhagen in search of ways to improve the
lot of all the world's inhabitants in the years to come. The
World Summit for Social Development, whose guiding
philosophy was to place the needs and rights of human
beings at the centre of all our policies, culminated in the
adoption of three core goals: poverty eradication, full
employment and social integration.
Since that time, however, those goals have proved
elusive. The end of the cold war ushered in a new era
with perils of its own; armed conflicts have erupted in
many parts of the world, threatening the development of
our societies. As witnesses to these appalling scenes, we
must recognize that peace and reconciliation are essential
to achieving the goals of Copenhagen. In this regard, it is
imperative that we in the United Nations and the
international community marshal our resources in the
service of the prevention and peaceful resolution of all
conflicts.
Another challenge of the new era is globalization.
Although the tide of globalization sweeping our world has
opened up tremendous new avenues of opportunity, it has
also exacerbated economic and social disparities. In
addition, our growing interdependence has made crises
such as the economic turmoil of the past few years
virtually impossible to contain.
It must be noted that the problems we are tackling
fall especially hard on one particularly vulnerable segment
of the population: women. Women are disproportionately
affected by poverty, unemployment and lack of social
integration, and the challenges of the new era threaten
7
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
them with further marginalization. Our policy initiatives
must therefore place special emphasis on women's issues,
which form an integral part of the social development
process.
Now that we have set our goals, we must identify the
obstacles that lie in our path towards social development,
for only then can we devise strategies for surmounting
them. In this regard, my delegation is optimistic that the
special session next year in Geneva and its preparatory
process will provide forums for the fruitful exchange of
ideas and experiences between Member States and non-
governmental organizations.
While the importance of efforts on the international
and regional levels cannot be overemphasized, the primary
responsibility for social development
lies with nations
themselves. The issues we have defined as core goals are
profoundly personal, touching our lives as few other issues
can. For that reason, our efforts must take place close to the
ground, where they can target both the roots and the
ramifications of the problems.
The Republic of Korea has made enormous strides in
social development over the past 50 years. Although at
times certain areas of social development took a back seat
to the pursuit of economic growth,
the nation made
significant progress and did so at a remarkably swift pace.
In 1997, however, economic crisis struck, undoing many of
our hard-won achievements. The needy and vulnerable were
hit particularly hard, and the gap between the “haves” and
the “have-nots” widened further, threatening our nation's
social integration.
But,
thanks to the persistent efforts of both the
Government and the people to overcome the economic
crisis, the nation's economy is once again expanding, and
the widespread view is that
is now over.
Projections call for economic growth of around 7 per cent
this year,
in contrast with last year's 5.8 per cent
contraction. Having the economy back on track will further
our social development aims and lend new momentum to
our efforts.
the worst
Recognizing that structural flaws were at the root of
the economic crisis, the Government of the Republic of
Korea is carrying out bold reforms in four key sectors:
financial, corporate, public and labour. By strengthening
autonomy, transparency and accountability in those sectors,
the Government hopes to promote the principles of
democracy and the market economy, allowing them to
flourish throughout our society.
8
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
is twofold: first,
In addition to undertaking structural reform, my
Government
is launching innovative, forward-thinking
welfare initiatives. Among these projects is the “Vision
for National Health and Welfare towards the Year 2000”
announced this year on National Liberation Day. The aim
of this project
to incorporate social
development goals into our reform programmes, and,
secondly, to promote the concept of “productive welfare”.
Conventional welfare involves little more than handouts;
productive welfare revolutionizes the concept, seeking not
only to improve the quality of life for recipients, but to
enhance their abilities as well by providing greater access
to education, health care and housing. Thus enabled,
welfare recipients can participate in, and contribute to,
society more fully.
The Republic of Korea is also striving to find ways
to redress economic and social disparities on a regional
level. At this year's Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
(APEC) Economic Leaders' Meeting,
for example,
President Kim Dae-jung proposed that APEC member
States conduct a policy dialogue in Seoul next year
entitled “Seoul Forum: Towards New Prosperity and
Harmony for APEC”. The Korean Government
is
confident
this forum will provide an invaluable
opportunity for countries in the Asia-Pacific region to
share their particular responses to the recent economic
crisis and thereby devise ways to prevent future crises.
that
At
the international
level, my Government will
continue to increase its official development assistance to
developing countries, which has been expanding since
1995. Despite the financial constraints placed upon us by
the economic crisis,
the Republic of Korea is also
working to fulfil the commitment we made at the World
Summit for Social Development
to provide technical
training to developing countries. International aid enabled
us to overcome poverty and build a foundation for
sustainable development in our nation-building process; it
is now our turn to lend a helping hand.
The great achievement of the World Summit for
Social Development was to establish clear-cut goals. Our
task now is to assess the progress we have made so far
and to ensure that the ideals of Copenhagen are translated
into concrete,
realistic action. Given that political,
economic
inextricably
and
intertwined, our approach must be comprehensive in
scope and innovative in nature. To achieve our goals, we
must harness the positive elements of globalization and
utilize diverse forces with a global reach, such as the
problems
social
are
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
the private sector and civil society —
mass media,
including, inter alia, non-governmental organizations. This
broad-based campaign requires strong leadership, however,
and my delegation therefore urges the United Nations to use
its universal mandate to continue spearheading our efforts.
As we cast off the old legacy of the cold war and look
ahead to the dawning of the new millennium, we stand
poised at a historic juncture in our social development
process. The special session in Geneva thus promises to be
a pivotal event at which we can both look back over the
past five years and refine and redouble our efforts as we
prepare for the challenges that await us. For our part, the
Republic of Korea pledges to do its utmost in support of
this vital and worthwhile endeavour, and we will contribute
fully to the special session and its preparatory processes.
their
limitations faced by countries in carrying out
commitments, as well as the lessons drawn from the
implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration at the
national, regional and international levels.
Malaysia is fully committed to poverty eradication,
full employment and social integration. At the national
level, the implementation of the Programme of Action on
Social Development, as advocated by the Social Summit,
is not something new for Malaysia, as almost all of its
measures are already incorporated in broadly supported
Government policies and programmes. In addition, the
administrative machinery and processes for implementing,
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of those
policies and programmes are already well in place and
functioning effectively.
In taking stock of the progress we have made since
Copenhagen,
and
shortcomings with a critical eye, for the direction we take
now will shape the coming era.
achievements
assess
our
let
us
Ms. Partiban (Malaysia): At the outset, my delegation
wishes to associate itself with the statement made by
Guyana on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
the World Summit for Social Development
It has been four years since leaders from 117 countries
met at
in
Copenhagen and committed themselves to implementing the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action on
to promote social progress, social
Social Development
justice, human betterment and social
the
national, regional and international levels. This was to be
achieved through actions to enhance social
integration,
particularly of the more disadvantaged and marginalized
groups, the alleviation and reduction of poverty and the
expansion of productive employment.
integration at
The United Nations is now in the midst of preparing
for the special session of the General Assembly on the
implementation of the outcome of the Social Summit,
which will take place in June 2000 in Geneva. In this
regard, my delegation wishes to express its appreciation to
the Preparatory Committee for the work it has done, as
reported in document A/54/45 and Add.1.
My
strongly
delegation
agrees with
the
recommendations of the Preparatory Committee that the
objective of the special session should be to reaffirm the
commitments made in Copenhagen and not to renegotiate
the terms agreed. The special session is expected to identify
the progress made thus far and the constraints and
taken measures
the Social Summit
Malaysia's implementation of the 10 commitments
is well under way. The
made at
Government has
to ensure that a
conducive environment exists for social development. The
seventh Malaysia Plan, for the years 1996 to 2000, has
outlined measures and review policies and programmes
relating to matters that are the focus of the Social
Summit. Existing administrative mechanisms will be used
to ascertain Malaysia's achievement
levels in social
development over time.
Through its socio-economic policies and programmes
in social development, Malaysia has successfully lowered
the rate of absolute poverty from 60 per cent in 1970 to
13.5 per cent in 1999. The country is making further
efforts to reduce this to 5.5 per cent by the year 2000. On
the other side of the equation, the mid-term review of the
seventh Malaysia Plan has reported that the household
income of Malaysians has increased by 13.9 per cent. In
fact, Malaysia is currently enjoying full employment, as
a result of its economic growth policies and equitable
distribution strategies. Malaysia has also been able to
galvanize the capabilities of both the private and public
sectors, and to have these two sectors complement each
other to achieve growth with equity. In Malaysia we call
this smart partnership.
The seventh Malaysia Plan retains and re-emphasizes
the concept of balanced development, first introduced in
1991 as a major feature of the National Development
Programme. Serious attention is given to strategies for
generating sustainable, rapid economic growth as well as
to ensuring that the benefits of economic growth are
equitably shared among Malaysians, irrespective of ethnic
group, state or residence in rural or urban areas. Apart
9
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
from providing equitable growth, the Plan also focuses on
the need to balance growth with the protection of the
environment and Malaysia's natural resources.
The allocation for social development programmes
represents 13.1 per cent of Malaysia's total development
budget. The allocation for housing, health and other social
services programmes has been increased in line with the
greater emphasis by the Government on maintaining the
quality of life and reducing the impact of the economic
crisis on the poor and on vulnerable groups. In this context,
Malaysia has introduced several programmes to assist the
very poor who are unable to obtain small, interest-free
loans without collateral or a guarantor. One example is the
Government-funded Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia, or Malaysian
Resourcefulness Fund, which is similar in concept to the
Grameen Bank in Bangladesh. The Government will
continue
social
programmes, particularly in providing basic services and
amenities so as to reduce the full negative impact of the
economic slowdown on low-income households.
undertake measures
to
to
extend
With regard to international cooperation for social
development, Malaysia will continue to share its expertise
and experiences in human resource development with other
developing countries
in the context of South-South
cooperation, through its Malaysian Technical Cooperation
Programmes.
resources to assist
We all agree that the eradication of poverty is central
in the international community's efforts to enhance social
and economic development worldwide. To this end, the
to fund and
international community must endeavour
provide additional
the developing
countries in their development efforts. We call upon the
developed countries to live up to their commitment to
contribute 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to
development assistance for the developing countries. We
also urge that
the developing
countries in providing new and additional resources for
them to undertake their social programmes, such as human
development programmes, education and health training.
they continue to assist
Preliminary assessments of the implementation of the
outcome of
the Social Summit have shown uneven
responses, varying greatly between countries and even
between different commitments within the same country.
Not all countries have placed the same kind of priority on
the various commitments of
the Copenhagen Summit
because of differing situations and needs. Many developing
countries face serious obstacles in their efforts to achieve
the goals of the Summit due to civil strife, natural disasters
10
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
or a lack of financial resources. Needless to say, countries
that are burdened by debt repayment will be hard-pressed
to allocate substantial amounts for social development.
Political instability and civil strife are also an impediment
to a nation’s ability to promote social development. More
often than not, in developing countries, it is not the lack
of commitment to development which is missing, but
rather the lack of resources — human or material — and
international support. Sincere commitments on the part of
developed countries to assist the developing countries will
definitely enhance the efforts of the latter in eliminating
social and economic inequalities and imbalances.
As rightly noted by the Preparatory Committee for
the Special Session of the General Assembly on the
Implementation of the Outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development and Further Initiatives, achieving the
goals established at the Summit will be a lengthy and
very complicated process. Concerted and coordinated
efforts by international institutions, national Governments
and non-governmental organizations will be required to
ensure that these commitments are translated into concrete
results. The international community must persevere in
facing these challenges so that humanity will be better off
in the new millennium.
Mr. Andjaba (Namibia): Let me state at the outset
that Namibia associates itself with the statement made
yesterday by the representative of Guyana on behalf of
the Group of 77 and China, which adequately reflected
the concerns of the developing countries with regard to
the agenda item under discussion.
The World Summit for Social Development, held in
1995, was a firm indication of
the international
community’s resolve that social development would be at
the top of
the political agenda of Governments.
Accordingly, it is imperative that people must be the
centre and focus of the development process, in keeping
with the commitments made at the Summit.
Based on the issues that have dominated recent
world conferences and summits — the protection of the
environment, human rights and promoting women’s right
to social development — poverty has emerged as the
central
issue. In view of the reality that widespread,
crippling poverty in most developing countries will be a
factor in determining the success or failure of any
development initiative, the reduction of poverty and its
companion threat to the well-being of entire societies is
a necessary condition for development.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
We are only a few months from the five-year review
of the implementation of the Social Summit. Indications of
how we have fared at this stage in the developing world,
and particularly on the African continent, are not
encouraging.
I wish to share with this body some grim statistics on
the situation in Africa which were included in the report of
the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization. It
is estimated that 44 per cent of Africans as a whole, and 51
per cent of those in sub-Saharan Africa, live in absolute
poverty. Africa’s debt burden in 1998 stood at $350 billion,
an amount equivalent to over 300 per cent of all exports of
goods and services. Africa received $4.7 billion in foreign
direct investment in 1997, representing a mere 3 percent of
global
are highly
concentrated in a few countries and are largely in gas,
petroleum and other mining activities.
flows. Even then,
such inflows
In addition to the debt burden, structural adjustment
policies and a lopsided international economic environment
have stunted, and in some cases eliminated, growth in
African countries over the past decade. The economic
structures in most African countries, which are heavily
weighted towards commodities, leave the economies in that
region highly vulnerable to the volatility of international
commodities markets and ill-prepared to become part of the
global economic scene.
Financing Africa’s development is crucial. There is a
tremendous need to improve our people’s access to basic
social services, particularly education and health, and to
develop the infrastructure. In addition to those basic needs,
the successful resettlement and reintegration of refugees and
displaced persons from chronic and sporadic conflicts
across the continent requires massive investment.
While Governments have the primary responsibility to
work towards the development of our countries, our people
must in turn be provided with an enabling environment that
would foster growth. But
the prospects for domestic
resource mobilization in Africa remain bleak, given the
limited or non-existent savings and pervasive poverty
levels. In order to meet
the requirements of domestic
resource mobilization to strengthen the fragile economies in
Africa and reduce poverty there, current levels of external
funding sources, such as official development assistance
and foreign direct investment, need to be increased.
The process of reviewing the progress made and the
obstacles encountered in implementing the Social Summit
Programme of Action provides us with the opportunity to
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
rededicate ourselves to the full implementation of the
commitments made in Copenhagen. Namibia is satisfied
with the progress achieved by the Preparatory Committee
for the Special Session of the General Assembly on the
Implementation of
for Social
Development and Further
Initiatives during its first
meeting in May 1998, as well as at the inter-sessional
meeting held earlier this year. The results of those
meetings provide a good basis on which to continue the
preparatory process.
the World Summit
As we look forward to Geneva 2000, several key
initiatives call for special attention. The core of this
renewed attention should be the need to refocus
macroeconomic policies; to centralize social goals and
priorities and place them on a par with economic
priorities; to strengthen procedures and institutions for
social dialogue; to strengthen gender mainstreaming and
promote gender equality nationally and internationally;
and to strengthen support for activities to fight the spread
of HIV/AIDS.
The 1997 Report on the World Social Situation
clearly stated that the HIV/AIDS epidemic is responsible
for declining life expectancy in 15 African countries.
Inevitably, the greatest toll has been among young adults,
and many countries not only have suffered devastating
losses through a decline in economic activity but have
been forced to make difficult choices about how much of
their limited resources should be used for the prevention
and treatment of diseases.
The task ahead is gigantic, and Geneva 2000 is an
appropriate first step in dealing with the challenge of
issues that can no longer remain far removed from the
consideration of the shrinking global village. Namibia
fully supports the work of the Preparatory Committee,
and we remain confident that such foresight will create a
solid foundation for a better world as we enter the new
millennium.
Mr. Iqbal (Pakistan): My delegation associates itself
with the statement made by the Permanent Representative
of Guyana on behalf of
the Group of 77 on the
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development.
This debate is taking place at a time when the
Preparatory Committee for the special session of the
General Assembly has already started its review process
of the implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration and
Programme of Action. At its first substantive session, in
11
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
May this year, the Preparatory Committee requested the
United Nations system and other concerned organizations
to submit their assessments of the implementation of the
Copenhagen commitments. We look forward to an early
submission of those reports, as they will richly contribute
towards a comprehensive review process and help in
identifying further initiatives.
The holding of the Social Summit in 1995 was a
manifestation of the international community's deep concern
about the worsening world social situation. It also reflected
recognition of the new development paradigm that a human
person must be both an active participant and a beneficiary
of the development process and that a link must be created
between economic growth and improving human lives. For
the realization of this new vision, the Copenhagen Summit
identified three core objectives as priority areas: poverty
eradication; the generation of full employment; and social
integration. This new vision of development instilled hope
and optimism into millions of unemployed and poverty-
stricken people across the globe.
and the
Ironically, the initial review of the implementation of
the outcome of the Social Summit carried out by the
Commission for Social Development
first
substantive session of the Preparatory Committee early this
year have belied all of that optimism. The assessment
suggests that despite increased focus on poverty eradication
and employment-generation strategies, all efforts to achieve
social development objectives, particularly in developing
countries, remain largely unfulfilled. In some instances, the
situation has actually deteriorated, as unemployment and
poverty have increased. In 1993 the number of people
living below the poverty line was 1.3 billion; it has now
increased to 1.5 billion.
Income disparity between world's richest and poorest
has also escalated. The United Nations Development
Programme Human Development Report 1999 has estimated
that the income ratio between the one fifth of the people
living in the richest countries of the world and the one fifth
living in the poorest countries has reached 74 to 1, as
compared with 60 to 1 in 1990. Similarly, 20 per cent of
the highest-income countries control 86 per cent of world
gross domestic product, 81.2 per cent of world trade, 94.6
per cent of all commercial lending and 94 per cent of all
research and development.
Conversely, of 4.4 billion people in the developing
countries, approximately three fifths lack basic sanitation;
one third have no access to clean drinking water; and one
fifth have no access to even moderate medical facilities.
12
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
Similarly, 130 million children, 80 per cent of them girls,
remain out of school; more than 100 million children
under the age of five are gravely malnourished; and every
year there are approximately 8 million preventable deaths
among children. This contrast is indeed frustrating.
globalization
presents
new opportunities
the world economy.
We live in a world of shrinking distances and
increasing disparities. We are told that the phenomenon
of
and
challenges. However,
in reality, ruthless competition
among market forces has worked to the detriment of the
developing countries by pushing them further towards the
periphery of
In the cut-throat
competition for profit and markets, the poor people from
developing countries have become sacrificial lambs. The
negative effects of globalization, coupled with declining
commodity prices, the adverse impact of the external debt
burden and structural adjustment programmes, declining
official development assistance flows and systematic
biases in the international trading and financial systems
have strangulated the developing countries' capacity to
generate resources for investment in the social sector.
than economic constraints.
An added problem has been the phenomenon of the
brain drain from developing countries to greener pastures
in the developed world. This has implications even more
serious
In an age of
knowledge, the age of the information revolution, it is
becoming impossible for the developing countries to
maintain competitiveness in services and other sectors due
to the drain of
trained and professional
manpower. The reason is simple: they are unable to offer
attractive incentives to these highly trained professionals.
talented,
As the paradigm of knowledge changes from pen-
based to computer- and information-technology-based
literacy, there is a fear of an “information apartheid”
emerging in the next century. At the end of the twentieth
century, the world has taken care of political apartheid,
but as the new millennium dawns we stand on the
threshold of another danger:
that, owing to great
disparities in the information technology and knowledge
areas, there could be an information apartheid which in
the next century could affect the developing countries
particularly if immediate steps are not taken to bridge the
knowledge and technology gap. Before the industrial
revolution, the difference between the richest and the
poorest countries could be expressed as a ratio of 1 to 5;
at the end of the twentieth century, as the industrial
revolution matures, the difference has increased to a ratio
of 1 to 400. There is a danger that, if measures are not
increase that
taken,
the information revolution will
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
difference from 1 to 400 to one to several thousand. All
these issues deserve in-depth reflection by the Preparatory
Committee, with a view to suggesting further appropriate
initiatives for the special session of the General Assembly.
The imperative of globalization is that both developed and
developing countries should have a common stake in future
cooperation and harmony among all people, whether they
live in the developed world or in the underdeveloped world.
Pakistan remains committed to the objectives of the
Copenhagen Social Summit. The Government has been
doing its utmost to implement Copenhagen commitments
despite serious financial and economic difficulties. As part
of these efforts, Pakistan launched phase two of its social
action programme in 1997, with a budgetary outlay of some
500 billion rupees. The main focus of this programme has
been on poverty alleviation, employment generation, the
provision of universal access to education, basic health
care, family planning, empowerment of women and the
provision of clean drinking water in urban slums and rural
areas. The national census carried out in 1998 indicated that
the literacy rate in Pakistan, recorded as 27.4 per cent in
1981, has increased to 47.4 per cent. In the same period,
primary-school enrolment
increased by 216 per cent,
secondary-school enrolment by 195 per cent, college
enrolment by 174 per cent, and university enrolment by 124
per cent. The most encouraging part is that the enrolment
of girls in primary schools increased during that period by
303 per cent,
in
colleges by 266 per cent, and in universities by
347 per cent. This is a matter for satisfaction, but it is only
the beginning of the positive changes taking place in the
social sector of Pakistan.
in secondary schools by 342 per cent,
Pakistan recently launched its Vision 2010 programme,
which aims at achieving 70 per cent literacy at the national
level and at eliminating the gender gap in schools by 2010
as part of Pakistan’s national strategy to prepare for the
challenges of
the twenty-first century and the new
millennium.
also that on
am pleased to report
I
8 September, World Literacy Day, a special primary-school
enrolment day was organized in Pakistan under the Vision
2010 programme, in partnership with the community, to
enrol more than 100,000 school-age children who had not
been going to school. As a result of mobilization at the
national level, in which everyone from the Prime Minister
to local community leaders participated, more than 850,000
children were enrolled in a single day. This shows that a
great social demand exists, and needs to be met. We are
planning to achieve universal primary-school enrolment in
the next three years. Similar community-based initiatives
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
are being planned in the areas of health and population
planning.
Pakistan has decided to undertake a thorough
evaluation of the social situation in our country. We
propose to hold a national-level social summit
in
Islamabad on 24 and 25 January 2000 for that purpose.
All
the provincial departments associated with the
implementation of the Copenhagen Programme of Action,
national and international non-governmental organizations
and the country’s leading economists and social scientists
are being invited to review our experience and evolve
future strategy in the light of
lessons learned both
nationally and internationally. We look forward to sharing
the outcome of
this national endeavour with other
Member States during the second substantive session of
the Preparatory Committee, in April 2000, and during the
special session of the General Assembly, in Geneva in
June 2000.
Mr. Baali (Algeria) (spoke in French): Before the
decade that is now coming to a close, the international
community had never so thoroughly understood the global
nature of the challenges facing it — especially those in
the social sphere, in which it had never taken a great
interest. Suddenly, conferences and summits followed one
another at a steady pace, with their concomitant
declarations and programmes of action, as though the
international
it had
shamefully forgotten that the human being must be at the
centre of its concerns and was trying to make up for lost
time. Women, population and social development
suddenly became timely issues and topics for study and
follow-up.
community had realized that
This has been particularly true since the Copenhagen
World Summit for Social Development, where great
numbers of heads of State or Government met four years
ago to consider
social questions and to adopt a
Declaration and Programme of Action that has since been
viewed as a universally supported social charter that can
promote the creation of a national and international
climate favourable to social development, to the gradual
eradication of poverty and to the spread of prosperity and
well-being.
Now that we have broached the five-yearly process
of considering and evaluating the implementation of the
Copenhagen decisions and commitments, how should we
assess what we have achieved, and how much remains to
be done to attain the goals we set ourselves?
13
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
A great deal certainly remains to be done: 3 billion
people are living on less than $2 a day; 1 billion, including
600 million women, are illiterate; 1.4 billion have no access
to basic social services; 14 million children die each year
for want of medical care; more than 150 million workers
are without jobs. The modest progress has been eclipsed by
those frightening statistics, placed before us at the May
session of the Preparatory Committee; they are a harsh
reminder that the battle has not been won. Far from it: in
many regions, and particularly in developing countries,
there have actually been declines. Physical and emotional
hardship is growing in extent and in intensity; absolute
poverty is spreading; and it is uncertain when we will attain
the goals we have set.
Hence, although it duly appears on the agendas of all
forums that deal with development and of various summits
and other conferences, the fight against poverty has not met
expectations because, rather than attacking the real causes
of poverty,
it very often aims only at alleviating its
consequences. Moreover, the fight against poverty is being
waged under the most adverse conditions: an international
economic environment
that, for the sake of unbridled
globalization, is giving ever-shorter shrift to the poorest and
most vulnerable among us, and that could even permanently
exclude them from the benefits of progress.
the situation of
In that connection,
is alarming: nearly two thirds of
the African
continent
the least
developed countries are located there; approximately half of
its population lives below the threshold of absolute poverty;
and its social indicators are among the lowest in the world.
Despite the many initiatives of the United Nations system
and the international community to support the efforts of
African countries, prospects for improvement remain very
remote.
Here, too, it is apparent that without a more favourable
international environment, without significant
financial
input, without real alleviation, if not outright cancellation,
of the debt and without a sustained and lasting rate of
growth,
the laudable and courageous efforts and the
sacrifices made so far by the African countries will prove
insufficient, if not useless, in the face of the great needs of
the African peoples.
The World Summit for Social Development was the
opportunity for the international community to solemnly
reaffirm that the fulfilment of human beings is the ultimate
goal of the development process. The social development
objectives decided upon in Copenhagen embody not only
14
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
the concerns of Algeria, but constitute the very pillars of
its policies implemented since independence.
Indeed, Algeria has always integrated the social
aspect into its development measures, which are based on
respect for and promotion of the principles of social
justice and national solidarity. The day following its
independence, facing the prevailing situation, the State's
constant concern was for the creation of employment, the
introduction of free and mandatory education for all
children, the increase of health infrastructure along with
appropriate funding to provide a free health coverage for
all and, finally, the setting up of a social security system
for the benefit of almost the entire population.
This policy has had a beneficial effect and has
brought about a considerable improvement
in social
indicators. The actual number of children educated at
different levels has increased, and the education of girls
has considerably progressed. Health coverage has grown
rapidly, bringing about a reduction of the prevalence of
endemic diseases because of better access to health care,
because it is free and because of investments made in
infrastructure for sewage systems and the distribution of
drinking water.
Very attached to preserving these achievements and
financial difficulties, my country has
in spite of
maintained this social policy,
improving the
above-mentioned social indicators. The same attachment
also binds Algeria to its commitments in Copenhagen,
which it strives to implement
through strengthened
policies revolving around two axes.
further
First is the fight against poverty. In this context, in
place of price support for consumer products, we have
substituted support for the incomes of the lowest income
groups and the application of new provisions such as new
social services and the creation of an agency for social
development which, among other tasks, promotes, selects
and finances actions and intervention on behalf of the
poorest
development.
Moreover, State social assistance, which is not new, is
being extended to disabled adults and the elderly. The
advantages of social security, which covers 80 per cent of
the population — that is to say, all those people working,
whether paid or not and including those privately
employed — are also extended to those with no income,
students, the disabled and widows.
community
population
and
The second axis is the creation of employment and
professional training for young people through, among
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
other things, the setting up of a national agency for the
support of employment
for young people, which is
responsible for advising and working with young promoters
and also manages the national fund for the support of
employment for young people. Through these actions,
numerous measures have been initiated to allow young
people to acquire professional experience and develop their
abilities, to obtain jobs not requiring expensive equipment
and to help with setting up microenterprises and developing
microcredit.
Moreover, and regarding the objectives established for
the year 2000, we should point out that a certain number
have already been reached, notably those for
life
expectancy, for the decrease in mortality of children under
the age of five and for access to primary health care, now
available to 98 per cent of the population. Also, through the
policy of education for all, there is universal access to basic
education for all children, including at the primary level,
and including girls. This was achieved as of 1996.
Algeria wishes to express some satisfaction at being
able to pursue its social policy in spite of the difficulties
and trials along the way, but we bear clearly in mind the
constraints that have weighed on the full realization of the
results of the Summit, for complete fulfilment of which
new programmes have been identified and objectives
established for the years 2000 to 2005 in both economic
and social areas.
It would appear that the results are not up to the hopes
that arose out of the 1995 Summit. The international
community must, therefore, seize the occasion offered by
the special session in the year 2000 to reaffirm the
commitments made in Copenhagen. In spite of their limited
resources, the numerous difficulties and the immense needs
they face and which continue to grow, the developing
countries have made considerable efforts to fulfil their share
of the commitments. Nevertheless, these efforts will remain
in vain if
they are not adequately supported by the
developing countries' partners in development, who must
also honour their commitments in conformity with the spirit
and letter of Copenhagen.
On the threshold of a new millennium,
the fight
against poverty is clearly the main challenge to which the
international community must rise in solidarity.
Mr. Mabilangan (Philippines): At
the outset, we
associate ourselves with the statement of the Chairman of
the Group of 77 and China.
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
It gives me great pleasure to participate in the
Assembly's deliberations on the world community's
implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for
Social Development and the preparations for the special
session in the year 2000 that will not only assess progress
in implementation but also embark on new initiatives to
speed up progress in implementing the Copenhagen Social
Summit commitments. It is opportune because our world
is entering the next millennium. We will examine the
results of our individual and collective initiatives, which
we mapped out at the Copenhagen Summit for Social
Development and which aim to build a better, prosperous
and progressive world for humankind.
In preparation for this special session, our countries
have embarked on a difficult but necessary evaluation of
our own national actions to implement the Copenhagen
Social Summit commitments. Here in the United Nations,
our preparations have started to attain full speed with the
recent conclusion of
substantive
meeting of the Preparatory Committee that took on board
proposals to further implement the Summit commitments
and Programme of Action.
the inter-sessional
We truly appreciate the untiring and innovative
efforts of the Chairman of the Preparatory Committee,
Ambassador Christian Maqueieira, to push the preparatory
process forward and find solutions to difficult areas of
differences. We would like to restate our confidence in
his able leadership for bringing the special session to a
successful conclusion.
We also wish to take this opportunity to express our
appreciation to the Secretariat for its prompt delivery of
important documentation in the earlier meetings of the
Preparatory Committee. The Secretariat's role will be
crucial in providing us integrated data on the progress as
well as difficulties in the implementation of the Social
Summit commitments. We look forward to the continued
efficiency of the Secretariat in working out realistic and
effective initiatives that will hasten implementation of
these commitments.
Our discussions in the substantive session of the
Preparatory Committee for
the special session have
touched on the 10 commitments and the Programme of
Action of the Copenhagen Summit, and have underscored
the fact
that elements contained in the Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action should not be
renegotiated.
to
postponing discussion on the review and assessment of
the implementation of these commitments pending receipt
is our view that
It
there is merit
15
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
all
countries’
individual
their
of
implementation of these commitments and of an integrated
appraisal of
the Copenhagen
commitments by the Secretariat.
the implementation of
evaluations
of
for
the
initiatives
implementation of
While the relevance and efficacy of our proposed
further
these
commitments hinge on the results of this appraisal, as far
as the developing countries are concerned, many disturbing
problems remain. For example, the Human Development
Report published by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) shows that the world continues to be
plagued by poverty, malnutrition, illiteracy and disease. The
UNDP reports that more than a billion people live in abject
poverty and that the majority of these people are women.
One billion people live without adequate shelter, and in the
least developed countries, more than 1 in 10 infants die at
birth or before their first birthday. According to the United
Nations Children’s Fund, nearly a billion people, two thirds
of them women, will enter the twenty-first century unable
to read a book or sign their names. The Secretary-General
reports that about 2 million children are victims of armed
conflict, and 300,000 more, who are child soldiers, may
those who could be physically,
join the ranks of
emotionally and morally scarred for
life by their
experiences in war and conflict. These are not very
encouraging indicators of the world’s social situation, nor
do they signal much progress in our actions to bring social
development to every nook and cranny of the world.
In our review of the implementation of the outcome of
the World Social Summit, the Philippines would like to see
concerted efforts to create an enabling and favourable
environment for more equitable access for all to income,
resources and social services. We would like to see serious
initiatives to eradicate poverty, which is essentially linked
to full employment, access to health and education services,
equality and equity between women and men, and the
availability of required resources to achieve the goals of
social development, even in times of financial crisis or
budgetary tightening. In this context, the Philippines would
like to see the developed countries fulfil the agreed target
of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for official
development assistance. We would like to see preferential
interest rates provided for social development programmes
and a durable solution to the debt problem seriously
explored.
The Philippine Government is seriously committed to
the implementation of the outcome of the Copenhagen
Summit. Collaborative efforts with non-governmental
organizations and civil society were undertaken with the
16
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
goal of achieving sustainable human development. The
Government has continued to implement an integrated
poverty-alleviation framework that is human-centred and
based on a process of consultation and consensus-building
among the various stakeholders. It has continued to
pursue an employment-intensive pattern of growth that
has spurred an increase in the country’s gross domestic
product. It has promulgated and enacted laws to prevent
the exploitation of child labour, enhance the status of
women in the labour force and safeguard the welfare of
overseas workers, especially women.
It has created
“flagship programmes on livelihood” that aim to deliver
microfinance services
the poorest
households by the year 2001. In short, the Philippines has
continued and will continue to persevere in creating a
political, economic, sociocultural environment that, it is
hoped, will enable its citizens to achieve at
least a
modicum of human development.
to 2 million of
As we assess the progress we have made in
implementing the outcome of the Copenhagen Social
Summit, there is a need to attempt to develop a common
yardstick through the establishment of indicators for
measuring our progress.
I wish to conclude by saying that the Philippines
will uphold its commitments to social development in
collaboration with all members of
the international
community, ever mindful that the needs and concerns of
all entities and individuals of this world should be
properly addressed. Social development, in this era of
growing interdependence and globalization, should not
benefit only a few individuals or a selected group of
States. Social development is meant to benefit all peoples
of all nations in the noble hope of building a brighter and
better world for all of us and for generations that will
come after us.
Mr. Bivero (Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We
endorse the statements made by Guyana on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China and by Mexico on behalf of the
Rio Group. Venezuela would like to emphasize the
priority that it attaches to focusing on social issues, both
at the national and international levels.
We are pleased that social
issues have become
crucially important in the work of our Organization, and
by the commitments entered into by the international
community in this important area of development. The
World Summit for Social Development is just a point of
departure for a process by which development is finally
to be linked inextricably to the human and social
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
dimensions. By endorsing the Copenhagen Declaration and
Programme of Action, Venezuela committed itself to doing
its best to ensure the achievement of the objectives of
justice, peace and social equity that
these documents
promote.
human
development. The
Allow me to describe to the Assembly the initiatives
undertaken by the Venezuela Government in recent months,
on the basis of the premise that economic development
must be carried out in social harmony, without excluding
anyone. It must generate qualitative and sustainable growth
in
current Venezuelan
Government considers the human being the subject and the
object of development policies. Social policies will
therefore become our top priority, as demanded by the
reality that 80 per cent of our people live in poverty. Given
this, we cannot use traditional formulas to deal with the
challenges of education, health, housing and employment.
Our situation demands political commitment capable of
promoting,
in a democratic context, a thorough and
integrated review of our institutions, our policies and our
attitudes as citizens.
The first stage of this process is currently being
carried out by means of constitutional reform, a process that
was discussed at some length by the President of Venezuela
in his statement to the plenary Assembly on 21 September.
At the same time, an economic transition programme for
the 1999-2000 biennium has been adopted. This programme
emphasizes macroeconomic stabilization, given that this is
the basis on which economic growth can be revitalized,
inflation — whose social effects are devastating — can be
controlled, new sources of employment can be generated
and the conditions of employment can be improved.
In this context Venezuela proposes to carry out a
social policy aimed at changing the relationship between the
economic and the social spheres. This policy would open
the economy to market forces while at
the same time
restoring the valuable contribution of social action; it would
be geared to a gradual reduction of the imbalances and
inequities of our current reality and to the transformation of
relations between the State and civil society;
it would
promote
in
development efforts at the local and regional levels.
communities
of
greater
participation
To deal with our current social emergency, we are
trying to establish a social support network at the regional,
municipal and local levels. This network would promote
and ensure effective coordination of efforts in the social
sphere
immediate
implementation of a set of measures aimed at restoring the
and would be designed for
the
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
sectors — such as
exercise of the most basic human rights in the most
marginalized social
families
experiencing extreme poverty, destitution, abandonment
and other social dangers; and children, adolescents,
migrant workers, women heads of household and
indigenous people.
Mr. Alimov (Tajikistan), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
We have also drafted complementary projects, such
as the national system for the selection of beneficiaries,
aimed at providing flexible, transparent and decentralized
assistance to the neediest families and households, and the
system to follow up and assess policies and social
programmes designed to evaluate on an ongoing basis the
efficiency and real effectiveness of policies and public
spending on social programmes.
We have also initiated compensatory programmes
targeting the most dispossessed groups of the population;
the family as a basic unit of society; education; and
increased job opportunities, and aimed at strengthening
civil society with a view to increasing opportunities for
participation. Special mention should be made of our
Bolivar 2000 plan, an initiative of the Presidency of the
Republic to provide resources and professional and
logistical capabilities from the armed forces to the
population in order to establish an integrated social-
service programme aimed, inter alia, at the provision of
timely assistance to meet the people's basic needs and at
rehabilitating the social infrastructure.
to the social problems of
Lastly, a series of programmes has been designed as
axes from which we may begin to provide medium- and
long-term solutions
the
population as a whole and of the neediest in particular.
These axes include social participation; children at social
risk; student aid; a women's bank;
the sons of the
homeland; Bolivarian schools; technical and industrial
schools; a united school programme; a national housing
plan; and the united social fund. The latter will direct part
of the surplus revenue flowing from our fiscal policies
and will balance social investment with macroeconomic
stabilization and the amortization of the foreign debt as a
budgetary priority.
Education, health, social development, housing and
production are areas in which the development process in
Venezuela will be rehabilitated. In each of these areas,
strategic projects are being designed to guide the drafting
and implementation of public policy. This is a challenge
17
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
to Venezuelan society as a whole. Our goal is to lay the
foundations of a self-managing and competitive, yet
humanitarian economy.
Our task is now and will be, first and foremost, our
own responsibility. That is how we see it and how we wish
to move forward. We do, however, welcome cooperation
and international solidarity, since Venezuela's experience is
no different from that of many other countries and the
solutions we seek to our own problems can surely benefit
from a consideration of external models and experiences
with respect to one of the most heartfelt political aspirations
of contemporary history.
In conclusion, I simply wish to reiterate Venezuela's
commitment to the Copenhagen Programme of Action and
express our conviction that the international community will
effectively come together towards the achievement
its
objectives through the contribution of all, Governments and
civil society, to making their goals a reality and to opening
new prospects of hope for humanity and our people.
Mr. Chowdhury (Bangladesh): The Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the World
Summit for Social Development in 1995 drew up a detailed
blueprint
society and
international organizations to ensure social development for
all. Next June, the General Assembly will hold a special
session to review their implementation.
actions by States,
civil
for
in August
inter-sessional meetings
The review process is already on. The first substantive
session of the Preparatory Committee in May this year and
the
focused on
substantive as well as on organizational matters. During
these meetings, we requested from the Secretary-General a
number of reports which I believe would help us to find out
how effectively the Copenhagen commitments have been
implemented so far and in determining priority areas of
action where further work is required to fulfil
these
commitments.
Today, we have before us the Secretary-General's
report A/54/220 on the implementation of the outcome of
the World Summit for Social Development. It contains
updated information on the implementation and on
preparations for
I commend the
Secretary-General for his concise and informative report.
We also take note of the report on the first session of the
Preparatory Committee for the Special Session of the
General Assembly on the Implementation of the Outcome
of the World Summit for Social Development and Further
Initiatives.
the special session.
18
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
During the past year, Bangladesh has, on a number
of occasions, elaborated on the actions we believe should
be taken at the national as well as the international levels
to implement fully the Copenhagen commitments. In
particular, during the Preparatory Committee meetings in
May this year, we articulated specific actions that are
needed regarding all 10 commitments of Copenhagen.
Today I shall not go through each of the actions we
highlighted. Instead, let me mention the broader areas
where focused attention is a must.
and if
is absent,
appropriate
legislation for
The need for creating an enabling environment
cannot be overemphasized.
If national capacity is
inadequate; if crime, corruption and the drug menace is
overwhelming; if rights are denied to individuals and
groups;
social
development
the environment will remain
disabling. The national Governments of developing
countries are striving to overcome these obstacles. Their
efforts will have to be supported through international
measures; through effective cooperation and partnership
among all
through better
coordination among the United Nations, the World Bank
and the World Trade Organization for social development;
through reform of the international financial architecture;
through better market access
the products of
developing countries;
through fulfilment of official
development assistance commitments; and through debt
relief and transfer of technology.
in development;
actors
for
The least developed countries, with their marginal
economies,
limited infrastructure and weak national
capacities are in greater need of these measures to enable
them to achieve social development. This was recognized
at Copenhagen and should be followed up diligently. The
least developed countries have also suffered the social
cost of structural adjustment. There is an urgent need to
make structural adjustment people-focused by avoiding
budgetary cuts for core social-development expenditure in
times of economic crisis; retaining and expanding social
safety nets; and ensuring that women and children do not
bear a disproportionate burden of adjustment. Human
security
adjustment
programmes do not include social-development goals.
jeopardized
structural
is
if
The negative effects of globalization on social
development will have to be addressed. We must ensure
that, in the name of open market and open societies, we
do not increase disparity within and among societies,
further marginalize weaker and vulnerable groups and
reallocate resources in a manner that reverses the gains of
social-development efforts.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
Poverty eradication will have to be addressed by fully
implementing the commitments we made. We have to
address the endemic spread of poverty. The feminization of
poverty is a particular concern to us. The most effective
approach to reducing poverty is by empowering people
through provision of basic social services; better distribution
of income; reduction of the rich-poor gap; protection of the
poor during economic instability; and helping the poor to
help themselves, for example, through microcredit, and
enabling them to participate in the formulation and
implementation of poverty-eradication programmes. There
is a special need to address rural poverty through the
development of rural infrastructure, upgrading services in
rural areas and public works for rural development.
We have seen that lack of resources is a key obstacle
to the full implementation of Copenhagen commitments.
Resources devoted to social development need to be
increased. At the same time, efficient and innovative use of
existing resources is a must for having better and cost-
effective results. We believe that preferential rates for loans
for social-development projects need to be established. The
20/20 initiative should not introduce further conditions, but
should aim at ensuring increased resources for social
development.
the work of Governments
Full involvement of civil society and the private sector
should complement
and
international organizations in promoting social development.
The best
results can be achieved through effective
partnerships between Governments and civil society, and
through networking among relevant actors of civil society.
Regional cooperation can play an effective role in
promoting social development. In our region the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) will
be drafting a social charter to provide a regional approach
for social development. The SAARC countries have also
launched a region-wide programme to implement the 1993
Dhaka Declaration on Poverty Eradication. Regional
commissions are also of considerable significance. In the
Asia-Pacific region, the Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and the Pacific has adopted a regional agenda of
action, which provides a guideline to the countries of the
region for social development.
In conclusion,
let me express our hope that
the
Copenhagen review process will live up to its expectation
and will be another milestone in promoting social
development worldwide.
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
Mr. Li Hyong Chol (Democratic People's Republic
of Korea): First I take note of the Secretary-General's
report (A/54/220) on the implementation of the outcome
of the World Summit for Social Development and express
my appreciation to him for its submission to the General
Assembly at this session.
In the last four years, since the Summit and the
adoption of the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme
of Action, continuous efforts have been made at
the
national, regional and international levels to achieve the
three major targets for social development set forth at the
Summit: eradication of poverty and unemployment and
the achievement of social integration.
Many countries have been working hard to resolve
issues relating to social development in accordance with
their specific conditions, and agencies and programmes
within the United Nations system have been playing an
active role in the international efforts to implement the
Programme of Action. In particular, the Economic and
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific discussed at
its meetings the eradication of poverty as a major agenda
item and took detailed action-oriented measures.
While all these efforts have contributed to promoting
the international community's awareness of the issue of
social development, we all know that what has been
achieved is far short of our expectation. Poverty and
unemployment,
social
development, have become worse in many countries.
Globally, the number of people living under the absolute
poverty line has increased from 1 billion at the time of
the Summit
to 1.3 billion, and the unemployed and
underemployed number more than 1 billion.
the main
challenges
to
It
is clear that
the root causes of the problems
remain unresolved. In this regard, the situation must be
thoroughly analysed, and further initiatives and actions
should be taken to resolve the problems at this session, as
well as at the special session to be held in the year 2000.
economic
international
the view that
My delegation is of
the major
problems of social development originate from the present
inequitable
relations, which
constitute impediments to the economic growth of
developing countries. Social development
is directly
linked with
development. Accordingly,
eliminating the inequality now existing between countries
of the world and attaining overall economic growth are
prerequisites for
the ultimate achievement of social
development worldwide.
economic
19
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
However, certain developed countries still pursue
unilateral and prejudiced economic measures, such as high-
profit investment and protectionism, causing great losses to
developing countries in the fields of the economy and trade.
Consequently,
the gaps between rich and poor
countries grow ever wider. At present, developed countries,
with one-fifth of the world population, are estimated to
have 82 per cent of world export markets and 86 per cent
of the world gross product, whereas 80 per cent of the
people living under the absolute poverty line live in the
developing countries.
Developing countries facing economic stagnation
coupled with a debt problem have few resources to be
directed to social development. Moreover, continuing
disputes and conflicts taking place in various parts of the
world add difficulties to developing countries in their
efforts to achieve social development.
Certain countries do not hesitate to apply political and
economic pressure, and even take military action, under the
pretext of resolving disputes. This has a negative impact on,
and causes serious problems for, those countries in and
around conflict areas.
With the twenty-first century approaching, humankind
now aspires more than ever to live in a new peaceful and
prosperous world, free from any social problems. In order
to realize such a desire,
international economic
relations, based on the principles of independence, equality
and mutual benefit, should be established before anything
else.
fair
To this end, there is a need for developed countries to
refrain from pursuing only their own interests, through
highly profitable investments in developing countries; they
should help the latter in a practical way to build self-reliant
economies and achieve sustainable economic growth. At the
same time, they should end protectionism and pay due
attention to resolving the debt
issues of developing
countries.
In the meantime, agencies and programmes of the
United Nations system should also do their part to support
Member States in their efforts to attain social development,
with primary attention being given to the needs of
developing countries. In particular, it is important to ensure
fulfilment by developed countries of their commitments to
official development assistance agreed upon at the Summit,
thus providing a sound financial basis for the activities of
20
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
organizations in the United Nations system in the field of
social development.
is essential
Resolving disputes
to creating an
environment favourable to social development. In this
respect, we believe that when measures to resolve
disputes are taken, due consideration should be given to
the possible impact and consequences of those measures
for the social development of countries and regions
concerned.
In achieving social development, it is all the more
important for individual States to properly formulate
policies on social development. Since socio-economic
conditions and development
levels are different from
country to country, every State should be responsible for
drawing up its own policy on social development
in
conformity with its concrete reality and conditions, and
due attention should be given to ensuring that all people
can equally benefit from economic growth and social
policies without any discrimination.
The Government of our Republic has consistently
maintained a policy of providing jobs, free medical
treatment and free education to all people, even amid
serious
temporary economic difficulties created by
economic blockades of foreign forces and natural disasters
which have recurred over a number of consecutive years.
In conclusion, my delegation expresses its hope that
the current session and the forthcoming special session
will be seized as opportunities to seek more effective and
practical initiatives for implementing the Programme of
Action adopted at the Summit.
Mr. Dlamini
(Swaziland): On behalf of my
delegation, I welcome this opportunity to address the
General Assembly on agenda item 37, “Implementation of
the Outcome of
for Social
Development” and on the upcoming special session of the
General Assembly.
the World Summit
Furthermore, my delegation associates itself with the
statement made by the delegate of Guyana on behalf of
the Group of 77 and China.
We are grateful to the Secretary-General for the
report (A/54/220) on this item, which contains updated
information on the implementation of the outcome of the
Summit and the preparations for the special session and
further initiatives, scheduled to take place from 26 to 30
June 2000 at Geneva. I wish to reiterate the commitment
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
of the Kingdom of Swaziland to this process, which is
aimed at meeting the challenges faced by our countries and
our Organization in solving international problems of an
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character, and in
promoting, as well as encouraging, respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms, as mapped out in the Charter of
the United Nations.
The observations made at the preliminary Preparatory
Committee meetings for the special session, that the process
of implementing the goals set at Copenhagen has been
progressing at various degrees of tempo and success, with
positive signs
in several countries on problems of
unemployment and poverty, demonstrate that capacities of
countries differ. Needless to say, therefore, those countries
that have registered progress are mostly developed ones.
While many developing countries, including the Kingdom
of Swaziland, have made major reforms in their policies,
their capacity to implement
these policies is greatly
inhibited, despite the strong will to succeed.
The data collected at the first Preparatory Committee
meeting, based on reports of national Governments, indicate
that much still needs to be done in addressing the impact of
globalization on social development. This is particularly
relevant, given the fact that the international economic and
social environment continues to be unfavourable for the
developing world, and that the gap between the developed
and developing countries continues
to widen. Many
developing countries continue to be faced with difficulties
in their quest and efforts to integrate effectively into the
world economy, thus suffering from the consequences of
globalization. This process has had a negative impact,
rather than the envisaged positive impact, on finance and
trade, as well as on the social and cultural development
aspirations of our countries. That is why my delegation
regards as pertinent the request to the Secretary-General, in
conjunction with the relevant specialized agencies, funds
and programmes of the United Nations system, and taking
into account the reports of national Governments, to report
on the impact of globalization on social development.
There is a shared understanding that future global
stability depends on the ability of
the international
community to increase the momentum for economic
development and the capacity of national Governments to
improve the delivery of essential social services, such as
health
employment
opportunities. Through the promotion of an accelerated pace
of growth and development in developing countries, poverty
can be eradicated.
education,
create
and
and
to
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
Based on the commitments made at Copenhagen,
most developing countries have moved forward at the
national level in meeting their primary responsibilities.
However, such efforts by the developing countries to fully
implement the commitments are hampered by the lack of
sufficient necessary external resources. Undoubtedly, the
goals cannot be reached if all our resources are exhausted
in the reformulation of strategies and policies, leaving
insufficient
the
programmes. The United Nations is, therefore, the best
body to enhance the support needed by developing
countries from the rest of the international community.
the implementation of
resources for
should
consider
In this regard, it is imperative that the international
community
to
international development cooperation, based on growth,
stability and equity, with the full participation and
integration of the developing countries in the globalization
of the world economy.
new approaches
The painfully slow progress made by most
developing countries in this regard is evidence enough
that most developing countries have not benefited from
globalization, while it is recognized that other factors
have contributed to the low levels of progress. Despite the
fact
that commitments were made at Copenhagen to
provide cooperation and assistance,
the support from
developed countries has not been forthcoming across the
board.
in official development
assistance has been registered, reaching a level below
0.22 per cent of
thus
representing less than one third of the 0.7 per cent which
is the United Nations target.
the gross domestic product,
a decline
Instead,
reversed so that
I must sound a word of caution here. If this situation
is not
there is compliance with
internationally agreed official development assistance
targets and with commitments made for new and
additional resources, the goals of the Copenhagen Summit
will become a fiasco and thus discredit the entire efforts
of
social
development.
the United Nations
in the process of
In addressing all such factors, the General Assembly
at
the forthcoming special session should also find
solutions to countries’ lack of capacity to deal with
damaging natural disasters and the adverse effect of
frequent climate changes and drought. Again, developing
countries often find themselves unprepared and hard hit,
and thus left with no choice but to redirect available
minimal resources for reconstruction.
21
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
resource mobilization,
Let me conclude by reemphasizing that most of our
developing countries have taken the lead in addressing their
problems, and that there is still a need for commitment by
the international community to assist developing countries
in capacity building,
financing
projects and technology transfer, and by debt cancellation.
It is then that progress can be achieved in the eradication of
poverty. It is my delegation’s hope, therefore, that the
special session of the General Assembly to be held at
Geneva on the implementation of the World Summit for
Social Development, and on further initiatives, will address
these issues.
Mr. Ka (Senegal) (spoke in French): The Copenhagen
Declaration on Social Development, adopted four years ago,
noted:
expansion of prosperity for
“We are witnessing in countries throughout the
world the
some,
unfortunately accompanied by an expansion of
glaring
unspeakable
others. This
contradiction is unacceptable and needs
to be
corrected through urgent actions.” (A/CONF/166/9,
para. 13)
poverty
for
The topicality and relevance of this assessment is
apparent. Moreover, the wealth of nations has increased
tenfold during the last 50 years, and international trade has
grown exponentially.
theme of
The major challenge to be met in this fading century
remains that of poverty — the central
the
Copenhagen World Summit. Our joint action at the national
and global levels should aim at the implementation of the
10 commitments made by our heads of State and
Government. We are still far from having made tangible
progress on the strategic objectives of those commitments,
freely consented to by 186 States. My delegation welcomes,
however, the fact that the United Nations and the whole
range of international institutions, including the Bretton
Woods institutions, have refocused their priorities on
questions of social development. This change in outlook is
welcome. It is now important to translate it into action
through the allocation of sufficient
the
attainment of the objectives agreed in Copenhagen.
resources for
To the extent that it can, in an economic context
which is none too favourable, Senegal
is trying to
implement its national programme to combat poverty, with
the support of its development partners. Adopted in 1997,
after broad discussions with decentralized communities,
civil society, the private sector and donors, this programme
22
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
aims to improve the living conditions of the poorest
population by increasing the income of the poor through
the promotion of micro-enterprises and income-generating
activities; improving provision to meet basic social needs;
and establishing a permanent
follow-up system on
household living conditions.
In order
to considerably reduce poverty, my
Government
is endeavouring to reform its economy,
speed up growth and create an environment favourable for
the development of the private sector, whose contribution
to fighting poverty should be taken into consideration
everywhere. My Government puts special emphasis on
enhancing human resources, on basic education and on
the decentralization of health services. We give priority to
a comprehensive, integrated and participatory approach in
implementing national and sectoral programmes to combat
poverty. We have also just created a national employment
action fund, designed, among other things, to reduce the
pressure of unemployment and promote employment
locally and for disadvantaged groups. The ninth national
plan for Senegal’s economic and social development,
which is under way, also gives high priority to combating
poverty and promoting productive employment and social
integration.
The developing countries face many obstacles: the
decrease in official development assistance; the low level
of direct productive investment;
the debt; and the
difficulties that products from the South encounter in
seeking access to the world market. Added to these are
the major new challenges of a globalization not yet under
control. As a result, there is an urgent need to implement
the Copenhagen Summit’s Commitment 7 for Africa and
the least developed countries.
My
the
fact
that
delegation welcomes
the
Preparatory Committee for the special session to review
Copenhagen has taken into account all these parameters.
The report of the Secretary-General on the follow-up of
the World Summit for Social Development recognizes
quite clearly that progress in the fight against poverty and
unemployment has been slowed down by the economic
difficulties which a number of countries have had to face,
difficulties aggravated by the recent financial crisis and
by various conflicts in Africa.
Thus, as was so well pointed out by the Economic
and Social Council during its substantive session in 1999,
the international community has a deciding role to play in
promote
supporting
eliminate
poverty,
action
to
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
productive employment, achieve gender equality and
mobilize new and additional financial resources in order to
guarantee the implementation of the agreed objectives of
social development.
My Government welcomes the offer by the Swiss
Government to host the special session on the evaluation of
Copenhagen + 5, to be held in Geneva from 26 to 30 June
2000, and wishes to express its gratitude to the Swiss
authorities for all the measures it has already taken and
plans to take to guarantee the full success of that session
and to enhance the participation of developing countries.
I also wish to express my gratitude and support to the
Chairman of the Preparatory Committee, Ambassador and
Deputy Permanent Representative of Chile Mr. Cristián
Maquieira, for his personal commitment and availability
throughout the entire negotiation process.
The agreement recently reached, on 21 September, on
the arrangements relating to the participation of non-
governmental organizations at the special session and on
their accreditation points to easier negotiations regarding the
substantive documents. My delegation hopes that at the end
of
the Preparatory
Committee, in April 2000, the Committee will adopt all the
negotiated documents as a whole in a spirit of compromise.
This hope is even more legitimate, as we have all reached
an agreement regarding the non-negotiable nature of the
Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of Action.
the second substantive session of
Mr. Aboul Gheit (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): Dealing
with this item in the General Assembly is of particular
importance because this will be the last time we discuss it
before the holding of the special session to review the
outcome of the World Summit for Social Development next
June. This occasion presents us with a special responsibility
towards
of
commitments taken some five years ago and the degree of
progress achieved at
the Copenhagen
Programme of Action.
the level of
evaluating
status
reviewing
and
the
In 1982, 13 years before the Copenhagen Summit was
held in 1995, Egypt recognized the necessity of formulating
an integrated social development strategy in response to a
slogan launched by President Mubarak, “Tomorrow's
Egypt”. Since then, Egypt has embarked upon reforming its
implemented structural adjustment
economy and has
programmes
to achieve economic growth aimed at
improving the living standards of the Egyptian people while
establishing social safety nets to protect
the poor and
vulnerable groups of our society. It is no exaggeration to
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
say that Egypt began to implement most of the Social
Development Summit's
it
actually undertook to do so in 1995.
recommendations before
by,
recommendations
social development
In reality, we are — as it were — trying to draw the
in harmony with the
map of
Copenhagen Summit's
first,
attempting to strike a better balance between economic
and social development; second, by improving the
material and social prosperity of the individual while
supporting family values to preserve the social fabric;
third, by eradicating all forms of poverty; fourth, by
fulfilling the basic needs of every citizen; fifth, by
overcoming the barriers that hinder the participation of
vulnerable and marginalized groups in social activities;
sixth, by improving the status of women and ensuring
their advancement and full participation in societal and
government services; seventh, by improving the status of
children, for they are our future and that is the reason
why priority was given to them in the areas of health,
education and the environment in our development plans;
and eighth, by encouraging businessmen and the wealthy
to participate fully in implementing social development
policies through contributions.
We have made tremendous efforts to achieve social
progress in keeping with our Summit commitments. That
is why we have earmarked 30 per cent of our budget to
the social sector, namely,
to health, education and
providing for the basic needs of our population. This far
exceeds what was called for in the 20/20 compact agreed
at
the donor
community also has to keep up its end of the bargain.
the Copenhagen Summit. I believe that
Since I have mentioned donor countries, I must also
mention the vital issue of poverty eradication, which was
one of the top priorities of the Copenhagen Summit that,
in reality, requires the harnessing of both national and
international efforts. While it is true that achieving social
development, improving our economic performance and
eradicating poverty are first and foremost national
responsibilities, they can be successfully achieved only
through the collective will and collective efforts of the
international community as outlined by the principles and
objectives of Copenhagen.
In the light of the follow-up reports prepared by the
Secretary-General, it has become clear that some of the
targets of the Copenhagen Programme of Action have not
been fulfilled in the agreed time-frame. We have also
noticed that the progress achieved in some developing
countries in the areas of unemployment and poverty has
23
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
disappeared because of the economic problems that have
been experienced by these countries as a result of the
international financial crisis and related developments.
In his speech before the General Assembly,
the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Egypt mentioned the fact
that the increasing marginalization of the role of developing
countries on the international economic stage — especially
that of least developed countries, most of which are in
Africa — is a harbinger of new lines of confrontation
between the North and South, as a result of unjust
development and economic circumstances. This can have
extremely negative effects on international stability.
Of course, globalization has its pros and cons, which
means that all countries should take this fact into account
in formulating their social and economic development
policies. Because we also need to establish a mechanism to
review and evaluate what has and has not been achieved by
our development programmes — that
is to say, our
successes and failures — Egypt has begun to formulate a
new social contract in the form of an integrated social
development strategy in full cooperation with the State and
civil society.
the State
As a first step, an inter-ministerial commission for
such development was established. A conference was held
last May under the sponsorship of our First Lady, Mrs.
Suzanne Mubarak, and with the participation of high
officials of
and
international experts. We organized this
in
preparation for a national congress on social development
to be held under the sponsorship of President Mubarak. We
look forward to sharing our experiences with the Assembly
at our next review conference of the Social Development
Summit in the year 2000.
and prominent national
seminar
Egypt also heads the Group of 15 for the economies
of developing countries, and we have presented a paper
expressing the Group's views on a
comprehensive
employment strategy, which was submitted to the eighty-
seventh session of the International Labour Organization
and to the Economic and Social Council at its most recent
session. This should be taken into account at our next
review of the Copenhagen Declaration and Programme of
Action in order to tackle the negative social effects of
globalization as well as the financial crises.
The special session will be held soon, and for that
reason we must redouble our efforts to prepare for it. My
delegation looks forward in this context to participating
24
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
constructively in the deliberations of the second session
of the Preparatory Committee.
Mr. Alemán (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): The
Government of Ecuador has on various occasions
expressed its strong commitment to social development
and to the implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration
and Programme of Action. The representative of Mexico,
speaking on behalf of the Rio Group, expressed our
position in that respect. Nonetheless, I should like to
touch on some national issues that I believe are relevant
to our debate today.
First,
I
that
should like
to underscore
the
Government of Ecuador, in working to achieve human-
centred development, had to take on the challenge of
refashioning existing social and political mechanisms. Our
globalized world demands it, as does the kind of planet
we wish to leave to our children, for whose benefit we
are working.
The Social Agenda adopted by the national
Government, whose primary goal is poverty reduction,
has lowered the national poverty index — the percentage
of people living in conditions of poverty — by between
4 and 7 percentage points per year, from 62 per cent to
58 or 55 per cent. Our goal is to bring that index below
50 per cent by the year 2005.
The fight against poverty is being waged within a
comprehensive framework of action in which social issues
are inextricably linked with economic ones. In this
approach, attaining the goal of poverty reduction requires
joint and redoubled efforts to restore macro-economic
stability, revitalize the national economy, ensure greater
social equity, strengthen human resources and effect State
reform as well as deep-seated structural change. Only
action that is based on this integrated approach and takes
account of the myriad causes of poverty will enable us to
achieve our goal of reducing it.
Secondly, with respect to the principles of Ecuador's
Social Agenda, we are giving priority, in the context of a
fiscal austerity programme, to the following: solidarity
with the poorest; equity and rights; social participation
based on experience; social policy as a tool for economic
growth and sustainable development; prioritization of
decentralization, with a view to strengthening democracy;
an emphasis on the quality of management; flexibility in
implementation that takes account of local conditions; and
cooperation.
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
Our Agenda has designated the following areas for
social intervention: education and cultural affairs; health
care and nutrition; the welfare of citizens; and employment.
In the area of planning and decision-making, we are also
focusing on a comprehensive approach aimed at social
security and environmental protection.
It is important to underscore also that the amount
allocated to social expenditure consists of 83 per cent
national
resources and about 17 per cent external
resources — 16.3 per cent from external credit and 0.7 per
cent from non-reimbursable external resources. This is clear
evidence of the fact that we are fulfilling our commitments.
However, we also recognize the importance of international
cooperation. As we have stated on other occasions, we are
seriously concerned at the noticeable decline in official
development
international
cooperation.
and in overall
assistance
To conclude this brief summary of our Social Agenda,
I should like to reiterate Ecuador's commitment to ensuring
that social participation becomes a reality. For that reason,
our National Agenda is based on an ongoing process of
consultations, decision-making, follow-up and assessment
of all the activities on the Agenda, with the integration, at
the appropriate levels, of organized and non-organized
groups such as those comprising men, women, different
generations, youth, and indigenous and Afro-Equatorial
peoples.
The Agenda also focuses on the participation of
specialized groups of civil society in the organization and
management of various kinds of public social services.
These include community organizations such as women's
groups,
churches,
universities and professional associations, among others.
The Agenda
and
implementation of participatory monitoring bodies to ensure
high-quality, user-centred public services.
non-governmental
organizations,
emphasizes
creation
also
the
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
community to implement the results of the World Summit
for Social Development can be seen in the report of the
Preparatory Committee. A common world strategy is
being developed that is designed to achieve objective and
practical solutions to growing social problems. I should
like to refer specifically to the issues accorded high
priority in the Programme of Action: the eradication of
poverty, reduction of unemployment and achieving social
integration.
Despite the positive results achieved in some
countries in accordance with the commitments undertaken
at Copenhagen, the efforts that have been made have not
lived up to our hopes. We had expected better results for
developing countries in the social area, particularly for the
most impoverished. Current international reports state that
more than 1.25 billion people, mainly young people,
women and the elderly, live in abject poverty, deprived of
drinking water and basic foodstuffs and services. Many of
them suffer from disease and have no opportunities for
education or employment, or have been displaced through
violence or by natural or man-made disasters.
The difficulties encountered by many developing
countries, particularly the least developed, are the result
of limited financial resources and the burden of debt, in
addition to the disparities caused by fast changes in
international economic relations and the liberalization of
world markets. While we acknowledge these difficulties,
we are convinced that we can eliminate such problems by
working
and
international levels to undertake joint projects for the
benefit of women, the family, children, young people, the
elderly and the disabled. We must modernize educational
and health-care institutions and improve community
services with a view to creating a just and equitable
international environment that will lead to international
peace and security.
national,
together
regional
the
at
Clearly this represents a tremendous challenge. We
believe, however, that major achievements require time,
patience and resolve. Every project begins with a
cornerstone. In this case, we have a blueprint and are
certain that, with the assistance of
the international
community, we will be able to complete the work.
Mr. Samhan (United Arab Emirates)
(spoke in
Arabic): My delegation expresses its support
the
statement by the representative of Guyana regarding the
implementation of
the Copenhagen Declaration and
Programme of Action. The political will of the international
for
has
The United Arab Emirates
undertaken
development policies and measures in accordance with
national and international requirements, in harmony with
our beliefs and cultural heritage and in keeping with the
tolerant
Islamic shariah. We wish to achieve the
objectives of the Copenhagen Summit by developing our
economic and social legislation and programmes, with a
view to implementing ambitious social development plans
that will optimize our human resources and improve and
modernize our education and health institutions. We have
also provided the financial
resources necessary to
reintegrate the elderly and the disabled into national
development programmes.
25
General Assembly
Fifty-fourth session
30th plenary meeting
7 October 1999
We are providing employment opportunities to all
our citizens, both men and women, on an equal footing,
with a view to reaching a quality threshold in all areas of
life where there can be interdependency in the family and
in the community. The interest shown by the United Arab
Emirates in this subject
is not merely national, but
extends to bilateral, regional and international cooperation
with our development partners. We have helped in
building hospitals, schools and orphanages in many
developing countries. We have given soft loans to other
developing countries. We have hosted many conferences,
seminars and training courses on ecology, population,
social affairs and other development areas.
In conclusion, we hope that the special session of the
General Assembly, scheduled to take place in the year
2000 in Geneva, will be able to achieve the results
expected of it. Countries should rededicate themselves to
the
the Copenhagen
Declaration and Programme of Action.
commitments
undertaken
in
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
26
