United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
6th plenary meeting
Thursday, 7 September 2000, 3 p.m.
New York

A/55/PV.6
Official Records
Co-Chairperson:
Co-Chairperson:
Ms. Tarja Halonen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mr. Sam Nujoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(President of the Republic of Finland)
(President of the Republic of Namibia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Item 124 of the provisional agenda
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/55/345)
The Co-Chairperson (Finland): I should like to
inform  members  that,  since  the  issuance  of  document
A/55/345  and  Add.  1,  the  Gambia  has  made  the
necessary  payment  to  reduce  its  arrears  below  the
amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  duly
takes note of this information?
It was so decided.
The 
Co-Chairperson
(Finland): 
This
document
information  will 
A/55/335/Add.2, to be issued.
be 
reflected 
in 
Addresses on the occasion of the Summit (continued)
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Eduard
Shevardnadze, President of Georgia.
President  Shevardnadze  (spoke  in  Georgian;
English  text  furnished  by  the  delegation):  I  shall
address the  world  leaders in the  language of  my  small
but ancient nation. This is yet another manifestation of
the freedom that we have gained.
I  cannot  fail  to  acknowledge  the  comprehensive
nature  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General.  This  is,
indeed,  a  document  worthy  of  a  millennium.  Today,  I
want to share with the Assembly some reflections, and
some of the burdens in my heart.  As  members know, I
participated in bringing the cold war — the longest war
in  history  —  to  an  end,  and  I  am  proud  of  that.
Everyone  here  remembers  a  world  that  was  split  in
two — a world of East and West, a world separated by
the wall whose building blocks were those of class and
ideological differences, a world in which the spectre of
possible nuclear war was a constant threat.
My  co-thinkers  and  I  were  convinced  that  once
the cold war was over, expressions of anxiety about the
end  of  humankind  would  end.  This  was  a  unique
phenomenon:  a  world  war  ending  without  bloodshed.
However,  I  cannot  mask  a  certain  disappointment
resulting from today’s realities.
The unsettled conflicts of  today  —  both  between
and  within  States  —  could  flare  up  into  horrific
conflagrations  tomorrow.  Figures  on  people  suffering
from  hunger,  tragic  infirmities  and  illiteracy  simply
boggle  the  mind.  Against  the  backdrop  of  such  global
shifts, my country has chosen to take a course towards
democratic development. But what has come out of it?
A handful of separatists relying on external forces split
Georgia  asunder,  exterminating  thousands  of  innocent
people  in  the  process.  For  eight  consecutive  years,
300,000 of my compatriots have remained ousted from
their homes. More than half of the population is on the
verge  of  hunger,  although  friends  from  the  United
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-63435 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.6
States  and  other  countries  are  helping.  Again,  I  thank
these friends for that.
The United Nations Security Council has adopted
23 resolutions on the Abkhaz  conflict.  And the result?
Nothing.  The  Security  Council  has  so  far  been  unable
even  to  call  the  ethnically  based  expulsion  of  people
from Abkhazia by its appropriate name.
As the cold war came to a close, we spoke a great
deal  about  a  new  world  and  a  new  order.  Ten  years
have passed. The world order we all dreamed of is still
in  the  distance.  I,  an  optimist  by  nature,  personally
have  grounds  for  skepticism.  Earlier,  we  spoke  of  the
bipolar world. Some suggest a  multipolar  world today.
Who,  then,  will  be  able  to  assume  responsibility  for
matters 
individual,
sovereign States?
that  cannot  be  shouldered  by 
Again, I thank President Clinton and other leaders
for  the  initiatives  they  have  taken  in  this  area.  It  is
commonly known that as debts accumulate, the number
of those  suffering  from  hunger and  sickness  the  world
over is multiplying. This is not a populist appeal: at the
dawn  of  this  millennium,  we  must  release  poor  and
developing countries from the fetters of debt.
Many  new,  independent  democratic  States  are
now  facing  difficulties.  In  Georgia,  for  example,  we
have established democratic values and gained freedom
for the nation and the individual. Yet we have not even
come  near  to  achieving  a  state  of  well-being  for  our
people.  Neither  have  corruption  nor 
the  shadow
economy been defeated. This will require time.
In  developing  democratic  States,  a  protracted
process  leading  towards  material  welfare  is  calling
democratic  values  into  question.  We  cannot  expect
disillusioned  people  to  derive  their  nourishment  from
ideals  alone.  As  the  Georgian  saying  goes,  to  a  poor
man  misfortunes  never  come  singly.  When  we  had
gained  a 
footing,  and  somewhat
recovered our breath, environmental problems  resulted
in  the  obliteration  of  our  harvest.  Now,  too,  we  are
looking  to  our  friends  with  hope.  In  my  view,  we  can
no longer doubt that the dangers of global warming are
now  upon  us.  Do  we  fully  understand  all  that  awaits
our planet?
relatively 
firm 
I  believe 
that  global  environmental  security
should  be  the  direct  responsibility  of  the  United
Nations  and  its  Security  Council.  To  some  degree,
world 
to
food  security  should  also  be  subject 
2
likewise  grow.  All 
centralized management. The resources and capabilities
of  the  United  Nations  must  dramatically  increase  and,
of  course,  the  role  and  responsibility  of  individual
States  should 
these  concerns
indicate  that  addressing  the  problems  we  face  in  this
millennium is a task that individual States  — even the
most powerful ones — cannot manage alone. There is a
need  for  a  uniting  and  bonding  force,  a  body  with
broad competence and wide duties. There is a need for
a  fundamental  restructuring  of  the  United  Nations  and
the Security Council to meet the challenges of the new
millennium.
The  Security  Council  must  be  expanded.  I  recall
that,  at  the  General  Assembly  in  1992,  I  spoke  in
favour  of  permanent  membership  for  Germany  and
Japan.  I  wonder  why  the  expansion  issue  has  not  yet
been  resolved.  More  new  prospective  members  have
appeared,  and  today,  too,  a  reasonable  solution  can  be
found.  I  firmly  believe  that  the  right  of  veto  must  be
limited.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  also  needs
to be adapted so as to factor in modern discoveries and
the worst threats of the new era. The role and functions
of  the  Security  Council  must  be  more  clear  cut.  If  I
may  borrow  some  words  from  the  Secretary-General,
the  Security  Council  must  have  at  its  disposal  a
sufficient number of fire engines to put out the  flames
and maintain stability and peace in the world.
I concur with the Secretary-General’s position on
the  International  Criminal  Court.  However,  we  must
ensure  that  it  does  not  take  us  a  whole  new  decade  to
make  it  happen.  The  interaction  of  such  powerful
regional  organizations  as  the  European  Union  and  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
with the United Nations and its  Security  Council  must
be better coordinated and synchronized.
No individual State or group of States can resolve
the  problems  facing  humankind  or,  most  importantly,
save the human being, nature’s crowning achievement.
independent
democratic  States  will  become  stronger  and 
that
together  we  will  ultimately  create  a  new  United
Nations and a new  Security Council  which  will be the
central guarantee of peace and security.
And  yet  we  must  hope 
that 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Kessai
H.  Note,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall
Islands.
President  Note:  I  extend  warm  greetings  of
“iokwe”  from  the  people  of  the  Republic  of  the
Marshall Islands . It is a great and distinct privilege to
address this historic Millennium Summit of the United
Nations.
I  wish  to  commend  the  Secretary-General,  His
Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for the comprehensive and
outstanding report on the role of the United Nations in
the  twenty-first  century.  Directing  the  course  of  this
Organization  to  meet  the  international  community’s
expectations  for  many  years  to  come  will  certainly
demand our entire commitment.
I 
take 
to 
recognize 
this  opportunity 
the
contribution of the founding fathers and framers of the
United Nations and its Charter. The vision, values, and
principles  espoused  in  the  Charter  have  guided  this
Organization  for  well  over  half  a  century.  The
principles  of  democracy,  respect  for  human  rights  and
the right of self-determination of peoples in conformity
with  the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law
should 
collective
development.  I  wish  to  reaffirm  the  adherence  and
commitment of the Marshall Islands to such principles
for the collective good of all people.
underpin 
continue 
our 
to 
It  is  due  to  these  guiding  principles  that  I
enthusiastically  welcome Tuvalu  as the  189th  Member
State  of  the  United  Nations.  As  a  Pacific  Island
neighbour, 
those
congratulating  the  Government  and  people  of  Tuvalu.
While  expansion  might  provide  additional  challenges,
the  admission  of  new  Member  States  adds  to  the
legitimacy of the Organization.
am  proud 
to  be 
among 
I 
The  guiding  principles  of  the  United  Nations
Charter  have  continued  and  will  continue  to  be  tested
over  the  years.  Exploitation,  in  many  forms  and
varying  degrees,  of  people,  land,  the  oceans,  the
atmosphere,  and  their  interactive  and  interdependent
systems continue to pose real and immediate threats to
the very existence of small island developing countries
like the Marshall Islands. We need to be empowered so
that  technology  and  globalization  can  help  us,  but  not
at  the  expense  of  the  lives  and  dignity  of  people  and
their  countries.  As  it  is  with  other  small  island
countries,  the  Marshall  Islands  needs  to  have  its  feet
rooted on land — on dry land, that is. Global warming
and sea-level rise is threatening our very existence, and
we  call  on  the  minds,  the  hearts  and  spirits  of  the
individual  and  full  membership  of  the  Organization  to
A/55/PV.6
strengthen  all  efforts  to  help  us  prevail  over  these
threats.
The new order of globalization of economies is a
phenomenon  that  requires  closer  consideration  and
coordination  of  this  Organization,  so  as  to  create  a
positive  force  for  dealing  with  the  many  challenges
facing  each 
individual  country  and  our  common
humanity.
to  fulfil 
In  the  face  of  past  turbulence  and  upheaval,  this
body  has  always  attempted 
its  mission
undaunted and without despair. The very establishment
and  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human
Rights  in  1948,  and  its  ongoing  enforcement,  albeit
with  limited  means  for  follow-up,  is  a  monumental
accomplishment in itself. Nurturing the development of
peoples,  amidst  varying  degrees  of  vulnerabilities,  so
that  they  become,  and  continue  to  be,  self-sufficient,
self-sustaining,  and  equal  participating  partners  in  the
advancement of the world may be a tall order for many
of us and for our Organization, but that is  why  we are
here today.
The role  that  the  United  Nations  has  played,  and
continues  to  play,  to  restore  order  and  normalcy  in
various  parts  of  the  world  including  the  Middle  East
and  East  Asia  is  to  be  commended.  Its  incessant  and
active  support  of  humanitarian  concerns,  its  dedicated
mission  against  all  forms  of  discrimination  relating  to
religion,  race,  gender,  health,  education, 
income,
ability  and  poverty  indicates  the  magnitude  of  the
responsibility  and  the  burden  that  this  body  carries.
Without  the  full  support  of  all,  the  sustenance  and
promotion of these efforts will be difficult.
To  fully  reflect  the  original  intention  of  the
Charter,  the  United  Nations  will  need  to  give  a  closer
look at its own structures and the principles governing
the  operation  of  its  essential  organs.  I  am  encouraged
by discussions on issues relating to the operation of the
Security  Council  on 
the  matter  of  permanent
membership,  given  the  continuous  emphasis  this  body
places  on  the  unreserved  application  of  democratic
principles.  The 
the
International Court of Justice continues to be restrained
from exercising the authority to issue binding decisions
must  be  reviewed.  How  else  can  any  international
system  of  governance  enunciate,  promulgate,  protect
and  deliver  justice  without  the  necessary  force  behind
its  own  pronouncements?  The  perpetual  financial
background  constraining 
the  United
under  which 
the  work  of 
conditions 
3
A/55/PV.6
is 
fallout. 
Islands 
the  Marshall 
to  bat  against 
Nations  requires  some  bold  steps.  To  continue  to
maintain the status quo and to persist in guarding it as
sacrosanct  in  the  face  of  new  attitudes,  perspectives,
experience  and  knowledge, 
the
immutable law of change.
The  Republic  of 
is
encouraged  by  the  growing  recognition  among  leaders
and  people  from  all  walks  of  life  of  the  need  for  a
universal framework for international peace. We aim to
defeat the impact of world wars, of colonization, and of
nuclear-weapon-test 
our
vulnerabilities,  we  want  to  be  an  active  partner  and
Member of the Organization, its  subsidiary bodies and
other  international  agencies,  and  help  to  bring  about
peace  and  prosperity  for  all  States,  regardless  of  size.
We support the promotion of  international  frameworks
such  as  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  as  we
promote the sustainability of our people and our world.
While we recognize the challenge of reducing the
proportion  of  people  suffering  from  hunger  and  the
lack  of  a  steady  supply  of  safe  water,  as  well  as  the
challenge  of  the  rapid  spread  of  HIV/AIDS, 
the
scourge  of  malaria  and  other  major  diseases  afflicting
humanity,  we  must  not  forget 
that  an  educated
population leads to a healthy and prosperous society.
Despite 
I  am  indeed  grateful  for  the  United  Nations
forum.  Without  it,  where  else  could  nations  voice  and
address freely their individual and universal concerns?
I  have  enjoyed  listening  to  the  rich  insights  and
thoughts  expressed  by  my  fellow  world  leaders,  and  I
certainly look forward to group discussions later, when
leaders will deliberate on specific global issues.
(Finland):
The  Co-Chairperson 
Before
proceeding to the next speaker on my list, I remind the
Assembly  that  we  have  a  very  long  list  of  speakers.  I
appeal  to  participants  to  respect  as  much  as  possible
the five-minute speaking time allotted to each speaker.
That  will  allow  us  to  hear  all  the  speakers  on  the  list
today.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency  Mr.  Antonio  Mascarenhas  Monteiro,
President of the Republic of Cape Verde.
President  Monteiro  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke 
in
Portuguese;  French  text  furnished  by  the  delegation):
First  of  all,  allow  me,  Madam  Co-Chairperson,  to
express  my  satisfaction  at  knowing  that  the  difficult
and honourable responsibility of guiding our work is in
4
your  hands. I  am  sure that  your  competence  and  well-
known dedication will be placed fully at the service of
the  success  of  this  historic  Millennium  Summit.  As  a
representative  of  a  small  island  developing  State,  I
assure  you that  my  participation  in  this  major event  is
motivated  by  a  feeling  of  great  hope  and  by  well-
founded confidence.
My  hopes  look  to  the  new  millennium  and  to
what  it  will  inevitably  bring:  freedom,  development
and well being for mankind as a whole. In other words,
it will be a millennium in which the dignity and worth
of  human  beings  will  finally  become  the  ultimate
raison  d’être  and  measure  of  the  success  of  our
common  struggle  for  a  world  of  peace,  stability,
progress and security.
in 
the  United  Nations,  and  of 
But  I  am  also  speaking  of  the  confidence  that
inspires  us 
the
fundamental  role  the  Organization  should  continue  to
play  as  a  collective  instrument,  increasingly  more
modern  and  efficient,  but  always  at  the  service  of  our
peoples  and  bearing  in  mind  the  pressing  global
challenges,  to  which  we  must  respond  with  solidarity
and shared responsibility.
It 
in  particular. 
Among those challenges, I would like to mention
fight  against  poverty 
is
the 
heartbreaking 
to  see  how  many  human  beings
throughout  the  planet,  and  particularly  in  Africa,  face
poverty as the major obstacle to a minimum of dignity
in their  lives and  to  the  attainment  of  their  most  basic
rights.  It  is  urgent  that  we  end  that  reality,  which  is
tragic  and  is  our  common  responsibility.  The  task  is
obviously a great one that must be put into perspective
in  a  synergetic  framework 
the
solidarity  of  will  and  sufficient  resources  to  ensure
cohesion,  efficiency  and  durability  in  the  various
policies and programmes at the national level.
that  brings  about 
the 
The  pace  of  events  has  accelerated  in  the  last
decade,  accentuating  in  an  unforeseeable  way  the
dimension  and  nature  of 
tragedies  we  are
experiencing.  Their  persistence 
testing  our
confidence in ourselves  and in our capacity  to  take on
new  challenges.  But  let  us  also  recognize  that  there  is
now  a  renewal  of  conscience,  a  rejection  of  fatalism
and a growing willingness among people to shape their
own destinies.
is 
What is being challenged is our quality as human
beings  and  our  sense  of  the  balance  and  justice  that
should  prevail  throughout  this  planet,  which  we  must
pass on to future generations liberated from unbearable
disparities  and  asymmetries.  In  this  connection,  the
international  community  as  a  whole,  and  the  most
advanced  States  in  particular,  must  illustrate  their
capacity  for  solidarity.  I  am  speaking  in  particular  of
increasing  official  development  assistance  and  making
a  firm  commitment  to  measures  to  eliminate  the  debt
burden.  That  burden  undeniably  contributes 
to
suffocating  the  meagre  resources  of  many  of  our
countries  and  seriously  limiting  their  development
policies.
The  guiding  values  of  the  United  Nations  confer
responsibility  upon  the  Organization  to  mobilize  all
those who influence the success of the common fate of
mankind.  Nevertheless, 
just  —  and  never
unwarranted — to single out the specific cases of least
developed  countries  and  small 
island  developing
States,  whose  particular  features  justify  special  and
differential 
the
situation on the African continent.
treatment.  Again, 
largely 
this 
is 
it 
is 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  task  in  Africa  is
enormous, in the light of the facts, such as the harmful
effects  of  diseases  such  as  AIDS  and  malaria,  and  of
armed  conflicts,  with  their  devastating  consequences
internally and regionally, as well as incipient access to
international  markets 
of
technological progress and the benefits of a globalized
world.
acquisition 
and 
the 
In  any  case,  we  are  witness  to  an  African
recovery 
that  cannot  be  confirmed  historically,
however,  unless  Africa  is  recognized,  without  any
unjustified  delay,  as  a  priority  on  the  international
agenda. It is important not to lose sight of the fact that
progress  and  stability  on  the  African  continent  will
make  an  important  contribution  to  global  stability  and
security,  an  essential  contribution  to  a  balanced,  just
and humane world that we all hope to build in this new
century under the auspices of the United Nations.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly

will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Miguel
dos Anjos da Cunha Lisboa Trovoada, President of the
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
in  Portuguese;

French  text  furnished  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great
honour and  signal privilege for  me  to  take  part  in  this
most important Millennium Summit, which has brought
together  such  a  significant  number  of  the  highest-
ranking and most remarkable leaders of our planet.
President  Trovoada
(spoke 
A/55/PV.6
This Summit is being held at a timely moment, at
which  the  international  community  is  facing  serious
challenges arising from the imbalances in the levels of
development  of  Member  States.  While  it  is  true  that
scientific and technological advances over the centuries
have  allowed  spectacular  progress  to  be  made  in  the
material sphere, it is nonetheless equally true that these
same advances have led to no substantial improvement
in the deeper nature of mankind, which is marked by a
selfishness that continues to be the driving force of all
its  actions  in  defence  of  personal,  group  or  state
interests.  As  a result,  a  somber  and  regrettable  picture
has  emerged  of  serious  divisions  among  humanity  in
the  early  twenty-first  century  —  divisions  between
citizens  within  a  country  and  among  nations  in  their
international relations.
These  relations  are  dominated  by  stark  injustice,
the consequences of which include the exacerbation of
poverty  among  the  poorest  of  the  poor;  the  recurrent
and  insoluble  issue  of  external  debt;  disease;  famine;
ignorance;  unemployment;  violations  of  human  rights
and  of  the  rights  of  the  child;  the  aggravation  of
violence  and  crime;  and  war  and  all  its  resulting
horrors  —  in  short,  the  human  tragedy,  which  has
become  the  banal  norm  of  everyday  life  for  a  great
portion  of  mankind  in  the  face  of  the  indifference  or
inactivity of another part of the same species.
The  problems  all  seem 
to  have  been  duly
diagnosed  and  their  causes  identified.  The  material,
technical,  financial  and  human  resources  to  address
them  do  exist.  From  our  humble  perspective,  what  is
lacking is the firm and determined political  will of the
entire  international community to act in  harmony  with
a  view  to  stemming  the  deterioration  of  the  situation,
which  is  degrading  and  humiliating  for  those  whose
suffer  its  consequences  and  ultimately  unworthy  of
those  who  are  in  a  position  to  contribute  to  its
eradication but do little or nothing.
It  is  clear  that  a  more  proactive  attitude  can
evolve  only  out  of  the  deep  conviction  that  we  are  all
part of the same human condition. Only this conviction
and  awareness  can  positively,  dynamically  and
lastingly  forge  the  interactive  links  of  solidarity  that
will  ensure the  success  of  the  great  and  noble  aims  of
freedom, progress, justice and peace for all.
Although  States  have  inalienable  responsibilities
in this area,  we  are  convinced  that  the  United  Nations
has an important role to play. It seems to us, however,
5
A/55/PV.6
that our Organization, which was created over 50 years
ago,  must  undergo  some  restructuring,  particularly  to
restore a balance that  would bring it  more in line  with
the geopolitical changes that have taken place since its
birth.
inhabitants 
several  million 
We also believe that its universal vocation should
not  be  undermined  by  considerations  that  ensure  that
countries  with 
and
recognized  as  independent  by  States  Members  of  the
United  Nations,  with  which  they  have  relations  of
sovereignty,  are  relegated 
the
Organization,  even  though  they  participate  jointly  and
actively 
the
development  efforts  of  other  peoples.  I  am  speaking
specifically  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan.  We
are  in  favour  of  the  free  participation  of  peoples  and
the States that represent them internationally, just as we
defend the free and democratic participation of citizens
in national life, without discrimination or exclusion.
international  cooperation 
the  margins  of 
through 
to 
in 
living 
War is one of the scourges that cause the greatest
damage  in  Africa,  preventing  the  economic  and  social
development  of  its  peoples.  Some  African  countries,
indebted  and  with  populations 
in  extreme
poverty,  have  been  at  permanent  war  for  decades.  In
their  struggles,  these  same  States  use  modern  and
sophisticated  weapons  which  they  do  not  produce
themselves.  In  the  name  of  minimal  moral  norms  of
behaviour, which should never be absent from domestic
or  international  policy,  it  is  urgent  that  action  be
undertaken 
the
production,  sale  and  distribution  of  all  categories  of
weapons  so  as 
the  belligerents  from
acquiring  them  at  great  cost,  to  the  detriment  of  their
reconstruction and development programmes.
to  ensure  effective  control  of 
to  prevent 
from 
poverty 
We  know 
experience 
that,  without
development,  democracy 
is  very  fragile.  We  are
therefore  participating  in  the  Summit,  convinced  that
its  outcome  will  contribute  to  hastening  economic
growth,  minimizing 
strengthening
democracy in developing  countries.  We  would  express
the  hope  that  solidarity  among  states  and  peoples  will
gain in strength and that the spirit of equity and justice
will  henceforth  prevail  in  relations  among  nations.
Thus will the most fragile nations be able to cherish the
hope  that  they  will  no  longer  be  marginalized  or
sacrificed  on  the  altar  of  economic  and  universal
globalization.
and 
6
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Ismail
Omar  Guelleh,  President  and  Head  of  Government  of
the Republic of Djibouti.
President  Guelleh  (spoke  in  French):  On  this
historic  occasion,  at  which 
the  United  Nations
community  is  meeting  to  celebrate  the  coming  of  the
new millennium, I wish to bring this message of peace
and friendship from the people of Djibouti.
Before all else, I would like to pay deep tribute to
this
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  organizing 
historic  gathering.  The  report  he  has  put  before  us
gives us a broad range of ideas and proposals.
the  dawn  of 
With  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  the  rise  of
globalization and the explosion of the information age,
the  decade  of  the  1990s  was  of  great  importance  to
humankind.  Fortunately, 
the  new
millennium  gives  us  the  opportunity  to  review  and
revise our programmes and reset our priorities. For the
purposes of this Summit, the critical problems faced by
humankind  have  been  divided  into  four  categories:
the
peace  and 
elimination  of  poverty;  human 
the
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations.  As  far  as  we  are
concerned,  the  problem  that  appears  to  be  the  most
urgent  is  that  of  development  and  the  elimination  of
poverty.
security;  development, 
including 
rights;  and 
Today,  some  3  billion  people  —  in  other  words,
almost half of humanity — suffer from hunger or food
shortages.  In  a  world  that  produces  enough  food  to
satisfy  the  needs  of  each  and  every  man,  woman  and
child,  this  is  absolutely  unacceptable.  Hunger  is  the
daughter of poverty; and for those who are abandoned,
the  despair  that  it  engenders  is  in  many  respects  the
source  of  the  four  problems  that  we  are  addressing  at
this Summit.
free 
of  markets, 
in  many  parts  of 
The  economic  brushfire  that  is  sweeping  our
planet  today  is  known  as  globalization.  It  encourages
the  deregulation 
and
trade 
privatization.  But 
the  world,
particularly  in  Africa,  a  number  of  poor  developing
countries  have  been 
spiral  of
impoverishment  and  social  disintegration.  Since  they
are not attractive to private foreign investors, countries
with  low  savings  levels,  and  low  levels  of  domestic
themselves  at  a  dead  end.  The
investment  find 
international 
lending  organizations,  which  have
demanded  that  these  countries  tighten  their  belts  still
trapped 
in 
a 
A/55/PV.6
more  in  the  name  of  rational  economic  policies,  seem
to have contributed to the deterioration of the crisis.
Furthermore,  for  the  poor  countries  to  be  able  to
achieve  a  real  recovery  and  vigorous  growth,  the
terrible  debt  burden  problem  must  be 
resolved.
Structural  adjustment  suggests  a  reduction  of  internal
expenditure  so  that  these  countries  can  increase  their
exports  and  repay  their  debts.  However,  the  internal
constraints, the amount of debt,  the degradation  of  the
terms  of  trade  and  restricted  access  to  markets  of  the
developed countries mean at present, in the digital era,
that the prospects are hardly encouraging.
To  overcome  this  situation,  the  United  Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has
proposed  a  large  increase  during  this  decade  in  aid  to
sub-Saharan  Africa,  which  should  be  raised  to  $20
billion. This aid should contribute greatly to increasing
savings and domestic investment and might bring about
a  sustainable  growth  rate  of  6  per  cent  in  the  region,
which,  in  turn,  would  attract  foreign  investment.  Only
the public financing bodies would be able to give such
impetus to developing countries. At the present level of
$10 billion per year, official development assistance is
not playing its role as a catalyst of growth and  merely
perpetuates dependence upon aid.
As 
the  South  Centre  recently  reminded  us,
looking  for  change  and  improvement  in  these  areas  is
not  synonymous  with  asking  for  aid  or  further
concessions;  it  is  rather  a  matter  of  looking  for
policies,  mechanisms  and  more  equitable  systems  to
strengthen  the  development  process  —  and  thus,  the
entire world economy. It is quite obvious that the main
challenge  with  which  we  have  to  deal  today  is  to
ensure  that  globalization  becomes  a  positive  force  for
all  peoples  of  the  planet,  rich  and  poor  alike.  The
responsibility  of  managing 
international  economic
problems, as well as the risks and threats hanging over
peace and security, must be shared by all. The collapse
of  the  world  economy  would  be  the  most  serious
systemic threat to  world order  that one  could imagine.
To  avoid  this,  the  world  system  cannot  remain  totally
indifferent to the fate of the majority of the peoples on
this planet.
We  are  witnessing  the  establishment  of  a  new
system of international values and a general growth of
awareness, born of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.  On  the  one  hand,  we  have  rights  that  each
individual  should  be  able 
including
to  exercise, 
freedom  of  expression  and  conscience,  freedom  from
poverty and fear and the right to life, liberty and safety
of person, to name but  a  few.  But  today  we  know  that
these  rights  bring  only  limited  advantages  without  a
favourable  social  environment  and  at  least  minimal
means of subsistence.
The  main  threat  hanging over peace  and  security
today is no longer external aggression by States against
other  States,  but  internal  violence  committed  against
communities  and  individuals.  It  is  reaching  crisis
proportions  throughout  the  world,  but  it  is  completely
out  of  proportion  in  Africa,  where  conflicts,  human
rights  violations,  physical  destruction  and  widespread
displacements  have  anaesthetized 
international
community.  The  unbelievable  savagery  of  certain
conflicts  and  the  unacceptable  suffering  inflicted  have
made  it  necessary  for  us  to  find  new  ways  of  helping
people who are caught in these crises.
the 
In  this  connection,  we  must  activate  and  make
urgent use of the new International Criminal Court,  so
that criminals who defy the law are brought to justice.
Quite  obviously,  we  have  to  strengthen  considerably
the peacekeeping capacities of the  United  Nations  and
address  its  structural  weaknesses.  Furthermore,  we
must  enlarge  the  Organization’s  sphere  of  competence
in peacekeeping to include civil  administration, as  has
been  the  case  in  Kosovo  and  East  Timor.  In  order
effectively  to  deal  with  certain  crises,  the  United
Nations  must  be  able  to  appeal  to  its  Member  States,
which  can  supply  well-trained  and  well-equipped
contingents  that  act  speedily  to  open  up  the  way  for
peacekeeping forces to enter.
The elimination of conflicts in all their forms and
the establishment  of  peace  and  security  are  among  the
principal tasks awaiting us if we wish to respond to our
most  urgent  need,  development  and  the  elimination  of
poverty.  In  this  respect,  the  Secretary-General  has
placed before us an enormous challenge: a 50 per cent
reduction  in  the  number  of  inhabitants  of  this  planet
living  in  extreme  poverty  between  now  and  the  year
2015. This represents almost a billion people.
Everyone  agrees  that  this  result  ought  to  take
place in the context of the sacrosanct  market economy
that is sweeping the globe. But the free trade system is
mercilessly  cruel.  The  multilateral  institutions  must
maintain  order  and  ensure  the  application  of  world
regulations  to  ensure  transparency  and  democratic
equity.  Otherwise,  we  are  likely  to  succumb  to  the
7
A/55/PV.6
tyranny  of  the  market  and  international  chaos.  There
must  be  a  worldwide  effort,  a  collective  and
international  effort,  at  the  centre  of  which  will  be  the
United Nations, representing the  peoples and  States of
the world.
the  question  of  strengthening 
We  think  that  it  is  in  this  context  that  we  must
address 
the  United
Nations.  We  cannot  allow  the  Organization  to  become
more  and  more  marginalized  by  all  the  administrative
devices  and  procedures  being  introduced  by  certain
States, while they refuse to disburse the funds to which
the  Organization  has  a  legitimate  right.  Development
will  be  limited  if  it  is  kept  in  the  hands  of  the
specialized  agencies,  far  from  the  United  Nations.
Peace will be uncertain if it is largely in the hands of a
United Nations dominated by a Security Council that is
not representative.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm our faith in
the  future  of  the  United  Nations.  The  fate  of  our
peoples 
its  future.  I  am
convinced that a restructured Organization, made more
effective,  will  contribute  to  the  coming  of  an  era  of
peace and prosperity for all.
linked  with 
is  closely 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear an address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Petar
Stoyanov, President of the Republic of Bulgaria.
President  Stoyanov:  I  hasten  to  express  my
country’s support for the growing role and involvement
of  the  United  Nations  in  promoting  and  furthering
democratic  processes  worldwide.  Here  we  see  a  direct
link  with  the  maintenance  and  promotion  of  world
peace and security, which, we believe, will continue to
be  a  priority  in  the  future  activities  of  the  United
Nations.
The  Republic  of  Bulgaria  is  actively  involved  in
the  international  community’s  efforts  to  settle  existing
conflicts  and  secure 
lasting  peace  and  economic
prosperity  throughout  the  world.  That  is  why  we
support 
reform  of
peacekeeping operations.
for  an  effective 
the  need 
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  of  the
Bulgarian  Government’s  decision 
its
financial contribution for United Nations peacekeeping
operations  despite  the  economic  difficulties  we  are
facing as a country in transition.
increase 
to 
We  gained  our  peacekeeping  experience  mainly
during the Kosovo crisis. The conflict there demarcated
8
a new phase in the development of the world, in which
States  are  becoming  increasingly  interdependent  and
State  sovereignty  is  acquiring  new  forms  and  content.
Moreover, 
today’s
problems  can  be  solved  only  through  joint  efforts
prompted by shared universal human values rather than
by temporary considerations.
  demonstrated 
the  crisis 
that 
While on the subject of Kosovo, let me share my
view  that  the  implementation  of  a  long-term  strategy
for  the  economic  stabilization  of  the  region  and  its
accelerated  integration  in  European  organizations  is  a
key factor for the lasting solution of the crisis there and
the  restoration  of  peace  and  stability  to  South-eastern
Europe. The Stability Pact for South-eastern Europe is
a decisive instrument in that respect. It is the first-ever
attempt at a post-crisis rehabilitation of a whole region
in the context of globalization. Moreover, the economic
reconstruction of the Balkans and the bid by many non-
European countries to participate in it could be seen as
an  attempt  to  involve  the  region  in  the  processes  of
globalization.
The  past  10  years  have  given  us  sufficient
evidence  of  the  potential  of  globalization  to  address
current  problems  and  open  up  new  horizons 
to
humankind.  This 
the
is  particularly  relevant  for 
countries  that  were  part  of  the  former  communist
system and are now seeking to carve their niche in this
changed world.
At the same time, globalization has confronted us
with challenges for which we have proved unprepared.
It  has  become  clear  that  we  cannot  opt  or  not  opt  for
globalization:  it  is  a  fact  that  we  cannot  ignore.  What
we  can  do  is  grasp  the  growing  need  to  manage
globalization and act accordingly.
If  we  are  to  contain  its  negative  effects,  we
should not allow it to take its course spontaneously, for
it  has  a  tendency  to  go  beyond  the  economic  and
technical domain and spill over into the sensitive areas
of  culture,  national  traditions  and  customs.  Here,  its
impact  must  be  studied  thoroughly,  and  ways  of
controlling it must be sought through new and relevant
intellectual  property
legislation 
protection, 
and
biodiversity.
traditional  knowledge 
in 
including 
the  area  of 
Being  convinced  of  the  potential  of  the  new
information  and  communication 
for
advancing development, I  would  like  to  urge  the  most
the
developed  countries 
facilitate  access 
technologies 
to 
to 
superhighway” 
“information 
the  developing
countries  and  the  countries  in  transition.  Bridging
together  the  “digital  divide”  will  encourage  those
countries to develop local content on the Internet.
for 
of 
the 
institution-building 
Strengthening the role of the United Nations  will
require  not  only  the  reform,  renovation  and  further
effective 
world
Organization, but also its proper adjustment to the new
realities. I believe that the United Nations will continue
to  be  a  major  factor  in  socio-economic,  scientific  and
technical development, and in environmental protection
and  humanitarian  cooperation  at  the  national,  regional
and  global  levels.  The  objectives  are  clear:  achieving
sustainable  development,  addressing  and 
tackling
demographic  problems,  reducing  poverty  and  ensuring
sources of income for all social strata.
That  is  why  we  support  the  efforts  —  including
those  of  the  Secretary-General  —  to  reform  and
restructure  the  Organization’s  socio-economic  sector
with a view to achieving the aforementioned objectives
and  creating  a  regional  and  global  environment  that
would 
sustainable
development.  The  Republic  of  Bulgaria  has  been
making 
this  end,  notably  by
participating  in  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council  and  supporting  the  activities  of  the  United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
its  contribution 
favour  more 
dynamic 
and 
to 
In  closing,  I  would  like  to  voice  our  conviction
that  guaranteeing  and  respecting  individuals’  human
rights  and  basic  freedoms  is  a  cornerstone  in  the
development of a democratic civil society. Bulgaria is a
party 
rights
instruments,  and  we  support  the  initiatives  aimed  at
strengthening and increasing the role of United Nations
control mechanisms in the area of human rights.
to  all  major  and  universal  human 
I  hope  that  the  Millennium  Summit  will  set  the
stage for the United Nations to be able to  successfully
play its role in the twenty-first century.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear an address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  René
Préval, President of the Republic of Haiti.
President  Préval  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank  the
Secretary-General  for  convening 
this  Summit  and
congratulate him on the depth of the report that he has
submitted for our consideration.
In  the  55  years  of  the  existence  of  the  United
it  has  sometimes  been
Nations  —  even 
though 
A/55/PV.6
the 
the  history  of 
denigrated  — 
international
community  could  not  have  been  written  without  a
constant  reference  to  the  Organization.  Even  today,  in
the  face  of  a  constantly  changing  global  context    with
its impressive array of new challenges, we still deem it
to  be  a  key  instrument  for  shaping  the  twenty-first
century.  The  proof  lies  in  this  special  high-level
meeting,  which  aims  to  alleviate  concerns  about  old
and  new  problems    for  which  we  still  do  not  have  a
solution.
The Republic of Haiti, a founding Member of this
Organization,  is  still,  200  years  after  winning  its
political  independence,  endeavouring  to  emerge  from
underdevelopment  and 
to
contribute  to  common  thinking  on  ways  of  honing  the
important  instrument  for  action  that  is  the  United
Nations system.
that  end  seeking 
to 
is 
Among our pressing concerns, certain ones are of
particular importance to us, because how we respond to
them will determine the shape of the world to come.
First, there is a need to guarantee dignified living
conditions for all human beings. Indeed, we know that
millions  of  people  are  living  in  abject  poverty  and
under  the  constant  threat  of  social  upheaval,  whereas,
in the history of mankind, the capacity to create wealth
has never been as great.
Secondly,  we  must  genuinely  democratize  the
new  knowledge  —  and  information-based  economy.
We note that there has  been a considerable  increase  in
know-how  and  striking  technological  progress,  but  so
far access to it is limited to just a few. This constitutes
a new source of inequality and divisions — among and
within  nations.  How  then  can  we  put  an  end  to
exclusion  and  prevent  the  gap  from  deepening,  until
such  time  as  it  can  be  closed?  What  is  the  point  of
setting  foot  on  Mars  if  there  is  still  hunger  in  several
regions of our planet?
My  third  concern  is  the  drift  of  power  from
politics to finance and the economy. Constant flows of
capital and international trade tend to diminish nation-
States and to give rise to supra-national bodies that are
not  elected by the  people.  By  electing  only  politicians
and  not  financial  representatives,  are  we  not  turning
democracy into a utopian ideal?
My  fourth  concern  is  the  immense,  formidable
power of the communication media, which seems to be
in  the  hands  of  just  a  few.  Their  uncontrolled  use  of
9
A/55/PV.6
those  media  destroys  those  who  oppose  them;  yet  the
media  could  solve  a  great  many  problems  were  they
truly placed at the service of human advancement.
My  final  concern  is  the  pandemics  that  are
devastating  certain  nations,  especially  the  poorest,
threatening  their  very  survival.  The  human  cost  of
these  tragedies  is  scandalous,  especially  since  the
means  exist 
them  considerably.  But
questions  of  profitability  are  often  raised  here:  for
many, 
the  economic  factor  completely  outweighs
human  considerations.  That  being  so,  how  can  we
address these tragedies and place the higher interests of
mankind above mercenary considerations?
to  alleviate 
The  era  of  autarky  is  behind  us.  States  can  no
longer  formulate  policy  without  taking  account  of
regional  and  global  frameworks  relating,  for  instance,
to  drugs,  terrorist  networks,  organized  crime  and
pandemics, all of  which  form  part of  a  global  context.
Without  establishing  “rules  of  the  game”,  and  without
some  form  of  adjudication,  globalization  will  be  a
jungle.
That is the mission of international organizations,
led by the United Nations, which can  make it  possible
to  build  peace  and  promote  development.  We  must
consolidate  the  authority  and  legitimacy  of  the  United
Nations  by  democratizing  it  in  order  to  enhance  its
effectiveness  and  ensure 
it  can  successfully
address the new challenges of a globalized world.
that 
prevail 
For  us, the  key is  to  take  a  dispassionate  look  at
the  avalanche  of  past  initiatives  and  at  their  meagre
results,  and  boldly 
to  create  a  world  with  an
international  public-spiritedness,  a  world  in  which
solidarity  will 
control.
Globalization  is  not  new:  slavery,  colonialism  and  the
two  world  wars  of  the  twentieth  century  are  evidence
of that.  What  is  frightening  today  is  that  globalization
tends to take the form of the privatization of all power.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Robert
Kocharian, President of the Republic of Armenia.
over  market 
(spoke 
President  Kocharian
in  Armenian;
interpretation furnished by the  delegation):  The  report
of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  role  of  the  United
Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century  (A/54/2000)  is
highly  commendable.  Armenia  shares  the  views  and
approaches  reflected  in  the  report  with  respect  to  the
10
challenges  and  objectives  of  our  uniquely  global
Organization.
At the dawn of the new millennium, the scope of
our  opportunities  —  and,  at  the  same  time,  of  our
problems —  has  reached  a  qualitatively  new  level.
Armenia is confident that the United Nations, given its
outstanding role, has the best potential to address these
new  challenges  in  the  most  appropriate  manner.  The
vast  experience  of  the  United  Nations  throughout  the
55  years  of  its  activities  is  unique.  With  this  in  mind,
we should be more dynamic in adapting United Nations
instruments and institutions to the new realities.
in 
the 
Maintaining  peace  and  security  throughout  the
world  will  obviously  remain  a  major  priority  for  the
United  Nations 
twenty-first  century.  The
contemporary  world  map  continues  to  be  densely
spotted with local conflicts and, as a result, with human
suffering.  The  United  Nations  has  been  heavily
engaged  in  conflict  resolution  in  various  parts  of  the
world.  At  the  same  time,  Armenia  believes  that  the
existing  potential  of 
the
prevention of  new  conflicts is  not  being  fully  utilized.
It has become imperative to promote the establishment
of  comprehensive  early  warning  mechanisms 
for
potential  conflicts.  Wars  do  not  erupt  unexpectedly;
they  have  their  histories  and  their  logic,  and  can  be
predicted.
the  United  Nations  for 
its 
to 
societies 
conventional 
interdependent  and  concerted  action  at 
In our contemporary world, the notion of security
boundaries.
transcended 
has 
Globalization  has  opened  up 
an
unprecedented  degree.  As  never  before,  the  activities
of individual Governments have become tightly linked
to 
the
subregional, regional and global levels. Integration has
become  politically  and  economically  expedient.  It  is
apparent  that  the  new  environment  of  coexistence
requires  new 
activities  of
international organizations.  Only  collective  efforts  can
make  it  possible  for  the  advantages  of  globalization
effectively 
its  negative
consequences to be  averted.  In  other  words,  the  world
of 
the
prerequisites  for  genuine  stability  based  on  collective
action and responsibility. That is Armenia’s hope.
twenty-first  century  has  acquired  all 
to  materialize  and 
approaches 
the 
in 
the 
for 
Armenia is entering the new millennium with the
celebration  next  year  of  the  one 
thousand  seven
hundredth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  Christianity
as  a  State  religion.  Our  centuries-old  history  and  our
traditions,  along  with  our  geographic
Christian 
location, 
have 
profound
understanding of the importance  of  coexistence and  of
a dialogue among civilizations.
contributed 
our 
to 
Armenia belongs to  a  part  of the  world that over
the past 10 years has been subjected to a major political
and social transformation. Having inherited unresolved
problems from the past, Armenia and the entire region
of  the  South  Caucasus  have  not  remained  immune  to
conflict.  The  current 
to  exert
considerable  pressure  on  the  fledgling  fabric  of  our
country’s new social and political relations.
realities  continue 
to 
for  Security 
the  Organization 
intend 
the  United  Nations  and 
Nevertheless, Armenia continues to build an open
society  based  on  the  principles  of  democracy  and  the
rule  of 
law.  We 
further  expand  our
cooperation  within 
to
participate  actively  in  various  regional  institutions,  in
particular 
and
Cooperation  in  Europe  and  the  Commonwealth  of
Independent  States.  We  have  approached  the  final
stages  of  accession  to  membership  of  the  Council  of
Europe,  which  is  evidence  of  our  commitment  to  the
policy  of  multiple  engagements  as  an  effective
instrument for advancing security through cooperation.
We remain convinced that the region of the South
Caucasus  is  in  need  of  a  regional  system  of  security,
and we stand ready to work towards its formation.
to 
Armenia  remains  committed 
the  peaceful
resolution  of  the  Nagorny  Karabakh  conflict.  We  will
continue  to  work intensively  with  the  Co-Chairmen  of
the Minsk Group, and we highlight their contribution to
maintaining the ceasefire regime. Equally, we are ready
to  maintain direct contacts with  Azerbaijan in order to
search  for  compromises,  although  we  think  that  direct
negotiation between Azerbaijan and Nagorny Karabakh
would  be  more  productive.  At  the  same  time,  we  are
convinced  that  it  is  already  possible  at  this  stage  to
advance  economic  cooperation  between  Armenia  and
Azerbaijan,  which  would  certainly 
facilitate  and
expedite the establishment of a lasting peace. Here, we
are  convinced  that  the  Nagorny  Karabakh  conflict  can
be  resolved  only  on  the  basis  of  the  legal  equality  of
the parties to the conflict.
contemporary 
conflict
resolution  reflects  the  changing  nature  of  inter-State
and  intra-State  relations.  It  clearly  shows  the  need  to
go  beyond  the  boundaries  of  conventional  perceptions
of sovereignty.
experience 
The 
of 
A/55/PV.6
The Armenian nation is unfortunately destined to
carry  the  problems  of  the  past  century  into  the  new
millennium. Turkey’s continuing denial of the genocide
of  the  Armenians  in  the  Ottoman  Empire  has  only
intensified  our  aspirations  for  historical  justice.  Some
countries  and  nations  were  in  the  past  burdened  by
similar problems; however, they managed to overcome
them by taking reconciliatory actions, with the support
of 
is  not
humiliation; rather,  it  elevates  individuals  and  nations.
I am confident that a constructive dialogue with Turkey
will  allow  us 
towards
cooperation  and  good-neighbourly  relations  between
our two peoples.
international  community.  Penitence 
the  way 
to  pave 
jointly 
the 
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  once  again
the
congratulate  all  of  us  on 
Millennium Summit, which, given the impressive level
of 
shared
commitment  to  peace  and  cooperation  in  our  common
house.
representation,  gives  proof  of  our 
the  occasion  of 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr. Zine
El  Abidine  Ben  Ali,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Tunisia.
its 
President  Ben  Ali  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  early
signs of détente among States — signs that appeared in
the  late  1980s  —  aroused  high  hopes  that  mankind
would  fulfil 
legitimate  aspirations  for  peace,
prosperity  and  a  greater  development  of  international
relations  so  as  to  achieve  a  more  equitable  sharing  of
burdens and responsibilities. That period, however, was
soon  followed  by  tensions  and  conflicts,  with  the
attendant 
diseases,
the  environment,  aggravation  of
deterioration  of 
poverty  and 
indebtedness,  disruption  of  financial
markets  and  a  resumption  of  the  arms  race.  In  the
context of this  universal  crisis, it  was  incumbent  upon
the international community to formulate a set of joint
initiatives  and  to  codify  its  interventions  within  a
framework of partnership based on a series of effective
programmes  and  mechanisms 
to  address  existing
problems.
epidemics 
spread 
and 
of 
Though globalization has provided new economic
opportunities,  accompanied  by  amazing  scientific  and
technological  advances,  this  has  not  prevented  the
widening of the gap between States as regards the pace
of  development,  or 
the  worsening  of  disparities
between  rich  and  poor.  This  has  indeed  aroused  fears
11
A/55/PV.6
and  prompted  most  observers 
the
establishment of a joint area of prosperity, which would
ensure  balanced  and  sustainable  development  for  all
the  nations  of  the  world,  without  any  exclusion  or
marginalization.
to  call 
for 
We in Tunisia have followed a balanced strategic
approach  based  on  the  principle  of  the  universality  of
human  rights  as  well  as  on  the  values  of  democracy,
pluralism  and  solidarity,  and  on  reconciling 
the
requirements  of  promoting  the  economy  with  those  of
social  progress.  We  have  also  chosen  to  be  guided  in
our  development  programmes  by  the  decisions  of  the
conferences  held  by  the  United  Nations  over  the  past
decade in several fields.
and 
development 
The  tragic  living  conditions  of  certain  peoples,
due  to  poverty  and  disease,  have  prompted  us  to  call
for  the  adoption  of  solidarity  and  cooperation  among
States as an absolute humanitarian and moral necessity.
In  this  regard,  we  have  proposed  the  conclusion  of  a
partnership 
between
developing  and developed  countries,  and the recycling
of  debts 
in  developmental  and
environmental  projects.  We  have  also  proposed  the
creation  of  a  world  fund  for  solidarity  and  poverty
eradication, to serve as an instrument for strengthening
the mechanisms of humanitarian intervention, and as a
means to fight poverty in the most destitute parts of the
world.
investment 
contract 
for 
While  this  proposal  stems  from  our  firm  belief
is  a
that  solidarity  among  States  and  peoples 
humanitarian  duty  and  a  moral  obligation, 
it 
is
essentially  based  on  our  conviction  that  human  rights
constitute  an  indivisible  whole,  which  will  only  be
made  complete  by  safeguarding  human  dignity  and  by
providing  man,  wherever  he  may  be,  with 
the
wherewithal to lead a decent life. While expressing our
appreciation  for  the  positive  response  given  to  our
initiative  by  many  heads  of  State  and  United  Nations
officials,  as  well  as  by  numerous  international  and
regional  organizations  and  conferences,  we  note  that
we  rely  on  the  delegations’  sense  of  humanitarian
responsibility  and  their  goodwill  to  work  for  an  early
realization of this proposal.
The  African  continent  continues  to  this  day,  for
many reasons, to suffer from conflicts, deprivation and
the  heavy  weight of  indebtedness. This  state  of  affairs
requires  the  international  community  to  take  early
action in the form of firm and expeditious humanitarian
12
initiatives to alleviate the suffering of our continent, to
strengthen peace efforts there, and to help the continent
overcome existing obstacles to its development process
and to minimize the danger of the spread of epidemics,
particularly AIDS, among the masses of its population.
I would like on this occasion to touch on the vital
issue of human rights that dominates the current debate
at  the  United  Nations  —  namely,  that  these  rights  are
being  used  nowadays  as  a  pretext  for  interference  in
other  countries’  affairs.  Tunisia,  which  has  ratified  all
relevant 
is
determined 
in  developing  a  more
democratic conception of international relations within
the  framework  of  an  integrated  diplomacy  and  on  the
basis  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  its
express  provisions,  including  the  duty  to  respect  the
principle  of  sovereignty,  non-intervention 
the
internal affairs of other States and the serious, impartial
and  equitable  treatment  of  all  questions  and  issues
under consideration.
treaties  and  covenants, 
to  participate 
international 
in 
incorporating  all  components  of 
We are being asked today to renew our adherence
to  the  United  Nations,  which  constitutes  an  ideal
framework, 
the
international community, and is a fundamental base for
multilateral  action. To that  end,  we  must  all  cooperate
in  reforming  the  structures  of  the  Organization  and  in
developing its working methods, while maintaining the
permanent  features  and  the  foundations  on  which  the
Organization is built.
that 
It  is  our  fervent  hope  that  this  historic  summit
will open for us, as  we  step into  the third  millennium,
broad  perspectives  for  using  the  great  transformations
and  rapid  technological  progress  that  our  world  is
witnessing  for  the  benefit  of  all  mankind.  This  is  a
historic  occasion 
to  reaffirm  our
responsibilities 
the  world,  and
particularly to the brotherly Palestinian people, so that
they  can  regain  their  legitimate  rights  and  build  their
independent  State  on  their  national  soil  with  Al-Quds
al-Sharif  as  its  capital.  These  responsibilities  also
require  us  to  renew  our  commitment  to  the  United
Nations and our adherence to its charter and  the  noble
purposes and principles enshrined in it.
impels  us 
to  all  peoples  of 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Fernando  de  la  Rúa,  President  of  the  Argentine
Republic.
A/55/PV.6
President  De  la  Rúa  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Allow
me  to  convey  to  you,  Madam,  and  to  your  Co-
Chairperson,  my pleasure at seeing you presiding over
this historic Millennium Summit.
There  are  many  issues  related  to  the  role  of  the
United Nations in the new millennium. Because of the
time  factor,  I  will  refer  to  only  one  to  which  my
country attaches great importance:  poverty elimination
as  a  way  of  preventing  international  conflicts  or
internal  conflicts  with 
ramifications
characteristic of our times.
international 
is  a 
I  wish 
to  highlight 
the 
fundamental 
that  poverty
elimination 
in  conflict
prevention,  becoming  the  approach  which,  in  the
present  world,  assumes  the  greatest  relevance  and
magnitude for the international community.
fact 
factor 
if,  at 
the  same 
time,  ongoing 
the  organization  of  elections, 
social
clearance, 
reconciliation  and 
the  restoration  of  basic  social
services  for  communities  affected  by  war  will  not  be
enough 
long-term
development  programmes  are  not  implemented  in  the
areas  of  basic  education,  health  and  employment.  We
should  not  forget  that  the  developed  countries  have  a
decisive  role  and  a  great  responsibility  in  eradicating
poverty.  I  am  not  only  speaking  about  official
to
development  assistance,  but  also  of  activities 
integrate 
into
international  trade,  and  to  eliminate  barriers,  quotas,
subsidies  or  other  mechanisms  that  restrict  trade  or
investment.  It  is  therefore  necessary,  recognizing  the
existence  of  a  shared  future, 
to  assume  a  firm
commitment  of  common  responsibility  based  on  the
principles of equity and solidarity.
developed 
countries 
least 
the 
It  is  necessary  that  there  be  an  awareness  of  the
relationship  existing  between  poverty  —  particularly
extreme  poverty,  malnutrition  and  hunger  —  and
violence,  and  that  measures  be  adopted  aimed  at
refining a system of conflict resolution in keeping with
this new scenario.
This Summit should leave us  with the conviction
that  we  need  to  develop  preventive  measures  to  attain
sustainable  development  for  the  most  backward  areas
and  that  these  would  not  be  depleted  by  short-term
solutions  after  the  outbreak  of  conflicts,  but  would
neutralize crises before they emerge.
It is vital that developing and developed countries
act  together.  We  will  only  be  able  to  contribute  to  the
resolution and prevention of new hotbeds of tension on
the basis of firm common will. The priority attached to
sustainable  development 
less  developed
countries, 
prerequisite,
not 
nonetheless  represents  an  essential  component  of
effective action to avoid violence.
in 
the 
although 
sole 
the 
This  leads  us  to  take  up  again  the  framework
theme of the Summit: the role of the United Nations in
the  new  millennium.  The 
formulation  of  new
preventive  measures  aimed  at  eradicating  poverty  is
undoubtedly  a  responsibility  and  a  role 
that  our
Organization must exercise in accordance with the new
role  that  the  international  community  expects  of  the
United  Nations.  The  relationship  between  peace  and
development  is  an  increasingly  intense  one,  a  theme  I
raised in the round  table  this  morning.  We  must  target
the  real  causes  of  the  majority  of  present  conflicts.  In
that way, cooperation programmes and projects for the
needy  populations  will  contribute  to  generating  the
atmosphere  of  peace  and  development  necessary  to
ensure a culture of prevention, stability and tolerance.
I 
that
emergency assistance, combatant  demobilization,  mine
the  Secretary-General 
agree  with 
I  wish  to  conclude  by  stating  that  the  dispute
between my country and the United Kingdom over the
Malvinas,  the  South  Georgia  and  South  Sandwich
Islands  and  the  surrounding  maritime  areas  is  on  this
Organization’s  programme  of  work,  which,  through
several  resolutions,  has  requested  the  Governments  of
my  country  and 
to  resume
negotiations  to  find  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the
sovereignty  dispute,  thus  ending  a  colonial  situation
imposed by force in 1833.
the  United  Kingdom 
I  wish to renew  my country’s commitment to the
United  Nations  in  the  new  universal  dimension  of
peace and justice.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Ahmet
Necdet Sezer, President of the Republic of Turkey.
statesmen, 
and 
one 
the  other 
President  Sezer  (spoke  in  Turkish;  English  text
furnished by delegation): We are privileged to have two
northern
prominent 
hemisphere 
southern
hemisphere, co-chairing this Summit. It is also a tribute
to  the  United  Nations  to  see  the  President  of  Namibia
presiding  over  this  unique  event;  a  President  whose
nation’s struggle for independence was spearheaded on
the international front through the work of the Council
from 
from 
the 
the 
13
A/55/PV.6
for  Namibia,  in  which  Turkey  had  the  honour  of
serving as Vice- and Acting-President.
to  deliver 
It  is  with  a  deep  sense  of  responsibility  that  I
have the honour to address this largest gathering yet of
world  leaders  here  at  the  United  Nations  General
Assembly.  We  are  expected 
the  right
messages in order to chart the right course for the third
millennium.  We  should  seek  to  ensure  a better  life  for
successive  generations.  As 
the  United  Nations
Secretary-General  rightly  states,  the  freedom  from
want, the freedom from fear and the freedom of future
generations  to  sustain  their  lives  constitute  the  three
overarching  objectives  for  achieving  further  human
progress.  We  are  living  in  a  world  where  hope  exists
side by side  with desperation, opportunities lie  against
poverty  and  great  difficulties  and 
joy  are  often
overshadowed  by  gloom.  That  we,  as  the  global
community,  today  still  expend  vast  resources  for
benign and malign causes is perhaps the most profound
irony of our time.
Globalization means and offers new opportunities
to  mankind.  But  we  must  still  be  diligent  to  avoid
making the rich richer and the poor poorer. Indeed, the
world  community,  and 
in
particular,  have  to  respond  energetically  and  sincerely
to  the  call,  strongly  expressed  by  the  Secretary-
General,  first  to  alleviate  and  ultimately  to  eradicate
what  constitutes  one  of  our  greatest  concerns  —
poverty  across  the  globe.  Africa  needs  the  greatest
attention.
the  wealthy  countries 
With regard to this common quest, the experience
of my nation’s struggle for progress and prosperity has
taught  us  valuable  lessons.  Thus,  we  consider  reliance
upon  and  respect  for  the  will  of  the  people  the  single
most  important  value  to  be  upheld.  Only  through  this
fountainhead will other values flow and the rule of law
become  supreme.  We  must  see  to  it  that  civil  society
plays  an  increasingly  significant role in the  process  of
extending the frontiers of democracy and safeguarding
this  unsurpassed 
regime  against  extremism  and
fanaticism  of  all  sorts.  We  must  bear  in  mind  that
democratization  and  economic  development  are  two
parallel  processes.  In  addition,  assigning  the  highest
priority  to  educating  our  youth  will  yield  the  greatest
benefit in both moral and material terms.
Indeed, the events of the last century have taught
us  that  we  must  ensure  a  fair  distribution,  on  the
national  and  global  scales,  of  the  benefits  of  free-
14
regional  and 
market economies and new technologies; that  we  must
respect the environment as a vital common asset we are
to  bequeath  to  future  generations;  and  that  we  must
strengthen 
international  peace  and
security  for  the  benefit  of  all.  In  a  nutshell,  growing
interdependence  between  our  nations  is  a  must,  not  a
vice,  and  we  must  therefore  heed  the  universal  values
from which this process takes its roots. These goals can
be  achieved  only  if  they  are  made  to  reflect  our
common  aspirations  and  are  supported  by  meaningful
international cooperation.
Turkey is determined to be more actively engaged
in  the  endeavours  of  the  reinvigorated  United  Nations
as  we  become  stronger  in  diverse  fields,  which  range
from  democratic  institutions  to  the  economy,  from
disaster-preparedness 
cultural
development.
social 
to 
and 
We  are  going  through  a  defining  moment  in  the
history  of  the  United  Nations.  The  noble  objectives
enshrined in its Charter are as valid today as they have
ever  been.  On  the  other  hand,  we  remember  the  many
sad  and  tragic  moments  when  this  great  Organization
had  to  stand  as  an  idle  spectator  to  the  scourges  of
warfare  and  human  disaster,  deprivation,  abject
violations of basic rights, famine and calamity.
the  United  Nations 
The Secretary-General was right once again when
pointing  to  the  need  of  developing  a  “culture  of
prevention”,  along  with  the  need  to  elaborate  the
central  role  of 
in  preventing
conflicts.  Indeed,  besides  providing  economic  and
social  assistance, 
the  United  Nations  must  be
strengthened  in  its  capacities  to  prevent  and  end
conflicts. Hence, we are very pleased that the thrust of
the millennium report will be reflected in the document
that we shall be adopting tomorrow.
In this context, I need to stress the importance of
avoiding the perpetuation of stereotype resolutions that
do not help resolve disputes and conflicts, and in which
the  realities  of  the  subject  matter  are  not  really  taken
into  account.  Likewise,  we  think  there  is  a  definite
need  for  reforming  the  Security  Council  in  a  way  that
will  yield 
transparency,
accountability  and  that  will  reflect  the  principle  of
sovereign equality.
representation, 
improved 
These  things  are  easy  to  state.  Translating  them
into  reality  will  continue  to  be  our  main  task.  This
Summit  possesses  the  potential  to  make  an  impact  on
the conscience of the international community in order
to get action started and to accelerate it.
I  wish to conclude  by  saying  that  the children of
this  world  —  the  children  of  the  twenty-first  century
wherever  they  may  be,  in  the  southern  or  northern
hemisphere,  but  first  and  foremost  children  threatened
by  insecurity  and  poverty  —  they  deserve  a  better
future,  a  good  future.  This  Summit  of  world  leaders
bears the responsibility for making this happen.
Finally, I would like to comment on the statement
made  by  the  Armenian  President,  which  I  heard  with
great regret. History must be evaluated by historians.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Rexhep  Meidani,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Albania.
President  Meidani:  The  past  half-century  has
seen  a  revolution  in  the  way  in  which  nations  are
governed.  Fifty  years  ago,  the  majority  of  the  nations
that  are  now  Members  of  the  United  Nations  did  not
have  self-determination,  and  many  of them  were  ruled
by  colonial  masters  or  Marxist  regimes.  Today,  the
challenges  of  economy  and  security  are  very  different
from those confronted during the cold war. But today’s
values  are  still  being  defied  by  dictators  and
authoritarian  demagogues,  and  in  some  cases,  fascism
is still a threat in parts of Europe.
One  such  example  is  the  Balkans,  where  the
entire development of the region is being kept hostage
by  the  wars  caused  directly  by  the  criminal  regime  in
Belgrade.  The  current  crisis  in  the  territory  of  the
former Yugoslav Federation started in Kosovo in 1989,
and it will come to an end only after the right solution
can  be  found  to  this  crisis,  including  a  new,  free  and
democratic  Kosovo  and  the  reconsideration  of  various
problems 
its
membership in the United Nations.
former  Yugoslavia  and  of 
the 
in 
If  we  go  back  to  our  history,  the  1648  Treaty  of
Westphalia established, in place of the crumbling Holy
Roman Empire, nation States. But a pure nation State is
difficult to find in the real word. That is why I believe
that instead of the old concept of classic independence
we  must  apply  a  new  concept  of  interdependence.  I
think  this  is  the  path  for  Europe  and  the  Balkans  to
make  the  principle  of  self-determination  compatible
with the principle of interdependence within the united
States  of  Europe.  Such  a  path  does  not  mean  the
A/55/PV.6
the 
concept 
compatible  with 
dissolution  of  national  sovereignty,  but  rather  the
sovereign  choices  nation  States  are  making to  devolve
more power to local and regional authorities or to pool
their sovereignty within supranational authorities. This
is  also  the  way  to  make  the  concept  of  national
sovereignty 
of
globalization and its sub-phenomenon, regionalization.
However, as we moved through the 1980s and the
1990s,  there  was  considerable  progress  in  the  world
towards  the  democratic  governance.  But  the  question
we  must  ask  ourselves  is  this:  can  we  yet  reach  the
limit  of  our  avowed  goal  of  good  governance  while
there are still Members of the United Nations that insist
on maintaining a state of conflict or even a state of war
with other Members? The answer is, frankly, no. Also,
today  it  is  quite  clear  that  many  countries,  Albania
included,  have  made  an  important  move  towards  good
governance.  Particularly  in  the  Balkans, 
they  are
embarking  on  a  more  complex  set  of  reforms,  in  the
framework of the Stability Pact.
It  is  now  clear  to  us  that  where  there  is  strong
domestic  commitment  to  sound  policies,  international
contributions can be highly productive. This conclusion
is by no means new. A striking vision of good and bad
government  is  seen  in  the  famous  fourteenth  century
Siena  frescos  by  Ambrogio  Lorenzetti,  entitled  “The
Effects  of  Good  and  Bad  Government”.  Over  recent
decades  we  have  embraced  anew  those  old  truths  and
deepened our understanding of poverty and how it can
be  overcome,  and  changed  the  experience  of  helping
poor regions.
technological 
Lecturing  the  poor  countries  and  criticizing  their
own  weak  governance  while  providing  little  money  to
support 
health,
education  and  other  needs,  is  cheap  all  right,  but  it
simply  does  not  work. The  strategy  must  be  modified.
It is the same regarding environmental policy, which is
still  largely  concerned  with  repairing  only  what  was
wrong and is limited to a few recycling systems.
advances, 
public 
It is now generally accepted that, with the end of
the cold war, old ideological divisions are mostly over.
But a more intractable division is taking hold, this time
based  on  technology.  A  small  part  of  the  globe,
accounting  for  about  15  per  cent  of 
the  earth’s
population,  provides  nearly  all  of 
the  world’s
technology innovations. A second part, perhaps half of
the  world’s  population,  is  able  to  absorb  and  adopt
these technologies. The remainder, about a third of the
15
A/55/PV.6
in  a  poverty  gap, 
disconnected.  Unfortunately 
is
world’s  population,  caught 
technologically 
and
ironically,  this  trend  is  accentuated  by  the  increasing
importance  of  information  technology,  which  puts
greater  power  and  economic  rewards  in  the  hands  of
the  wealthy  and  well  educated.  My  call  is  for  rich
countries to recognize this fact and to respond so that,
at  least,  chances  can  be  created  for  many  of  the
technologically  excluded  regions  to  be  able  to  adopt
the  new 
the  benefits  of
globalization.
technology  and 
join 
in 
Today, there  are  growing doubts  about the  future
of  world  policy, 
the  world  economy  and  world
civilization,  particularly  with  regard  to  the  role  and
strength  of  different  international  organizations  and,
more  specifically,  the  reform  of  the  world’s  leading
financial  institutions.  We  must  now  encourage  all  the
ongoing changes  and adjustments  designed to increase
their  effectiveness  and  dynamism, 
through  new,
effective  rules  and  even  —  there  is  no  reason  why
not — new principles. One of the solutions could be to
reduce the requirement for consensus, particularly with
regard  to  crisis  prevention,  as  well  as  post-crisis
management. In  this regard,  efforts  should be  made  to
reach an agreement on the principles of expanding both
categories of Security Council membership, permanent
and  non-permanent,  and  of  including  both  developing
and developed countries in the permanent membership.
In the  process of rapid  globalization, I  think  that
some fundamental pillars should be conceived, such as
the  strengthening  of  the  ideology  of  peace,  freedom
and human rights as the philosophy of this century; the
establishment  of  a  moral  free-market  economy  on  an
international  scale;  the  empowerment  of  international
instruments  for  security  and  policy-making;  and  the
development  of 
linguistic  pluralism  and  cultural
diversity  instead  of  human  homogenization.  Finally,
there  should be  a realistic  approach  to  the  concepts  of
sovereignty,  the  nation,  the  state,  government,  civil
society, world order, security and democratization.
I  am  certain  that  this  Millennium  Summit  is
projecting the right path to respond to these problems. I
am  convinced  that  that  is  our  challenge.  That  is  our
new frontier: cross it we can, and cross it we must.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency The Right
Honourable Jean Chrétien, Prime Minister of Canada.
16
(Canada): 
Mr.  Chrétien
I  will  begin  by
expressing Canada’s outrage at the murder of innocent,
unarmed humanitarian personnel in West Timor. Those
who 
this
Organization 
and
principles  we  have  all  come  here  to  reaffirm.  It  is
incumbent on the  Indonesian  Government  to  bring  the
perpetrators to justice.
attack  United  Nations 
and  undermine 
attack 
staff 
the  purposes 
As  we  mark  a  new  millennium,  the  United
Nations  is  the  world’s  indispensable  institution,  and
Canada  is  unshakably  committed  to  its  common  goals
and  shared  vision.  I  am  pleased  that  the  Secretary-
General  is  using  this  millennium  watershed  to  focus
our  attention  on  reforming  the  United  Nations.  I  wish
to assure him that Canada  will be a creative partner in
this effort.
Canada’s  embrace  of  the  United  Nations  reflects
our  common  values  and  shared  experiences.  An
incredibly  diverse  nation,  we  are  deeply  committed  to
freedom,  tolerance,  justice  and  equality.  We  know  the
sense of community that comes from sharing prosperity
and  opportunity.  We  have  experienced  what  human
ingenuity  and  creativity  can  achieve  when  people  are
free from want, free from fear and free from war.
In the new century, Canada’s vision is of a world
in  which  all  people  enjoy  these  same  blessings.  The
United Nations is our best hope to marshal the common
sense  of  purpose  needed  to  realize  this  vision.  But  it
must meet the challenge of change.
(spoke in French)
The  rise  of  ethnic  nationalism,  such  as  in  the
Balkans or Central Africa, is a stain on our humanity. It
also  greatly  complicates  peacekeeping  operations,
whose  mandates  must  now  include  provisions  for  the
protection of civilians at risk  and  be  matched  with  the
necessary resources.
Canada  was  one  of  the  principal  architects  of
peacekeeping.  We  are  also  one  of  the  most  active
participants  in  peacekeeping  operations.  We  therefore
encourage  all  Member  States  to  be  guided  by  the
recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Panel  on
United Nations Peace Operations.
We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to  deny  the  agents
of  violence  and  conflict  their  sources  of  supply  by
halting  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light
weapons  and  by  controlling 
in
diamonds.  We  must  continue  to  make  the  security  of
illicit 
trade 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  are 
people  our  first  priority.  The  Ottawa  Convention
banning landmines and the agreement on the Statute of
the 
important
milestones in this respect. In a few days’ time, Canada
will  host  an  International  Conference  on  War-affected
Children.
(spoke in English)
I  am  also  pleased  to  announce  that  Canada,  with
the  support  of  interested  foundations,  is  leading  the
establishment 
international
commission on intervention and State sovereignty. Our
Foreign  Minister  will  shortly  outline  the  rationale  and
mandate of the commission.
independent 
an 
of 
Alleviating  world  poverty  is  our  common  cause.
We  must  share  the  benefits  of  globalization.  We  must
give it a human purpose and a human face. The poorest
countries  require  access  for  their  goods  to  export
markets.  Faster,  deeper  and  broader  debt  relief  should
be  pursued  vigorously  through  the  Heavily  Indebted
Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative.  We  must  ensure  that
development does not degrade the global environment.
We  must  also  bridge  the  digital  divide.  We  must
ensure  that  the  benefits  of  the  information  revolution
are  shared  by  all.  That  is  why  Canada  endorses  the
creation  of  a  United  Nations  Information  Technology
Service.  As  former  Canadian  Prime  Minister  Lester
Pearson  used  to  say,  the  United  Nations  must  be  a
symphony  orchestra,  not  a  string  quartet.  For  that  to
happen, 
in  all  respects,
politically and financially. All Members must pay their
bills.
to  be  supported 
it  has 
With the will and the resolve, the United Nations
will remain the world’s indispensable institution in the
twenty-first  century.  Canada  is  committed  to  being  an
indispensable partner.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Yoshiro Mori, Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Mori  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English
text furnished by the delegation): Fifty-five years have
passed  since  the  United  Nations  was  established.
Throughout  this  period,  and  particularly  since  the  end
of the  cold  war, progress  has  been  made  in  the  efforts
to  achieve  peace  and  prosperity.  On  the  other  hand,
there  continue 
tensions  and  conflicts,  and
concerns  over  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction  are  growing  as  well.  While  progress  in
to  be 
A/55/PV.6
technology  and 
science  and 
the  advancement  of
globalization are making greater prosperity possible for
humankind,  the  gap  between  the  haves  and  the  have-
nots 
is  widening.
Moreover,  common  challenges  in  such  areas  as  the
environment and health also demand our attention.
international  community 
in  the 
is 
These  are  the  conditions  that  prevail  as  we  enter
the new century. Today, in the limited time available, I
should  like  to  emphasize  two  points  in  particular.  The
issues
first 
confronting 
from  a
human-centred  point  of  view,  and  the  second  is  the
need to strengthen the functions of the  United  Nations
in the new century.
importance  of  dealing  with 
international  community 
the 
the 
destruction,  which 
At the dawn of a new century,  we are faced  with
various  problems  such  as  conflicts,  human  rights
infectious  diseases,  crime  and
violations,  poverty, 
environmental 
the
existence  and  dignity  of  each  and  every  person.  We
must  deal  with  these  problems  from  the  standpoint  of
the  importance  of  each  individual.  This  is  the  concept
of  human  security.  With  human  security  as  one  of  the
pillars  of  its  diplomacy,  Japan  will  spare  no  effort  to
make the twenty-first century a human-centred one.
threaten 
upon 
human-centred 
approach.  Based 
The  United  Nations  must  play,  and  indeed  is
expected to play, a more active role in promoting such
a 
this
recognition,  Japan  has  to  date  contributed  more  than
9 billion  yen  —  or  well  over  $80  million  —  to  the
human  security  fund,  which  was  established  at  the
United  Nations  in  March  1999.  In  the  near  future,
Japan  intends  to  make  a  further  contribution  to  this
fund of approximately 10 billion  yen, or roughly $100
million. Japan also intends to establish an international
committee on human security, with the participation of
world renowned opinion leaders, and to further develop
and  deepen 
this  human-centred
approach.
the  concept  of 
Next,  it  is  essential  that  the  functions  of  the
United  Nations  be  strengthened  and, in particular,  that
the Security Council be reformed so that it can further
maintain  the  peace  and  security  of  the  international
community,  which  may  well  be  a  prerequisite  for
ensuring  human  security  in  the  twenty-first  century.  It
is  clear  that  the  Security  Council  of  today  does  not
fully reflect the realities of the international community
as it enters the twenty-first century. In order to enhance
the  legitimacy  of  the  United  Nations,  it  is  urgently
17
A/55/PV.6
necessary to reform the Security Council so that it can
effectively fulfil its expected role through its activities
for  the  prevention  of  conflicts  and  the  maintenance  of
peace and security.
essential  in  this  regard.  Based  upon  this  recognition,
Japan  is  resolved  to  redouble  its  efforts  to  more
actively  fulfil  its  responsibility  and  its  role  in  the
international community.
From  this  rostrum,  I  strongly  appeal  to  the
representatives  of  all  Member  States  present:  let  us
create a groundswell of support for the early realization
of Security Council reform, through our discussions at
this Millennium Summit and the Millennium Assembly
to  follow.  I  am  convinced  that  a  large  majority  of
Member  States  already  support  the  expansion  of  the
permanent  and  non-permanent  membership  of 
the
Council,  as  well  as  the  inclusion  of  both  developing
and  developed  countries  in  the  expanded  permanent
membership. Let us confirm this as a starting point and
build  up  agreements,  one  by  one,  on  those  issues  of
Security Council reform on which we can agree.
I  must also emphasize that in order to  strengthen
the functioning of the United Nations, it is necessary to
urgently  secure  a  sounder  financial  base. Towards that
end, let us cooperate to realize an effective yet efficient
use  of  financial  resources  and  a  fairer  and  more
equitable  sharing  of 
the  financial  burden  among
Member States.
agreement 
twenty-first  century.  At 
The  issues  of  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation  must  not  be  forgotten  as  we  think  about
the 
the  2000  Review
Conference  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear Weapons, held this spring, a great step forward
towards  realizing  the  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons
was  made,  with  unanimous 
among
participating  States,  including  nuclear-weapon  States,
on  practical  steps 
towards  nuclear  disarmament,
including  an  unequivocal  undertaking  by  the  nuclear-
weapon  States  to  accomplish  the  total  elimination  of
their  nuclear  arsenals.  Japan,  as  the  only  country  to
have  suffered  nuclear  devastation,  earnestly  desires
that  all  countries  join  hands  to  free  the  twenty-first
century  from  the  fear  and  danger  of  nuclear  weapons
and  to  prevent  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  In  accordance  with  that  desire,  Japan  will
submit  at  the  Millennium  Assembly  a  new  draft
resolution on the elimination of nuclear weapons.
In order to ensure that the twenty-first  century  is
a more peaceful century in which each person on earth
can  be  free  from  fear  and  want  and  enjoy  lasting
in
prosperity,  all  countries  must  work 
cooperation.  Strengthening 
is
together 
the  United  Nations 
18
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency The Right
Honourable  Girija  Prasad  Koirala,  Prime  Minister  of
Nepal.
Mr. Koirala (Nepal): I bring the Assembly warm
greetings  from  the  Government  and  people  of  Nepal
and the  best  wishes  of  His  Majesty  King  Birendra  Bir
Bikram Shah Dev.
Since  its  inception,  the  United  Nations  has  been
working  to  uphold  peace,  to  promote  the  rule  of  law
and to foster development. Yet freedom from want and
freedom  from  fear  are  as  distant  as  ever  for  many
countries.  The  challenge  before  the  world’s  leaders
today  is  to  bring  peace,  prosperity  and  justice  to
everyone in an interdependent and globalized world.
We  in  Nepal  believe  that  the  United  Nations  can
help  achieve  our  goal.  It  is  this  belief  that  keeps  our
faith alive in the purposes and principles of the United
Nations  Charter,  whose  ideals  of  freedom,  equality,
non-violence  and  tolerance  continue  to  sustain  the
in
hopes  of  humanity.  That  Nepal 
peacekeeping  as  well  as 
the
Organization is a clear testimony to that abiding faith.
is  active 
in  other  work  of 
Never  before  had  the  imperative  of  peace  been
more  compelling  and  prospects  of  peace  so  bright  as
they  are  today  because  of  the  unprecedented  human
capacity to destroy and to create. All too often we have
failed  to  remove  the  root  causes  of  conflict,  poverty
and  exclusion.  Poverty  and  conflict  often  reinforce
each  other.  The  current  wave  of  globalization,  though
holding  promise,  has  widened  the  disparity  between
rich  and  poor  and  has  facilitated  the  movements  of
terrorists,  criminals,  drugs,  diseases  and  pollution.
Refugee  flows  have  become  alarming  due  mainly  to
intra-State conflicts.
It is within our collective capacity to change this.
States must exercise the requisite political will and act
together  to  eliminate  the  threats  of  nuclear  and  other
weapons of mass destruction, to control small and light
weapons,  to  prevent  conflicts  and  resolve  disputes
peacefully,  to  restore  confidence  in  collective  security
through  robust  peacekeeping,  to  tackle  terrorism  and
crime and, above all, to bring inclusive progress.
Reducing  poverty  requires  sustained  growth  at
home and a favourable external climate. Growth entails
investment,  which  the  world  community  should  help
poor countries to finance by meeting agreed aid targets,
broadening  debt  relief  measures  and  encouraging
foreign investment. Measures must also be put in place
to  evenly  distribute  the  benefits  of  globalization,  to
bridge  the  digital  divide  and  to  open  markets  in  rich
countries for the products and labour of poor countries.
and
market-friendly  to  make  it  sustainable.  The  global
financial  architecture  and  the  global  trading  regime
must  be  more  responsive 
the  needs  of  poor
countries.
environment- 
Development 
should  be 
to 
The  least  developed  countries  have  for  far  too
long  remained  in  the  shadow  of  world  attention.  The
landlocked  among them, like  Nepal,  are  the  worst  off,
as  they  continue  to  slide  down.  Their  development
partners  must help them, both  with adequate  resources
to remove their development constraints and with duty-
free  and  quota-free  access  for  their  exports.  Transit
countries  should  provide  better  transit  facilities  to
landlocked  countries  so  that  they  can  join  the  global
economic mainstream.
The  United  Nations  needs  comprehensive  reform
in order to rise up to the challenges of the twenty-first
century.  We  must  restore  an  optimal  balance  between
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  and
strengthen  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  The
Organization  must  bring  about  greater  coordination
among its funds, programmes and activities, as well as
with the Bretton Wood institutions and the World Trade
Organization.  If  the  Organization  is  to  be  effective,
Member  States  must  provide 
it  with  adequate
resources.  The  Secretary-General’s  millennium  report
offers many useful insights to address global problems
and reform the Organization.
We  share  a  common  humanity  and  face  a  shared
destiny.  States  committed  to  democracy,  human  rights
and good governance that are willing to take bold steps
and work with each other, as well as with civil society,
can  make  a  difference.  People  shall  judge  us  by  our
leadership  in  promoting  peace,  prosperity  and  justice
for  every  man,  woman  and  child  around  the  world.
Nepal will do its part.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency The Right
Honourable Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister
A/55/PV.6
and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the
Kingdom of Lesotho.
in 
the 
the  United  Nations 
Mr.  Mosisili  (Lesotho):  We  are  at  an  important
juncture  in  human  history,  a  time  of  reflection  on  the
role  of 
twenty-first
century —  the  United  Nations  in  which  most  of
humankind  places  much  faith  and  hope  for  a  bright
future. Can we say with confidence that such faith and
hope  are  justifiably  placed?  Whatever  answer  we  give
to that question, I believe it is  within our capability to
make  it  so.  There  is  no  doubt  that  when  the  United
Nations  was  created,  in  1945,  the  expectations  of  all
peoples  of  the  world  were  high  for  an  institution  that
promised  an  era  of  peace  and  security  and 
the
betterment of the living conditions of all peoples.
Given the pall of despair that had descended upon
the  world  following  a  prolonged  and  brutal  war,  the
human  spirit  could  not  but  be  uplifted  by  the  lofty
words  and  intentions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations:
“to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the
scourge of war”,
“to  reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental  human
rights,  in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human
person, in the equal rights of men and women and
of nations large and small, and”
“to  promote  social  progress  and  better
standards of life in larger freedom”.
Unfortunately,  it  was  not  until  50  years  later,  in
1994,  that  institutionalized  colour  discrimination  was
defeated  in  South  Africa.  In  a  similar  vein,  the  poor
countries  of  the  South,  including  my  own,  are  yet  to
see  genuine  economic  emancipation,  despite 
the
creation  of  the  International  Bank  for  Reconstruction
and Development and the International Monetary Fund,
which are meant to give practical  meaning to the lofty
aspirations of the United Nations Charter.
The  attainment  of  democracy  in  sub-Saharan
Africa  must  be  accompanied  by  corresponding
economic gains and the reduction of poverty. However,
the  majority  of  us  who  have  embraced  democracy  are
yet  to  reap  the  fruits  of  that  change.  We  have  waited
too long, and change must come now. We are unable to
meet  the  challenges  of  globalization  and  to  take
advantage 
for
development and the relief of poverty. We are similarly
unable  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  opportunities
opportunities 
offers 
the 
of 
it 
19
A/55/PV.6
in 
advances 
technology,  which 
and
presented 
by 
communications 
great
prospects  for  our  rapid  development.  The  defining
challenge of the twenty-first century is how to close the
present gap in development between the developed and
the developing nations.
information 
hold 
The  renaissance  that  the  Economic  and  Social
Council has been experiencing in the last three years is
very  gratifying  and  must  be  sustained.  Its  role  in
translating  our  aspirations 
into  reality  should  be
strengthened.  It  will  therefore  be  necessary  in  the
twenty-first century to rethink the powers of that body
so  that  it  is  put  on  a  footing  commensurate  with  its
importance.
and 
the 
that 
thirdly, 
On  the  eve  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we  must
continue  to  dream  of  a  future  filled  with  hope  for
humanity.  A  policy  framework 
is  regaining
currency  is  that  of  a  new  global  human  order  whose
essential  elements  are,  first,  the  creation  of  a  new
partnership  between  developing 
developed
countries,  based  on  full  cooperation  for  their  mutual
benefit;  secondly,  the  promotion  of  democratic  culture
and  good  governance; 
the  adoption  of  a
development  strategy  that  is  centred  on  people  as
objects  of  development,  and  one  that  is  sensitive  to
rights  of
issues  of  equity,  gender  equality, 
indigenous  people 
the
increased  productivity  and
environment; 
production  with  equity  through  the  application  of
science  and  technology;  fifthly,  the  elimination  of  the
debt  burden  for  developing  countries;  sixthly,  the
reduction  of  extreme  poverty;  and,  lastly,  the  creation
of  a  global  development  facility  funded  by  such  new
and innovative sources of financing as cuts in  military
spending,  levies  on  pollution  and  a  tax  on  speculative
capital.
the  protection  of 
fourthly, 
and 
Finally,  we  would  like  to  join  all  delegations  in
calling  for  a  United  Nations  that  is  strengthened  and
equipped  with 
to  wage  war  against
HIV/AIDS.
resources 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency The Right
Honourable  Percival  James  Patterson,  Prime  Minister
and Minister of Defense of Jamaica.
Mr. Patterson (Jamaica): The closing decades of
the  twentieth  century  have  brought  mankind  to  new
horizons, extending beyond the nation State to create a
wider  circle  of  human  identity  and  building  a  new
20
sense  of  global  consciousness. 
times,
philosophers,  poets  and  other  visionaries  recognized
the  existence  of  one  human  family.  It  is  a  concept
which our people have grown increasingly to accept.
In  earlier 
in  space,  have  served  dramatically 
Photographs  from  space,  showing  a  single  Earth
suspended 
to
confirm  the  sense  of  one  borderless  world,  giving  a
powerful  stimulus  to  the  spread  of  this  perception  of
human unity and global oneness. Acknowledgement of
this reality must be the starting point of this Assembly
as we mark the start of a new millennium.
The establishment of the United Nations was one
of  the  principal  achievements  of  the  century  and  the
Charter is unquestionably a landmark document, giving
a  clear  signal  in  the  movement  to  a  wider,  global
identity.  During  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  United
Nations,  several  important  contributions  were  made  to
strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  world  community  to
address  the  major  global  issues  which  confront  us.
Discussions  on  reform  were  launched,  but  enthusiasm
triumphed.  Reform  was
was 
subverted 
and
retrenchment.
for  downsizing 
lacking  and 
a  crusade 
inertia 
into 
And so we embark on the new millennium with a
glaring  structural  deficit:  the  absence  of  an  organ —
comparable 
in  standing  and  authority,  but  more
representative  in  its  composition  —  to  address  major
global  questions  in  the  economic  domain,  the  social
field and the environment of our planet. There remains
a yawning gap in the institutions of global governance
that we must quickly fill.
instability 
large-scale 
in 
As we enter the new millennium, universal global
threat
peace  and  security  remain  under  constant 
and  persistent  poverty;
because  of 
the  world  economy; 
the
increasing 
looming  global  contest  between 
and
resources 
consumption; and the prospect of poor countries’ being
obliged  to  pay  for  the  indulgence  of  the  rich.  Poverty
remains  the  single  greatest  challenge  facing  mankind.
Even  as  globalization  presents  new  vistas  of
opportunities,  half  of  the  world's  peoples  suffer  the
deprivation,  despair  and  powerlessness  of  extreme
poverty.
We must seize this unique moment to forge global
partnerships  for  decisive  action  against  poverty  and
social  exclusion.  We  live  in  a  fool’s  paradise  to  think
that the status quo can be indefinitely  maintained. The
challenges,  indeed,  are  multiplying.  The  poor  have
neither the time nor the interest to discuss the theories
of economic globalization. Even as they experience its
harsh  realities,  the  globalized  media,  with  a  vastly
extended  reach,  now  enable  the  poor  to  see  how  the
rich actually live. They can observe that, if the roads of
the cities of the industrialized world are not paved with
gold,  they  are  a  gateway  to  much  greater  opportunity
than their present life offers.
to  mankind.  Yet 
The digital revolution is a demonstrable source of
tremendous  benefit 
information
technology  is  dangerously  poised  to  become  the  new
barrier —  a  powerful  force  of  exclusion  in  the  new
millennium.  Let  us  exploit  the  digital  revolution  for
human  development 
the  creation  of  a  global
knowledge-based  economy.  I  call  for  effective  and
meaningful collaboration among all stakeholders in the
international 
information
technology can impact positively on the lives of all our
people. There  must be  no  gender disparity  in  this  new
revolution. It must embrace our children and youth, the
disabled, our rural communities and ethnic minorities.
community 
that 
in 
so 
that 
faces 
The  challenge 
this  Millennium
Assembly is the age-old one that has faced humanity at
all  turning  points  in  history.  Do  we  ignore  the  signals
of  self-destruction  or  do  we  heed  them  and  change
course? Indisputably, we must respond to them with the
spirit  of  global  solidarity  that  is  essential  to  their
fulfilment.  To  do  any  less  is  to  fail  in  our  duty  to  our
own and future generations.
And  there  is  no  better,  more  practical,  more
effective way to start than to endow the United Nations
with the capacity and competence to bring that spirit of
global  solidarity  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  long-stated
aims and objectives of the Charter. We must strengthen
the  United  Nations  by  making  it  a  truly  democratic
instrument  of  human  progress.  Only  serious  and
courageous  action,  and  genuine  commitment 
to
changing the status quo,  will be  worthy of our coming
together  here  in  this  commemorative  Summit.  In  the
new  millennium,  we  must  become  good  stewards  for
this and succeeding generations. Let us begin now.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  The
Honourable  Roosevelt  Douglas,  Prime  Minister  and
Minister  for  Foreign,  Legal,  Labour  and  Carib  Affairs
of the Commonwealth of Dominica.
Mr.  Douglas  (Dominica):  What  makes  the  start
of this new century both fascinating and frightening is
A/55/PV.6
the  fact  that  we  can  only  enjoy  the  benefit  of  it,
cognizant  of  the  fact  that  none  of  us  here  will  see  the
end of it. In short, we will not be present to take credit
for the achievements, nor to shoulder the blame for the
failures of our policies.
It  has  been  said  that  the  century  which  we  are
entering  can  and  must  be  the  century  of  the  common
man and common woman. This is very true, as it is the
common  man  who  will  judge  the  efficacy  of  this
institution and  will pronounce  whether or not  we  were
truly successful in fulfilling the promises of the United
Nations Charter.
But the  bigger  question is:  should  we  succeed  in
leaving  the  common  man  a  higher  standard  of  living,
access to affordable health care, peace and security and
good economic prospects, will he be able to enjoy them
on  the  planet  that  we  will  leave  to  him?  I  ask  this
question  because  the  truth  is,  the  common  man  will
judge  us  most  of  all  on  the  state  of  the  planet  that  we
will bequeath to him and the generations after him.
The  indiscriminate  destruction  of  our  forests,
rampant overfishing of our oceans and the pollution of
the air and soil take less time to occur than it will take
to repair the damage that has been created. Our concern
cannot  be  overstated  since  we,  the  small  States,  the
most  vulnerable  members  of  this  Assembly,  are  the
ones that will bear the burden of the very real threats of
climate change and environmental degradation.
This  issue  of  environmental  vulnerability  further
compounds  the  economic  vulnerability  with  which  we
are  faced  as  we  enter  this  new  century.  Indeed,  it  is
economic  security  that  we  need  to  ensure  that  we
provide  for  the  common  man  of  generations  to  come.
For  without  economic  security,  the  stability,  openness
and good governance to which we all aspire will not be
attainable.
The  viability  of  this  Organization  will  be  called
into  question  if  a  few  members  are  strong  while  the
majority are weak, feeble, marginalized and powerless.
I  say  this  because  the  majority  of  the  countries  in  the
Caribbean are small, structurally weak, with vulnerable
economies that lack the financial and human resources
and  the  institutional  capacity  necessary  to  compete  in
this  global  economy  and  to  benefit  from  the  trade
opportunities which may exist.
My country, Dominica, presently boasts the living
two  oldest  human  beings,
the  world’s 
reality  of 
21
A/55/PV.6
Elizabeth  Pampo  Israel,  125  years  old,  in  Glanvillia,
Dominica,  and  Rose  Charles,  119  years  old.  Both  are
alive and well in Dominica.
are  unable  to  fund  programmes  that  eradicate  poverty,
due to the high burden of external debt which serves as
an impediment to sustainable economic development.
While  we  are  doing  our  part 
international  agreements  such  as 
to  become
incorporated in this  new  era  of  globalization,  we  have
so  far  been  unable  to  identify  any  tangible  benefits
from 
that
govern the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO).  Instead,
we  have  witnessed  the  erosion  of  market  access  and
export  earnings  from  bananas.  We  strongly  urge
organizations  like  the  WTO  to  recognize  the  unique
circumstances  of 
and
vulnerable  States  and  to  make  special  provisions  for
these  States  in  the  formulation  of  their  policies  and
regulations.
structurally  weak 
small, 
those 
The  difficulties  that  my  country  currently  faces
with  respect  to  the  banana  industry,  and  to  agriculture
in general, has left us no alternative but to intensify our
efforts  to  diversify  the  economy,  while  we  stand  firm
with  our  banana  farmers  and  move,  where  possible,
into organic farming. The challenges of diversification
come at a time when we are losing our valuable human
resources  to  the  more  advanced  wage  markets  of  the
North,  when 
trade
liberalization is forcing us back into traditional markets
and, 
in  some  countries,  when  extreme  poverty
demoralizes the majority of the labour force.
the  unstoppable  process  of 
in 
It is very obvious that we cannot afford to let the
information  technology  revolution  pass  us  by.  This
would  not  only  result 
the  marginalization  of
countries like my own but would also put into question
the  viability  and  stability  of  the  countries  themselves.
The information technology revolution has widened the
gap between the “haves” and the “have nots”, with the
“haves”  enjoying  the  good  life  and  the  “have  nots”
floundering  in  poverty.  Despite  the  opportunities  that
may  exist,  we  should  not  forget  that  well  over  half  of
the  world’s  population  does  not  even  have  access  to
basic telephone services.
It  is  the  poor,  particularly  women  and  children,
who  are  most  affected  by  economic  crises,  epidemics
and  natural  disasters.  We  have  every  reason  to  be
troubled  by  this,  as  poverty  impedes  the  contribution
that vast numbers of our populations can make towards
national development.
The  Millennium  Report  calls  for  one  billion
people  to  be  lifted  out  of  poverty  by  the  year  2015.
This is laudable.  However,  many  developing  countries
22
among 
economic 
governance 
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  can  play  a
vital  role  in  shaping  and  influencing  a  new  regime  of
multilateral 
the
international lending agencies, urging them to institute
policies  for  debt  relief,  so  as  to  ensure  that  the
fundamental,  underlying  causes  of  indebtedness  are
eliminated,  thereby  ensuring  that  the  cycle  of  poverty
itself  is  broken.  Dominica  is  sparing  no  effort  to
upgrade  our  offshore 
reduce  and
eliminate any possibilities of money laundering. At the
same  time,  we  demand  our  sovereign  rights  and  are
committed 
the  development  of  our
offshore sector, like other countries in the Caribbean.
to  continuing 
legislation 
to 
than 
Less 
two  centuries  ago,  slavery  was
defeated.  Apartheid  and  fascism  were  defeated  in  the
last century.  It  is  now  our  obligation  to  direct  our  full
energy  to  entomb  racism  in  this  century  in  all  its
manifestations.  One  of  the  greatest  men  of  the  last
century,  Martin  Luther  King,  said  that  the  arc  of  the
moral  universe  is  long  and  wide,  but  it  always  bends
towards  justice.  Real  peace  will  never  come  without
justice.  Dominica  is  easily  one  of  the  most  beautiful
islands  in  the  world.  It  is  committed  to  pursue  the
course  of  peace;  to  play  its  part  in  seeking  a  cure  for
the  dreaded  AIDS  epidemic;  to  strengthen  Caribbean
and  Latin  American  cooperation;  and  to  contribute  to
the strengthening of the unity of all African States and
South-South  cooperation.  Locked  in  geographically
between  the  French  Departments  of  Guadeloupe  and
Martinique, with which we share strong historical ties,
we  have  been  obliged  to  seek  a  new  relationship  with
France and the European Union to ensure our economic
viability.
Dominica  will  always  be  committed  within  the
family  of  the  United  Nations  to  support  the  course  of
peacekeeping  and  conflict  resolution  in  the  world  and
of sustainable development among the poor nations and
the attainment of popular democracy to ensure popular
participation  and  decentralization  at  all 
levels  of
society, and it will respect the right of the Republic of
China to adequate representation.
Finally, we salute the bold task being undertaken
by our brother, Kofi Annan, and the United Nations in
instituting  this  very  timely  debate  among  Member
States.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Cheikh
El Avia Ould Mohamed Khouna, Prime Minister of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Mr.  Ould  Mohamed  Khouna
(Mauritania)
(spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am  particularly  pleased  and
honoured to address you, on behalf of the President of
the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, Mr. Maaouya Ould
Sid’Ahmed  Taya,  on  the  occasion  of  the  Millennium
Summit  organized  under  the  topic  of  the  role  of  the
United Nations in the twenty-first century. I would like
at this point to extend  my  warm congratulations to the
Co-Chairpersons  of  this  historic  Summit,  Dr.  Sam
Nujoma,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Namibia  and
Miss  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Finland.  We  are  convinced  that  their  experience  and
wisdom will guarantee the success of our work.
I  would also like to express to  Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan  our  appreciation  for  the  efforts  he  has
constantly been making since he assumed his duties to
strengthen the role of the United Nations and to enable
it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Ever  since  its  founding,  the  United  Nations  has
been  making  important  achievements  in  the  political,
economic  and  social  areas,  thus  responding  to  the
aspirations  of  peoples  and  States 
freedom,
independence  and  peace.  The  United  Nations  and  its
specialized  agencies  have,  furthermore,  played  an
essential role in promoting sustainable development  in
all economic, social and environmental spheres.
to 
Be 
that  as 
it  may, 
the  phenomenon  of
globalization,  marking the end  of  this century, and  the
magnitude  of  the  challenges  facing  our  world,  more
than  ever  require  more  international  cooperation  and
to 
solidarity 
harmonious
development.
equitable 
reach 
and 
As  Mr.  Maaouya  Ould  Sid’Ahmed  Taya,  the
President of our Republic, said:
to 
the  communications  and 
“Today’s  world,  which  has  become  a  global
village  and  where  distances  have  been  shortened
thanks  to  scientific  and  technological  progress
and 
information
revolution,  must  work  to  correct  the  imbalance
due  to  the  widening  gap  that  separates  the  rich
countries from the poor ones”.
Today  our  world  is  facing  major  challenges  that
are  hindering  the  development  process  and  increasing
A/55/PV.6
marginalization  and  poverty  among  a  large  part  of
humanity. Much of the world’s population continues to
suffer  from  the  effects  of  poverty,  disease,  epidemics
and  ignorance,  as  well  as  those  of  wars,  conflicts  and
environmental 
and
desertification.  Our  collective  responsibility  in  this
respect  is  to  ensure  that  together  we  meet  these
challenges  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  and  mutual
assistance among all countries and all peoples.
pollution 
threats 
such 
as 
the  developing  countries, 
Since  indebtedness  is  one  of  the  major  problems
facing 
international
community must find an urgent and radical solution to
it  so  that  the  available  resources  can  be  used  for
development efforts.  Our country  welcomes  the  recent
international initiatives taken to this end.
the 
The  upheavals  experienced  by  the  world  and  the
challenges confronting humankind require a renewal of
the methods and structures of our Organization. In this
respect,  reform  and  restructuring  of  its  bodies  are
necessary so that they can be adapted to  new  realities.
To  this  end  we  appreciate  the  initiative  taken  by  the
Secretary-General 
the
Organization.
reform  and 
restructure 
to 
We  also  place  great  hope  in  the  results  of  the
work  of  the  Working  Group  mandated  by  the  General
Assembly  to  consider  expanded  representation  in  the
Security Council. We reiterate our support for this idea
and  for  the  idea  of  increasing  the  number  of  its
permanent members by admitting developing countries
and  other  industrialized  countries,  in  accordance  with
the rules of democracy, transparency and justice, with a
view to ensuring equitable  geographical representation
in the Council, so that it reflects the universal character
of  our  Organization,  in  accordance  with  Article  24  of
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  convinced
that  these  reforms  will  allow  the  United  Nations  to
meet the challenges of the twenty-first century.
to  reaffirm 
Before  I  conclude,  I  wish 
the
commitment  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania  to
working  to  achieve  the  noble  ideals  of  the  United
Nations,  with 
the  promotion  and
consolidation  of  international  peace  and  security  and
the  strengthening  of  cooperation  and  solidarity  among
nations  in  order  to  bring  about  a  better  world  free  of
war, famine and underdevelopment.
a  view 
to 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Sir James
23
A/55/PV.6
Fitz-Allen  Mitchell,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint  Vincent
and the Grenadines.
Sir  James  Fitz-Allen  Mitchell  (Saint  Vincent
and the Grenadines): The history of our civilization has
been an evolving relationship between the organic and
the inorganic. It has evolved with intimate relationships
between all living creatures and the planet Earth, which
we inherited.
This  intimate  relationship  among  living  beings
created  the  concepts  and  the  values  of  family,  home
and  nation.  Over 
thousands  of  years,  national
boundaries  became  demarcated.  Rivalries  regarding
these  boundaries  and  the  exploitation  of  resources  led
to  wars,  and  then  to  the  search  for  peace,  which  gave
rise to the founding of the United Nations.
Our religious heritage has taught us how to reach
across  the  boundaries  of  nations  through  the  very
inspirational  guideline,  “Love  your  neighbour  as
yourself.” Today we are sensitive to the imperatives of
the  global  village,  and  our  neighbours,  through  the
technological  revolution,  are  everywhere.  And  yet  the
competition  among  the  peoples  of  the  world  has
become  fiercer,  with  the  rich  countries  surging  ahead
them  and  poor
and  widening 
countries.  Having  access 
the
developed  countries  is  the  key  to  long-term  economic
development for the poor countries.
the  gap  between 
the  markets 
to 
in 
Small  island  States  such  as  our  own,  with  an
enviable record of good governance and human rights,
have  seen  the  mighty  in  the  banana  trade  using  the
international  rules  —  crafted  by  them  —  impede  our
economic growth. Similarly, the verdicts that have been
imposed 
for  Economic
Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD)  countries  on
our  financial  services,  without  our  having  the  right  to
be  heard,  demonstrate 
total  disrespect.  So-called
harmful  taxation,  so-called  harmful  tax  competition  is
about  whose  treasury  collects  the  taxes.  Where  is  the
fairness in free trade in all of this?
the  Organisation 
by 
Offshore  financial  services  is  one  of  our  chosen
avenues  of  economic  diversification.  Since  it  appears
as  though  there  is  no  place  or  space  for  us  in  the
production  of  goods,  we  thought  that  we  should
provide  a  financial  service  to  those  who  do  produce
goods.  Our  decision  to  service  the  wealth  generated
elsewhere is part of our attempt at economic survival.
24
We  recognize  that  our  financial  system  must
provide opportunities for the enjoyment of the fruits of
one’s  labour.  However,  we  want  it  to  be  understood
that we are committed to being responsible members of
the international community, including playing our part
in 
trade  and  money-
laundering.
the  war  against 
the  drug 
Each  successive  generation  of  youth  must  be
provided  with  a  ray  of  hope,  and  in  the  twenty-first
century  our  world’s  leaders  must  provide  meaningful
change to enhance the quality of life for all the world’s
people.  Development,  no  matter  what  we  build,  is
about people and the quality of their  lives.  Only  when
this objective is realized will globalization be accepted
as a practical policy of creating equity of opportunities
for human development.
The  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  lie  in
the  battles  against  poverty  and  the  HIV  virus.  The
development  of  human  capital  is  the  main  priority  for
small  nation-States  such  as  St.  Vincent  and 
the
Grenadines.
The  United  Nations  must  find  a  way  to  focus
continually on the equitable distribution of the  world’s
wealth.  The  unilateral  imposition  of  the  will  of  the
strong  and  the  wealthy  on  the  small,  vulnerable  and
poor  will  not  produce  the  stability,  security  and  peace
that  are  fundamental  to  attaining  the  quality  of  life  to
which we all aspire.
This  should  be  the  guiding  spirit  behind  our
reform.  With  this  spirit,  we  should  preserve  humanity
well into the twenty-first century.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mart
Laar, Prime Minster of Estonia.
Mr.  Laar  (Estonia):  Despite  the  fact  that  the
United Nations has indeed achieved a lot over the past
55  years,  the  Organization  has  not  always  lived  up  to
the  expectations  the  world  had  when  it  was  first
founded.  This  uneven  record  is  also  described  in  the
Secretary-General’s report. Let  me give an  example of
the  differences  between  the  high  expectations  and  the
reality. In 1972,  freedom  fighters in  the  then  occupied
Estonia  wrote  an  appeal  to  the  United  Nations.  They
considered  the  United  Nations  to  be  an  unquestioned
moral authority. In the real world, they ended up in the
prison camps of the USSR without any notice from this
high body. The USSR happened to be a big Power. The
United  Nations  of  the  new  millennium  must  make
changes.
To  achieve  that  important  goal,  the  decision-
making and financial procedures of the United Nations
have  to  be  adapted,  and  the  Organization  must  be
streamlined. We need a United Nations that  will be  an
effective,  accountable  and  representative  organization
that  represents  us  all,  large  and  small  countries,
equally.  But  this  has  another  side  as  well:  Member
States themselves  must be willing to pitch  in. It  is  not
enough 
the  United  Nations  do
something;  we  have  to  provide  it  with  the  necessary
tools to do its  work. That  means that  we  must  lead by
example.  Let  me  focus  on  three  points  that  we  in
Estonia consider important. First, open government and
open markets are a precondition for economic recovery
and  growth.  Secondly,  the  information  technology
sector  is  a  vital  conduit  to  successful  development.
And  thirdly,  no  country  can  allow  itself  to  take
advantage of a discount on security.
to  demand 
that 
(A/54/2000) 
focused  on 
On  the  first  point,  the  Secretary-General’s  report
to 
the  Assembly 
the
eradication of poverty and on making the world a more
equal  place.  This  is  important.  It  can  be  achieved  by
alleviating  debt  and  by  providing  more  development
assistance.  I  think  both  of  those  aspects  are  vital.
However,  what  is  crucial  is  that  States  Members  of  the
United  Nations  should  commit  themselves  to  good
governance  and  open  markets.  Without  a  commitment
to these two elements, no amount of aid and no amount
of debt relief will achieve that aim, an aim we all have
to strive for.
that  opening  up  our  markets 
I  am  convinced  that  small  countries,  such  as
Estonia,  can  provide  an  important  example  of  how  to
manage  economic  restructuring.  We  have  been  able  to
show 
to  outside
competition,  cutting  and  indeed  eliminating  tariffs,
privatizing  our  economy  and  making  the  Government
accountable  to  the  people  bring  tangible  benefits.  The
United Nations Development Programme has provided
perhaps the best illustration of the effectiveness of our
approach.  In  two  years,  Estonia  has  moved  30  places
up  in  the  Human  Development  Index  and  we  belong
today to the group of countries that evince high human
development.
Secondly,  in  his  report,  the  Secretary-General
highlighted the need to ensure that the benefits of new
technology, especially information technology, become
A/55/PV.6
available  to  all.  The  high-level  panel  of  experts  on
information  and  communication  technology  has  called
for Internet access for all of the  world’s population by
the  end  of  2004.  That  is  an  ambitious  goal  and
certainly not an easy task, but it is doable. The Internet
may not be a cure for all ills; indeed we have to be very
careful  not  to  overestimate  the  importance  of  the
Internet or to underestimate its shortcomings. However,
a prerequisite  for the  spread  of the Internet  and  of  the
World  Wide  Web  is  total  and  unfettered  access.  Yet
action to ensure this opportunity is less and less global
in scale: local action is called for,  mostly  in  the  hands
of national Governments. Those that embrace openness
are  also  able  to  enhance  the  opportunity  of  their
citizens to reach out to qualitatively new horizons.
through 
technology 
We  have  committed  ourselves 
to  promoting
information 
nationwide
a 
programme guaranteeing each and every schoolgirl and
schoolboy in Estonia free access to the Internet. Today,
the  Estonian  Government  carries  out  its  sessions  via
computer,  and  Estonia  has  risen  to  be  among  the  20
most  computerized  nations  in  the  world.  But  this  not
enough.  Equal  distribution  of  money  and  information
alone does not guarantee well-being. We have to secure
an environment where it can be enjoyed. The next and
decisive  move  for  mankind  is  to  invest  in  ecological
technologies  that  allow  us  to  live  in  partnership  with
nature.
We  know  how  difficult  it  is  to  start  such  a
programme  with  limited  resources.  But  we  also  know
what  benefits  can  be  gained  from  it.  That  is  why
Estonia is committed to work together with the United
Nations  to  assist  other  Member  States  to  create  new
opportunities  for  themselves  and  for  the  world  as  a
whole.
Thirdly,  just  as  we  in  Estonia  have  come  to
understand  that  we  must  transmit  some  of  the  know-
how we have gained to other United Nations Members,
we  have  also  reached  the  position  that  we  cannot  live
on  discounted  security.  That  is  why  the  Estonian
Government  decided  this  year  to  give  up  the  80  per
cent  discount  that  we  have  used  so  far  and  to  pay  our
contribution to peacekeeping in full. It is important that
if we expect the United Nations to perform ever  more,
and  more  complicated,  tasks,  we  must  also  be  willing
to  foot  the  bill.  Naturally  Estonia’s  contribution  in
itself  is  not  much  in  dollar  terms.  However,  if  every
Member of the United Nations paid its assessed dues in
full we would make a considerable step forward.
25
A/55/PV.6
to 
But paying our dues is not enough, of course. The
peacekeeping  system  of  the  United  Nations  has  to  be
made  more  effective  and  better  adapted 
the
challenges  of  today,  as  mentioned  in  the  recent  report
on peacekeeping  (A/55/305).  As  we  have  all  seen,  the
term “peacekeeping” itself is no longer appropriate at a
time when what is needed more than keeping the peace
is  establishing  a  peaceful  environment.  Whether  this
task  be  delegated  to  other  organizations  such  as  the
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization,  or  whether  it  be
the United Nations itself that carries out these tasks, we
have  to  be able to  face  the  new  challenges  of  the  new
millennium  in  the  peacekeeping  field  as  well.  Estonia
favours  giving  the  United  Nations  a  stronger  mandate
to establish and preserve the peace.
I  hope  we  all  will  consider  it  our  main  duty  to
help  the renewed  United  Nations  to  make  a  difference
in the new millennium.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Adolf
Ogi, President of the Swiss Confederation.
President  Ogi  (spoke  in  French):  Time  did  not
stop with the end of the cold war. History continues. As
we embark on a new millennium, we are writing a new
page  in  our  history.  This  is  an  opportunity  to  go
forward  and  to  make  progress.  We  must  seize  that
opportunity.
The twentieth century was one of great scientific,
technological,  economic  and  cultural  discoveries.  But
the  twentieth  century  was  also  one  of  conflict  and
human tragedy of the most violent, the most murderous
and  the  most  horrendous  kind.  Yes,  we  are  embarking
on a new century and a new millennium. But  what  we
bequeath  to  future  generations  will  depend  on  our
common will. If we lack that will, what will our legacy
be?
Switzerland  shares  the  objectives  of  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan’s  millennium  report.  We  thank
him for his vision and commitment. Switzerland is with
him.  Switzerland  has  the  same  values  as  the  United
Nations —  peace, 
the
observance  of  human  rights.  This  is  why  Switzerland
intends 
the  United
Nations.
stability,  democracy  and 
to  enhance 
its  relations  with 
Switzerland hosts in Geneva a major headquarters
of the United Nations system. It is a member of most of
the  organizations  of 
the  system,  and  contributes
26
generously  to  the  United  Nations  budget,  but  today  it
has  only  observer  status  in  the  General  Assembly  —
though peace, security and well-being are the business
of  all.  The  Swiss  people  will  decide  about  joining  the
United Nations in 2002.
Despite all our hopes,  wars and violence are  still
with  us.  But  within  a  century  the  face  of  war  has
changed.  Wars  take  place  less  frequently  between
States, but increasingly within States. The participants,
their  objectives  and  these  conflicts  are  of  a  new  type.
The conflicts are most often of a local nature and inter-
ethnic, or simply the work of terrorists.
Nonetheless, these conflicts can destabilize entire
countries.  Their  consequences  are  felt  across  borders.
They  have  a  lasting  impact  on  the  people  and  their
attitudes. It has become more difficult to ensure respect
for  international  humanitarian  law,  because  the  actors
in conflicts are no longer just States.
We  cannot  remain  passive  in  the  face  of  this
suffering and these tragedies. Unfortunately, traditional
international  law  is  no  longer  sufficient.  We  must
explore new approaches and develop new tools  — and
perhaps also new structures within the United Nations.
During and after the conflicts, after the terror and
intolerance have come to an end, we must seek out and
punish the guilty. This is why I salute the efforts to set
up the International Criminal Court as soon as possible
and to ensure its integrity.
But we must also heal the wounds left by history.
In this regard,  the  Republic  of  South  Africa  has  given
an excellent example with its Truth and Reconciliation
Commission,  chaired  by  Archbishop  Desmond  Tutu,
Nobel  Peace  Prize  Laureate.  I  hope  this  example  will
be followed elsewhere in the world.
Human  security  also  requires  fighting  against
poverty  and  inequalities.  This  is  one  of  our  priorities,
because  the  fruits  of  globalization  must  benefit  the
whole  of  humankind.  The  United  Nations  is  called
upon  to  play  a  key  role  so  that  this  objective  can  be
achieved. It  is the only international  organization  with
a 
today’s  problems:
economic  and  social  development,  environmental  and
health  issues,  new  technologies,  and  the  promotion  of
democracy  and  human  rights.  Switzerland  wants  to
take  up  this  challenge  with the  Member  States. In  this
spirit,  we  support  the  idea  of  holding  in  Geneva  a
truly  global  perspective  on 
summit  on  the  new  information  and  communications
technologies.
foundations  for  achieving  self-sufficiency  in  the  long
run.
A/55/PV.6
However, 
at 
they  also  need 
resolutions  passed 
thing; 
the 
such
occasions  are  one 
to  be
implemented. The history of the United Nations shows
this.  Should  we  not  also  envisage  new  structures  that
could  take  binding  decisions  and  be  charged  with
seeing  that  they  are  carried  out?  I  am  thinking  of  a
structure akin to the Security Council, but for issues of
civil  society.  The  States  must  explore  new  approaches
to  meeting  the  challenges  of  today  and  tomorrow,
together — that is, collectively. This  is an opportunity
that we must seize.
It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Switzerland,  before  this
Assembly,  announces:  “We  and  Geneva  are  ready  to
seek  solutions  with  your  countries,  with  the  United
Nations and with you.”
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Somsavat  Lengsavad,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  of
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
unprecedented 
economic 
Mr.  Lengsavad
(Lao  People’s  Democratic
Republic)  (spoke  in  Laotian;  English  text  provided  by
the  delegation): At  the  dawn  of  the  new  millennium
our  world  is  facing  both  challenges  and  favourable
opportunities.  In  the  past  half  century,  the  world  has
recorded 
achievements,
thanks to the rapid advance of science and technology.
As  a  result,  many  countries  have  now  attained  a  high
level  of  development.  However,  unfortunately  the  gap
between  the  developed  and  developing  countries  is
further  widening.  While  the  living  standard  in  some
countries  has  improved,  almost  half  of  the  world’s
population  still  lives  in  extreme  poverty.  In 
this
respect, we hope that the developed and more fortunate
countries  will  seriously  implement  the  United  Nations
Millennium  Declaration  to  help  the  least-developed
countries,  the  landlocked  developing  countries  and
small 
themselves  of
poverty.  The  Lao  Government  has  given  priority  to
poverty  eradication  by  integrating  it  into  the  national
policy and programme.
island  developing  States  rid 
to  economic  development 
The issue of heavy indebtedness has become  one
of 
in
the  obstacles 
developing countries. Therefore,  a  solution  to  the debt
problem  in  various  forms,  particularly  for  the  least-
developed countries, is necessary if they are to acquire
for  building  national  economic
basic 
resources 
Another  issue  of  concern  to  the  majority  of
countries in the world, particularly weak nations, is the
concept  of  “humanitarian  intervention”.  This  concept
could  quite  easily  become  a  cover  for  gratuitous
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  sovereign  States.
Therefore,  we  are  of  the  view  that  at  the  turn  of  the
new  millennium  it 
is  imperative  that  all  general
principles  of  international  law  and  of  the  United
Nations  Charter  —  in  particular,  the  principles  of  the
sovereign equality of all Member States, respect for the
national  sovereignty  of  independent  States  and  non-
interference in the internal affairs of other States — be
strictly observed.
Mr. Tuomioja (Finland) took the Chair.
Building a prosperous, more secure and equitable
twenty-first century is a task that requires the  will and
determined  efforts  of  the  entire  world  community.  In
this  process,  the  United  Nations  has  a  crucial  role  to
play.  Therefore,  it  is  imperative  to  reform  the  United
Nations,  in  particular  its  Security  Council,  so  that  it
might gain legitimacy, be more transparent and be in a
much  better  position  to  carry  out  its  responsibilities.
On  Security  Council  reform  we  maintain  our  firm
position  in  favour  of  the  expansion  of  both  the
permanent  and  non-permanent  membership  of 
the
Council,  adding  seats 
for  both  developing  and
industrialized  countries.  No  less  important,  let  us  also
resolve  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  is  given  the
necessary  resources  so  that  it  can  live  up  to  its
enormous tasks in development assistance.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  will,
together  with  all  peoples  all  over  the  world,  take
appropriate  action  to  prove  its  commitment.  In  this
spirit, I wish the Summit a successful conclusion.
The  Acting  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency
Mr.  Monie  Captan,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Liberia.
Mr.  Captan  (Liberia):  On  the  occasion  of  this
Millennium  Summit,  I  am  honoured  to  participate  in
this  historic  session  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency
Mr. Charles  G.  Taylor,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Liberia.
Permit  me  to  congratulate  our  Co-Chairpersons
for their selection to chair this Millennium Summit.
27
A/55/PV.6
I  wish  to  also  salute  and  extend  deepest  thanks
and  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  on  this
historic  occasion  for  his  efforts  in  the  search  for
international peace and understanding.
This  Millennium  Summit  cannot  and  should  not
follow  the  traditional  pleasantries  of  congratulations
and  self-indulgence  so  characteristic  of  high  profile
meetings of  this  sort.  Rather,  this  Summit  should  be  a
forum for the members of the international community
to  express  their  concerns  as  sovereign  equals  in  the
finest tradition of the universal values of equity, social
justice, freedom and equality.
If we should, in that process, offend others in our
common community because we proclaim our rights as
well  as  the  responsibility  we  assume,  then  we  do  so
without  regret.  We  Liberians,  like  the  rest  of  you,
joined  the  United  Nations  based  on  respect  for  the
principle  of  equal  rights  and  the  self-determination  of
peoples.  By  equal  rights,  we  pronounced  the  equality
of cultural identity in a diverse world. We did not view
equality  in  a  context  of  numerical  ratios,  but  by  the
intrinsic equality of the worth of human beings and the
right  to  self-determination  consistent  with  the  cultural
identity and the value of a free people; a people free of
the  imposition  of  a  perceived  superior  moral  value
system,  one  based  upon  the  narrow  view  of  moral
superiority and ethnocentrism.
self-determination.  This 
In  essence,  we  advocate 
the  coexistence  of
cultural diversity based  upon  the principle  of the right
of 
is
embodied  in  the  legal  context  of  the  modern  nation-
State;  an  entity  that  is  disparate  in  geographical  size,
population,  wealth,  power  and  resources,  but  equal  in
the right of a people to determine their fate.
cultural 
identity 
Today, there is the disparity of bigness; bigness as
it  relates  to  wealth,  technology  and  military  power;  a
bigness so overwhelming that its wealth, technological
advancement  and  military  strength  could,  with  ease,
reduce  poverty,  eradicate  disease,  educate  youths,
provide  basic  social  services,  combat  AIDS  and
malaria,  care  for  refugees  and  provide  security.  Yet,
this  bigness  has  been  used 
to  sustain  disparities
between  the  North  and  the  South.  Some  have  argued
that the poor must learn to pull themselves up by their
own  bootstraps,  while  others  have  urged  the  North  to
assist the South because the creation of viable markets
will serve the self-interest of the North. Yet, any realist
28
would  easily  tell  you  that  no  nation  guided  by  the
principle of competition would shun disparities.
However,  the  South  is  so  small  compared  to  the
bigness  of  the  North.  The  disparities  are  exponential.
Removing the disparities, even if willed, would indeed
require  a  miracle.  What  options  exist?  The  first  step
could  be  to  end  the  debt  burden,  the  bondage  of  the
poor  to  the  wealthy;  a  debt  burden  acquired  out  of
loans given in the pursuit of influence in the cold war,
and  not  in  the  interest  of  the  borrower;  a  debt  burden
that  has  denied  little  children  food,  education,  health
care  and  jobs  for  their  parents.  The  debt  burden  is  a
bondage  that  will  continue  to  stifle  the  welfare  of  the
South  into  the  new  millennium.  We  must,  however,
commend  those  few  States  that  have  cancelled  the
debts of the least developed States.
the 
intercede  for 
We  must  also 
transfer  of
technology. The bold steps of humanity in the sphere of
research were intended to liberate all of humanity from
its backwardness. It was never intended to benefit only
a few or to separate humanity. Why are Nobel laureates
honoured? Is it not because of their dedicated  services
to  humanity?  A  technology  that  liberates  only  the
North and not the South is indeed a  mixed  blessing; it
is a gun that has been used to both liberate and kill. Are
we condemned to be raw material suppliers in the new
millennium?  Suppliers  of  goods,  the  prices  of  which
are determined by the buyers and not the sellers? Shall
we  continue  to  remain  in  a  position  where  we  cannot
afford  essential  technology  in  the  fields  of  medicine
and  agriculture?  We  call  not  for  the  erasure  of  the
disparities  created  by  the  buyers  of  the  North,  but  to
have access at the baseline, to engage in more equitable
terms of trade.
Bigness  is  further  expressed  in  the  information
exchange  between  the  North  and  South.  The  Western
press,  with  its  domination  of  satellite  transmission  of
information  and  access  to  the  Internet,  can  through
sheer  exposure  destroy  small  States 
incapable  of
mustering  the  resources  to  respond  to  a  global  public
relations  campaign.  The  depiction  of  other  cultures  of
small States is prejudiced by stereotypical portrayals of
southern  hemisphere;  a  hemisphere
a  hopeless 
prejudiced  by 
and
information, racism and ethnocentrism. The bigness of
the  Western  media  and  its  impact  on  small  States,  on
different cultures, is so profound  that  it  threatens their
very  existence  and  welfare.  And  yet,  because  of  their
powerful  influence,  Governments  succumb  to  them,
lack  of  understanding 
the 
rather  than  regulate  them;  sometimes  even  using  them
as instruments of their foreign policy.
Who do we raise these concerns with today? Who
shall  guarantee 
the  conditions  upon  which  we
collectively  agreed  to  associate  as  a  community  of
universal norms? What is the fate of our community in
this  post-cold-war  unipolar  system?  Should  we  be
guarded  by  the  words  of  the  United  States  scholar
George F. Kennan, when he wrote in 1948 that:
“We  have  50  per  cent  of  the  world’s  wealth,  but
only  6.3  per  cent  of  its  population  ...  In  this
situation  we  cannot  fail  to  be  the  object  of  envy
and  resentment.  Our  real  task  in  the  coming
period  is  to  devise  a  pattern  of  relationships  that
will  allow  us 
this  position  of
disparity ...  We  should  cease  to  talk  about  the
raising 
and
democratization.  The  day  is  not  far  off  when  we
are  going  to  have  to  deal  in  straight  power
concepts.”
Likewise, 
the  United  States
to  maintain 
in  1996 
standards 
living 
of 
the 
at 
Democratic National Convention, James Rubin said,
“The United Nations can only do what the United
States will let it do.”
Perhaps  the  former  Secretary-General  of 
the
United Nations, Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, did take  a
cue when he asked the question:
“How  can  we  ask  nations  to  accept  democratic
practice  within  their  borders  if  they  see  no  hope
for democracy among nations?”
Or  shall  we  be  optimistic  at  the  new  wave  of
humanism  characterized  by  a  global  coalition  for  the
protection  of  human  rights?  Optimism  must  be  based
upon  sincerity.  Immanuel  Kant  would  insist  that  the
moral 
imperative  must  be  categorical  and  not
hypothetical. Our actions cannot be predicated by mere
expediency in the calculation of accrued benefit; rather,
our  actions  must  be  done  because  we  perceive  and
know them to be right.
At  this  juncture,  this  new  millennium,  we  must
defend  and  preserve  the  universal  truths  to  which  we
have  committed  our  common  association.  Truths  are
simple  and  self-evident.  If  we  must  succeed 
in
preserving the integrity of the United Nations, then we
must  reject 
the
world’s  people  as  reflected  by  the  present  structure  of
inequitable  representation  of 
the 
A/55/PV.6
the Security Council; reject the undemocratic processes
of decision-making  in the  Security  Council;  and reject
the continuous violation of the United Nations Charter
by  the  powerful.  If  we  fail  to  make  these  rejections  a
reality in this millennium, then let us agree that all the
talk of moral imperatives and human rights is but mere
political expediency.
Nevertheless, we the free people of the world will
always insist, as the American jurist Learned Hand did,
that:
the  brotherhood  of  man 
“Right  knows  no  boundaries,  and  justice  no
frontiers; 
is  not  a
domestic institution.”
The  Acting  Co-Chairperson  (Finland): The
Assembly will now head an address by His Excellency
Mr.  Charles  Gomis,  Minister  for  External  Relations  of
Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr. Gomis (Côte d’Ivoire) (spoke in French): At
the  outset,  I  wish  to  commend  the  excellent  idea  of
having  this  important  Millennium  Summit  co-chaired
by the representatives of two countries, friends of Côte
d’Ivoire,  Namibia  and  Finland,  which  play  a  decisive
role in the fight for the implementation and the respect
of the fundamental principles of the United Nations.
I  wish  to  assure  them  of  the  full  support  of  the
delegation of Côte d’Ivoire.
to 
take 
I  also  wish 
to
congratulate  the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  for
his  brilliant  report,  which  will  enable  us  to  conduct  a
fruitful reflection  aimed  at  rendering  our  Organization
better able to respond to peoples’ expectations.
this  opportunity 
In  appointing  me 
to  represent  him  at 
this
Millennium  Summit,  the  President  of  the  Republic  of
Côte  d’Ivoire,  General  Robert  Guéi,  asked  me  to  say
from this rostrum how sorry he was to be unable to be
present,  being  detained  by  preparations  for  October’s
elections.
Under  these  solemn  circumstances,  I  wish  to
express  on  behalf  of  its  Government  and  people  Côte
d’Ivoire’s attachment to the universal principles  of the
United  Nations  Charter  and  its  desire  to  contribute  to
strengthening them.
We  are  witnessing  an  extraordinary  acceleration
in  the  world’s  development.  Peoples  are  demanding
greater  well-being,  happiness  and,  above  all,  freedom.
In  that  spirit,  the  developing  countries  in  general,  and
29
A/55/PV.6
those  of  Africa  in  particular,  wish  to  see  this  Summit
make  resolute  commitments  to  the  eradication  of
poverty, the right to development and the flourishing of
the human person.
That is why we welcome the importance given to
the  situation  in  Africa  in  the  Secretary-General’s
report.  We  sincerely  hope  that  the  appeal  on  behalf  of
the  African  continent  will  be  favourably  received  by
the  international  community.  My  country  is  one  of
those which are convinced that most of the problems of
the  developing  countries  are  due  to  poverty  and
destitution.  In  areas  as 
important  as  agriculture,
education,  health  and  training,  these  countries  face
obstacles  which  impede  their  development.  To  these
are  added  the  difficulties  of  exploiting  and  managing
their immense natural resources, because they lack the
necessary  techniques  and  technology,  and,  above  all,
because  they  have  little  weight  in  decision-making  in
finance and international trade.
How, then, can we explain the fact that countries
with  potential  of  all  types  are  languishing  in  misery
and  ignorance  while  others  lacking  such  resources  are
living  in  abundance?  We  believe  that  a  just  and
equitable  management  of  world  affairs,  supported  by
dynamic  and  active  solidarity,  would  contribute  to
reducing  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor
countries.
century  has 
cease  being  purely 
At  this  beginning  of  the  third  millennium,  the
United  Nations  must 
an
administrative  institution  and  become  a  centre  of
morality and justice where all the nations of the  world
feel  at  home,  developing  a  common  conscience  by
being  a  family  of  nations.  The  United  Nations  of  the
twenty-first 
the  historic  duty  of
encouraging  this  qualitative  step  of  active  solidarity,
not  only  as  an  effective  centre  for  mediation,  but  also
by  promoting  values,  attitudes  and  specific  initiatives
of solidarity capable of improving inter-State relations.
Our  shared  Organization  must  therefore  promote
and  encourage  the  political  will  for  the  ideas  in  the
Secretary-General’s  report  to  be  quickly  implemented
on the  ground.  But,  for  the  United  Nations  to  be  truly
effective,  it  must  have  the  means  to  meet  the  many
challenges which it faces.
This  is  the  model  of  the  United  Nations  that  we
must reassert and bring about, adapting it as necessary
to  take  account  of  the  changes  which  have  occurred
since  its  establishment  in  particular  the  access  of  so
30
many  new  peoples  to  the  experience  of  freedom,  and
their  legitimate  aspiration  to  be  present,  and  to  carry
more weight on the international scene.
By  committing ourselves  in that  way,  we  will  be
able 
the  problems  which  assail  us,
to  overcome 
whether  they  concern  respect  for  the  purposes  and
principles  of  the  Charter,  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  globalization,  peacekeeping  operations,  good
governance, debt, the environment, the advancement of
women,  human  rights  or  the  AIDS  pandemic,  to
mention but a few.
The time has come  for  a  new  experience;  we  are
invited to  guarantee  the  future  of  the  women  and  men
of the twenty-first century.
Before concluding, I wish to take this opportunity
to  recall  that  following  the  change  which  occurred  on
24  December  1999  Côte  d’Ivoire  now  has  a  new
Constitution,  broadly  inspired  by 
the  fundamental
the  Charter.  This  new
values  and  principles  of 
Constitution,  we 
permit
considerable progress in democracy in our country. The
general  elections  to  be  held  soon  will  mark  the  return
to a civilian regime and democratic normality.
convinced,  will 
are 
We  sincerely  thank  friendly  countries  and  the
United  Nations,  as  well  as 
institutions  and
specialized  agencies,  for  their  significant  assistance  in
the electoral process in Côte d’Ivoire.
its 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  next  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  the
Honourable  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  Minister  for
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the
United Republic of Tanzania.
Mr.  Kikwete  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I
apologize  on  behalf  of  my  President  for  his  absence
from  this  historic  event.  He  would  have  liked  to  be
here,  but  he  could  not  be  present  because  of
unavoidable national commitments.
Tanzania  considers  this  Summit  to  be  the  new
foundation  for  a  renewed  international  commitment  to
the ideals, promise and vision of a twenty-first century
United  Nations.  In  its  55  years’  existence,  the  United
lived 
Nations  has 
its  mission  and  vision.  Our
the
Organization  was 
created 
maintenance  of  world  peace  and  security.  It 
is
remarkable that since the end of the Second World War
the  world  has  not  experienced  another  world  war,  and
hopefully  it  never  will  again.  The  United  Nations  has
essentially 
for 
been  able  to  intervene  and  resolve  a  number  of  wars
and  conflicts  which  have 
threatened  global  and
regional,  as  well  as  individual  nations’,  peace  and
security.  I  wonder  what  the  situation  of  the  world
would have been without the United Nations.
While  the  United  Nations  has  scored  noticeable
success  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  much  more
work  needs  to  be  done  in  the  field  of  the  prevention
and  resolution  of  conflicts  and  wars.  The  existence  of
huge  arsenals  of  nuclear  weapons  poses  a  major
potential threat to world peace and security. This has to
be  eliminated  for  the  sake  of  humanity.  The  United
Nations  also  needs  to  deal  with  the  problem  of  the
illicit  traffic  and  proliferation  of  small  arms.  Tanzania
is of the view that for greater success and effectiveness
in  dealing  with  conflicts,  the  United  Nations  needs  to
work  in  close  collaboration  with  regional  mechanisms
and initiatives.
The promotion of human rights, as  well as social
and economic development among nations and peoples
of  the  world,  was  another  important  objective  of  the
United  Nations.  Today,  apart  from  a  few  enclaves  of
Non-Self-Governing  Territories,  the  world  is  virtually
free  from  classical  colonialism,  and  this  is  one  of  the
achievements  of 
the  United  Nations.  The  United
Nations  also  has  to  continue  the  promotion  of,  and
advocacy  for,  the  observance  of  fundamental  human
rights,  as  it  has  done  over  the  years.  We  believe  that
respect  for  human rights  forms  a  firm  basis  for  peace,
security and development in societies and nations.
There is a need for the United Nations to be more
involved  in  matters  relating  to  social  and  economic
development.  Tackling 
the  problems  of  poverty,
especially  in  Africa  and  the  least  developed  countries,
needs  to  be  given  top  priority.  Perhaps  nowhere  is  the
problem  more  compelling  than  in  Africa,  where  33  of
the 48 poorest countries in  the  world  are  located.  It  is
no  accident  that  the  overriding  development  objective
of Africa remains the eradication of poverty, ignorance
and disease.
The  United  Nations  urgently  needs  to  do  much
more  in  combating  HIV/AIDS  in  Africa.  Otherwise,
untold misery is bound to result.
The  United  Nations  has  always  been  a  good
advocate  for  the  poor  and  the  weak  in  their  quest  for
meaningful  development.  We  recall 
the  numerous
initiatives made by the United Nations in attempting to
create  a  new  international  economic  order  and  make
A/55/PV.6
challenges 
the  international  community  respond  positively  to  the
plight  of  the  poor.  Our  Organization  has  to  do  that
more  forcefully  now  than  ever  before  because  of  the
obvious 
ahead  of  us.  There  were
expectations that globalization and liberalization would
lead  to  increased  growth  and  development,  but  they
have  yet  to  produce  tangible  results  for  developing
countries.  It  is  recognized  that  there  are  opportunities
in  globalization  and  liberalization,  but  the  majority  of
the developing countries are still marginalized because
of 
lack  of  an
international environment conducive to development.
their  weakness,  as  well  as 
the 
The 
specific 
challenges 
facing  developing
countries  in  this  regard  deserve  special  attention.  The
United Nations must help promote measures that would
encourage  increased  technical  assistance  and  a  greater
flow  of  resources  and  investment  from  developed  to
developing countries.
to  help  with  comprehensive  debt 
There  is  also  an  urgent  need  for  the  United
relief
Nations 
least  developed
measures,  particularly 
countries.  We  welcome 
the
international  community  of  the  need  to  address  this
issue.
the  awareness  of 
the 
for 
Furthermore,  we  expect  the  United  Nations  to
continue  to  call  upon  the  developed  countries  to
provide  unhindered  market  access  for  goods  from
developing  countries,  as  well  as  to  make  technology
available to developing countries on a concessional and
grant basis.
The United Nations is as relevant today as it was
55 years ago. The world still needs the United Nations,
but  for  the  United  Nations  to  perform  its  mission  and
realize  its  vision,  it  has  to  be  strengthened  in  its
structure  and  resources.  There  is  a  need,  therefore,  to
address  the  serious  financial  problems  affecting  the
United Nations budget and the financing of the United
Nations  development  programmes.  In  this  regard,  I
take this opportunity to call upon Member States to pay
their  contributions  to  the  United  Nations  in  a  timely
fashion, without any conditionalities.
is 
In conclusion, it is our view that the reform of the
long  overdue.  The  Council’s
Security  Council 
continued  legitimacy  demands  that  it  be  urgently
democratized  through  the  equitable  representation  of
developing  countries  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-
permanent categories of membership. We also share the
view  that  the  expansion  of  the  Council  should  include
31
A/55/PV.6
the  United  Nations 
both developed and developing countries. I believe that
that  would  make 
truly  our
Organization. At present, it leaves much to be desired;
there is much that needs to be done if we are to have an
Organization that we can truly say belongs to all of us.
I  wanted  to  share  those  few  thoughts  as  part  of
important  millennium  meeting  of 
the  United
this 
Nations at the beginning of the twenty-first century.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Antoine  Kolawolé 
for  Foreign
Affairs and Cooperation of Benin.
Idji,  Minister 
Mr. Idji (Benin) (spoke in French): I should like
at  the  outset  to  pay  tribute  to  the  memory  of  the
international  staff  members  who  recently  perished  in
West  Timor  in  the  service  of  the  mission  entrusted  to
them by the international community.
The  fact  that  our  work  is  being  guided  by  two
eminent  personalities  from  Africa  and  Europe  attests,
in a symbolic fashion, to the international community’s
support  for  the  idea  that  there  is  a  need  to  pool  our
efforts to define a shared vision of our common destiny
and  to  commit  ourselves  to  a  compact  of  solidarity.
That is why I should like to pay a well-deserved tribute
to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  Secretary-General  of  our
Organization, and to congratulate him on the report that
he  submitted  for  our  consideration,  entitled  “We  the
peoples:  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-
first century”. His judicious and clear-sighted analysis,
as  well  as  his  well-founded  recommendations,  once
again bear witness to his commitment and aspiration to
make 
instrument,
commensurate  with  our  aspirations,  that  can  meet  the
challenges confronting our peoples.
the  Organization  an  effective 
More  than  50  years  after  the  creation  of  the
United  Nations —  and  thanks  to  its  actions —  the
world can be proud of having spared itself a repetition
of the conflicts on the scale of those that characterized
the  first  half  of  the  twenty-first  century.  However,
paradoxically, it has not been able to protect itself from
the  advent  of  an  even  more  terrifying  threat:  the
potential  for  mass  destruction,  acquired  by  certain
countries,  which  is  capable  of  wiping  out  all  of
humanity and our shared home, the earth.
The  United  Nations  has  also  done  significant
work  to  emancipate  peoples  from  the  colonial  yoke,
and today the international community can legitimately
32
welcome  that.  However,  the  Organization’s  initiatives
to support the  majority of these countries that are  new
to the international scene are still very flimsy and have
experienced vicissitudes, often disappointing the hopes
that they had inspired.
Since 
1997, 
the  Organization 
been
undertaking  an  internal  process  of  reform  required  by
the new global context so as to make it more capable of
meeting these new challenges. The initial results of this
arduous  and  painstaking  process  are  encouraging  and
reaffirm the need to continue.
has 
about 
the 
form 
asking  questions 
We  shall  not  repeat  what  the  Secretary-General
has already said so well in his report. We shall limit our
remarks to the role that the people of Benin hope to see
the United Nations play in the twenty-first century. The
United Nations has always been viewed by our  people
as  the  most  appropriate  and  promising  instrument  for
setting  out  the  major  guidelines  for  building  a  human
community that is prosperous and safe. But beyond that
legitimate  concern,  the  men  and  women  of  Benin  are
rightly 
that
safeguarding peace and security in the world will take,
and  about  development  and  the  specific  signs  of
cooperation and solidarity that will make it possible to
raise their standard of living and to achieve what we in
Benin  call 
living
standard —  that  is,  access  for  every  human  being,
wherever  he  or  she  may  be  on  our  planet,  to  food,
housing,  clothing,  medical  attention,  education  and
useful  economic  work  for  society  in  an  environment
conducive  to  income-producing  activity.  These,  to  be
sure, are objectives to which the United Nations, since
its  inception,  has  dedicated  considerable  resources
through numerous initiatives.
the  minimum 
shared 
social 
It must be recognized, however, that as of now all
of the plans and programmes drawn up over more than
50  years  have  not  been  able  to  reduce  poverty,  much
less 
those
countries  that  we  continue,  with  such  old-fashioned
modesty, to call “developing countries”.
to  stimulate  genuine  development 
in 
Even  more than in the past, the credibility of the
Organization  henceforth  will  be  measured  in  terms  of
its  capacity  to  place  human  beings  and  the  protection
of human dignity at the centre of its activities.
There  is  a  need  to  act  rapidly  to  remedy  the
negative  impacts  of  the  globalization  of  the  economy
and of communications, and a need to fill the huge and
unjust gap that has developed between those who have
access  to  the  potential  that  technological  progress  is
making  available  and  those  who  are  deprived  of  or
excluded from it.
sectors  of  national  life  were  together  at  a  time  when
great dangers were threatening our very existence, is a
recent and historic illustration of that.
A/55/PV.6
by  mobilizing 
The  economy  and  means  of  communication  are
now globalized, but what is now needed is to globalize
development 
international
community 
to  shoulder  shared  but  differentiated
responsibility  and  by  effectively  creating  improved
socio-economic  conditions  likely  to  promote  the  full
flourishing of the human being.
the 
We  have  a  historic  responsibility  to  update  and
extend  the  vision  of  the  founding  fathers  of  our
universal Organization.
Once  again,  we  must  be  capable  of  imagination
and vision and must give thought to posterity.
In this context, we believe that in the twenty-first
century  the  United  Nations  should  base  its  action  on
collective  responsibility;  the  right  to  equally  shared
development  and  progress;  and 
the  universally
accepted  duty  of  solidarity.  The  enjoyment  of  these
three  fundamental  values  by  the  citizens  of  the  world
requires 
the  strengthening  of  genuine  partnership
between  the  three  protagonists  of  international  life,
namely,  Governments,  civil  society  and  the  private
sector.
It  is  at  this  price  that  the  imperative  needs  of
democracy,  the  primacy  of  law  and  good  governance
will  be  advanced  and  consolidated  at  the  national,
regional and international level.
I  conclude  by  referring  to  the  symbol  of  the
pierced  jar,  taken  from  the  history  of  Benin  in  the
nineteenth century.
King  Guezo,  who  reigned  in  Abomey  from  1818
to  1858,  faced  with  the  difficulties  inherent  in  his
position,  bequeathed  us  these  prophetic  words,  which
today have inspired many mottos: “If all the sons of the
Kingdom  were  to  come  and  with  all  their  hands
together  stop  up  the  holes  of  the  pierced  jar,  the
country would be saved.”
The  people  of  Benin  have  resorted 
the
symbolism  of  the  pierced  jar  each  time  it  has  found
itself at a crossroads, faced with the challenges and the
problems of its destiny.
to 
The conference of vital forces of the nation, held
in  Cotonou  from  19  to  28  February  1990,  where
representatives  of  all  regions  of  the  country  and  all
The  contribution  of  Benin  to  defining  the  new
vision  of  the  United  Nations  for  the  twenty-first
century could be formulated around this symbol, which
calls  for  solidarity,  tolerance,  sharing,  commitment,
social  progress  and  development,  all  of  them  values
that  sum  up  my  thoughts  here  and  that  are  all  to  be
found  in  those  famous  words  bequeathed  to  posterity
by King Guezo.
It is on these various  pillars that  renewed  United
Nations  action  must  be  based.  On  behalf  of  my
delegation,  I ask  all the  inhabitants of  the planet  earth
to support that jar,  which today  symbolizes  our  world,
so  that  it  will  never  break  into  pieces  in  our  hands,
which must protect it for the generations to come.
Long  live  the  renewed  United  Nations  so  that,
throughout this millennium, the planet earth, which we
have  been  given  to  share,  will  know  peace  and
prosperity.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  I  now  call  on
His Excellency Mr. Jeremiah  Manele, Chairman of the
delegation of Solomon Islands.
Mr.  Manele  (Solomon  Islands):  I  have 
the
honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the Prime
Minister  of  Solomon 
Islands,  The  Honourable
Manasseh Sogavare.
increasing  conflicts, 
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and
security  must  remain  a  major  role  for  the  United
Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The  world  entered
the  new  millennium  with 
in
particular  internal  conflicts  and  wars.  My  country  has
fallen  victim  to  this  trend.  The  crisis  of  the  past  20
months  has  tested  the  solidarity,  security  and  stability
of  our  young  country.  It  has  exposed 
the  real
challenges  of  ethnic  differences  that  exist  and  can
persist  in  a  culturally  rich  and  diverse  society  such  as
ours.  To  resolve 
the  crisis,  my  Government  has
launched  a  National  Peace  Plan  and  a  Programme  of
Action  aimed  at  achieving  a  peaceful  solution  to  the
unrest through meaningful dialogue and discussion and
at  developing  the  country  on  the  basis  of  a  number  of
principles, including  the rule of  law; equitable  sharing
and  active  participation  by  our  people 
the
sustainable  development  of  our  national  resources;
respect for human rights; promotion of and respect for
in 
33
A/55/PV.6
our different cultural traditions; and a gender-balanced
approach to education and employment.
is 
therefore 
A  ceasefire  agreement  was  signed  by 
the
conflicting  parties  on  3  August  2000.  The  agreement
provides  a  conducive  environment  for  peace  talks  to
proceed.  Preliminary  peace  negotiations  have  been
undertaken,  and  the  actual  peace  talks  are  currently
under  way.  My  Government 
firmly
committed  to  ensuring  peace  and  security  for  all  our
citizens,  foreign  friends  and  visitors.  We  are  equally
determined to rebuild our economy and welcome those
who  wish  to  assist  in  this  endeavour.  In  this  regard,
may I call on our development partners to adopt a more
positive  attitude  towards  my  Government’s  genuine
attempts to restore law and order, thus ensuring peace,
security,  and  stability.  During  this  difficult  period,
Solomon 
Islands,  where  appropriate,  needs  your
assistance.
to  utilize 
While access to  information  technology  could be
the  most  rapid  means 
the  benefits  of
globalization  and  to  reduce  the  development  gap
between developed  and  developing  countries,  for  least
developed  countries  the  process  must  begin  with
infrastructure development. Of particular importance is
the  development  of  a  reliable  and  efficient  energy
sector.  Without  electricity,  access  to  information  and
communication 
remain  a  distant
possibility  for  our  rural  communities.  The  need  for
intellectual capacity to harness the opportunities of the
information  age  is  a  key  prerequisite  for  closing  the
digital  divide.  Education,  including  the  eradication  of
illiteracy,  therefore  remains  a  priority  for  Solomon
Islands.
technology  will 
the 
the 
related 
sustainable 
Solomon Islands joins those who spoke earlier in
stressing the importance of sustaining the future of our
planet.  Agenda  21  and 
international
programmes  of  action  and  conventions  remain  valid
blueprints 
and
environmental management in the twenty-first century.
We 
Secretary-General’s
recommendations  on  how  to  address  the  issues  of
climate 
environmental  degradation,
including  marine  pollution.  We  must  not  take  for
granted the concerns and needs of the  most vulnerable
Members  of  our  Organization, 
island
developing States.
development 
the  small 
endorse 
change 
fully 
for 
and 
Only  a  reformed,  inclusive  and  universal  United
the  major
effectively 
shoulder 
can 
Nations 
34
responsibilities  placed  on  it.  Flexibility  and  greater
understanding  should  be  demonstrated  towards  those
who  wish  to  participate  in  the  work  and  activities  of
our Organization. The Republic of China on Taiwan is
a case in point.  As  well,  those  Member  States  that  are
capable  and  prepared  to  play  a  greater  role  in  the
Security  Council, 
including  Germany  and  Japan,
should  be  accorded  permanent  membership.  Concrete
efforts should now be  made on reaching  agreement on
the outstanding issues of Security Council reform.
Finally,  we  have  just  parted  from  a  century  of
sorrow that saw two World Wars, one of which affected
our  islands,  and  countless  other  conflicts  causing
sorrow and suffering — a century defined by a culture
of  violence  and  intolerance.  As  we  begin  the  twenty-
first century, let us work towards making it a century of
harmony,  a  century  defined  by  a  culture  of  peace  and
tolerance,  dialogue  and  discussion,  and  prosperity  for
all of humanity.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Claude
Morel, Chairman of the delegation of Seychelles.
Mr.  Morel
(Seychelles):  My 
delegation
congratulates  the  Co-Chairpersons  for  their  dynamic
stewardship  of  this  auspicious  and  historic  Summit
meeting of the United Nations. Our felicitations also go
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  the
commendable  report  before  us,  and  for 
initiating
reform  measures  to  revitalize  the  United  Nations
system  as  we  embrace  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-
first century.
Revitalizing  the  United  Nations  would  require
providing  it  with  the  effective  instruments  needed  to
pursue its noble objectives. This entails ensuring that it
is endowed with the required resources to carry out its
mandates,  in  particular  those  of  promoting  economic
and  social  progress.  This  also  entails  reinforcing  the
present  mechanisms  in  place  for  the  maintenance  of
international 
disarmament,
including the United Nations role in peace-making and
peacekeeping activities. It also entails strengthening its
vocation  as  an  indispensable  instrument  for  a  more
peaceful, prosperous and just world.
security 
peace, 
and 
The  reform  process  would  be  inadequate  if  the
transformation  of 
into  a
democratic and representative organ reflecting  both  its
universal  character  and  present-day  realities  were  not
is  of
achieved.  After  seven  years  of  debate, 
the  Security  Council 
it 
imperative  necessity  to  bridge  positions  and  make
progress.
Equally  important  for  my  delegation  is  that  the
reform  process  should  encompass  the  enhancement  of
the  General  Assembly  as  the  supreme  policy-making
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  only  through  the
reinforcement  of 
the
international  community  can  successfully  tackle  some
of  the  most  pressing  issues  facing  humanity,  not  least
of which is the process of globalization.
its  role  and  mandate 
that 
Globalization  has  provided  many  countries,
especially  the  strong  economies  of  the  North,  with
unprecedented  opportunities  and  benefits.  However,  it
has  also  accentuated  the  North-South  divide,  and  has
exposed the smaller and most vulnerable economies to
marginalization. My delegation believes that the key to
redressing  the  unequal  impact  of  globalization  is  to
strengthen  multilateral  action  and  reinforce  the  United
Nations  system  in  its  commitment  to  international
cooperation for development.
institutions  and 
In this regard,  my  delegation  holds  the  view  that
there 
should  be  even  closer  collaboration  and
coordination  between  the  United  Nations  system,  the
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade
Organization  in  addressing  the  crucial  question  of
development.  Next  year’s  United  Nations  conference
on  financing  for  development  will  be  a  test  case  for
international  solidarity. It is my  delegation’s  hope  that
the  conference  will  result  in  a  new,  genuine  and
meaningful global partnership for development.
in 
the 
long 
trade,  since 
That partnership should be extended to the area of
international 
term  we
developing countries can only finance our development
needs  by  gaining  greater  market  access  and  better
prices  for  our  exports.  Of  critical  importance  to  us  is
the  need  for  the  extension  of  trade  preferences  for  a
longer  period  of  time,  in  order  to  facilitate  our
integration  into  the  international  trading  system  and
ensure  that  we  can  also  be 
the  beneficiaries  of
globalization, not its victims.
The  post-cold-war  period  has  not  delivered  the
promised  peace  dividend.  The  hopes  and  expectations
of  the  developing  world,  as  raised  by  the  United
Nations global conferences of the past decade, have not
been  met.  Instead,  we  have  witnessed  a  weakening  of
the  commitment  of  the  countries  of  the  North  to
support  development.  More  than  ever  before,  we  are
today living in an interdependent world. The developed
A/55/PV.6
nations  therefore  have  a  responsibility  to  engage  with
us so as to deal with the major global, economic, social
and environmental  challenges  of our  time  on  the basis
of  understanding  and  genuine  partnership  among
equals.
That  responsibility  should  include,  inter  alia,
accepting the vulnerabilities and special needs of small
island  developing  States  and  fully  implementing  the
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  and  the  decisions  of
the  twenty-second  special  session  of 
the  General
Assembly; accepting that the per capita gross domestic
product of small island developing States should not be
the  major  criterion  in  assessing  their  development
needs;  accepting 
is  a  direct
consequence  of  unsustainable  development  policies  of
the  North;  accepting  that  the  debt  and  debt-servicing
burden of countries of the South is a principal cause of
economic  stagnation  and  underdevelopment;  accepting
that  there  is  a  need  to  elaborate  a  comprehensive
strategy  to  promote  increased  access  to  science  and
technology by developing nations; and accepting that it
is  unjust  for  a  small  percentage  of  humanity  to
consume  an  overwhelming  share  of 
the  world’s
resources.
that  climate  change 
in 
The  evolution 
international  relations  has
brought  about  new  realities  in  the  global  order.  The
Millennium  Summit  is  therefore  a  timely  occasion  for
the entire  membership of the United Nations  to  reflect
upon  the  articulation  of  our  vision  and  aspirations  of
the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century,  and  to
elaborate  fresh  approaches  to  deal  with  the  challenges
of  our  time.  The  United  Nations  is  not  a  perfect
institution. But it is the only institution that represents
the  collective  conscience  of  humanity.  It  remains  our
greatest  hope 
security  and
development.  It  remains  our  only  hope  for  a  more
compassionate world.
justice,  peace, 
for 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  Address  by  His  Royal  Highness
Prince  Moulay  Rachid,  Chairman  of  the  delegation  of
Morocco.
Prince  Moulay  Rachid  (Morocco)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  I  have  the  great  honour  to  convey  to  the
members  of  the  Assembly  the  greetings  and  high
esteem  of  His  Majesty  Mohammed  VI,  King  of
Morocco.  He  has  asked  me  to  communicate  on  his
behalf  the  royal  message,  which  he  should  have  liked
35
A/55/PV.6
to  deliver  personally  before  this  Millennium  Summit,
given the special interest he attaches to it.
Following is the text of the royal message:
the 
on 
“At 
this 
rare 
outset, 
and
extraordinary  occasion,  I  wish  to  thank  all  of
those  who  have  contributed  to  organizing  this
Millennium Summit. I should like in particular to
congratulate 
the  Secretary-General,  who  has
convened  this  Summit  so  that,  together,  we  may
take stock of the world situation in the context of
an  ambitious  and  bold  vision  for  the  future  of
humanity.
“During the century that is now ending, the
world  has  known  the  best  and  the  worst.  It  has
benefited  from  unprecedented  breakthroughs  in
the  fields  of  science,  technology  and  global
communications, but it  has  also  endured  a  heavy
toll of lethal wars, totalitarian regimes and  major
upheavals.  Today,  with  the  confluence  of  ideas
emerging throughout the world on the supremacy
of  law  and  the  democratic  ideal,  we  have  the
opportunity 
the
scourges  of  horror  and  inequality  experienced  in
the  last  century  and  thus  to  put  an  end  to  the
ignorance  and
unbroken  chain  of  misery, 
exclusion.  We, 
and
Government, have a duty at this historic event to
make  a  solemn  commitment  as  we  enter  the  new
millennium 
to  open  up  a  new  frontier  for
humanity,  with  real  justice  and  compassion  in
solidarity.
the  heads  of  State 
future  generations 
to  spare 
“This  new  frontier  for  humanity  is  based
primarily on a concept of  global  human  security,
which  means  that  no  child  anywhere  will  die  of
hunger; pandemics will not spread; ethnic tension
will  not  erupt  into  violence;  women  will  not  be
victimized by discrimination or violations of their
dignity;  the  right  of  free  expression  will  not  be
stifled;  immigrants  will  not  suffer  exclusion;
people  will  not  be  deprived  of  education;  water
boundaries will not lead to conflict; and sanctions
will  not  unduly  and  unjustly  penalize  innocent
populations.
“This new frontier is also based on strategic
and 
institutional 
local
governance can fully succeed only in  the context
of  true  international  democracy  animated  by  a
successful  United  Nations  system  and  with
coherence,  because 
36
human  and  financial  resources  that  are  adequate
to  the  global  mandates  entrusted  to  the  various
agencies.  In  this  respect,  it  will  be  necessary  in
due course to reform the United Nations Charter,
updating  some  of  its  obsolete  provisions  while
preserving  the  universal  principles  that  prevailed
in the founding of a unique Organization which is
called  on 
the
macromanagement of world problems.
to  play 
lead 
role 
in 
a 
“It is also necessary to take advantage of the
political  impulse  of  this  Summit  to  promote  the
restructuring  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to
allow  that  most  important  organ  better  to  reflect
the  new  world  political  architecture, 
taking
account of the need for impartiality, effectiveness,
representativeness  and  irrefutable  legitimacy.  We
must  recall  that,  since  the  most  recent  reform  in
1963,  the  number  of  United  Nations  Member
States  has  grown  by  two  thirds.  It  is  therefore
the 
time 
the
representation  of 
developing  world  on 
the  Council,  attaching
priority to the criteria of effective commitment to
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and
security.
to  expand 
“The  so-called 
‘digital  divide’  can  be
reduced  only  through  a  technological  democracy
that  recognizes  the  right  to  universal  access  to
information technology as a global public right.
“Finally,  we  strongly  believe 
that  an
international  order  of  justice  and  equity  must
redress  the  distortions  in  the  world  economy,
reduce the harmful effects of speculative financial
flows  and  act  more  decisively  against  the  social
and regional imbalances throughout the world. In
this  context,  I  should  like  to  recall  the  appeal
made on the occasion of the establishment of the
World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1994 by  my
father,  King  Hassan  II, 
the
implementation of multilateral global governance,
taking 
the  enhanced
coordination  of  the  activities  of  the  Bretton
Woods institutions and the WTO.
into  particular  account 
in  calling 
for 
“The  available  indicators  and  statistics  and
the  anachronistic  trends  that  characterize  the
structure  of  the  world  economy  prove  that  it  is
also  imperative  to  find  new  sources  of  financing
for sustainable development if  we do not  wish to
condemn broader segments of humanity to misery
without  end  or  to  generate  global  upheavals  that
could  wipe 
in
international  law  and  the  relative  attenuation  of
ideological and geopolitical confrontations.
achievements 
recent 
out 
“The  special  high-level  session  to  be  held
next year on a world partnership for development
will  offer  an  exceptional  opportunity  to  design
innovative  formulas  and  to  commit  additional
resources  to  the  developing  world,  which  has
been  caught  in  a  vise  between  the  constraints  of
the donors and the indifference of investors. Such
an  initiative,  in  addition  to  being  a  founding  act
of multilateral diplomacy for the new generation,
would  spark  active  solidarity  among  men  and
mark  the  birth  of  what  I  might  call  ‘planetary
patriotism’. In that respect, the African continent,
which  has  been  marginalized  in  all  sectors  of
international  life,  needs  a  multifaceted  strategy
involving  a  substantial  reduction  of  its  external
debt; the elimination of protectionist barriers that
already
penalize 
its  products,  which 
are 
A/55/PV.6
poorly 
remunerated; 
undervalued 
the
establishment of adjustment programmes that  are
compatible with the abatement of its conflicts and
an  accelerated  development  of 
its  human
resources;  technological  transfers  adapted  to  its
specific 
structured
financial assistance.
adequately 
and 
needs; 
and 
“In  that  capacity,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco
proposes  that  the  United  Nations  establish  a
standing  high-level  mechanism  to  implement  the
decisions  of  the  international  community  for
Africa.”
We thank you for your kind attention and express
our  best  wishes  for  the  success  of  this  Millennium
Summit, to which our Secretary-General, as well as the
international  civil  servants  as  a  whole,  together  with
the  Non-Governmental  Organizations  Forum,  have
devoted the best of their talents and energies.
The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.
37
