
A/55/PV.50
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Fifty-fifth session 

50th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 2 November 2000, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Holkeri 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland) 
  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 
of 
of 
the 
problem 
“Review 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  Ukraine  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.13. 
Mr. Yel’chenko  (Ukraine):  I  have  the  honour  to 

introduce to the General Assembly the draft resolution 
entitled 
human 
immunodeficiency  virus/acquired 
immunodeficiency 
syndrome  in  all  its  aspects”,  contained  in  document 
A/55/L.13.  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  this  draft 
resolution  has  been  sponsored  by  more 
than  70 
delegations representing all regions of the world. Since 
the  publication  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries  have  become  co-sponsors: Algeria, Andorra, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Australia, 
the  Bahamas, 
Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Brazil,  Burkina  Faso, 
Canada,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia,  Cyprus, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Fiji,  France,  Germany,  Ghana,  Guatemala, 
Indonesia,  Italy,  Japan,  Kazakhstan,  Lesotho, 
the 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malta, 
Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Morocco, 
the 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  San 
Marino,  Senegal,  Singapore,  Slovenia,  South  Africa, 
Spain,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  the  United  Kingdom,  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania and the United States of America. 

I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to 
express our sincere appreciation to the sponsors and to 
all  delegations  whose  constructive  participation  in  the 
the 
Agenda item 179 











Review of the problem of human immunodeficiency 
virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in all its 
aspects 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/55/529)
  Draft resolution (A/55/L.13)


The  President:  I  should  like  to  recall  for  the 

attention of members that, at the 100th plenary meeting 
of  its  fifty-fourth  session  on  5  September  2000,  the 
General  Assembly,  before  adopting  draft  resolution 
A/54/L.88/Rev.1,  also  on  the  item  on  HIV/AIDS,  was 
informed  by  the  representative  of  the  Secretariat  that, 
in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  and  the  Fifth 
Committee  could  not  meet,  as  the  fifty-fourth  session 
of the General Assembly was due to conclude that day, 
the  programme  budget  implications  of  draft  resolution 
A/54/L.88/Rev.1  would  be  presented  for  examination 
and decision by the  General Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth 
session. 

the  Fifth 
In 
Committee has been circulated as document A/55/529. 

May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to 
take note of document A/55/529? 


this  connection,  a 
It was so decided. 
report  of 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

00-72439 (E) 
*0072439* 

A/55/PV.50 

the  Secretary-General, 
informal consultations resulted in the consensus text of 
the draft resolution. 

I  simply  want  to  stress  that  HIV/AIDS,  we  are 
convinced,  is  an  epidemic  of  global  proportions,  with 
enormous  human  and  social  ramifications  that  go  far 
beyond  the  province  of  health  alone.  The  issue  of 
HIV/AIDS  has  already  been  taken  up  at  different 
levels,  including  by  heads  of  State  in  developed  and 
developing  countries, 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
the  Security 
Council.  It  is  encouraging  that this  increased  attention 
to  the  problem  of  AIDS  has  started  to  bring  the  first 
positive results. 

At  the  same  time,  it  is  clear  that  only  the 
concerted  and  coordinated  efforts  of  the  international 
community  will  be  able  to  successfully  address  the 
problem  of  HIV/AIDS.  My  country,  which  has  also 
been  hit  by  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic,  spreading  at  an 
alarming  rate  in  recent  years  —  which,  according  to 
some  prognoses,  could  lead  to  the  loss  of  up  to  2.1 
million  people  by  the  year  2016  —  strongly  believes 
that it is high time for the United Nations to elaborate a 
comprehensive 
this 
pandemic.  The  General  Assembly  should  play  the 
central role in resolving this issue of global concern. 

The  draft  resolution  that  is  now  before  us  is 
intended  to  enable  the  General  Assembly  to  make  a 
significant  contribution 
the 
international  community  against AIDS  by  convening  a 
special  session  that,  according  to  the  present  draft, 
should  take  place  in  New  York  from  25  to  27  June 
2001. 
the  deep 

concern  of 
the 
accelerating  spread  of  the  human  immunodeficiency 
virus,  which  has  already  infected  millions  of  people 
worldwide,  and  the  resulting  increase  in  cases  of 
immunodeficiency  syndrome,  and  urges 
acquired 
Member  States  and  observers 
their 
representation  at  the  special  session  at  the  highest 
political  level  to  secure  a  global  commitment  to 
enhance  coordination  and  intensification  of  national, 
regional  and 
to  combat 
the 
problem of HIV/AIDS in a comprehensive manner. 

It  confirms  that  the  special  session  will  be  open 
for  participation  to  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  and  observers, 
the 
established  practice  of  the  General  Assembly,  and 
Draft  resolution  A/55/L.13  reflects 
international  community  over 
in  accordance  with 
international  efforts 
struggle  of 
to  ensure 
to 
the 
against 
agenda 
for 
action 
the 
the  specialized  agencies  and 
envisages the modalities of the Special Session and its 
preparatory process. 

Document  A/55/L.13  encourages  all  entities  of 
the  United  Nations  system,  including  programmes, 
funds, 
the  regional 
commissions, to be involved actively in the preparatory 
activities  and  to  participate  at  the  highest  level  in  the 
special session, including through presentations on best 
practices  and  different  experiences  in  addressing  the 
problem of HIV/AIDS, and invites regional bodies and 
organizations  as  well  as  the  regional  commissions  to 
make  available  to  the  preparatory  process  and  to  the 
special  session  the  outcomes  of  respective  regional, 
subregional  and  global-level  initiatives  addressing  a 
range of HIV/AIDS issues. 
This  draft  also  requests  the  Secretary-General  to 

make 
the  necessary  administrative  arrangements 
towards  the  convening  of  the  special  session  and  to 
make available all necessary documentation in a timely 
manner for the special session. 

In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  express  my  sincere 
hope  that  this  draft  resolution A/55/L.13  will  gain  the 
broadest possible support and be adopted by consensus. 
We strongly believe that the input of the special session 
of  the  General Assembly  into  the  efforts  of  the  world 
community  aimed  at  combating  HIV/AIDS  will 
provide  a  powerful  impetus  to  the  beginning  of  a 
qualitatively  new  stage 
the 
international community against the epidemic. 
Ms. Thurman (United States of America): Thank 

you,  Mr.  President,  for  conducting  these  important 
discussions,  and  sincere 
to  my  Ukrainian 
colleagues  for  running  the  process  that  produced  the 
good draft resolution we are considering, as well as to 
the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS) for its close support to the Member States. 

I  am  honoured  to  speak  in  today’s  discussion  on 
this historic draft resolution on HIV/AIDS. There is no 
more  important  international  issue.  After  20  years  of 
embarrassing 
this 
pandemic,  we  have  created  a  historic  reversal.  This 
year,  the  membership  has  made  more  progress  at  the 
United Nations on HIV/AIDS than ever before, and we 
have  also  had  exciting  advances  in  the  United  States 
Government response. 

The  United  Nations  started  the  year  2000  with 
Vice-President  Gore  chairing  the  first  meeting  of  the 
international  under-response 
the  struggle  of 
thanks 
to 
in 
2 




A/55/PV.50
in 

the 
scourge 
new  millennium 
the  Security  Council,  on 
HIV/AIDS.  Imagine,  in  the  thousands  of  meetings  of 
the  Council,  never  before  had  the  single  largest  killer 
of  people  in  Africa  been  discussed.  In  that  meeting 
Vice-President Gore reminded us, 


“In  Africa  the  scale  of  the  crisis  may  be 
greater,  the  infrastructure  weaker  and  the  people 
poorer, but the threat is real for every people and 
every nation, everywhere on Earth.  

“No  border  can  keep  AIDS  out.  It  cuts 
across  all  the  lines  that  divide  us.  We  owe 
ourselves and each other the utmost commitment 
to  act  against  AIDS  on  a  global  scale,  and 
especially  where 
is  greatest.” 
(S/PV.4087, p. 5) 
That  meeting  was  followed  in  March  by  an 

the 
unprecedented  collaborative  meeting  between 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
the  Security 
Council. In July the  Security  Council again  defied the 
many naysayers and adopted a resolution that squarely 
placed  HIV/AIDS  in  the  international  security  arena. 
Indeed, the Security Council has agreed to never again 
adopt a resolution on a peacekeeping mission that does 
not 
to  protect  our 
peacekeepers  and  the  communities  they  serve  in  from 
the disease. 
Today,  we  will  create  a  special  session  of  the 

General Assembly  dedicated to  combating this  plague. 
My Government has made important progress this year 
in  the  fight  against  HIV.  We  have  recognized  that  the 
sweep and devastation of this pandemic is enormous — 
not  just  in Africa,  but  in Asia,  South America  and  the 
world over. It is a clear threat to international security. 
In  this  process  President  Clinton  appointed  me,  the 
director  of  all  of  our  United  States  efforts  on 
HIV/AIDS,  to  also  be  his  personal  envoy  to  build 
AIDS cooperation internationally. 

President Clinton used the power of his office to 
issue  an  executive  order  that  the  United  States  will 
never take action against countries most affected by the 
HIV  epidemic  which  decide  to  import  or  manufacture 
inexpensive  versions  of  life-saving  HIV/AIDS  drugs 
patented in the United States. 

The United States Government has crowned these 
critical  efforts  by  more  than  tripling  our  international 
funding  to  fight  HIV  in  just  over  a  year,  to  a  total  of 
over  $400  million. The  United  States  donation  is  now 
language 
include 
explicit 
and 
the  disease 
larger  than  the  entire  1998  donor  effort  of  all  nations 
for HIV, which totalled about $350 million. The United 
States is  the clear leader in international donor aid  for 
HIV/AIDS,  but  we —  like  all  other  countries  of  the 
world — need to do much, much more. 

There  is  more  good  news:  the  Congress  has  just 
approved  $435  million  for  debt  relief.  The  planned 
United States total for debt relief  will be $920  million 
in  three  years,  which  will  relieve  over  $3.5  billion  of 
debt in 33 nations. This United States funding will also 
leverage  relief  of  as  much  as  $90  billion  owed  to 
others. We  have delivered  every dime  promised,  when 
we said we would. 

Of  course,  this  relief  means  that  billions  of 
dollars  will  now  stay  in  the  budgets  of  the  countries 
most  affected  by  HIV/AIDS.  This  will  allow  them  to 
invest  more  in  health  and  social  programmes  to  help 
combat 
advance  many  other 
development issues more effectively. 

These  are  the  fruits  of  the  worldwide  education 
programme  that  we  have  all  been  part  of.  It  has  taken 
long, but finally  we have heightened awareness to this 
unprecedented disaster. We have put to rest the debates 
about  whether  or  not  AIDS  is  a  legitimate  security 
threat. We have overcome the naysayers  who said that 
AIDS was not big enough for the Security Council, that 
it  was  not  a  real  threat,  that  it  was  just  a  health  issue 
and 
it  was  a  problem  for  doctors,  not  for 
diplomats. We have overcome the opponents who have 
said that HIV was not a problem in their country, that it 
was someone else’s problem. 

But now the real work begins. We must maintain 
our momentum and capitalize on these small victories. 
That  is  why  meetings  like  today’s  are  so  vitally 
important and the General Assembly special session we 
are approving is so critical. This draft resolution means 
that  we  cannot  turn  back  to  ignorance.  We  have 
guaranteed that our successors, regardless of who they 
are, will continue the fight against HIV/AIDS. 

The  General  Assembly  special  session  that  we 
will  approve  could  be  another  historic  turning  point. 
This year the world has turned from persistent denial to 
an insistent call for action. At the special session, eight 
short  months away,  we can turn to the intense level of 
action needed to defeat HIV/AIDS. But only if, as this 
draft  resolution  calls  for,  all  189  Member  States 
dedicate  themselves  to  creating  and  then  supporting  a 
firm declaration of political commitment.  
that 


3 

A/55/PV.50 

annual 
should  make 

The  world  does  not  need,  and  we  should  not 
allow,  more  empty  rhetoric.  Such  a  declaration  should 
commit  us,  for  example,  to  starting  by  acknowledging 
that  past  and  present  efforts  have  not  been  nearly 
enough.  If  we  are  to  have  any  hope  of  turning  this 
terrible  tide,  we  must  bring  the  global  response  to  an 
entirely higher level of intensity. We need to be honest 
about  how  little  we  really  are  doing.  UNAIDS  has 
determined that an investment of at least $3 billion per 
year is needed to establish an effective prevention and 
basic  care  programme  in  Africa  alone.  And  last  year, 
collective  spending  towards  that  effort  was  only  one 
tenth of that amount. 

We  should  recognize  that  there  are  35  million 
people currently living with HIV, and they must not be 
forgotten — global solutions must include solutions for 
all  of  them.  All  nations  must  finally  create  workable 
national  strategies  for  HIV/AIDS  prevention  and 
treatment  that  fit  into  an  international  framework.  
And  all  nations —  rich  or  poor,  AIDS-ravaged  or 
AIDS-affected — 
financial 
commitments  to  combat  HIV/AIDS.  As  we  increase 
and better coordinate donor efforts, these commitments 
should  be  available  for  all  the  world  to  review.  They 
should  be  reported  to  UNAIDS  in  a  transparent  and 
understandable manner. As Vice-President Gore said at 
the historic Security Council meeting in January, 

“There  are  many  inspiring  efforts  to  fight  AIDS 
all  around  the  world.  But  right  now  they  mostly 
amount  to  many  isolated  efforts  and  not  a  single 
focused  assault.  We  must  knit 
the 
separate  initiatives  by  local,  national,  regional 
and  global  organizations 
take  maximum 
advantage  of 
their  synergy  and  successes.” 
(ibid., p. 7) 

And as Governments, we must undertake policies 
that  destigmatize  HIV/AIDS  and  protect  the  rights  of 
HIV positive people and their families. 

I  thank  the  Assembly  and  congratulate  it  on 
getting us this far. I am confident that the United States 
and  all  of  us  here  will  continue  on  our  slow  road  to 
ending  HIV/AIDS  for  ever.  I  will  conclude  with  a 
comment  President  Clinton  made  with  President 
Obasanjo in Nigeria recently, 

“let’s  remember  something  ...  AIDS  is  100  per 
cent preventable — if we are willing to deal with 
it  openly  and  honestly.  In  every  country,  in  any 
culture,  it  is  difficult,  painful,  at  the  very  least, 
together 
to 
embarrassing  to  talk  about  the  issues  involved 
with  AIDS.  But  is  it  harder  to  talk  about  these 
things  than  to  watch  a  child  die  of  AIDS  who 
could  have  lived  if  the  rest  of  us  had  done  our 
part?  Is  it  harder  to  talk  about  than  to  comfort  a 
child  whose  mother  has  died?  We  have  to  break 
the  silence  about  how  this  disease  spreads  and 
how to prevent it. And we need to fight AIDS, not 
people  with  AIDS.  They  are  our  friends  and 
allies.” 
Remember: If we do not do it, who will? 

Mr.  Escanero  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  and  acquired 
immunodeficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS)  constitute  a 
pandemic whose global impact threatens the hopes and 
even  the  very  existence  of  millions  of  people  and 
families. Without  a  doubt  this  ill  is  one  of  the  gravest 
challenges  facing  us  at  the  beginning  of  the  new 
century. 

In  the  Millennium  Declaration  highlighting  the 
priorities  for  development  and  the  eradication  of 
poverty, our heads of State and Government expressed 
their commitment to stop and reverse the spread of this 
disease  by  the  year  2015  and  they  underscored  the 
importance  of  providing  assistance 
to  children 
orphaned by this scourge. 
In  the  framework  of  this  grand  objective,  the 

Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Mexico  and  women 
Ministers for Foreign Affairs from twelve other nations 
around  the  world  have  launched  an  appeal  to  the 
international community to offer support and solidarity 
to  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS)  and  resolutely  to  undertake  the  collective 
effort that is necessary to vanquish this global plague. 

The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  a  challenge  beyond 
the capacity of any nation or entity acting in isolation. 
Its  most  serious  impact  is  concentrated  on  developing 
countries,  which  makes 
the  challenge  even  more 
complex. 

This  can  be  clearly  seen  in  the  current  epicentre 
of the pandemic — Africa — but the serious nature of 
this  problem  reaches  all  four  corners  of  the  earth. 
Consequently,  we 
the 
to  mobilize  sufficient  financial  and 
Organization 
together  with  donors, 
human 
international  financial 
the  private 
sector,  in  order  to  redouble  their  efforts  in  the  fight 
resources,  working 
institutions  and 
all  Members 
urge 
of 
4 




A/55/PV.50
to 
the 
incentives 
required 
against  HIV/AIDS  in Africa and  at the  world level. In 
this context, it is vital to strengthen our support for the 
work of UNAIDS.  

HIV/AIDS  is  a  health  problem  that  has  clearly 
highlighted  the  need  to  include  participation  by  the 
most  diverse  sectors  of  society  in  a  coordinated  effort 
at both the national and international levels. 

We  must  plan  and  implement  in  an  integrated 
manner all aspects of health care. This means we must 
strengthen  preventive  work  and,  in  addition,  amongst 
other  vital  tasks,  ensure  a  sufficient  and  constant 
supply  of  drugs,  the  training  of  medical  personnel,  as 
well as the infrastructure to monitor cases and to carry 
out epidemiological surveillance. 

Mr.  Al-Ashtal  (Yemen)  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

The  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  demonstrates  how 
imperative  it  is  to  take  advantage  of  scientific  and 
technological  advances  for  the  purpose  of  shared 
development.  We  must  pay  equal  attention  on  a 
balanced  basis 
for 
technological  innovation  and  the  priorities  of  social 
development.  We  must  urgently  ensure  the  access  of 
developing  countries 
for 
HIV/AIDS.  In  this  regard,  we  must  maximize  the 
efforts 
non-profit 
organizations, multilateral and bilateral donors and the 
private  sector  in  order  to  achieve  a  reduction  in  the 
international prices of the drugs that are needed so that 
treatment  will  be  affordable  for  all  those  who  are 
affected. 

that 
In 
international cooperation is fundamental to confronting 
this pandemic,  Mexico  has  supported  and collaborated 
with  UNAIDS  at  different  levels,  including  our  active 
participation 
in  horizontal  cooperation  with  Latin 
America and the Caribbean, as well as in the promotion 
of cooperation with Central America and the Caribbean 
in order to strengthen the institutional capacity needed 
to  integrate  the  HIV/AIDS  dimension  into  the  joint 
migration  programmes  and  also  to  train  a  network  of 
strategic planning advisers. 
for 

UNAIDS  and  has  been  part  of 
the  Programme 
Coordinating Board of UNAIDS since its creation. Our 
support  for  the  programme,  over  which  we  had  the 
honour of presiding in 1999, has been ongoing. 
Mexico  acts  as  a  collaborative  centre 
conformity  with 
to  care  and 
governments, 
conviction 
treatment 
national 
of 
our 
to 
intensify 
the  examination  of 
It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Mexico  has  joined  in 

Whilst  reiterating  Mexico’s  commitment  to  the 
noble  task  of  international  cooperation  to  fight  this 
global  scourge,  we  express  our  hope  that  the  special 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  will  be 
devoted 
the  problem  of 
HIV/AIDS  in  all  of  its  aspects,  will  lead  to  concrete 
actions 
to  coordinate  and 
international 
measures to fight this disease. 

sponsoring draft resolution A/55/L.13. 
Mr.  Kpotsra  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  is  particularly  pleased  that  following  on 
from  the  Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  has 
decided to discuss the question of HIV/AIDS. 
After  the  adoption  of  resolution  54/283,  the 

discussions  that  began  today  show  that  the  General 
Assembly  is  committed  to  what  we  think  is  the  right 
direction, that is, doing everything to try to control the 
ravages  of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  one  of  the  great 
challenges  confronting  the  international  community 
today. 

As  the  Secretary-General  says  in  his  report 
addressed to the Millennium Summit and in the report 
on  the  work  of  the  Organization,  the  HIV/AIDS 
pandemic is destroying the economic and social fabric 
of countries that are seriously affected by it and is one 
of the main causes of death there. 

the  Joint  United 
Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS)  are 
terrifying in that regard. It estimates that there are 34.3 
million adults and children who are seropositive or sick 
with  AIDS  in  the  world  and  points  out  that  the 
pandemic  has  already  wiped  out  18.8  million  infected 
persons. 

Unfortunately,  Africa  is  once  again  the  most 
severely  affected  region.  It  alone  has  approximately 
24.5  million  AIDS  sufferers,  which  is  70  per  cent  of 
the  world  total. The  disastrous results of  this  situation 
are beyond commentary. In short, Africa is dying. 

Because  of  the  ravages  it  causes  in  seriously 
affected countries and considering its disastrous social 
and  economic  consequences,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic 
should  be  a  priority  issue  on  which  action  of  the 
international community should emerge from the spirit 
of  solidarity  so  widely  expressed  at  the  Millennium 
Summit. 
The  statistics  produced  by 


5 

A/55/PV.50 

the 
More 
recently, 
thirteenth 
My  delegation  welcomes 

encouraging 
initiatives  that  continue  to  be  seen.  In  this  context,  in 
1999  the  General Assembly  recommended,  at  its  five-
year  review  of  the  follow-up  to  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development,  that  the 
international community should work between now and 
2005 to reduce the number of infected persons between 
the  ages  of  15  and  26  by  25  per  cent  in  the  most 
seriously affected countries. 

In January 2000 the Security Council held, for the 
first  time,  an  open  debate  on  HIV/AIDS,  which  kills 
more  people  than  do  armed  conflicts. According  to  its 
sponsors,  that  meeting  was  aimed  at  drawing  the 
international  community’s  attention  to  the  alarming 
proportions of this pandemic in Africa, a situation that 
henceforth requires awareness and a common strategy, 
as well as resources and intervention by Governments, 
business  circles  and 
intergovernmental  and  non-
governmental organizations. 

the 
International 
Conference  on  HIV/AIDS  was  held  in  Durban,  South 
Africa.  At  that  meeting,  participants  assessed  the 
situation,  particularly  the  growth  of  the  pandemic  and 
the measures to be taken to check it. 

Apart from governmental actions, in the vanguard 
of  which  are  France  and  the  United  States,  other 
initiatives  are  being  taken  by  UNAIDS  in  cooperation 
with  other  United  Nations  institutions  and  agencies, 
including  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  the 
United  Nations  Children’s  Fund,  the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  the  United 
Nations  Population  Fund, 
the  United  Nations 
International  Drug  Control  Programme  and  the  World 
Bank,  all  of  which  contribute 
to  the  search  for 
solutions to the problem. 

international 
awareness is already in an advanced stage. It is more a 
question  now  of  translating  our  commitments  into 
concrete action, to move from words to deeds. 

This means working efficiently and effectively to 
stop the spread of HIV/AIDS and to reverse the current 
trend.  In  other  words,  it  is  crucially  important  that 
specific  measures  be  taken  promptly  to  make  existing 
medicines available to infected persons, most of whom 
are  in  the  countries  of  the  South,  and  to  help  the 
seriously affected countries to provide themselves with 
raising  national 
Clearly, 
and 
the 
to  stop 
the  requisite  capacity 
the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS pandemic and other infectious diseases.  

Despite  the  scarcity  of  its  means,  Africa  is 
already  engaged  in  searching  for  ways  and  means  to 
put  an  end  to  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  The  WHO 
regional  conference,  held  in  Ouagadougou  in  June 
2000,  was  a  forum  where African  health  problems,  in 
particular  those  related  to  HIV/AIDS,  were  addressed 
by African ministers of health. 

Following  this,  the  thirty-sixth  ordinary  session 
of  the  Conference  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
of the  Organization  of African  Unity,  held  in  Loom  in 
July  2000,  decided,  inter  alia, to  organize  in Abuja  in 
2001  an  African  summit  on  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis 
and other infectious diseases. 

This  decision  attests  to Africa’s  resolve  to  make 
this  a  top  priority  of  the  continent.  It  also  seeks  to 
create in the international community a real partnership 
designed  to  mobilize  adequate  financial  resources  for 
the fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic in Africa and 
in  particular  to  help  HIV/AIDS  orphans,  vulnerable 
children and infected persons. 

Before concluding, I would like to emphasize that 
it  is  important  that  the  envisaged  General  Assembly 
special  session  truly  examine  the  HIV/AIDS  problem 
in depth and in all its aspects. Everything must be done 
to  ensure  that  that  session  leads  to  the  adoption  of  a 
firm,  precise,  specific,  action-oriented  declaration  on 
concrete measures and action to be taken. 

Mr.  Jayanama  (Thailand):  May  I  say  how 
pleased I am to see you, Mr. President, presiding at this 
plenary  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  this 
important item. I know that under your wise guidance, 
our  session  will  come  to  a  productive  and  meaningful 
conclusion. 

With 34.3 million HIV-infected people at the end 
of  1999,  the  untold  grief  and  irretrievable  loss  of 
millions of adults and children tell us that HIV/AIDS is 
a  direct  threat  to  the  well-being  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world.  It  has 
inflicted  enormous  socio-economic 
burdens  and  has  killed  more  people  worldwide  than 
have  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  It  has  deprived 
children  of  their  parents,  families  of  their  loved  ones 
and  societies  of  their  resources,  particularly  young 
adults,  who  constitute 
the  main  workforce  of 
development. 
6 




A/55/PV.50
than  does 
and  deeper 
HIV/AIDS  knows  no  boundary  and  reaches  far 

wider 
information  and 
communication  technology.  It  affects  all  peoples  and 
countries, developing or developed, rich or poor, big or 
small,  without  discriminating.  HIV/AIDS  is  thus  not 
simply a disease, but a catastrophic global health issue 
affecting  human  security  and  development. This  curse 
must be overcome, and it can be done if we all play our 
role, in accordance with our abilities. 

In Thailand, under our present five-year National 
AIDS  Strategic  Plan,  we  have  adopted  a  holistic 
approach  that  addresses  human,  social,  economic  and 
cultural  aspects  of  the  HIV/AIDS  problem.  The  Plan 
attaches priority to the development of individuals, the 
family  and  the  community.  It  underscores  the  need  to 
strengthen  community  awareness  and  to  develop  a 
better socio-economic environment, such as provisions 
for  economic opportunities  for  those  most  likely  to be 
exposed  to  HIV/AIDS.  In  addition,  we  attach  no  less 
importance  to  enhancing  psychological,  social  and 
health  development,  so  that  people  with  HIV/AIDS 
will  be  able  to  lead  normal  and  productive  lives,  as 
provided  for  by  our  laws.  We  have  also  forged 
partnerships  with  non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs)  and  civil  society,  both  at  home  and  abroad, 
with regard to many HIV/AIDS issues. 
But  HIV/AIDS  is  basically  a  medical  issue. 

research  and 
Thailand  has  encouraged  medical 
exchanges  of  relevant  knowledge  and  technologies, 
both  modern  and  indigenous,  on AIDS  prevention  and 
control. At present, Thailand is spending an average of 
$800  per  month  per  person  on  AIDS  medicines. 
However, for developing countries, including Thailand, 
access  to  essential  AIDS  medicines  has  not  been 
possible  because  of  the  high  cost  involved.  In  this 
connection, we are gratified that the Secretary-General 
of  the  United  Nations  urged  in  his  millennium  report, 
entitled “We the peoples”, wider access for developing 
countries to an effective and affordable vaccine against 
HIV and to HIV/AIDS related drugs. 

Although Thailand’s effort thus far has been cited 
by the United Nations and others as one of the success 
stories,  we  should  not  rest  on  our  laurels.  HIV/AIDS 
still  remains  with  us.  Thus,  while  working  hard  at 
home,  we  will  continue 
to  cooperate  with  other 
countries  —  including  our  neighbours,  for  they  have 
been  responsible  for  a  large  part  of  the  progress  we 
have made with regard to this problem. 
they  made  at 
the 
this  global  problem,  as  well  as 
system.  We  particularly  welcome 

We  would  like  to  thank  Ukraine  for  taking  the 
initiative  to  produce  a  meaningful  draft  resolution  on 
HIV/AIDS, which we were very happy to co-sponsor. 

We  also  appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General to highlight the HIV/AIDS issue as an item on 
the  global  agenda,  as  well  as  the  role  played  by  the 
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS)  and  other  agencies  within 
the  United 
Nations 
the 
recognition  by  the  world’s  leaders  of  the  severity  and 
urgency  of 
the 
commitments 
recently  held 
Millennium  Summit  to  the  goals  of  reducing  HIV 
infection  rates,  and  ensuring  access  to  information, 
education  and  services  needed  for  the  prevention  of 
HIV infection. 

The  timely  decision  by  the  General Assembly  to 
convene  a  special  session  from  25  to  27  June  2001  to 
review  and  address  the  problem  of  HIV/AIDS  in  a 
holistic manner is thus part of this positive trend in the 
United  Nations.  We  welcome  it.  The  special  session 
will  afford  us  an  opportunity 
to  coordinate  and 
intensify international efforts and initiatives to combat 
the  HIV/AIDS  problem  in  a  larger  context.  Moreover, 
since the Security Council has accepted that HIV/AIDS 
poses  a  threat  to  international  security,  the  special 
session  should  also  be  the  beginning  of  a  more 
concrete  programme  of  real  action  that  entails  such 
efforts  as 
the  socio-economic  aspect  of 
HIV/AIDS,  including  the  plight  of  children  orphaned 
by  AIDS;  bolstering  cooperation  to  intensify  research 
on  the  basis  of  modern  technology  and  indigenous 
innovative 
for 
developing 
technologies, 
affordable essential  medicines and improved treatment 
and  care;  and  creating  synergies  of  approaches  to  the 
HIV/AIDS problem in a broader perspective, including 
addressing  such  issues  as  the  negative  effects  of  the 
World  Trade  Organization’s  trading  system  on  the 
availability of essential medicines. 

successful  outcome  of  our 
undertaking,  we  should  also  seek  to  strengthen  our 
partnerships 
companies, 
distributors  of  medicines  and  NGOs  through  their 
active  participation,  their  sense  of  ownership  and 
caring  responsibility  in  the  preparatory  process  and  in 
the special session itself, so that, at the end of the day, 
we  can  achieve  not  just  commitments  but  concrete 
action-oriented outcomes that can be implemented and 
treatment;  ensuring  wider  access 
countries 
pharmaceutical 
to  medical 
tackling 
To 
ensure 
a 
with 


7 

A/55/PV.50 

financial 
resources 
including 
to  mobilize  all 
non-governmental 
that  encompasses  other  areas, 
yield  tangible  results.  In  this  connection,  Thailand 
stands ready to cooperate actively with others to ensure 
the success of the special session. 

As a global public good — or should I say, public 
bad — HIV/AIDS is a serious threat to the security and 
well-being  of  mankind  the  world  over.  We  all  have  to 
play  our  part  in  the  crusade  against  HIV/AIDS.  To 
those  with 
and  medical 
technologies,  we  ask  them  to  intervene  or  to  be  more 
proactive  and  generous  towards  their  fellow  human 
beings who are in dire need of help. Surely here is one 
humanitarian  intervention  that  no  one  in  any  country 
would oppose. 
Mr.  Aboulgheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

problem  of  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic,  which  we  are 
considering  today,  is  not  only  a  health  issue  but  also 
one 
the 
economic and social. All these elements are involved in 
this most serious epidemic in the history of mankind. It 
is  therefore  incumbent  upon  all  members  of 
the 
international  and 
international  community  and  all 
and 
regional 
governmental 
organizations 
their  resources  and 
capabilities  to  confront  the  epidemic,  contain  it  and 
consequently eliminate it. 

The African continent’s share of HIV/AIDS is the 
greatest  in  the  world,  at  a  time  when  economic 
conditions there make it extremely difficult to face the 
challenges  of  this  serious  scourge.  Presently  about  25 
million Africans are infected  with HIV, accounting for 
over  70  per  cent  of  all  the  cases  of  infection  in  the 
world.  Another  grave  indicator  is  the  rate  of  the 
disease’s spread on the continent. Of the approximately 
4.5  million  new  cases  of  infection  in  1999,  roughly  4 
million  were  in  Africa.  Statistics  indicate  that  HIV-
infected  persons  account  for  50  to  70  per  cent  of 
hospital  capacity  in  the  most  affected  States.  This 
means that the vast majority of health resources have to 
be  allocated  to  caring  for  infected  persons,  at  the 
expense  of  other  health  services,  to  say  nothing  of 
other  development  and  social  concerns.  This  places 
greater  economic,  social  and  political  pressure  on  the 
States  of  Africa,  which  already  bear  a  heavy  debt 
burden. 

The damage done by HIV/AIDS is not limited to 
human  losses,  but  also  has  far-reaching  social  effects 
that  can  be  seen  in  the  weakness  of  the  labour  force 
and  the  need  to  allocate  significant  resources  to  try  to 
limited 
third  of 
than  one 
contain  the  disease.  In  addition  to  serious  human  and 
social  losses,  there  is  also  the  transformation  of  a 
country’s  demographic  profile  and  the  emergence  of 
entire generations of orphaned children who are forced 
to  work  at  a  very  early  age  in  order  to  maintain  some 
sort of subsistence. 

This  disease  threatens  not  only  the  continent’s 
present,  but  also  its  future:  of  the  1.3  million  infected 
children  worldwide,  1  million  are  Africans;  in  16 
African  countries,  more 
the 
population  between  the  ages  of  15  and  49  is  infected; 
and  in  seven  countries  of  southern  Africa,  at  least  20 
per cent of the entire population is infected. 

My  delegation  has  tried  in  this  statement  to 
discuss some serious aspects of the HIV/AIDS problem 
both  worldwide and in Africa. Now  we  must ask  what 
the international community can do to help address the 
epidemic.  Combating  AIDS  cannot  be 
to 
lending  more  money  to  afflicted  States,  which  would 
only burden them  with additional debt-servicing costs. 
Nor  can  it  be  limited  to  organizing  seminars  and 
workshops  to  discuss  a  problem  that  has  been  given 
thorough consideration over the past 20 years. 

In  our  view,  combating  AIDS  requires  a  clear, 
collective  political  commitment  by  the  international 
community  to  work  in  a  complementary  manner  in  a 
variety of directions, including, first, providing needed 
medications  at  prices  that  most  people  can  afford.  I 
need  only  mention  that  the  medications  now  available 
cost  about  $12,000  per  month  per  person;  frankly, 
when I saw that figure I reviewed my files, and learned 
that  a  person infected  with  the AIDS  virus really does 
need approximately $12,000 a month for treatment. 

Secondly,  the  debt  burden  of  the  countries  most 
severely affected by the epidemic must be lightened so 
that  they  can  make  optimal  use  of  their  meagre 
resources to provide necessary health services. 

Thirdly,  we  must  heed  the  social  and  economic 
aspects of the disease and its impact on the present and 
future  development  of  the  most  severely  affected 
States,  rather  than  confining  our  efforts  to  containing 
the  disease  and  preventing  its  spread  beyond  the 
borders of those countries. 

Fourthly, we must increase the financial resources 
of  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS) so that it can play its role more effectively. 
8 




that 
resulted 
in  draft 
the 
in  all 
We  are  confident 
that 
the 
its  aspects,  with 
the  General  Assembly  with 
My  delegation  was  an  active  participant  in  the 

consultations 
resolution 
A/55/L.13. I  wish  here  to reaffirm  the importance that 
Egypt attaches to the convening of a successful special 
session of the General Assembly next June to consider 
the  AIDS  epidemic 
the 
participation  of  all  members  of 
international 
community:  States,  organizations  of  various  kinds  and 
other actors. The issue is too big for any one country or 
organization  to  deal  with.  It  needs  the  solidarity  and 
efforts  of  the  international  community  as  well  as 
international action. 

intergovernmental 
preparatory  consultations  that  will  be  chaired  by  the 
President  of 
the 
participation of the representatives of States Members of 
the  United  Nations  will  prove  useful  in  clarifying  the 
various  views  of  all  States  that  aim  at  ensuring  the 
success  of  the  special  session  and  the  adoption  of 
concrete, specific international measures to address the 
AIDS problem. 

As  I  have  said,  we  need  no  more  conferences  or 
seminars;  we  need  clear  political  will  that  can  be 
translated  into  specific  commitments  and  pledges  and 
that can be realistically fulfilled. 
Ms.  Wensley  (Australia):  With  more  than  34 

million  people  worldwide  infected  with  HIV,  95  per 
cent  of  whom  live  in  developing  countries,  Australia 
certainly  agrees  that  the  pandemic  is  a  development 
crisis with devastating consequences for human, social 
and  economic  progress.  In  many  areas,  the  United 
Nations  has  been  focusing  increasingly  on  linkages. 
The  Executive  Director  of  the  Joint  United  Nations 
Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS),  Mr.  Peter  Piot, 
recently  spoke  very  vividly  about  the  links  between 
AIDS  and  poverty.  AIDS  creates  poverty,  AIDS 
deepens  poverty  and  AIDS  makes  poverty  harder  to 
escape  from.  It  is  very  clear  that  poverty  reduction 
goes  hand  in  hand  with  addressing  HIV  and  reducing 
the impact of AIDS. 

requires 
Dealing  with 
unprecedented action by all nations. We not only need 
to  recognize  the  linkages  identified  by  the  Executive 
Director  —  and  indeed  just  a  moment  ago  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  when  he  talked 
about  debt  in  conjunction  with  AIDS  —  but  we  also 
need  to  recognize  the  importance  of  working  together 
the  AIDS  pandemic 
A/55/PV.50
and drawing on each other’s knowledge to combat this 
dramatic threat. 

My  own  Government  is  certainly  very  ready  to 
share its experience. At the risk of sounding immodest, 
I  must  say  that  we  have  a  significant  record  of 
achievement  in  responding  to  HIV/AIDS  in Australia. 
The  current  data  show  that  the  annual  number  of 
diagnoses  in  Australia  has  declined  from  a  peak  of 
around  3,000  in  1984  to  around  680  in  1999.  That 
achievement,  we  believe,  can  be  attributed 
to 
Australia’s  prompt,  nationally  coordinated  response  to 
HIV/AIDS,  which  has  been  underpinned  by  a 
coordinated  national  strategy  since  1989.  A  defining 
feature  of  these  strategies  has  been  the  partnership  of 
Government,  community-based  organizations,  affected 
communities, health professionals and researchers. 

Just as we are able to note with some satisfaction 
improvements  in  our  own  country  in  controlling  the 
virus,  we  are  also  very  pleased  to  see  recent  gains 
internationally  in  combating  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic. 
These include the mobilization of substantial resources 
by  both  bilateral  and  multilateral  donors  and  a 
significant  raising  of  the  level  of  awareness  of,  and 
attention  given  to,  the  impacts  on  affected  individuals 
and  countries,  especially  with  respect  to  finding  ways 
of  minimizing  these.  The  fact  that  the  question  of 
HIV/AIDS  was  taken  up  this  year  by  the  Security 
Council  and  by  so  many  world 
the 
Millennium  Summit  was,  we 
felt,  particularly 
significant. 

Australia is doing what it can to contribute to the 
international  response  to  HIV/AIDS.  We  have  been  a 
strong  supporter  of  UNAIDS  since  it  was  created  in 
1996,  providing 
funding  of  around  1.5  million 
Australian  dollars  every  year.  I  must  say  that  this 
continuing  support  reflects  our  appreciation  of  the 
excellent  work  that  UNAIDS  is  doing.  We  would  like 
to join  others in congratulating  the  Executive  Director 
and  all  of  his  staff  for  their  dedication,  and  for  the 
good results that they have secured working in what we 
all recognize to be such a complex and sensitive area. 

In  addition  to  funding  UNAIDS,  Australia,  in 
July  this  year,  announced  a  200  million  Australian 
dollar  global  HIV/AIDS  initiative  to  be  implemented 
over six years. The majority of that funding is going to 
be  directed  to  assisting  our  partner  countries  in  the 
Asia-Pacific region. 
leaders  at 


9 

A/55/PV.50 

in 
in 
the  world.  Australia 
there  are  serious  epidemics 

While of  course  we recognize the severity of  the 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic  in  Africa  —  we  have  already 
heard  this  afternoon  from  a  number  of  colleagues  in 
this  respect  —  as  a  country  in  the Asia-Pacific  region 
we  have  made  the  judgement  that  the  focus  of  our 
assistance  must be in our own region. We do not  wish 
to understate the immensity of the problem elsewhere, 
but  we  believe  that  it  is  important  that  the  AIDS 
pandemic  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region  not  be  forgotten. 
In  fact,  the  problem  is  large,  and  it  is  growing. 
Currently, 
India, 
Thailand,  Burma  and  Cambodia.  Some  estimates 
indicate  that  there  are  about  5  million  people  in  India 
living with HIV, which, statistically, would make them 
the largest  group  of  HIV-infected people  in  any  single 
country 
is  substantially 
increasing  its  response  to  the  epidemic  in  India.  We 
have  a  new  project  in  India  which  will  provide  18.5 
million  Australian  dollars  in  assistance  over  the  next 
five years in the north-eastern states and New Delhi. 

As  for  other  parts  of  Asia,  Australia  directs  a 
large  share  of  its  HIV/AIDS  resources  to  Indonesia, 
where we have contributed about 20 million Australian 
dollars  over 
the  past  five  years.  The  Australia-
Indonesia  HIV/AIDS 
and  Sexually  Transmitted 
Disease Prevention and Care Project is now entering its 
second phase,  with a new project expected to begin in 
mid-2001. The current project is helping to reduce the 
transmission 
diseases, 
including  HIV/AIDS,  by  enhancing  Government,  non-
governmental  organization  and  community  capacity  to 
design  and  implement  effective  multisectoral  sexually 
transmitted disease prevention and care strategies. 

in  Papua  New 
Guinea, in the Pacific, it is estimated that there are now 
between  10,000  and  15,000  people 
living  with 
HIV/AIDS. These  numbers  are  increasing  annually  by 
15  to  30  per  cent. AIDS  and  related  diseases  are  now 
the  leading  cause  of  death  in  Port  Moresby  general 
hospital. Australia’s  largest  bilateral  aid  programme  is 
in Papua New Guinea, and we are working closely with 
the Government of Papua New Guinea and community 
organizations  to  address  the  epidemic.  We  are  also 
about to commence implementation, again over a five-
year  period,  of  a  60  million Australian  dollar  national 
HIV/AIDS  support  project  in  Papua  New  Guinea.  In 
addition  to  this  major,  very  focused,  project,  we  are 
making a point of ensuring that all of our aid activities 
in  Papua  New  Guinea, 
including 
in  all  sectors, 
Slightly  closer 
to  Australia, 
of 
sexually 
transmitted 
education  and infrastructure, incorporate a response to 
HIV/AIDS. 

The HIV epidemic is generally limited elsewhere 
in  the  Pacific.  But  this  is  no  cause  for  complacency. 
Instead,  we  need  to  ensure  that  HIV/AIDS  issues  are 
properly  addressed  in  the  Pacific  now,  so  that  we  can 
avoid  problems  with  HIV  in  the  future.  In  French 
Polynesia,  for  instance,  recorded  prevalence  rates  are 
even  higher  than  for  Papua  New  Guinea  —  84  per 
100,000,  versus  49  per  100,000.  Given  such  statistics, 
it  is  clear  why  Australia  feels  strongly  about  and  is 
committed  to  ongoing  efforts  on  HIV/AIDS  in  the 
Pacific region. 

It  is  clear  to  all  of  us  that  national  Governments 
and  international  organizations  must  make  a  new 
commitment  to  making  HIV/AIDS  a  priority  in  all 
development programmes. The  special  session  and  the 
preparatory  process  should  provide  a  focus  and a  goal 
for  all  of  us  in  this  respect.  Australia  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  special  session  and  will  be  working 
to  make  an  active  contribution  to  both  it  and  the 
preparatory  process,  drawing  in  particular  on  our 
experience  with our national and regional programmes 
and activities.  

Although,  of  course,  we  still  have  some  way  to 
go, we have been thinking about the key outcomes that 
we  would  like to  see  from  the  special  session. Among 
those we have identified to date are, first, an improved 
national  commitment  and  leadership  in  countries  that 
are  yet  to  fully  acknowledge  the  seriousness  of  the 
HIV/AIDS 
improved 
coordination  leading  to  effective  implementation  of 
proven  strategies.  Our  positive  experience  with  the 
development  of  strategies  involving  a  multiplicity  of 
partners  reinforces  our  view  that  coordination  is  of 
fundamental  importance,  not  only  to  ensure  that  the 
available  resources  are  used  most  effectively,  but  to 
secure  the  outcomes  that  we  are  all  seeking. Australia 
was very pleased to be one of the many sponsors of the 
draft  resolution 
the 
Permanent Representative of Ukraine. 

We look forward to working very closely with all 
our  colleagues,  both  in  the  forthcoming  preparatory 
process and at this historic special session. 

Mr. Ka (Senegal) (spoke in French): My country 
was one of the sponsors of the draft resolution, adopted 
unanimously on 5 September of this year, on including 
the  question  of  HIV/AIDS  on  the  agenda  of  the  fifty-
this  afternoon  by 
introduced 
pandemic, 
secondly, 
and, 
10 




A/55/PV.50
on 
the 
draft 
resolution 
fifth  session  and  on  convening,  in  2001  a  special 
session devoted solely to combating this scourge in all 
its aspects. 
My  delegation  also  took  an  active  part  in  the 

consultations 
under 
consideration,  which  seeks  to  convene,  in  2001,  a 
special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  devoted  to 
combating  HIV/AIDS.  We  are  therefore  pleased  that 
the informal consultations produced a consensus on the 
holding  of  this  session  from  25  to  27  June  2001,  with 
the  broadest  possible  participation,  in  the  preparatory 
activities  and  the  session  itself,  of  non-governmental 
organizations, associations of people living with AIDS, 
interested  civil 
pharmaceutical  companies  and  all 
society  actors.  We  are  convinced 
that 
the  AIDS 
pandemic is not merely a question of public health, but 
a  serious  developmental  and  human  security  problem, 
and that it is seriously jeopardizing the future of entire 
nations and societies.  

Africa,  the  worst  affected  region,  contains  some 
25 million of the 36 million people infected worldwide. 
In  one  brotherly  African  country,  one  teacher  dies  of 
AIDS  every  day  of  the  school  year.  How  can  that 
country  deal  with  that  enormous  waste  of  human 
resources? How can it meet the challenge of schooling 
and education of its young generations? 

In  another  African  country,  life  expectancy  has 
dropped to 41. Without HIV/AIDS, it would be 70. For 
Africa, AIDS is both a tragedy  and  a  major challenge, 
which must be met as soon as possible. Its exponential 
spread  in  our  continent  seems  to  indicate  that  we  are 
seeing  a  gradual  Africanization  of  this  pandemic, 
which  in  the  space  of  10  years,  with  its  disastrous 
repercussions  on  the  living  standards  of  our  peoples, 
has caused a serious crisis in the development of many 
countries. 

As  stressed  in  the  resolution  adopted  on  5 
September 2000, which mentioned earlier, the needs of 
the countries that are living with AIDS far exceed their 
human  and  financial  resources.  Today,  to  combat  this 
epidemic,  political  will  is  required  at  the  highest 
national  and  global  levels.  That  is  why  my  country 
welcomed the initiative taken by the Security Council, 
under  the  American  presidency,  to  convene  on  10 
January  2000  a  special  meeting  on  HIV/AIDS  in 
Africa —  a  disease  that  undoubtedly  poses  a  threat  to 
international peace and security. 
the 
for 
the 
impact  on 
its  negative 
implementation  of 

We  are  particularly  pleased  at  the  important 
measures  that  have  been  taken  to  follow  up  on  the 
recommendations of the Council by the United Nations 
agencies to create an awareness of the magnitude of the 
phenomenon  and  of 
the 
economic and social development of many areas of the 
world. 

In  this  context,  special  mention  should  be  made 
of  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS),  which,  along  with 
Inter-Agency 
Standing  Committee,  has  submitted  an  ambitious  plan 
that  mainstreams 
the  question  of  HIV/AIDS  into 
humanitarian  activities  and  peacekeeping  operations, 
with  particular  emphasis  on  the  role  of  armed  forces 
and  peacekeeping  forces  in  preventing  the  spread  of 
AIDS. 
A  major  mobilization  of  financial  and  human 

speedy, 
resources  must  be  organized 
coordinated  and  effective 
the 
Framework  for Action  of  the  International  Partnership 
against  AIDS  in  Africa,  which  has  already  been 
approved  by  the African  Ministers  of  Health,  meeting 
in  Ouagadougou  in  May  2000,  and  by  the  Programme 
Coordinating  Board  of  UNAIDS.  It  is  time,  in  the 
words  of  the  title  of  the  thirteenth  International AIDS 
Conference, held in July 2000 in Durban, South Africa, 
to break the silence that surrounds this disease. 

for 
African  countries  to  tackle  once  again  the  difficult 
question of access to medicines and to health care. The 
pharmaceutical  companies  once  again  were  directly 
called  upon,  as  they  have  a  historic  responsibility  to 
the  world  and  to  its  peoples,  who  are  suffering  and 
uncertain about their fate. History will not forgive them 
if  they  stand  by  and  do  nothing  for  the  many  millions 
of  people  who  have  no  hope  of  a  cure  or  for  the 
hundreds of  millions  of others  who  are exposed to the 
virus  and  have  no  lasting  means  of  protection  or 
prevention. 

We  sometimes  have  the  unfortunate  impression 
that  some  people  take  pleasure  in  the  continuation  of 
the  appalling  situation  whereby  HIV-affected  people 
are in  the  South  while the  medicines  are in  the  North. 
This  situation  must  be  halted,  and  halted  quickly,  to 
stop AIDS  from  being  associated  with  Africa.  Human 
solidarity  and  ethical  considerations  demand  that  this 
unfortunate impression be dispelled. 
fresh  opportunity 
represented  a 
Durban 


11 

A/55/PV.50 

social 
ages 
against 
in 
infection 
and  other 

The  two  special  sessions  held  in  June  in  New 
York  and  Geneva,  respectively,  which  were  follow-up 
meetings  to  the  Fourth  World  Conference  on  Women 
and  to  the  World  Summit  for  Social  Development, 
stressed the urgent need to address the AIDS pandemic. 
The  outcome  document  of  the  Beijing  +  5  special 
session stresses the need, as a matter of priority and in 
cooperation  with  the  non-governmental  organizations, 
to strengthen, especially in the most affected countries, 
education, 
services  and  community-based 
mobilization  strategies,  in  order  to  protect  women  of 
all 
sexually 
transmitted  diseases.  Such  protection  would  be 
provided  through  safe,  affordable,  effective  and  easily 
accessible methods; through voluntary and confidential 
HIV  tests;  through  the  provision  of  counselling  that 
encourages  responsible  sexual  behaviour,  including 
abstinence  and  the  use  of  condoms;  and  finally, 
through  the  development  of  vaccines,  of  simple,  low-
cost  diagnostic  methods,  and  of  single-dose  treatment 
methods for sexually transmitted diseases. 

A  few  weeks  later  in  Geneva,  the  twenty-fourth 
special  session  of  the  General Assembly  also  adopted 
an  outcome  document,  which  is  part  of  the  same 
framework  of  action  and  which  stresses  the  need  for 
national  multisectoral  measures,  with  a  view  to,  inter 
alia, 
improving 
education  programmes;  training  health-care  workers; 
and  preventing  mother-child 
transmission.  It  also 
called  for  an  analysis  of  the  political,  social  and 
economic  aspects  of  AIDS.  All  of  these  strategic 
objectives  were 
the  Millennium 
Declaration,  adopted  by  our  heads  of  State  or 
Government on 8 September this year. 

I am pleased that  my country,  Senegal, is  widely 
referred to  as  an  example in the campaign  to  stem  the 
spread  of  this  disease  through  targeted  consciousness-
raising, educational and information campaigns. Today 
the  national  infection  rate  in  Senegal  is  1.77  per  cent, 
according  to  UNAIDS  estimates.  Senegal  is  honoured 
that  it  has  internationally  recognized  researchers  who, 
for the first time, have discovered the existence of type 
II  HIV.  I  am  pleased  to  announce  from  this  rostrum 
that,  through the  efforts  of  Senegalese researchers and 
thanks  to  the  cooperation  of  foreign  companies  and 
laboratories, my country has been able to reduce by 85 
per cent the cost of medicines used to combat AIDS. I 
am  convinced  that  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi 
Annan,  will  be  pleased  to  learn  of  this  good  news, 
strengthening 
enshrined 
services; 
health 
It 
is 
the 
that 
which is  consonant  with the  main ideas  he  has  always 
defended with conviction and generosity. 

Finally, Senegal’s National Committee to Combat 
AIDS  is  working  in  close  cooperation  with  non-
governmental  organizations,  civil  society  and  youth 
organizations,  and  with  political  impetus  from  the 
Government,  which  has  made  the  combat  against  the 
pandemic a top priority and  which  also  supervises our 
national  programme 
to  combat  AIDS  and  other 
sexually transmitted diseases. 
international 

important  now 
community step up its efforts in these various areas of 
the  fight  against  this  disease  so  that  the  programme 
objectives  established  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
report  to  the  Millennium  Summit  are  met  within  the 
prescribed  deadlines.  My  delegation  hopes  that  the 
special session to be held in June 2001 will lead to the 
initiation of a consensus global strategy for combating 
this pandemic, and  that this strategy  will be supported 
by significant financial resources capable of halting the 
spread  of  the  disease,  controlling  the  epidemic  and 
making  it  possible  to  speedily  discover  a  vaccine  and 
to make treatment and care accessible to patients. This 
strategy must of course give priority to the problems of 
Africa as it struggles with this scourge. 

I  conclude  by  stressing  that  the  struggle  against 
HIV/AIDS should never serve as a pretext for reducing 
the efforts that need to be made to tackle other, equally 
deadly,  diseases,  such  as  malaria  and  tuberculosis, 
which  are  spreading  at 
the  same  rate  as  AIDS, 
particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. 

Mrs.  Singh  (India):  We  hope  that  the  special 
session of the General Assembly, to be held from 25 to 
27  June  next  year,  to  review  and  address  the  problem 
of  HIV/AIDS  in  all  its  aspects,  will  have  a  concrete 
and  action-oriented  outcome,  building  on  the  resolve 
expressed by our heads of State and Government at the 
Millennium  Summit  to  halt  and  begin  to  reverse,  by 
2015,  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other 
serious diseases. 

AIDS  is  a  global  problem,  with  a  strong African 
dimension.  One  in  five  adults  in Africa  faces  death  in 
the  next  four  years  from AIDS.  In  an African  country, 
life  expectancy  will  drop  from  a  high  of  61  years  in 
1990 to only  41  years  next  year. With the  close of the 
twentieth century, some 33.6  million  men,  women and 
children face a future dominated by a disease unknown 
just  a  few  decades  ago.  Over  the  course  of  this  year, 
12 




A/55/PV.50
influence  on 
5.6 million people became infected with the HIV virus, 
which 
translates 
into  approximately  16,000  new 
infections a day. 

An  immediate  global  campaign  is  needed  to 
combat  this  epidemic,  because,  quite  apart  from  the 
enormity  of  the  human  suffering,  it  has  a  strong 
negative 
the  economic  growth  and 
development  of 
the  countries  affected.  A  United 
Nations  analysis  indicates  that  by  2005  the  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  of  many  southern  African 
countries will shrink by at least 14 per cent; per capita 
income will drop by 10 per cent; and labour costs will 
rise  due  to  morbidity  and  absenteeism,  dimming  the 
prospects of an African renaissance. 

We in India are also grappling with the challenge 
of  HIV/AIDS.  While  we  have  eradicated  deadly 
diseases like smallpox and guinea worm, and are on the 
verge  of  eliminating  leprosy,  we  are  now  confronted 
with  a  resurgence  of  malaria  and  tuberculosis  and  the 
rising  problem  of  HIV/AIDS,  which  some  estimate  as 
having infected 3 million to 4 million Indians. 

Though  we  cannot  prevent  a  common  cold, 
precautions  can  prevent  AIDS.  AIDS  is  preventable 
through awareness. Awareness is the key to prevention. 
This  effort  must  involve  community  leaders,  non-
governmental  organizations  and,  most 
important, 
people’s elected representatives at all levels. Our Prime 
Minister  has  requested  Members  of  Parliament,  chief 
ministers  of  States  and  others  to  take  a  personal 
interest in awareness-building campaigns, with the full 
participation  of  the  elected  representatives  of  local 
bodies.  The  cinema  can  also  be  a  powerful  medium, 
and its use is being actively explored. These initiatives 
need to be multiplied several times over. 
The social stigma attached to sexually transmitted 

infections  is  even  more  severe  for  HIV/AIDS.  There 
have  been  reported  cases  of  AIDS  patients  being 
refused  admission  to  hospitals  and  private  nursing 
homes.  The  isolation  of  patients  in  wards  creates  the 
misunderstanding  that  it  is  a  contagious  disease,  and 
causes  panic  among  other  patients.  There  have  also 
been  instances  of  discrimination  in  the  workplace, 
leading in some cases to loss of employment. These are 
problems  faced  worldwide  by  those  who  suffer  from 
HIV/AIDS. 
issued 
judgements  to  ensure  that  HIV-infected  and  AIDS 
patients are not discriminated against. 
judiciary  has 
India 
the 
In 
in,  and 
from, 
for  rent 
the  demand 
the  average 
Understandably,  when 

Treatment  for  HIV/AIDS  is  still  prohibitively 
expensive.  No  effective  vaccine  has  been  developed. 
The multi-drug anti-retroviral therapy popularly known 
as  “cocktail  therapy”,  if  not  administered  by  trained 
medical professionals, can have adverse effects. 

infected 
person  does  not  have  access  to  or  awareness  of 
treatment options, patients turn to and are exploited by 
quacks.  The  only  solution  lies  in  making  low-cost 
treatment  options  available.  Generic  drugs  are 
available 
India  at  an  extremely 
reasonable  cost,  but 
from 
multinationals,  in  the  guise  of  a  flawed  interpretation 
of  the  intellectual  property  rights  regime,  prohibits 
their  use.  Even  the  agreed  provisions  of  compulsory 
licensing  and  parallel  imports  by  developing  countries 
are generally frowned upon and cannot be implemented 
by  the  developing  countries,  except  under  a  constant 
threat of retaliation by the developed countries in other 
sectors  of  trade. The  special  session  must  address  this 
critical  issue  and  ensure  that  the  abjectly  mercantilist 
use  of  intellectual  property  rights,  involving  possible 
damage 
to  other  socio-economic 
objectives,  which  was  never  intended  by  the  World 
Trade  Organization  negotiators,  is  not  encouraged. 
Indeed,  it  must  be  reversed,  so  that  treatment  is 
available at reasonable prices. 
restrictive 

interpretation of the intellectual property rights regime 
have suggested alternatives, such as bank loans for the 
purchase  of  HIV/AIDS  drugs.  As  Kalumbi  Shangula, 
Namibia’s  Permanent  Secretary  of  Health  and  Social 
Services, recently pointed out, 
Some  proponents  of  a 
to  health  and 
severely 
“a fundamental problem for developing countries 
is that all drugs, not just anti-retrovirals, cost too 
much”. 
It is this problem of the greed of major pharmaceutical 
companies, even in the face of a public emergency, that 
needs to be addressed. 

Mr.  Pamir  (Turkey),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

HIV  does  not  kill  by  itself,  but  by  depleting  the 
immune  system  and  making  the  person  vulnerable  to 
other  infections.  Even  a  common  infection  of  the 
respiratory  tract  could  prove  fatal.  This  opens  a 
Pandora’s box of co-infections with HIV/AIDS. With a 
high  prevalence  of  tuberculosis  (TB)  in  India,  the 


13 

A/55/PV.50 

for  TB 
treatment 
Brazil  co-sponsored 
the  draft  resolution 
recommended 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  I  wish 
problem  of  HIV-TB  co-infection  is  overwhelming. 
Nearly 60 per cent of HIV/AIDS cases are reported to 
be  infected  with  TB  bacilli.  The  treatment  of  TB 
among  HIV-infected persons is  a  new  challenge  to  the 
national effort in controlling this infection. Some of the 
drugs 
pose 
complications  in  the  case of  HIV-infected  persons  and 
have  had  to  be  withdrawn  in  areas  of  high  HIV 
prevalence.  The  issue  of  co-infection,  especially  with 
tuberculosis,  should  be  high  on  the  agenda  of  the 
special session. 

thank 
the 
to 
delegations  of  Ukraine,  Costa  Rica, 
the  Czech 
Republic,  Nigeria  and  Zimbabwe  for their  initiative in 
bringing the issue of HIV/AIDS to the forefront of our 
agenda. 

that 
became resolution 54/283, adopted just recently, on the 
review  of  the  problem  of  HIV/AIDS  in  all  its aspects. 
Similarly,  we  are  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution 
before  us,  which  gathered  consensus  after  intensive 
negotiations. The resolution that we are about to adopt 
represents  a  historic  breakthrough  for  the  United 
Nations.  It  adequately  stresses  the  urgent  need  to 
address  the  AIDS  pandemics  at  the  global  level,  and 
duly  recognizes  it  as  a  crisis  that  requires  the  highest 
level of political commitment and collaboration among 
Governments, international organizations,  civil society 
and  the  business  community.  We  look  forward  to 
working  closely  with  other  Member  States,  the  Joint 
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS) 
and  other  relevant  stakeholders  to  ensure  that  the 
preparatory  process  will  be  most  productive  and  that 
the special session can reach concrete results. 

We  are  convinced  that  the  extent  of  the  current 
crisis  requires  a  vigorous  and  systematic  effort  by  the 
human, 
international 
technical  and 
the 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  AIDS  devastates  families  and 
peoples,  damages  workforces,  undermines  the  social 
fabric and overburdens State institutions. Having killed 
more  than  2  million  people  in  1999  alone,  the  AIDS 
pandemic has gradually turned into a major crisis. The 
situation  in Africa  is  tragically  harsher  than  anywhere 
else.  Fifty  per  cent  of  all  global  cases  of  AIDS  are 
concentrated 
in  Africa,  and  90  per  cent  of 
the 
11 million children orphaned by AIDS are African. 
in  mobilizing 
resources 
community 
financial 
to 
fight 
in  Brazil.  Throughout 
As  has  been  broadly  acknowledged, 

Throughout  the  last  two  decades,  Brazil  has 
actively  contributed  to  the  international  debate  on 
HIV/AIDS.  We  have  been  following  the  issue  with 
great  concern.  Among  other  contributions,  Brazil 
offered to host the third ad hoc thematic meeting of the 
Programme  Coordinating  Board  of  UNAIDS,  to  be 
held in  Rio de Janeiro on  14 and 15  December.  Brazil 
also  participated  in  the  open  meeting  of  the  Security 
Council  last  January  and  in  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  special  briefings  in  February.  We  believe  that 
the full engagement of the General Assembly is timely 
and imperative, for it can give a unique contribution to 
raising  global  awareness  about 
the  humanitarian 
dimension of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. 

Jointly  with  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
the  General  Assembly  can  work  to  tap  international 
solidarity,  serve  as  a  vehicle  for  the  translation  of 
commitments 
into  results  and  ensure  coordinated 
responses by the system. 

firm 
governmental  action  has  effectively  helped  to  reduce 
the  rate  of  infections  and  alleviate  the  impact  of  the 
crisis 
the  1980s,  Brazil 
consolidated  a  nationwide  programme  to  prevent  and 
combat  HIV/AIDS.  According  to  estimates,  in  the 
period  from  1994  to  1999  alone,  the  programme  has 
helped reduce AIDS-related mortality rates by over 50 
per  cent.  The  Brazilian  Government  has  relied  on 
strong  public  campaigns  through  the  mass  media  as  a 
key element of a preventive strategy based on the idea 
that education and information dissemination strategies 
are the best ways to halt AIDS. 

Thanks  to  the  intensive  efforts  made  in  close 
cooperation  with  non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs),  the  rate  of  adult  infection  by  HIV  in  Brazil 
was  estimated  at  0.57  per  cent  in  1999,  one  of  the 
lowest  in  the  world.  In  addition,  since  1996  the 
Ministry  of  Health  has  also  been  providing  free 
universal access to approved medications against AIDS 
and  related  opportunistic  diseases.  Nowadays,  at  least 
58,000  men,  women  and  children  receive 
these 
prescription  drugs  on  a  regular  basis.  This  policy  has 
significantly  helped 
the  number  of 
hospitalizations. 

As a  strong believer  in  South-South  cooperation, 
the  Brazilian  Government  has  been  exchanging 
technical  expertise  with  other  developing  countries. 
Our  low-cost  policies  to  cope  with AIDS  have  proved 
reduce 
to 
14 




A/55/PV.50
from 
Brazil 
is  hosting, 
particularly  useful  as  successful  responses  in  the 
presence of budgetary constraints. 

At the regional level, Brazil has provided training 
and  support  for  capacity-building  to  organize  local 
programmes  for  the  prevention  and  control  of  AIDS 
and other sexually transmitted diseases.  
through  11 

today 
November,  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  the  First  Forum  and  the 
Second  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  Horizontal 
Technical  Cooperation  Conference  on  HIV/AIDS  and 
STD known as “Foro 2000”. 

Based  on  our  national  and  regional  experience, 
since  1997  the  Brazilian  Government  has  also  been 
implementing  cooperation  programmes  with  other 
Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa in the fields of 
management  of  preventive  programmes  and 
the 
establishment  of  epidemiological  monitoring  systems. 
We  are  now  extending 
this  cooperation  to  other 
countries in Africa. In 1999, experts from the Brazilian 
Ministry  of  Health  visited  Kenya,  Zimbabwe,  South 
Africa,  Namibia  and  Botswana,  with  a  view 
to 
identifying  cooperation  projects  that  could  be  quickly 
initiated. 

As a country with limited resources, Brazil looks 
forward to working with UNAIDS, the United Nations 
Fund  for  Population  Activities  (UNFPA),  the  United 
Nations  Children’s  Fund  (UNICEF),  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  and  the  donor  community  in 
helping third countries to curb the spread of AIDS. 

In the Millennium Summit, our heads of State and 
Government  solemnly  resolved  to  have  halted,  and 
begun to reverse, the spread of HIV/AIDS by 2015. To 
that end, we believe that the General Assembly and the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  should  continue  to 
discuss  ways  to  facilitate  access  of  affected  countries 
to adequate treatment, at lower costs, including access 
to  prescription  drugs.  The  lack  of  resources  for  the 
prevention  and  treatment  of  AIDS  is  surely  the  main 
factor  affecting  developing  countries,  especially  in 
Africa. It is essential that cooperation  with developing 
countries  take  into  account  the  need  for  promoting 
education campaigns, as well as guaranteeing universal 
treatment  for  all AIDS  patients.  Due  to  the  high  costs 
related  to  prevention  campaigns,  adequate  access  to 
medication,  frequent  hospitalization  and  assistance  to 
orphaned  children,  the  success  of  the  struggle  against 
AIDS  will  largely  depend  on  the  support  of  donor 
countries. 
the 
in 
issue 
remarks  by  expressing 
Mr. Mwakawago (United Republic of Tanzania): 

Let  me  preface  my 
the 
appreciation  of  my  delegation  to  you,  Sir,  for  putting 
this  very  important  issue  of  reviewing  the  problem  of 
HIV/AIDS  in  all  its  aspects  before  the  Assembly  for 
discussion. We commend the delegation of Ukraine for 
holding consultations that led to the draft resolution on 
the agenda item now before us. 

My delegation  would like to associate itself  with 
the statement delivered by the representative of Nigeria 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77.  In  the  same  vein,  we 
wish  to  identify  ourselves  with  the  statement  to  be 
delivered by the representative of Namibia on behalf of 
the Southern African Development Community. 

It  gives  my  delegation  solace  to  note  that  the 
severity of HIV/AIDS and its human impact have now 
been  fully  recognized  at  the  highest  political  level. 
Earlier  this  year,  the  Security  Council  deemed  the 
problem  of  HIV/AIDS  enough  of  a  threat  to  the 
security  of  the  international  community  to  warrant  an 
open  debate  of 
the  Council.  The 
Millennium  Summit  also  underscored  the  need  for  the 
international  community  to  address  this  scourge  on  an 
urgent  basis.  My  delegation 
the 
recommendations  made  at  the  Millennium  Summit, 
stressing  the  need  to  undertake  concrete  measures  at 
both  the  national  and  international  levels  aimed  at 
reducing  HIV/AIDS  infection  rates  in  persons  aged 
between  15  and  24  years  by  25  per  cent  within  the 
most  affected  countries  by 
the  year  2005.  The 
Millennium  Summit  also  called  on  the  pharmaceutical 
industry to develop an effective and affordable vaccine 
against  HIV/AIDS.  In  this  connection,  my  delegation 
hopes  that  this  Millennium  Assembly  will  work  out 
modalities for translating these positive intentions into 
concrete deeds. 

My  country  is  one  of  those  south  of  the  Sahara 
that  have  been  severely  affected  by  the  pandemic. 
Statistics  associated  with  this  pandemic  worldwide 
have been quoted often enough and they keep changing 
as the number of infected people grows. In the case of 
Tanzania,  from  the  first  three  known  AIDS  cases  that 
were reported in 1983, today, for every 10 Tanzanians, 
one already carries the HIV virus and can infect others. 
Four  months  ago  in  an,  address  to  the  youth  of 
Tanzania, my President, William Benjamin Mkapa, put 
it succinctly by saying: 
fully  endorses 


15 

A/55/PV.50 

and 
from 
social 
health, 
 “Our  country 
in  workplaces, 

is  afflicted  by  a  deadly 
epidemic  of  catastrophic  proportions,  known  as 
HIV/AIDS,  which  is  swiftly  destroying  the  lives 
of  our  people,  including  the  youth,  who  are  the 
most indispensable resource and the future of our 
nation.” 

In  response  to  the  severity  of  the  pandemic  and 
its 
far-reaching 
economic 
implications,  my  Government  has  now  declared 
HIV/AIDS a national disaster to be treated with all the 
seriousness that a pandemic requires. Consequently, the 
Government  has  created  a  national  framework  for 
establishing  an  expanded  multisectoral  response  to 
HIV/AIDS  involving  all  the  collaborating  partners, 
under  strong  and  purposeful  guidance 
the 
Government.  

A  little  more  than  two  months  ago,  my  Prime 
Minister  launched  the  Tanzanian  Business  Council  on 
HIV/AIDS.  The  Council  aims  at  bringing  together 
small,  medium  and  large  business  concerns  in  the 
country  to explore the comparative  advantage of  these 
entities  in  confronting  the  challenges  posed  by  the 
pandemic 
local  communities  and 
society  in  general.  For  the  first  time,  this  year  my 
Government has allocated $6 million for the fiscal year 
2000/2001. 

The  economic,  social  and  security  challenges 
posed  by  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  require  concerted 
efforts,  not  only  by  the  countries  concerned,  but  also 
by  the  entire  international  community.  In  this  context, 
my delegation is pleased to note that in our crusade we 
have  not  been  alone;  indeed,  we  could  not  have 
afforded  to  go  it  alone.  The  international  community, 
particularly the United Nations, has taken a number of 
initiatives in responding to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. In 
my 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme (UNDP) has worked in close collaboration 
with  the  Government  to  strengthen  the capacity  of  the 
national  AIDS 
through 
developing  financial  and  management  systems.  In 
addition,  UNDP  has  special  programmes  with  non-
governmental  organizations  and  has  undertaken  some 
district-specific  initiatives.  A  lot  more  needs  to  be 
done,  given  the  all-pervasive  nature  of  the  pandemic 
and  the  poverty  of  most  of  the  countries  that  are 
hardest  hit  and  of  the  majority  of  the  people  afflicted 
by it. 
programme, 
including 
country, 
The 
work 
important 
initiative  of 
is  vitally 
with 
the  Secretary-General 

in 
launching  the  International  Partnership  Against  AIDS 
in Africa in  December last  year,  under the  auspices of 
the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS),  is  a  welcome  one.  The  initiative  is  an 
eloquent manifestation of the efforts to involve entities 
other  than  the  United  Nations  in  confronting  the 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  It 
that 
Governments 
non-governmental 
organizations,  civil  society,  the  private  sector  and 
community-based  organizations  if  we  are  to  make  any 
meaningful dent in the pandemic. My Government, on 
its part,  will ensure that it brings the requisite synergy 
necessary to confronting this deadly scourge. 

The  General  Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft 
resolution on this agenda item. In the draft, apart from 
other  pertinent  provisions, 
the  General  Assembly 
would  decide  to  convene  a  special  session  to  review 
the  problem  of  HIV/AIDS  in  all  its  aspects  in  June 
2001. My delegation welcomes this decision, cognizant 
of  the  fact  that  efforts  to  roll  back  the  pandemic  have 
not  been  commensurate  with  the  speed  at  which  it  is 
spreading.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  the  special 
session,  convinced  that  it  will  elaborate  a  declaration 
of  commitment  that  the  international  community  can 
adopt  in  confronting  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  If  we 
are 
is 
required  in  dealing  with  the  pandemic.  We  need  not 
only  to  elaborate  the  modalities  of  preventing  the 
epidemic  from  spreading,  but  also 
the  care  and 
counselling  of  those  who  have  already  been  affected, 
as  well  as  to  provide  them  with  affordable  drugs  that 
will  prolong  their  lives.  The  session  will  fill  the  void 
that  has  hitherto  governed  the  whole  issue  of  the 
pandemic. 
Today, nobody can afford to stand aloof from this 

problem. While we in Africa are the worst hit today, in 
this  era  of  globalization  we  may  all  find  ourselves 
under siege.  
the 

Administrator  of  UNDP,  Mr.  Mark  Malloch  Brown, 
who put the situation in admirably stark relief when he 
addressed the Security Council in January. He had this 
to say: 

“Africa  is  under  siege  …  Today  this  is 
Africa’s  drama;  unmet,  it  becomes  the  world’s.” 
(S/PV.4087, p. 9) 
to  succeed,  a  multidimensional  approach 
conclude  by  quoting 
Allow  me 
to 
16 




A/55/PV.50
this 
landmark 
and 
We have the potential to meet the challenge if we 

work together. Let us seize the moment. 

Mr.  Kolby  (Norway):  Let  me  start  by  thanking 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Ukraine  for  having 
introduced 
important  draft 
resolution. We  also  thank  the  other  countries  involved 
in this initiative. It will be a happy conclusion when we 
adopt the draft resolution this afternoon. 

The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  no  longer  just  a 
serious health problem; it has become a social crisis on 
a  global  basis. AIDS  is  now  causing  more  devastation 
than  war  in  Africa;  it  is  posing  a  serious  threat  to 
human, social and economic development. Many of the 
gains  achieved  during  the  past  decades,  such  as  a 
significant  increase  in  life  expectancy,  are  now  being 
eroded  by  the  pandemic.  And  the  virus  is  spreading 
fastest  in  those  parts  of  the  world  with  the  least 
resources to deal with it. 
The  disastrous  proportions  that  the  HIV/AIDS 

pandemic is reaching must not, however, make us lose 
hope.  We  must  remind  ourselves  that  the  HIV  virus 
does  not  travel  by  wind  or  water.  It  needs  a  helping 
hand from human beings to spread. This means that we 
are not defenceless or powerless against the pandemic. 
To  combat  it  we  need  strong  political  leadership,  and 
we  need  openness  about  the  issues.  We  also  need 
broad-based,  multisectoral  responses.  But,  first  and 
foremost, we need to act, and to act now. 

HIV/AIDS  is  an  issue  of  immense  complexity. 
The  upcoming  special  session  will  give  us  an 
opportunity  to  review  the  pandemic  in  all  its  aspects 
and to develop common strategies for an expanded and 
broad-based  response.  Today  I  will  concentrate  on  a 
few key aspects of the pandemic that Norway believes 
deserve special attention. 

the  poverty  dimension.  The 
interrelationship between HIV/AIDS and poverty needs 
to  be  better  understood  and  dealt  with.  Poverty 
increases  vulnerability 
for 
individuals  and  communities.  At 
time, 
HIV/AIDS in itself leads to increased poverty. We must 
develop  comprehensive  strategies  to  address  these 
aspects  of  the  pandemic.  The  fight  against  HIV/AIDS 
must  be  closely  combined  with  efforts  to  combat 
poverty. 
sector 
programmes,  consultative  group  meetings  and  round 
tables  should  all  take  into  account  the  social  and 
economic consequences of HIV/AIDS. 
to  HIV/AIDS,  both 
I  begin  with 
the  same 
Poverty 
reduction 
strategies, 

Secondly,  the  gender  and  age  dimensions  of  the 
pandemic need more attention. Women and young girls 
are  more  vulnerable  than  men,  for  biological,  social 
and  cultural  reasons.  The  empowerment  of  girls  and 
women  must  therefore  be  a  priority  concern.  This 
means 
safeguarding  education  opportunities  and 
providing  people  with  the  life  skills  needed  to  enable 
them  to  cope  and  to  protect  themselves.  It  means 
access to knowledge and to the means of protection. It 
means  promoting  gender  equality  in  all  spheres — 
health,  education  and  the  economy.  It  means  being 
ready  to  confront  difficult  issues  in  a  frank  and  open 
manner. 

We  also  need  to  do  more  to  involve  men  and  to 
promote male responsibility. Most men may not engage 
in  risk-taking  behaviour,  but  without  men  the  virus 
would  have  a  limited  opportunity  to  spread.  Involving 
men  as  partners  in  the  fight  against AIDS  can  change 
the course of the pandemic, and it is therefore crucial. 
This  means  that  we  cannot  rely  only  on  schools  and 
health  clinics  as 
the  main  arenas  for  spreading 
information.  We  must  involve  trade  unions  and  the 
business community. We must involve religious groups 
and  sports  associations.  We  must  find  ways  to  reach 
mobile 
are 
unemployed and those who work in the informal sector. 

Thirdly, we must do more to counteract the social 
exclusion  and  stigmatization  of  people  living  with 
HIV/AIDS  and  to  ensure  that  their  human  rights  are 
fully respected. The stigma that accompanies the virus 
not only  leads  to  unnecessary  human  suffering; it  also 
counteracts preventive measures that require frankness. 
The  majority of HIV-infected people do not know that 
they  are  carrying  the  virus.  And  as  long  as  the 
opportunities  for  treatment  are  few  and  the  fear  of 
social  exclusion  is  real,  many  will  not  want  to  know. 
This  shows  why  any  strategy  to  combat  HIV/AIDS 
must  be  broad  in  scope  and  combine  measures  for 
prevention  and  care  with  means  for  coping  with  the 
burden of the pandemic. 

Combating  HIV/AIDS  requires  joint  efforts  and 
broad  partnerships  at  the  local,  national,  regional  and 
global  levels,  with  active  public-private  collaboration 
and involvement of civil society. A good example is the 
International Partnership against AIDS in Africa, where 
national  Governments,  civil  society,  the  private  sector 
and multilateral agencies are joining forces. 
and  migrant  workers, 
those  who 


17 

A/55/PV.50 

to 
tailored 
initiatives 
We  need  a  broader  and  better  coordinated 

response  by 
the  multilateral  system.  All  relevant 
United  Nations  organizations  should  assess  how  they 
can strengthen their contribution and better utilize their 
comparative advantages in the fight against HIV/AIDS. 
In  this  respect,  we  recall  the  important  debate  in  the 
Security Council of January this year on the impact of 
HIV/AIDS  on  peace  and  security  in  Africa  and  the 
follow-up meeting in the Economic and Social Council 
in  February.  We  must  make  the  upcoming  special 
session  a  powerful  and  action-oriented  event  that  will 
inspire  people,  organizations,  Governments 
and 
corporations all over the world to renew and strengthen 
their  commitment  to  fighting  the  pandemic.  There  are 
new  initiatives  to  develop  vaccines  and  immunization 
the  needs  of  developing 
programmes 
countries.  These 
should  be  pursued 
vigorously. 

Action against AIDS is a top priority in Norway’s 
development cooperation. We are supporting a number 
of  national  AIDS  programmes  and  giving  substantial 
support to international organizations such as the Joint 
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS). 
We  intend  to  do  more  and  have  decided  to  intensify 
and  broaden  our  efforts.  In  its  budget  proposal  for 
2001,  my  Government  has  doubled  the  allocation  to 
multilateral  AIDS  programmes. 
In  our  bilateral 
cooperation,  we  are  engaging  in  dialogue  with  our 
development  partners  on  how  we  can  contribute  more 
effectively  and  engage  more  broadly  in  facing  the 
challenges that AIDS poses to development. 
The  world  is  living  with  HIV/AIDS.  The  fight 

against this devastating pandemic must be placed at the 
top  of  our  agenda.  Unless  we  take  this  challenge 
seriously,  we  will  see  the  results  of  decades  of 
development efforts being eroded. 
in 

Russian):  I  would  like  to  associate  myself  with  a 
number of delegations that have conveyed gratitude to 
the  delegation  of  Ukraine  for  putting  forward  this 
useful  initiative,  which  from  the  very  beginning  was 
supported by many countries, including Russia. 

Russia  attaches  great  importance  to  preventing 
and  combating  HIV/AIDS.  Thanks  to  legislation  that 
was  adopted  in  Russia,  and  thanks  to  organizational 
and  prophylactic  steps,  Russia  has  a  comparably  low 
level  at  which  HIV is  spreading.  However,  since  1987 
the  number  of  registered  HIV-infected  persons  has 
(Russian  Federation) 
Mr.  Isakov
(spoke 
the 
in 
is 
and 
treatment 
intensifying 
its  participation 
level,  it  is  most  acute 
been  constantly  growing.  Since  the  middle  of  1996 
there  has  been  a  sharp  deterioration  in  the  HIV 
epidemic  situation.  This  applies  to  the  whole  of  our 
population, particularly to adolescents. In this context, 
robust  domestic  measures  are  being  taken  to  combat 
HIV/AIDS  and  to  prevent  the  disease.  At  the  same 
time,  Russia 
in 
international  cooperation  on  questions  of  prevention, 
diagnosis, 
epidemiological 
surveillance  of  the  spread of AIDS.  Here, our  focus  is 
primarily on cooperating with the Joint United Nations 
Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). 
While the problem of HIV/AIDS is serious at the 

global 
the  developing 
countries,  particularly  in  Africa,  where  up  to  90  per 
cent  of  HIV-infected  people  live.  It  is  precisely  in 
Africa  that  the  AIDS  epidemic  has  assumed  such 
catastrophic  proportions,  making it a  primary  cause of 
death.  The  magnitude  of  the  disease  has  caused  a 
whole  range  of  problems —  humanitarian,  social  and 
economic —  that  hamper  the  successful  development 
of African States. 

The  exceptional  acuteness  of  the  HIV/AIDS 
problem  means  that  we  must  intensify  international 
cooperation 
this  dangerous  disease. 
Russia  is  prepared  actively  to  participate  in  this 
cooperation. I wish to recall in this respect that Russia 
produces  high  quality  HIV  diagnostic  and  treatment 
preparations  as  well  as  laboratory  equipment  and  to 
stress,  in  particular,  at  prices  that  are  two  to  two  and 
one  half  times  lower  than  average  world  prices.  Pilot 
projects which draw on Russia’s capacities in this area 
are  planned  through  the  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO)  and  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS).  

Russia  has  qualified  HIV/AIDS  specialists  who 
could  be  more  actively  engaged  in  UNAIDS  projects. 
We  are  prepared  to  participate  and  to  work  with 
UNAIDS  in  the  development  of  an AIDS  vaccine. We 
think  that,  due  to  the  complexity  of  the  task  and  the 
particularly  high  cost  of  research,  we  should  pool  our 
efforts — the efforts of the entire world community — 
including also in terms of resources. 

Russia,  one  of  the  sponsors  of  the  resolution 
adopted  at  the  fifty-fourth  session  on  this  question,  is 
convinced that the special session will give impetus to 
the  further  search  for  ways  to  resolve  the  HIV/AIDS 
problem,  as  called  for  by  the  Millennium  Declaration, 
in  combating 
18 




A/55/PV.50
to 
by 
properly 
effective, 
focus  on  well-thought-out, 
and  will  help  to  enhance  coordination  of  international 
efforts in this area. 

It  is  important  that  the  special  session  focus  on 
developing  a  comprehensive  strategy  that  seeks  to 
improve  access  to  the  means  to  combat  AIDS.  These 
objectives,  as  the  Assembly  is  aware,  were  supported 
by  the  leaders  of  the  G-8  at  the  Summit  held  in 
Okinawa.  

The success of the special session will, to a large 
extent if not to a decisive extent, depend on the quality 
of  the  preparatory  process.  It  is  important  from  the 
outset 
carefully 
considered  and  realistic  decisions.  This  would  be 
guaranteed 
coordinated 
preparatory  measures  taken  at  national  and  regional 
levels. 

Russia,  for  its  part,  is  prepared  to  take  a  very 
active part in this process and truly to help to make its 
work productive. 

Mr.  Rodriguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is 
Cuba’s  hope  that  the  concern  we  are  showing  today 
about the almost 36  million people in the  world living 
with  the  HIV  virus,  of  which  24.5  million  are  in  sub-
Saharan  Africa 
the 
mobilization  of  the  international  community  to  make 
comprehensive  efforts  to  fight  this  disease  effectively. 
We  also  hope  that  this  will  mean  that  the  will  of  the 
industrialized countries will be expressed in action and 
the allocation of resources. 

AIDS  in  Africa,  like  hunger,  is  a  problem  of 
under-development.  It  is  not  a  coincidence  that  the 
epidemic 
the 
disadvantaged  poor  populations  lacking  education  and 
health services. 
With  3.8  million  new  cases  of  HIV  infections  in 

1999, 
including  half  a  million  children,  with  an 
accumulated 13.7 million dead, which is 69 times more 
than  the  number  of  dead  in  conflicts,  and  7  million 
children  orphaned,  Africa  needs  cooperation  and  not 
censure.  It  requires  development  and  not  interference. 
It cries out for resources and not prescriptions for good 
governments or foreign models. 

Just  to  treat  current  patients  with  anti-retrovirus 
drugs,  Africa  would  have  to  spend  more  than  $57 
billion  yearly  and,  if  the  therapies  of  the  developed 
countries  were  to  be  applied  there,  it  would  require 
more than  $250 billion. Today, Africa  can  only  devote 
spreading  mainly 
alone,  will 
translate 
amongst 
into 
is 
to 
required 
resources 
fight  AIDS 
Meanwhile,  official  development 
a bare $10 per  capita to  health  care, and that,  in  some 
countries,  is  equivalent  to  one-ninth  the  cost  of  debt 
servicing. 

In  1998, the African  continent received  less  than 
$5  billion,  that  is  3  per  cent  of  the  world’s  total,  in 
foreign  direct  investment.  Its  current  account  deficit 
was $16 billion — more than triple that of the previous 
year. The  debt  burden  rose  to  $350  billion,  more  than 
triple  the  amount  of  all  of  Africa’s  exports  of  goods 
and services. 
assistance 

(ODA)  continues  to  account  for  only  0.23  per  cent  of 
the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  of  the  developed 
countries. 
in 

The 
underdeveloped  countries can  only  be provided  by  the 
developed  countries,  which  control  86  per  cent  of  the 
world’s GDP, 82 per cent of its exports and 68 per cent 
of  investments.  These  resources  could  be  provided  by 
opulent societies, which consume billions of dollars in 
cosmetics, cigarettes, pet food, cars and the production 
of weapons. 

On  this  subject  it  is  high  time  to  take  action. 
Cuba  reiterates  once  again  its  proposal  to  establish  a 
collaborative  project  through  UNAIDS,  the  World 
Health  Organization  (WHO)  and  other  agencies  and 
funds  for  sub-Saharan  Africa, 
the  Caribbean  and 
Central  America  to  fight  AIDS  and  other  health 
problems to which Cuba is prepared to provide medical 
personnel free of charge. 

Moreover,  Cuba  reiterates  its  proposal  to  supply 
free  of  charge  all  the  medical  personnel  necessary  to 
launch  an  urgent  health  campaign  in  the  north  of  sub-
Saharan  Africa.  This  project  should  be  supplemented 
by  contributions 
funds  and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  from 
developed 
the  minimum 
indispensable  resources,  mainly  drugs  and  medical 
equipment. 

This effort is feasible and would not require huge 
resources.  Cuba,  despite  its  economic  difficulties,  has 
been  making  an  effort  on  its  own.  At  present  2,146 
Cubans  provide  assistance  in  14  countries  of  Central 
America, Africa and the Caribbean and provide care to 
more than 10 million people. 
This cooperation is expanding. To this end, Cuba 

has  established  a  Latin  American  School  of  Medical 
the  agencies, 
to  provide 
countries, 
from 


19 

A/55/PV.50 

and 
from 
With 
technicians 
Sciences  which  will  enrol  6,000  students.  We  have 
created  a  Caribbean  School  of  Medicine  and  are 
working on the creation of medical schools with Cuban 
professors  in  two  African  countries  and  are  carrying 
out a vaccination campaign in Haiti. We will supply all 
university  study  grants  required  by  the  Caribbean 
countries free of charge. 
We  have  already  graduated  about  27,000 

professionals 
developing 
countries  and  we  have  trained  another  five  thousand. 
We have graduated 1,165 doctors and dentists. 

More  than  80,000  Cuban  civilian  collaborators 
have  provided  services  in  Africa,  almost  25,000  of 
them in the area of health care. 
We  are  pleased  to  reiterate  here  the  proposal 

made by our President, Fidel Castro, at the Millennium 
Summit, to provide 3,000 health specialists and doctors 
for  the  provision  of  services  free  of  charge  to  sub-
Saharan Africa and even to take on the task of building 
the infrastructure that is needed for the massive use of 
anti-retroviral  drugs,  if  the  industrialized  countries 
provide the necessary drugs and resources. 

social 
programmes,  with  the  good  use  of  resources  and  the 
creation  of  efficient  extensive  health  and  education 
systems  for  the  entire  population  with  an  equitable 
distribution  of  wealth,  a  small  country  like  Cuba, 
though  poor and  subject to  embargoes,  can provide an 
example  of  success  in  the  treatment  and  control  of 
AIDS. 

The  execution  of  our  national  programme  for 
prevention  and  control  of  AIDS  has  had  a  positive 
effect on the evolution of the epidemic in our country. 
Taking into account the figures reported  worldwide on 
AIDS  today,  we  can  see  that  Cuba  can  compare  very 
favourably  with  the  majority  of  countries  around  the 
world. We have virtually no cases of AIDS in children 
and care is guaranteed for each case reported. 

Between  1986  and  31  December  1999,  2,676 
seropositive people, 1,001 people suffering from AIDS 
and  691  deaths  have  been  recorded. The  epidemic  has 
grown  slowly  and 
low 
transmission level. Only .03 per cent of the population 
between 15 and 49 years of age are infected. 

All  Cubans  affected  by  HIV/AIDS  benefit  from 
extensive  care  and  broad  coverage,  understanding  and 
human  solidarity,  a  right  to  confidentiality  and  full 
political  will 
is  considered 
to  have  a 
effective 
and 
20 

respect  for  their  privacy.  They  do  not  experience 
discrimination. Their right to work, social security and 
health  care  are  guaranteed  generally  through  modern 
out-patient treatment. They enjoy legal protection, and 
respect  for  and  exercise  of  their  human  rights  are 
ensured.  Health  education  is  efficient  and  universal. 
The project to develop a Cuban vaccine against AIDS, 
now  at  the  stage  of  clinical  trials  on  human  beings,  is 
among the most advanced in the world. 

Our  experience,  which  we  present  humbly  and 
modestly,  serves  as  an  example  that  this  effort  is 
feasible. 

Cuba supports the convening of a special session 
to review the problem of HIV/AIDS in all its aspects in 
June  2001,  which  will  allow  the  entire  international 
community to join in the fight against this disease and 
during  which  various  experiences  and  approaches  can 
be  shared  on  the  social  and  economic  aspects  of  the 
epidemic,  access  to  medical  care  and  treatment,  in 
particular 
the 
development of vaccines. 

Our  expectation  is  that  this  process  will  also 
reaffirm  our  Governments’  leading  role  in  guiding 
national  efforts  to  develop  an  agenda  whose  scope 
ranges from prevention, care and treatment to defining 
priority  areas of  aid, as  well as recognition  of the  fact 
that  the  design  of  strategies  to  fight  this  disease  must 
be 
the  historical,  socio-economic  and 
cultural characteristics of our countries. 

The  Cuban  delegation  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor 
the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document  A/55/L.13 
before the General Assembly and intends to participate 
actively  in  the  preparatory  process  and  the  special 
session. 

(Namibia):  On  5 
September  this  year,  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia,  speaking  on  behalf  of  Southern  Africa 
Development  Community  (SADC)  at  the  launching  of 
the  corporate  strategies in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS 
in southern Africa, had this to say: 
Mrs.  Ashipala-Musavyi
scientific 
research 
tailored 
drugs, 
and 
to 
“this  scourge  knows  no  borders,  and  does  not 
discriminate  against  anyone  or  any  country.  For 
all  those  who  are  infected  with  the  HIV  virus, 
dozens more are affected as the virus enters their 
household,  leaving  children  orphaned,  stripping 
them of their teachers, health workers, managers, 
employees and political leaders”. 



A/55/PV.50
to 
from 
to  convene 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Namibia 

The  launch  of  the  corporate  strategies  was  a 
combined  effort  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP),  the  Corporate  Council  on Africa 
and 
to  create 
partnership  between  Governments 
southern 
Africa,  the  United  Nations  and  corporate  America  to 
forge a collaborative effort in the fight against AIDS. 
It  is  in  this  context  that  we  wish  to  express  our 

appreciation 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Ukraine  to  the  United  Nations  for  his  important 
initiative  and  the  work  he  undertook  with  regard  to 
resolution  54/283,  which  decided  that  the  General 
Assembly  convene  a  special  session  on  the  review  of 
the  problem  of  HIV/AIDS  in  all  its  aspects.  The 
important coordination undertaken by the delegation of 
Ukraine enabled us to collectively arrive at a consensus 
on  most  of  the  procedural  aspects  dealing  with  the 
special  session.  We  feel  that  the  draft  resolution 
correctly reflects the way forward. 

No  Government  can  on  its  own  handle  the 
challenge  of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic;  hence,  the 
the  special  session  on 
urgent  need 
HIV/AIDS.  We  view 
the  special  session  as  an 
important  opportunity  for  Governments,  the  United 
Nations  system  and civil society, including  the private 
sector, 
in 
formulating  appropriate  policies  and  strategies  for  the 
prevention and care of the infected, as well as affected 
individuals, families and communities. 

increase  our  contribution  from  all 
available  resources,  public  and  private,  to  strengthen 
the  health  sector  so  as  to  have  an  effective  delivery 
system.  Experience  has  shown  that  there  can  be  real 
successes  in  reducing  new  infection  when  there  is  a 
properly-funded  preventive  response  and  when  the 
state  of  HIV/AIDS  is  acknowledged.  Silence  does  not 
enhance prevention. 

If  we  are  to  secure  the  future,  every  effort  must 
be made to halt the spread and to mitigate the impact of 
this 
between 
Governments, international organizations,  civil society 
and the private sector is therefore crucial. 
the 

forthcoming  special  session  as  a  major  opportunity  to 
take  stock  of  what  we  have done thus  far  to exchange 
views  on  lessons  learned  and  best  practices  and  to 
consolidate  our  various  initiatives  and  programmes.  It 
is  critical  that  we  harmonize  these  initiatives  and 
strengthen  our  collective  efforts 
in  SADC  also  view 
Furthermore,  we 
partnership 
pandemic. 
We  must 
Smart 
to 
To 
in 
and 
ensure 
labour; 
in  SADC 
this  regard, 
to  fight  against 
programmes,  so  as  to  secure  better  cooperation  and 
exchanges  of  information  between  and  among  bodies 
and  agencies  working  with  Governments  on 
the 
HIV/AIDS pandemic. 

We  therefore  strongly  emphasize  that  whenever 
initiatives  are  undertaken  and  resources  mobilized,  it 
in  conformity  with  and  supportive  of 
should  be 
national 
programmes. 
sustainable 
programmes, Governments should maintain ownership. 

As  Chairman  of  SADC,  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Namibia stated that one of his priorities for 
the  year  would  be  to  work  towards  strengthening  our 
the 
collective  efforts 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  In 
the  SADC 
Summit,  held  in  Windhoek  this  year,  decided,  among 
other things, on the establishment of the multi-sectoral 
SADC  HIV/AIDS  Technical  Subcommittee  and  the 
development  of 
the  SADC  HIV/AIDS  Strategic 
Framework and Programme of Action: 2000-2004. 

the 
The  Technical  Subcommittee  consists  of 
following  sectors:  culture,  information  and  sports; 
employment 
resources 
development; health; mining; tourism; and transport. 

It  was  also  decided  that  the  economic  sectors  in 
SADC  be  part  of  the  multisectoral  response.  These 
other  sectors  are  finance  and  investment,  trade  and 
industry and food and natural resources. 

This multisectoral approach is designed to ensure 
that all sectors, particularly those that are important for 
economic 
SADC,  mainstream 
HIV/AIDS in their plans and programmes. 

Furthermore, the Council of Ministers meeting in 
Windhoek  this  year  also  approved  the  principles  to 
guide  negotiations  with  pharmaceutical  companies  on 
the provision of drugs for the treatment of HIV/AIDS-
related  conditions. These  principles  include, inter  alia, 
recognition  of 
that  poverty  and 
malnutrition  play  in  the  epidemic,  the  provision  of 
equipment  to  monitor  the  continuum  of  care  and 
to  ensure 
supplies  of  appropriate  drugs  so  as 
sustainability, 
and 
accessibility. 

It  is  our  fervent  desire  that  the  special  session 
will  be  used  as  an  opportunity  to  provide  concrete 
commitment, particularly on the part of pharmaceutical 
companies in partnership with donor countries, on how 
the  critical  role 
equitableness, 
development 
affordability 
human 


21 

A/55/PV.50 

severely 
for 
those 
infected 
and 
threatening 
affected  by 
Mr.  Santos
the  world,  particularly 
developing  countries  can  best  access  affordable 
vaccines and drugs to prevent and treat infections. 

The  special  session  outcome  document  must  be 
short,  concise  and  result-oriented.  Coming  from  a 
continent 
the  HIV/AIDS 
pandemic, we do not view the special session as a mere 
talking-shop,  but  as  an  opportunity  to  openly  and 
constructively  come  together  to  adopt  tangible  actions 
aimed  at  providing  prevention,  education,  care  and 
treatment 
affected  by 
HIV/AIDS. 

(Mozambique):  My  delegations 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  Nigeria 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  by 
Namibia  on  behalf  of 
the  Southern  African 
Development Community (SADC). 
In  its  section  III,  on  development  and  poverty 

eradication, 
the  Millennium  Declaration  devoted 
special attention to one of humanity’s greatest concerns 
the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  The  HIV/AIDS 
today, 
the  economic  and  social 
pandemic  is 
development  of 
that  of 
developing  countries.  It  has  claimed  34.5  million 
victims  in  the  world,  24.5  million  of  whom  are  from 
Africa.  It  is  quite  obvious  that  Africa  and  the  least 
developed  countries  are  severely  hit  by  the  pandemic 
and  that  they  require  urgent  attention  and  action  from 
the  international  community.  The  action  taken  by  the 
international  community  should  be  geared  towards 
attaining 
the  Millennium 
Declaration,  that  is,  to  halt  and  reverse  the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS  by  the  year  2015  and  to  provide  special 
assistance  to  children  orphaned  by  HIV/AIDS. That  is 
an  ambitious  but  achievable  goal,  and  the  United 
Nations Member States should strive to ensure that the 
world  is  free  of  this  pandemic  and  other  deadly 
diseases. 

The  situation  of  HIV/AIDS  in  Mozambique  is 
also  alarming  and  is  already  having  a  devastating 
impact  on  our  development  efforts.  Out  of  a  total 
population of 17  million, in 1999 alone it is estimated 
that there were 700 new infections each day, with about 
98,000  cases  of  disease. Around  30,000  families  have 
been affected by the loss of a father, a mother or both. 
About  65  per  cent  of  new  infections  occur  in  young 
people under 30 years of age. This is the most educated 
segment  of  the  population,  with  an  important  role  in 
the development of the country. I should mention that, 
the  goal  set 
forth 
in 
22 

without  HIV/AIDS,  life  expectancy  was  estimated  at 
43.9  years  for  1999  and  was  projected  to  reach  50.3 
years  by  2010.  However,  owing  to  this  pandemic,  life 
expectancy  will  decrease  to  the  level  of  about  35.9 
years. 

HIV/AIDS  has also  had  an aggravating  effect on 
infant  and  maternal  mortality,  which  has  resulted  in  a 
growing  number  of  orphans  who  require  higher  levels 
of expenditure on health care and social security. 

In  recognition  of  this  alarming  situation  the 
Government  of  Mozambique  has  adopted  a  national 
strategic  plan  for  the  period  2000-2002  to  combat 
sexually  transmitted  diseases  and  HIV/AIDS.  In  order 
to guarantee success, the plan is aimed at encouraging 
the involvement and commitment of the entire society, 
from the grassroots to the highest authority. The Prime 
Minister heads the National Council on AIDS. 

I should emphasize that, more than ever before, it 
is now well understood that the HIV/AIDS pandemic is 
not  only  a  health  problem  or  one  of  social  behaviour, 
but  also  an  economic  one  that  has  severe  implications 
on  the  national  security  of  our  countries.  HIV/AIDS 
undermines  our  efforts  at  economic  development  by 
causing the premature death of workers in general, and 
in  particular  the  most  skilled  and  youngest  workers. 
Long  periods  of  disease  result 
in  a  decrease  in 
production  and  higher  social  costs  for  health  care, 
pensions and social security. Lack of economic growth 
aggravates the poverty of our populations. 

Despite the availability of medicines to minimize 
the suffering of infected people, most countries cannot 
afford  to  acquire  them  owing  to  their  high  cost.  We 
therefore  believe  that  a  constructive  partnership  and 
continuous  dialogue, 
the 
business sector, civil society and other stakeholders, is 
crucial to address this disease that affects all segments 
of  our  societies.  We  commend  the  role  played  by  the 
United  Nations  Development Programme  (UNDP)  and 
the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS)  in  building  those  partnerships,  as  was 
recently witnessed in this Hall. 

HIV/AIDS is also a  major concern for peace and 
security.  This  was  recognized  in  the  Security  Council 
open meeting on the impact of HIV/AIDS on peace and 
security  in  Africa,  which  was  held  in  January  2000, 
when, for the first time, a health issue was discussed as 
a threat to peace and security. The meeting recognized 
that  the  issue  of  HIV/AIDS  was  indeed  a  priority  for 
involving  Governments, 



A/55/PV.50
need 
to 
devise 
pandemic  we 
Africa,  where  the  impact  of  the  pandemic  is  as 
destructive as warfare situations. 

In  order  to  successfully  tackle  the  issue  of  the 
HIV/AIDS 
a 
comprehensive  strategy.  We  believe  that  the  most 
important element of that strategy should be education. 
Studies  in  Mozambique  indicate  that  there  is  a  direct 
relationship  between  the prevalence of  HIV/AIDS  and 
the  level  of  education.  Thus,  our  efforts  should  be 
directed  at  increasing  the  levels  of  education  and 
awareness  in  our  populations,  particularly  among  the 
young.  This  is  the  best  preventive  investment  that  we 
can make. 

Furthermore,  we  need  to  accelerate  economic 
development. This  will  contribute  to  increasing  public 
revenues  to  be  invested  in  social  sectors,  including 
poverty  reduction.  It  is  our  view  that  HIV/AIDS  is 
strongly  associated  with  poverty;  therefore,  to  fight 
poverty 
fight  HIV/AIDS  and  many  other 
infectious diseases. 

It  is  our  sincere  hope  that  next  year’s  special 
session on HIV/AIDS  will address all those aspects of 
the problem and will produce action-oriented strategies 
to  be  implemented  as  a  matter  of  urgency.  For  those 
reasons,  we  have 
the  draft 
resolution before the Assembly. 
HIV/AIDS  is  a  global  problem  that  requires  a 

efforts 
and 
global 
international 
strategies.  Mozambique 
community 
this 
endeavour,  particularly  in  education  and  in  access  to 
affordable drugs. 

(Nigeria):  The  Millennium 
Assembly  presents  Member  States  with  an  auspicious 
moment to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic, a problem 
which,  considering  all  its  dimensions,  must  constitute 
the  most  immediate  challenge  to  humanity  and  to  the 
security  and  stability  of  our  world.  Today,  HIV/AIDS 
has  been  established  as  the  fourth  leading  cause  of 
death worldwide, with the toll rising every day. A total 
of 18.8 million people around the world are believed to 
have  died  of  AIDS,  3.8  million  of  them  children. 
Currently,  some  34.3  million  are  living  with  the  HIV 
virus.  According  to  figures  from  the  Joint  United 
Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS)  and  the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  in  1999  alone 
some  5.4  million  people  were  infected  with  this 
disease, with the total number of children orphaned put 
to  assist  developing  countries 
concerted 
urges 
the 
joined 
in  sponsoring 
Mr.  Mbanefo
solution 
through 
is 
to 
ripped  apart.  The  crisis 
at 13 million. It is estimated that that figure will reach 
40  million  before  the  end  of  the  decade.  Further,  the 
latest  UNAIDS  global  update  on  the  epidemic  shows 
that, worldwide, HIV infection will have a devastating 
effect not just on the rates of infant, child and maternal 
mortality, but on the economy. 

Undoubtedly,  those  figures  must  have  a  sobering 
impact on us all. They do not fully convey the depth of 
the potential tragedy that our  world  faces, because  the 
HIV/AIDS  crisis  has  evolved  well  beyond  the  bounds 
of the health sector. With the death of husbands, wives 
and  children,  the  family  as  we  know  it  is  being 
gradually 
is  not  only 
devastating  families  but  also  tearing  apart  the  very 
fabric of society. Our  major concern at this point is to 
see how  we can, through common effort, confront this 
dreaded disease. 

At the Millennium Summit, our leaders resolved, 
in their wisdom, to take urgent steps to halt and reverse 
the spread of this disease. 

Beyond  the  human  suffering  and  misery  caused 
by  the  pandemic,  it  is  now  widely  acknowledged  that 
HIV/AIDS  has  evolved  into  a  development  problem. 
Governments  of  developing  countries,  struggling  with 
lingering  external  debt  problem,  are  forced  to 
a 
allocate  a  disproportionate  part  of 
their  meagre 
resources  to  the  health  sector.  The  disease  strikes  the 
most productive age group, ages 15 to 49, thus causing 
massive losses in production and, indeed, disruption in 
vital  sectors  of  the  economy,  such  as  transportation, 
agriculture  and  education.  The  challenge  before  us  is 
thus  how  to  strengthen  the  capacities  of  developing 
countries,  which  are  the  hardest  hit,  by  providing 
adequate resources to translate into action the quantum 
of political  will  which exists for the eradication of the 
disease. That, we must do urgently. 

It is very important, in the discourse on the global 
impact of HIV/AIDS in different regions of the world, 
to recognize that the African continent is experiencing 
the  most  devastating  effects  of  the  disease. According 
to  a  United  Nations  report,  some  14  million  Africans 
have already died from the disease, while another 24.5 
million  are  now  living  with  the  HIV  virus.  Within  the 
continent,  the  reach  of  the  catastrophe  varies  from 
region 
the  same. 
Gradually, this disease is tearing up the fabric of stable 
democratic  Governments.  This  is  aptly  captured  by  a 
World Bank report indicating that the HIV epidemic is 
to  region.  The  effect  remains 
in 


23 

A/55/PV.50 

resolved 
to  confront 
leaders  have 
region’s  hard-won  development  progress 
not  only  a  health  problem  in  sub-Saharan Africa,  it  is 
an  unprecedented  threat  to  the  region’s  development. 
The 
is 
therefore under real threat of reversal from the disease. 
Notwithstanding  the  poverty  of  their  resources, 

African 
this 
pandemic.  At  the  continental  level,  programmes  have 
been  put  in  place  to  reverse  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS 
through  advocacy,  education  and  prevention. 
In 
Nigeria, the arrowhead of such efforts is the Expanded 
National  Response  to  AIDS.  Such  is  the  priority 
accorded the programmes that the National Committee 
on  HIV/AIDS  is  headed  by  our  President.  We  are 
aware  that  the  challenge  posed  by  the  pandemic 
requires an intensified coordinated response not just at 
the national level but at the regional and indeed global 
levels  as  well.  The  frontiers  of  previous  efforts  at 
regional  level  were  further  expanded  through  the  bold 
initiative  taken  at  the  Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU) summit held at Lome last July. At that summit, 
African  leaders  adopted  the  Lome  Declaration  on 
HIV/AIDS.  The  adoption  of  that  Declaration  was  an 
expression  of  Africa’s  commitment  at  the  highest 
political level to rid Africa of the disease. We strongly 
believe that this African initiative merits the support of 
the international community to enable Africa to address 
the HIV/AIDS pandemic in all its ramifications.  
financial 
the 

institutions, 
the  World  Bank,  have  an 
important  role  to  play.  We  note  in  this  regard  that  the 
World  Bank  Group  has  now  committed 
itself  to 
stepping  up  its  level  of  activities  to  address  the  threat 
of  the  dreaded  disease  through  its  HIV/AIDS-related 
projects 
the 
proactive  role  of  the  World  Bank  and  of  non-profit 
organizations 
the  International  AIDS 
Vaccine  Initiative,  which  is  aimed  at  the  development 
of  safe  and  effective  vaccines  for  use  throughout  the 
world. We hope that the Initiative will yield the desired 
result sooner rather than later. 

The  enormity  of  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  as  a 
global  development  crisis  and  the  important  role  of 
international efforts in finding a solution constitute one 
of the reasons for the convening of a special session of 
the  General  Assembly  in  June  next  year.  In  recent 
times, there has been a series of global conferences and 
initiatives  devoted  to  the  search  for  an  enduring 
solution. All,  in  one  way  or  another,  have  focused  on 
the  following  pillars:  advocacy;  increased  resources; 
in  56  countries.  We  also  welcome 
in  pursuing 
international 
particular, 
including 
In 
the 
the  highest 
this  connection, 
programmes  for  prevention,  care  and  treatment;  and 
knowledge.  They  all  deserve  appropriate  review  and 
coordination in the light of new findings.  

In the view of the Nigerian delegation, the special 
session will provide an appropriate forum to take stock 
of the progress being made on the various programmes 
of action. We also hope that it will generate appropriate 
political  commitment  at 
levels  and 
strengthen  international  cooperation  and  coordination. 
In 
the  pronouncements  of  world 
leaders at the Millennium Summit, as aptly reflected in 
the Millennium Declaration, provide a useful reference 
point.  In  that  Declaration,  world  leaders  resolved  to 
halt and reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and halve the 
number of people living with the disease by 2015. That 
provides the forthcoming special session of the General 
Assembly with a vision that will act as a guiding light 
as  it  pursues  its  objective  to  outline  priority  areas  for 
intensified  action,  particularly  on 
issues  of 
prevention,  better  access  to  care  and  treatment  and  an 
increased  level  of  resources,  so  as  to  find  a  definitive 
solution to the problem. 

At  this  juncture,  we  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
Executive  Director  of 
the  Joint  United  Nations 
Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS),  Mr.  Piot,  and 
the staff of the organization, for their role in mobilizing 
the 
the  fight  against 
HIV/AIDS.  We  also  wish  to  recognize  the  efforts  of 
other  United  Nations  agencies,  non-governmental 
organizations,  private  sector  companies  and 
the 
industrialized  countries  that  have  been  collaborating 
with  UNAIDS.  We 
the 
substantive  secretariat  of  the  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  HIV/AIDS,  and 
the  other 
organizations supporting the session, will be in the best 
position 
to 
ensure the success of the conference. We therefore urge 
the  international  community  to  cooperate  with  them 
during the preparatory process. 
Finally, I should like to say that humanity stands 

at  an  historic  threshold  in  the  fight  against  a  dreaded 
and,  indeed,  deadly  disease  that  knows  no  boundary 
and has no respect for social status, gender or age. We 
are convinced that, in a period of unprecedented wealth 
in the world, resources exist to combat this disease. 

Let us demonstrate our commitment to a common 
humanity  during  a  period  of  increasing  globalization 
and  make  resources  available  to  poor  countries  to 
to  undertake  appropriate  preparations 
international  community 
that  UNAIDS,  as 
trust 
in 
24 




A/55/PV.50
rates 
to 
themselves  with 
enable  them  to  improve  their  institutional  capacity  at 
the national level to combat the disease effectively. Let 
us  intensify  international  cooperation  and  mobilize  all 
segments  of  society,  including  the  private  companies, 
which  have  achieved  some  breakthroughs  with  regard 
to certain drugs, so as to  make such drugs available at 
concessionary 
the  developing  countries. 
Finally, let us open a new chapter in human history by 
jointly  fashioning  an  appropriate  solution 
this 
devastating epidemic. 
Mr.  Levitte  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

the  honour to  speak on  behalf of  the  European  Union. 
The countries of central and eastern Europe associated 
with European Union — Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, 
Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, 
Slovakia and Slovenia — and the associated countries, 
Cyprus  and  Malta,  align 
this 
statement. 

I  do  not  want  to  repeat  the  statistics  on  this 
terrible pandemic that now affects all continents and all 
countries,  in  particular  the  developing  countries  and 
especially  those  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  In  addition  to 
its impact on health, the HIV/AIDS pandemic has now 
become a  major crisis for development. The pandemic 
has  assumed  dramatic  proportions  in  some  regions. 
This is particularly the case in southern Africa, where, 
as  has  been  stressed  by  the  Joint  United  Nations 
Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS),  more  than  one 
fifth  of  the  adult  population  is  infected.  Over  and 
above  the  human  tragedy,  what  will  the  consequences 
be  for  societies  that  are  already  so  vulnerable  when 
confronting 
this  truly  unprecedented  cataclysm  of 
recent times?  
of 

Because 
reproductive  age  and 
in 
particular, AIDS is decimating the vital forces of these 
societies and threatening their future. In addition to its 
economic  and  social  impact,  in  the  worst-affected 
countries  this  pandemic  is  endangering  stability  and 
security,  as  has  been  explained,  especially  during  the 
two  Security  Council  meetings  on  the  subject  held  in 
January and July of this year.  

Combating this pandemic will require us to adopt 
an  integrated,  comprehensive  approach,  as  experience 
has  shown  us  in  several  countries  that  have  seen 
notable  results,  in  particular  Senegal,  Uganda  and 
Thailand. The  growing  awareness  and  commitment  on 
the  part  of  the  highest  political,  religious  and  moral 
people 
the  active  population 
children, 
it 
affects 
to 
for 
respect 
authorities are decisive factors. Furthermore, the whole 
of  society  must  be  mobilized.  Indeed,  no  solution  can 
be effective without an effort on the part of all and the 
recognition  of  and 
the  sexual  and 
reproductive  rights  of  women.  Changes  in  behaviour 
can  come  about  only  as  a  result  of  information  and 
awareness-raising campaigns that integrate the needs of 
various groups, including men and adolescents.  

Halting the pandemic of HIV/AIDS must involve 
strengthening  education  and  health  care  and  making 
readily available to all reliable, affordable and effective 
preventive methods, such as condoms. These initiatives 
will  make  it  possible  for  us  to  attain  the  required 
objectives only if there is a full participation by groups 
and communities at the grass-roots level. Likewise, we 
need  to  increase  access  to  health  care  for  patients, 
ensure respect for their rights and reject any attempt to 
stigmatize  them.  Finally,  we  need  to  stress  efforts  to 
develop a vaccine.  

The question of AIDS has been on the agenda of 
many  international  meetings  for  several  months.  The 
European Union welcomes this fact. We see it as a sign 
of  the  growing  awareness  of  this  challenge.  We  have 
started  to  mobilize,  and  we  hope  that  the  special 
session will be a high point in this process. The special 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  must  provide  an 
opportunity to reinforce initiatives made at the national 
and  international  levels  and  to  promote  their  effective 
implementation.  It  should  provide  an  opportunity  to 
promote  this  comprehensive,  multisectoral  approach 
that  we  are  advocating.  It  could  also  make  it  possible 
to  build  or  develop  new  partnerships, 
the 
like 
International  Partnership  against  AIDS 
initiative 
launched by UNAIDS at the end of last year in Africa. 
It  should  also  provide  an  opportunity  to  strengthen 
cooperation  and  international  coordination  between 
bilateral  agencies  and  multilateral  agencies  in the  area 
of  combating  AIDS,  such  as  takes  place  between  the 
European Union and the United Nations system. 
It  should  disseminate  best  practices and  show,  in 

the  light  of  the  examples  I  have  mentioned,  that  the 
worst is not inevitable and that it is possible not only to 
stem the spread of this pandemic but even to reverse it. 
The special session will also provide an opportunity to 
identify even further-reaching solutions.  

The  European  Union  deems  it  essential  that  the 
fight  against  AIDS  be  fully  integrated  into  national 
strategies  aimed  at  developing  the  health-care  sector. 


25 

A/55/PV.50 

in 
remain  our  priority 
Prevention  must 
and  be 
strengthened.  The  conspiracy  of  silence  must  come  to 
an  end.  This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  could 
also  bring  us  closer  to  the  goal  of  providing  patients 
better access to treatment and to effective medical and 
social follow-up. 

The  European  Union  does  not  believe  that AIDS 
can  be  dealt  with 
two  ways:  prevention  and 
treatment  in  the  North,  but  prevention  only  in  the 
South. Prevention and treatment must go hand in hand, 
both in the South and in the North. 

The  European  Union,  as  the Assembly  is  aware, 
is deeply committed to the campaign against AIDS. In 
the  past  10  years,  we  have  spent  several  billion  euros 
on international cooperation in the area of health, AIDS 
and population, through the activities carried out by the 
European  Commission,  bilateral  agencies,  certain 
member  States,  or  through  the  contributions  provided 
to finance UNAIDS, which represent almost half of its 
budget. 

We  also  encourage  partnerships  with  the  private 
sector, in particular with industry, patients’ associations 
and non-governmental organizations. On 28 September 
last,  a  round  table  was  organized  by  the  European 
Commission in Brussels, in cooperation with the World 
Health  Organization  (WHO)  and  UNAIDS,  which 
brought  together  representatives  from  the  public  and 
private  sectors  to  deal  with  three  diseases:  AIDS, 
malaria  and  tuberculosis.  That  meeting  provided  an 
opportunity to highlight the need for more decisive and 
coordinated  action 
the 
pandemic,  to  provide  better  access  to  care  and  to 
promote research, particularly in the area of vaccines. 

the  European  Union’s 
readiness to participate actively in the preparations for, 
and in the holding of, the special session of the General 
Assembly.  We  will  therefore  fully  support  the  draft 
resolution which was introduced today.  
I  should  now  like  to  speak  in  my  national 

capacity,  and  I  wish,  on  behalf  of  France,  to  refer  to 
one  particular  subject:  access  to  care  for  those  people 
affected by HIV/AIDS in the developing countries. 

Almost three  years ago, on 7  December  1997, in 
Abidjan,  the  President  of  France,  Mr.  Jacques  Chirac, 
stated: 
“The message I bring is that of a France that 

cannot  remain  silent  in  the  face  of  the  human 
initiative  shows 
the  spread  of 
to  prevent 
This 
in 
increases 
that  allow  amazing 
for  HIV-positive  people  has 
cataclysm  caused  by  the  AIDS  epidemic  …  The 
paucity of our weapons should not lead us to give 
up or to adopt a fatalistic attitude … How can we 
possibly  continue  to  invoke  human  rights  and 
human  dignity  in  international  forums  if  we  are 
willing  to  accept  that  millions  of  patients  are 
deprived  of  the  most  effective  therapies,  even 
though  it  need  not  be  that  way?  We  must  make 
every  effort  to  see  to  it  that  the  benefits  of  the 
new treatments are extended to peoples of Africa 
and  the  rest  of  the  world,  where  the  populations 
are the most afflicted by this disease.” 

More than 34 million people are now HIV/AIDS-
infected. Seventy per cent live in sub-Saharan African, 
and 18  million have already died. The development of 
treatments 
life 
expectancy 
raised 
awareness about this situation. It is medically possible, 
and  therefore  morally  necessary,  to  treat  all  patients, 
regardless  of  whether  they  live  in  the  South  or  the 
North.  We  can  no  longer  justify  limiting  ourselves 
merely to preventing the disease. Furthermore, patients 
in  developing  countries  are  mostly  excluded  from 
access  to  treatment;  they  are  the  silent  victims  of 
inequality.  

France  is  fully  aware  of  the  technical,  financial 
and  economic  difficulties  behind  the  current  situation. 
For  some  15  years  now  we  have  been  engaged  in  the 
battle  against  AIDS  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  and  for 
several  years  we  have  been  striving  to  provide  better 
access  to  care  for  infected  persons  in  the  countries  of 
the South. It is this difficult struggle that has convinced 
us  that  we  need  to  do  more  —  much  more.  There  is 
some progress being made, and we think it is the right 
time to begin a dialogue. 
Witness  the  announcement  this  week  by  the 

Government  of  Senegal 
that  agreement  has  been 
reached  with  several  pharmaceutical  companies  to 
significantly  decrease  the  cost  of  medicines.  This  is  a 
very  important  step  and  the  first  specific,  concrete 
reflection of the announcement made a few months ago 
following 
by 
consultations  conducted  with  UNAIDS  and 
its 
sponsors.  I  wish  here  to  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
Senegalese  Government  and 
the  work  done  by 
UNAIDS,  which reinforces our conviction that  we can 
and must take action. 
certain  pharmaceutical 
companies 
26 




A/55/PV.50

France  proposed,  at  the  meeting  of  the  Security 
Council held in January of this year on the question of 
AIDS  in  Africa,  that  an  international  conference  be 
organized  on  access  to  HIV/AIDS  care  under  United 
Nations  auspices.  The  idea  here  is  to  organize  a 
dialogue  with  all  partners  concerned  —  donors,  both 
bilateral  and  multilateral;  Governments  of  the  North 
and the South; representatives of the private sector; and 
patients’  organizations.  Together  they  will  be  able  to 
analyse the situation, identify the obstacles, learn about 
best  practices,  and  propose  specific  measures 
to 
guarantee better access to care. Such a meeting should 
cover  all  questions  relating  to  access  to  care,  from 
early-detection  strategies  to  psycho-social  counselling 
for  patients, including  prevention and the treatment  of 
associated  opportunistic  diseases,  the  prevention  of 
mother-child  transmission  and  treatment  of  weakened 
immune  defences. The  meeting  will be  organized  next 
year,  in  2001,  in  the  framework  of  a  follow-up  to  the 
special session of the General Assembly. The date and 
the  venue  will  be  finalized  on  the  basis  of  common 
agreement with the various stakeholders involved in its 
preparatory  process,  in  particular  UNAIDS  and  the 
World Health Organization (WHO). 

We  are  not  proposing  another  meeting  for  the 
pleasure  of  adding  an  item  to  an  already  very  busy 
international agenda. Nor are we forgetting prevention, 
which  must  remain  the  priority  focus  of  anti-AIDS 
policies. We are seeking specifically to respond to our 
partners in the South, who are demanding better access 
to  care  for  their  patients.  We  wish  to  organize  a 
dialogue  and  to  structure  it  in  order  to  identify  the 
steps that need to be taken and developed. 

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the 
commitment and resolve of France to make this plan a 
success,  in  cooperation  with all of the relevant  United 
Nations agencies. 

Mr.  Ateaga  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Let  me 
preface my statement by reiterating what was stated in 
the  declaration  signed  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Chile,  Ms.  Soledad  Alvear,  and  12  other 
distinguished women Ministers for Foreign Affairs this 
past 12 September here in New York: 

“The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  an  urgent  foreign-
security, 
policy 
economic  and  development 
that 
threaten  decades  of  hard-won  progress,  and 
humanitarian, 
issue  with 
implications 
need 
for 
financial 
The 
assistance 
is  need 
and 
there 
assistance 
which extends beyond the means and competence 
of any one nation or entity to counter”. 

Indeed,  we  are  confronted  with  a  problem  that 
concerns  not  only  the  countries  most  affected,  but  the 
international  community  as  a  whole. Today  more  than 
to  make  available 
ever  before 
development 
additional 
financial 
resources  to  implement  policies  and  programmes  to 
stop the spread of HIV/AIDS and provide treatment to 
all those currently affected. 
and 

international cooperation assumes particular urgency in 
the  case  of  our  brothers  on  the  continent  of  Africa, 
particularly those countries south of the Sahara, where, 
as we know from the reports of the Secretary-General, 
the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS)  and  the  World  Health  Organization,  more 
than  24.5  million  people  are  affected  by  HIV/AIDS. 
The United Nations, in collaboration with civil society 
and  the  private  sector,  must  increase  its  efforts  to 
provide  assistance  to  the  peoples  of  Africa  most 
affected  by  the  pandemic.  This  is  a  moral  duty  for  an 
Organization  founded  on respect  for  human rights and 
fundamental freedoms, especially where it is a question 
of  protecting  the  basic  right  of  every  human  being, 
which is the right to life. 

The  Government  of  Chile  considers  the  problem 
of  HIV/AIDS  as  a  phenomenon  that  transcends  the 
bounds of a strictly health problem and involves socio-
cultural,  psychological  and  economic  aspects 
that 
challenge the traditional models of human relations, as 
well  as  the  way  in  which  we  develop  and  manage  our 
social policies. 

traditional 
democratic  system  led  the  new  authorities  in  Chile  to 
approach  the  problem  by  taking  into  account  its 
particular  characteristics  and  complexity.  To  that  end, 
the  National  AIDS  Commission,  CONASIDA,  was 
established  with  a  mandate  to  promote  and  facilitate 
processes  aimed  at  helping  the  society  to  prevent  and 
alleviate  the  biological  and  psycho-social  impact  of 
HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases, based on 
standard  technical  criteria  and  on  the  Government 
principles of participation, decentralization, equity and 
intersectorality. All of this is to be done through study 
and  dialogue,  with  respect  for  human  dignity  and 
increased autonomy for the individual. 
in  1990  of  our 
The 
restoration 


27 

A/55/PV.50 

is  being 
sector  and 
the  private 
implemented 
in  Chile  with 

CONASIDA  prepares  an  annual  plan  of  action 
based on the principles of strategic planning and taking 
into  account  the  results  of  an  evaluation  of  earlier 
periods,  the  indicators  provided  by  constant  review  of 
the  HIV/AIDS  situation  and  the  prior  pursuit  of  joint 
initiatives with organizations of people living with HIV 
and  of  men  who  have  sexual  relations  with  men,  with 
groups  from  the  organized  community  and  from  the 
health  services,  and  with  committees  that  provide 
advisory  services  on  clinical  health  matters,  on 
sexually  transmitted  diseases  and  on  prevention  and 
ethics. 

CONASIDA carries out its activities on the basis 
of  four  elements  that  are  key  to  the  success  of  its 
programmes.  The  first  of  these  is  participation.  This 
fundamental  component  in  the  search  for  a  cure  for 
AIDS 
the 
involvement  of  the  various  structures  of  the  health 
sector  and  of  other  concerned  sectors  of  the  State  and 
through  an  active  relationship  with  non-governmental 
organizations, 
scientific 
societies. A good example of a joint project is the first 
Chilean  conference  on AIDS,  which  was  organized  in 
1999  by  CONASIDA,  the  coordinator  of  groups  of 
persons living with HIV and UNAIDS. Mention should 
also  be  made  of  the  elaboration  and  participatory 
execution of  projects  such  as the provision of psycho-
social support for continuing treatment for HIV/AIDS, 
which formed part of the joint project with UNAIDS to 
improve access to medicines. 

The  second  element  is  intersectorality.  By  the 
very nature of the problem of AIDS, this strategy takes 
on  vital  importance  and  encourages  work  and  joint 
initiatives  with  other  ministries,  public  services  and 
other  organs  of 
the  State,  regional  governments, 
municipalities,  the  private  sector,  non-governmental 
organizations and community-based organizations. 

decentralization. 
Management  commitments  with  the  health-services, 
shared  resources,  local  initiatives  in  the  formulation 
and  execution  of  projects,  and  the  allocation  of  funds 
through  competitive  bidding  are  all  modalities 
designed  to  build  local  management  capacities  and  to 
respond more effectively to local needs. 
The  fourth  element  is  equity.  The  allocation  of 

resources 
prevention 
programmes,  in  particular,  is  done  on  the  basis  of 
treatment 
element 
for 
drug 
and 
The 
third 
is 
the 
regards 
the  findings  arrived  at 
distribution criteria, such as vulnerability, impact of the 
epidemic and how far the illness has advanced. 

The  strategies  adopted  by  Chile  have  enabled  us 
to  make  considerable  gains,  which,  together  with  the 
development of new treatments, have improved the life 
expectancy  and  quality  of  life  of  affected  persons. 
Permit me to highlight a few of these advances. 

First,  as  regards  the  impact  of  the  epidemic, 
population  studies  show  that  between  1992  and  1999 
the  proportion  of  persons 
infected  by  HIV/AIDS 
stabilized  at  a  maximum  rate  of  0.04  per  cent  of 
pregnant  women  testing  positive.  This  qualifies  the 
epidemic  as  incipient.  In  consultations  for  sexually 
transmitted  diseases  the  rate  is  also  stable,  reaching  a 
maximum  of  3.5  per  cent  in  1999.  The  number  of 
confirmed  tests  for  HIV/AIDS  has  been  stable  since 
1996,  which  supports 
in 
prevalence  studies.  The  annual  rate  of  increase  of  the 
AIDS  epidemic  has  been  declining  over  the  past 
decade  and  fell  to  20.4  percent in the  five-year  period 
from 1992 to 1997. 

the 
Secondly,  as 
population,  a  population  survey  by  the  World  Health 
Organization  showed  that  in  Chile  in  1996,  98.1  per 
cent  of  those  surveyed  —  regardless  of  their  level  of 
education  —  were  aware  of  at  least  two  means  of 
preventing the transmission of the HIV virus. There has 
been a gradual change in the attitudes of people to the 
risk,  which,  when  measured  by 
perception  of 
population 
evaluate  public-awareness 
campaigns,  shows  that  the  number  of  those  surveyed 
who declared that we are all vulnerable increased from 
6.9  per  cent  in  1991  to  28.2  per  cent  in  1994.  It  is 
believed  that  this  figure  has  increased  significantly 
since then. 

living  with 
HIV/AIDS  was  also  measured  in  a  population  survey 
carried out in 1998. It revealed that 75 per cent of the 
population  is  willing  to  share  social  spaces,  such  as 
places  at  work and  at  school,  with persons  living  with 
HIV/AIDS. 

Thirdly,  as  regards  the  adoption  of  preventive 
conduct,  the  importation  of  condoms  increased  by 
some  483  per  cent  between  1990  and  1998,  according 
to figures from the Central Bank of Chile. In 1996 the 
National  Foundation 
to  Combat  AIDS,  a  private 
organization,  conducted  a  survey  among  persons  aged 
15  to  26  years  old.  The  survey  found  that  declared 
Discrimination  against  persons 
impact  on 
studies 
to 
28 




A/55/PV.50
to  a 
survey  conducted 
The  Ministry  of  Health  set  up  a 
condom  use  for  the  last  sexual  contact  other  than  a 
stable partner was 40.5 per cent of those surveyed who 
stated  that  they  had  another  partner.  Among  persons 
aged  18  to  69,  some  82  per  cent  of  those  who  stated 
that  they  had  more  than  one  partner  used  condoms, 
according 
in  1998  by 
CONASIDA. 

telephone 
consultation  hotline,  known  as  FONOSIDA.  In  1999, 
calls  about  at-risk  behaviour  accounted  for  23.3  per 
cent  of  calls  from  adolescents  15  to  19  years  old  and 
41.55  per  cent  of  calls  from  young  people  20  to 
24 years  old.  Among  sexually  active  men  who  called, 
23.2  per  cent  of  them  stated  that  they  had  sexual 
relations  with  other  men,  thereby  demonstrating  that 
the  population  groups  that  are  most  vulnerable  are 
more likely to seek access to this medium. 

Fourthly,  legislation  is  currently  being  drafted  to 
promote  prevention  and  non-discrimination  against 
persons  living  with  HIV/AIDS.  This  draft  legislation 
was  submitted  by  the  Executive  Branch,  and  has 
already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. It 
is currently being considered in the Senate. 

sector,  Chile  has 
experienced  an  increase  of  320  per  cent  in  public 
spending for treatments between 1996 and 1999. There 
has  also  been  a  significant  increase  in  the  quality  of 
anti-retroviral treatments and in the number of persons 
treated.  Nevertheless, 
is 
estimated  that  50  per  cent  of  those  seeking  treatment 
received coverage, with 750 patients receiving a double 
cocktail and another 750 a triple cocktail of drugs. This 
coverage  is  being  achieved  thanks 
to  a  protocol 
elaborated  with 
the  participation  of  CONASIDA, 
physician  specialists,  and  with  the  agreement  of  the 
National  Coordinator 
living  with 
HIV/AIDS. 

A decline has been noted in the rate of prevalence 
of  AIDS-related  illnesses.  During  the  period  1989-
1997,  diagnoses  of  pathology  declined 
among 
adolescents  and  young  people  and  increased  among 
adults. Coverage of 100 per cent exists for treatment to 
prevent  the  vertical  transmission  of  HIV  –  namely, 
ACTG  076,  prescribed  for  pregnant  women  who  have 
tested  positive,  in  order  to  prevent the transmission  of 
the virus to the child. 
The  sixth  advance  relates  to  projects  with  the 

most vulnerable sectors of the population. CONASIDA 
in  September  2000, 
the  health 
persons 
Fifthly, 
of 
in 
it 
to 
the 
risk 
in 
is 
the 
reduce 
campaign 
technical  and 
financial  support 
and  homosexuality 
through  peer  education  in 
provides 
through 
agreements  with  specific  NGOs,  incorporating  this 
approach  into  its  annual  management  commitments  to 
health  services  and  now,  also,  in  regional  work  plans. 
Projects  are  being  implemented  with  organizations  of 
persons  with  homosexual  orientation,  such  as  the 
educational 
of 
transmitted  diseases  and 
transmission  of  sexually 
HIV/AIDS  between  men  who  practice  homosexuality 
in regions I, II  and IX and  in  the  metropolitan region; 
comprehensive action to prevent HIV/AIDS among gay 
and  bisexual  men 
the 
metropolitan  region  and  two  communes  of  the  region 
V;  and  action  by  citizens  to  change  their  attitudes 
towards  HIV/AIDS 
the 
metropolitan  region  and  in  regions  II,  V  and  VIII. 
Programmes  are  also  being  conducted  with  adult  sex 
workers,  such  as,  for  example,  the  prevention  of 
HIV/AIDS  and  sexually  transmitted  diseases  among 
vulnerable population groups. 

integration  of 
The  seventh  advance 
HIV/AIDS  into  the  management  strategies  of  the 
Ministry  of  Health  and  Health  Services.  The  focus  of 
these  strategies  depends  on 
the  epidemiological 
situation  and  on  the  vulnerability  of  those  involved, 
particularly of homosexuals, women and young people, 
persons  active  in the  sex  trade and drug  users. All the 
regions  of  Chile  have  implemented  projects  that  vary 
in  scope  and  coverage  and  are 
the 
vulnerable population. 

The  eighth  and  final  advance  has  been  made  in 
communal  intersectoral  activities.  Joint  projects  have 
been  elaborated  between  social  organizations  for  the 
prevention of AIDS in the  communes  with  the  highest 
concentrations of urban populations in the regions with 
the highest incidence of AIDS or which are potentially 
at risk. 

the 
commitment of the Government of Chile to continue to 
seek  solutions 
to 
cooperate, as much as our resources permit, with those 
countries  that  are  most  affected  by  this  pandemic.  We 
must  not  forget  for  even  one  moment  the  sacred  right 
to  life  that  is inherent  in every  human being. In  1999, 
Chile  lost  more  than  1,000  precious  lives  of  children, 
women  and  men  afflicted  by  AIDS,  and  there  are 
thousands  of  others  who,  if  treatments  and  access  to 
them  are  not  improved,  are  also  at  risk  of  losing  their 
Before  I  conclude,  I  wish 
the  scourge  of  AIDS,  and 
to  reiterate 
targeted  at 
to 


29 

A/55/PV.50 

lives.  For  the  sake  of  them  all,  without  exception,  we 
must redouble our efforts to combat HIV/AIDS. 

Programme of Work 

The  Acting  President:  Before  adjourning  the 

meeting,  I  would  like  to  inform  representatives  of  our 
programme  of  work  for  tomorrow  morning,  Friday,  3 
November. As the first item, the General Assembly will 
continue its consideration of agenda item 179, “Review 
of  the  problem  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus/ 
acquired 
its 
aspects”.  As  the  second  item,  the  Assembly  will  take 
up  agenda  item  61,  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the  

immunodeficiency 
syndrome 
in  all 
the 
third 
item, 
United  Nations  system”.  As 
the 
Assembly  will  take  up  agenda  item  21,  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
American States”. 

Programme of Work 

The  President:  On  the  morning  of  Monday,  6 

the  General 
November  2000,  as 
Assembly  will 
the 
Credentials  Committee  under  agenda  item  3.  The 
report  contained  in  document  A/55/537  has  been 
circulated in the Hall this morning. 

The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m. 
the  first 
the 
item, 
first 
report  of 
take  up 
30 


