United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
35th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 17 October 2000, at 3 p.m.
New York

A/55/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work:
reports of the General Committee
three  requests:  first,  a  request  by 
Third report of the General Committee
(A/55/250/Add.2)
The President: I should like to draw the attention
of  representatives  to  the  third  report  of  the  General
Committee, document A/55/250/Add.2, concerning  the
following 
the
Netherlands  for  the  inclusion  in  the  agenda  of  an
additional  item  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the
United  Nations 
the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons”; secondly, a request
by  several  countries  for  the inclusion in the agenda  of
an  additional  item  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the  outcome
of the Millennium Summit”; and a request by a number
of  countries  for  the  inclusion  in  the  agenda  of  an
additional 
and
“Peace, 
reunification on the Korean peninsula”.
the  Organization 
security 
entitled 
item 
and 
for 
the  report, 
In  paragraph  1  of 
the  General
Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General
Assembly 
entitled
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Organization  for  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons”,
should be included in the agenda of the current session.
additional 
item, 
that 
an 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to  include  this  additional  item  in  the  agenda  of  the
current session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  General  Committee  further
decided  to  recommend  to  the  General  Assembly  that
the  additional  item  should  be  considered  directly  in
plenary meeting.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to consider this item directly in plenary meeting?
It was so decided.
The President: In  paragraph  2  of  the  report,  the
General  Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the
General  Assembly  that  an  additional  item,  entitled
“Follow-up 
the  Millennium
Summit”,  should  be  included  in  the  agenda  of  the
current session.
the  outcome  of 
to 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to  include  this  additional  item  in  the  agenda  of  the
current session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  General  Committee  further
decided  to  recommend  to  the  General  Assembly  that
the  additional  item  should  be  considered  directly  in
plenary meeting.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-69498 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.35
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to consider this item directly in plenary meeting?
It was so decided.
The President: In  paragraph  3  of  the  report,  the
General  Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the
General  Assembly  that  an  additional  item,  entitled
“Peace,  security  and  reunification  on 
the  Korean
peninsula”,  should  be  included  in  the  agenda  of  the
current session.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to  include  this  additional  item  in  the  agenda  of  the
current session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  General  Committee  further
decided  to  recommend  to  the  General  Assembly  that
the  additional  item  should  be  considered  directly  in
plenary meeting.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to consider this item directly in plenary meeting?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 11
Report of the Security Council (A/55/2)
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the  President
of  the  Security  Council,  Mr.  Martin  Andjaba,  to
introduce the report of the Security Council.
Mr. Andjaba (Namibia): It is with great pleasure
that  I  introduce  the  annual  report  of  the  Security
Council to the General Assembly, in document A/55/2,
covering  the  period  from  16  June  1999  to  15  June
2000.
The  report  clearly  shows  the  intensity  of  the
Security Council’s working agenda during the reporting
period. During the year under review, the Council held
144 formal meetings, adopted 57 resolutions and issued
38 statements by the President. In addition, the Council
members  held  194  consultations  of  the  whole.  The
Council  also  considered  over  85  reports  by 
the
Secretary-General  and  reviewed  and  processed  more
than 1,165 documents and communications from States
and  regional  and  other  international  organizations.
Furthermore,  the  Council  dispatched  four  missions  to
various conflict areas.
2
In  line  with  its  primary  responsibility  under  the
Charter for the  maintenance of international peace and
security, the Security Council considered a  wide range
of issues. Ensuring stability in Africa and other regions
has remained high  on  the  agenda  of  the  Council.  With
regard  to  Africa,  the  Council  extensively  considered
situations  in  Angola,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo,  Sierra  Leone,  Eritrea/Ethiopia,  Somalia,
Burundi  and  Western  Sahara.  In 
this  connection,
Security  Council  missions  were  dispatched  to  the
Democratic 
and
Eritrea/Ethiopia.  Peacekeeping  operations  in  Guinea-
Bissau  and  the  Central  African  Republic  have  been
successfully 
into  post-conflict  peace-
building support offices.
transformed 
Republic 
of 
the 
Congo 
The  Security  Council  also  considered  conflict
situations in the Middle East; East Timor; Afghanistan;
Tajikistan;  Kosovo,  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia;
and  Abkhazia,  Georgia.  Missions  were  dispatched  to
East Timor and Kosovo.
The  Security  Council  considered  decisions  and
adopted  statements  on  a  number  of  broad  peace  and
security  issues,  including the  protection  of  civilians  in
armed  conflict;  children  and  armed  conflict;  and
disarmament, 
and
reintegration  of  ex-combatants.  It  also  considered
HIV/AIDS  and  international  peace  and  security.  In
dealing  with 
the  Security  Council
remained  highly  conscious  of  its  responsibility  and  of
the role being played by other United Nations bodies.
demobilization, 
these  matters 
rehabilitation 
During the  reporting  period  the  Security  Council
went to great lengths to conduct its business in a more
transparent manner. In this regard, many open meetings
and  briefings  were  held  with  the  participation  of  the
wider membership of the United Nations.
The  members  of  the  Security  Council  trust  that
the  report  will  shed  more  light  and  provide  useful
information on the activities  of  the  Council during  the
year.  They  attach  utmost  significance  and  importance
to  this  annual  consideration  of  the  report  by  the
General Assembly as a means of enhancing further the
work  of  these  two  principal  organs  of  the  United
Nations.  The  members  of  the  Security  Council  look
forward  to  the  comments  and  suggestions  of  the
Member States during this meeting.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  the  appreciation
of the  members  of the  Security  Council  to  the  staff  of
the Security Council secretariat for their dedication and
tireless  efforts,  which  remain  indispensable  to  the
efficiency of the work of the Security Council.
the  Republic  of  Belarus 
Mr.  Ling  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The
delegation  of 
thanks
Ambassador Andjaba of Namibia for having introduced
the annual report of the Security Council to the current
session of the General Assembly. We would also like to
take  note  of  the  important  role  played  last  year  by
Namibia in the work of the Council.
Belarus  is  convinced  that  the  annual  reporting
practice  of  the  Security  Council  remains  an  important
part of the efforts to make the activities of the Council
as open and transparent as possible, as well as to allow
the Member States to adequately evaluate the decisions
taken by the Council in the area of the maintenance of
international peace and security.
The work of the Security Council was particularly
involved  last  year,  given  the  numerous  conflicts  in
Kosovo, Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo  and  other  regions  of  the  world.  The  Council’s
efforts were crucial to the maintenance of international
peace  and  security.  The  international  community  saw
the  Council  adopt  many 
important  decisions  and
resolutions, as reflected in the present report.
current 
besides 
subjects 
The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus  notes
with  satisfaction  that  the  Council  is  examining  more
and  more 
conflicts.
Increasingly, the Council considers the root causes that
lead  to  crises  and  military confrontation.  Last  year  we
witnessed  the  Council’s  important  debates  on  the
participation  of  children 
the
reintegration  of  ex-combatants,  international  terrorism
and the illicit trafficking of diamonds and other natural
resources  —  a  trade  that  has  been  used  not  for
promoting  peace,  but  to  support  forces  involved  in
conflicts.
in  armed  conflicts, 
Last  year,  problems  relating  to  sanctions  were  a
special  part  of  the  Council’s  work.  We  welcome  the
fact  that  the  practice  in  this  field  of  the  principal
United  Nations  organ  responsible  for  the  maintenance
of  international  peace  and  security  has  became  more
sophisticated.  The  extremely  complex  humanitarian
situations 
in  other  States  on  which
sanctions  have  been  imposed  continue  to  call  for
further work to reduce the negative impact of sanctions
on  civilians.  In  this  context,  the  Republic  of  Belarus
notes  the  particular  importance  of  the  inclusion  in  the
sanctions
annual 
in  Iraq  and 
reports  of 
report  of 
the 
the 
A/55/PV.35
committees,  whose  operations  had  until  now  been
absolutely  closed  to  the  majority  of  States.  Belarus
supports the continuation of this practice.
Belarus  welcomes  the  fact  noted  in  the  report
that,  compared  with  the  previous  period,  the  Council
held significantly more open meetings last year. This is
undoubtedly an important step in making the Council’s
work more transparent. Belarus will support all further
measures  that  allow  non-member  States  to  participate
more fully in the  Council’s deliberations on  all issues.
In this context, we consider that the next important step
could  be  publishing  as  press  releases  issued  from
United  Nations  Headquarters  the  content  of  the  daily
briefings 
the  closed
consultations of the Council.
that  give  an  account  of 
We  believe  that  the  summaries  that  the  Council
members  prepare  regarding  the  work  of  the  Council
during  their  presidencies  are  of  crucial  importance.
Belarus believes that these summaries facilitate a more
profound  analysis  of  the  Council’s  work  and  the
finding  of  new  ways  to  improve  the  work  of  the
Council.
The  Millennium  Summit  and 
the  high-level
Security  Council  meeting  demonstrated  to  the  world
the unanimity of the Member States with regard to the
priority  role  of  the  Council  in  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security.  Strong  adherence  to
the  Charter’s  principles  in  this  regard  is,  we  believe,
the way to ensure that future generations are spared the
scourge  of  war.  Belarus  will  be  submitting 
its
candidacy  for  a  non-permanent  seat in the  Council  for
2002-2003  on  the  basis  of  its  firm  commitment  to  the
fulfilment  of 
the  Millennium
Declaration  adopted  by 
the  heads  of  States  and
Governments  and  its  commitment  to  work  vigorously
to further improve the Council’s work.
the  provisions  of 
Mr.  Yel’chenko  (Ukraine):  I  wish  to  thank  the
President  of  the  Security  Council,  Ambassador  Martin
Andjaba of Namibia, for his presentation of the annual
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly.
We have often heard the Council reiterating that it
has  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  that  it  has
the  authority  to  act  on  behalf  of  all  Member  States  in
carrying  out 
this
responsibility.  These  are  very  important  provisions  of
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  it  is  precisely
these  provisions  that  made  the  Security  Council  into
fulfilment  of 
its  duties 
in 
3
A/55/PV.35
the most powerful organ of the United Nations system.
However,  it  is  equally  essential  to  recall  that  this
unique authority was delegated to the Security Council
in conjunction with its obligation to report regularly to
the General Assembly. Article 24 of the Charter is very
clear about this link.
Ukraine attaches particular importance to the item
“Report  of  the  Security  Council”,  as  it  has  always
believed  that  its  main  purpose  was  to  uphold  the
principle  of  accountability,  which  we  consider
fundamental  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Organization’s
activities in the area of peace  and  security. This is  the
first time that Ukraine has made its contribution to this
important  discussion  as  an  elected  member  of  the
Council.
Indeed,  consideration  of  this  agenda  item  offers
the  General  Assembly  a  unique  opportunity  to  make  a
comprehensive  assessment  of  the  Council’s  activities
over  the  past  year.  My  delegation  believes  that  if  we
evaluate  this  period  from  the  larger  perspective  of  the
past decade, we may find many reasons to characterize
it  as  the  promising  beginning  of  a  new  phase  in  the
Security Council’s history.
The  significant  shift  in  peacekeeping  activities
could  be  one  of  the  most  convincing  arguments  in
support  of  that  assertion.  According  to  the  Secretary-
General’s latest report on the work of the Organization,
the  size  of  the  Council’s  authorized  deployment  has
almost tripled over the past 12 months, standing now at
approximately 45,000 uniformed personnel.
in 
The 
increase 
significant 
peacekeeping
operations,  as  well  as  some  serious  setbacks  on  the
ground,  initiated  the  current  efforts  to  improve  the
effectiveness  of  this  key  instrument  available  to  the
United  Nations  in  discharging  its  responsibility  for
peace  and  security.  Ukraine  will  continue  encouraging
the  Council  to  make  a  major  contribution  to  this
endeavour.
We  may  also  recall  how  harshly  the  Security
Council  was  criticized  not  so  long  ago  for  its  lack  of
response  to  the  demands  of  the  African  continent.
Today,  we  have  ample  evidence  of  the  major  drift  in
the  Council’s  overall  policy 
towards  Africa.  The
changes are really tangible. The substantially expanded
United  Nations  Mission 
the
authorization of the second phase of the United Nations
Organization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of
the  Congo,  the  deployment  of  the  United  Nations
in  Sierra  Leone, 
4
Mission  in  Eritrea  and  Ethiopia  and  the  Council’s
action  on  the  report  by  the  Panel  of  Experts  on
Violations  of  Security  Council  Sanctions  against
UNITA  are  only  some  of  the  Council’s  highlights
related to Africa.
it  on  preventing 
The  major  task  ahead  is  to  sustain  this  action-
oriented  stance  of  the  Council  towards  Africa  and  to
focus 
the  recurrence  or  further
aggravation of conflicts. It is high time to think in more
practical terms about strengthening the overall capacity
of  the  United  Nations  for  effective  preventive  action.
In this connection, I would like to reiterate the proposal
put  forward  by  President  Kuchma  of  Ukraine  that  a
comprehensive 
be
developed for the United Nations. Ukraine has  made a
number  of  suggestions  as  to  what  could  become
concrete elements of such a strategy. In particular, one
of  its  key  components  could  be  the  establishment  of
United Nations regional centres for conflict prevention.
Another  integral  element  could  be  conflict  prevention
operations,  which  should  gain  prominence  as  a
qualitatively new model of peacekeeping activities.
prevention 
strategy 
conflict 
In  this  regard,  let  me  draw  the  Assembly’s
attention  to  the  increasing  impact  of  the  conflict  in
further  spillover 
Sierra  Leone  and 
the
its 
neighbouring  countries, 
in  particular  Guinea.  The
international  community  must  be  prepared  to  act  in
urgent  support  of  the  intention  of  the  Economic
Community  of  West  African  States  to  prepare  for  the
preventive  deployment  of  an  observer  force  on  the
borders of the Mano River Union countries.
into 
in 
Another 
important  change 
the  Security
Council’s  work  over  the  past  year  is  the  rebirth  of  its
special  missions  to  conflict  areas,  which  have  been
dispatched  over  the  past  12  months  to  East  Timor,
Kosovo,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and
Eritrea/Ethiopia.  The  recently  completed  mission  to
Sierra  Leone  —  the  largest  ever  such  mission  of  the
Security  Council  —  proved  that  this  instrument  has
become indispensable to the effective discharge of that
organ’s responsibilities.
We  have  also  seen  the  Security  Council  starting
to  rethink  its  overall  policy  with  regard  to  economic
sanctions  in  order  to  improve  their  effectiveness  as
well as avoid their negative side effects. In April 2000,
the  Council  established  a  working  group  on  sanctions
to develop relevant recommendations on those matters.
In  May  2000,  the  Council  set  an  important  precedent
by  defining  time  limits  for  sanctions  at  the  stage  of
their  imposition.  Ukraine  believes  that  it  is  very
important to ensure that the new trends in this  domain
bring  about  a  clear  and  coherent  methodology  for  the
imposition  and  lifting  of  sanctions  that  takes  into
consideration  the  concerns  of  civilian  populations  and
the interests of third countries.
Although  the  list  of  new  developments  and
changes I have referred to is far from complete, I think
it  gives  enough  grounds  to  state  that  the  work  of  the
Security Council during the past year represents a clear
step forward. This assessment is even more convincing
if  we  recall  the  Council’s  record  from  June  1998  to
June 1999.  It  was  marked  by  a  set  of  disappointments
that  made  the  larger  international  community  question
the ability  of the  Council  to  play  a  leading  role  in  the
maintenance of international peace and security and to
respond  adequately 
to  emerging  crises  and  other
challenges.
It  is  very  important  now  to  sustain  these  very
encouraging  trends  in  the  Council’s  activities  into  the
future. A significant contribution to this major task was
made  by  the  Security  Council  Summit  held  on  7
September 2000. The results of that important meeting
represent  a  vivid  demonstration  of 
the  Security
Council’s  willingness  to  remain  a  functioning  and
indispensable  actor  in  international  affairs  in  the  new
century.  Ukraine  will  pay  special  attention  to  the
practical 
the  Security  Council
Summit commitments.
implementation  of 
to 
the  member  States  of 
I  would  also  like  to  use  this  occasion  to  restate
Ukraine’s  determination  to  continue  upholding  by
practical  deeds  its  responsible  status  as  a  current
member of the Security Council. Ukraine is redeeming
its  pledge 
the  General
Assembly,  which  conferred  on  it  the  high  honour  of
serving on the  Council.  I  would  like  to  stress  that,  for
the  past  year, 
there  has  been  no  single  newly
established  or  substantially  expanded  peacekeeping
operation  —  from  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  to  Sierra  Leone,  southern  Lebanon,  Kosovo,
East  Timor  and  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  —  to  which
Ukraine  has  not  contributed  trained  and  properly
equipped personnel.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  offering  our  warm
congratulations 
Ireland,  Mauritius,
Norway and Singapore on their recent election to serve
on the Security Council as of 1 January 2001. Ukraine
to  Colombia, 
A/55/PV.35
is looking forward to close and productive cooperation
with  the  newly  elected  members  of  the  Council  and
wishes  them  every  success  in  discharging  their  very
important responsibilities.
Mr. Sharma (India): May I begin by thanking the
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  introducing  the
report of the Council. I congratulate Colombia, Ireland,
Mauritius, Norway and Singapore on their election last
week to the Council.
All  Member  States  have  a  deep  interest  in  the
work of the Security Council and we attach importance
to this discussion,  mandated by  Articles 24 (3)  and 15
of the Charter, which require the Council to submit and
the  General  Assembly  to  receive  and  consider  annual
and special reports. The Charter clearly intends that the
Council,  to  which  the  general  membership  entrusts
special responsibilities, should report to it each year on
the issues and situations pertaining to the  maintenance
of  international  peace  and  security  it  has  dealt  with,
what  it  has  done  and  the  impact  of  its  actions.  It  is
expected  that  these  reports  should  be  comprehensive,
substantive and forthright.
Unfortunately,  the  Council’s  reports  still  lack
both  substance  and  candour.  Frustration  with 
the
Council’s  sketchy  reporting  led  to  the  adoption  by  the
General  Assembly  of  resolution  51/193  of  1996,  in
which it called upon the Council, inter  alia, to include
information  on  the  consultations  of  the  whole;  to
highlight the extent to which resolutions of the General
Assembly  on  issues  falling  within  the  scope  of  the
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  had  been
taken  into  account  by  the  Council  in  its  decision-
making;  and  to  strengthen  further  the  section  in  the
report on the steps taken by the Council to improve its
working methods.
The  Council  has  ignored  this  resolution.  The
report  before  us,  a  550-page  to  me,  is,  like  its
predecessors, simply a compilation of documents, most
of  which  have  already  been  circulated  as  official
documents.  We  ask  the  members  of  the  Council  to
consider if the veil of secrecy which they draw over its
work  serves  a  purpose.  To  the  general  membership,  it
appears  both  lofty,  because  it  flouts  the  expressed
wishes  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  self-defeating,
because it feeds suspicions that the Council is secretive
because it evades disclosure. As to the revelations over
which  it  may  wish  to  draw  a  veil,  one  can  draw  from
several 
effectiveness,
choices:  questions 
as 
to 
5
A/55/PV.35
selectiveness  of  engagement,  pressure  of  domestic
constituencies or narrow agendas.
country’s,  not  those  of  the  troop  contributors  and
certainly not those of the operation.
If  transparency  were  the  guiding  principle,  the
Council would not need to conduct most of its work in
informal meetings, a mechanism not even mentioned in
its  provisional  rules  of  procedure.  Rule  48  states  that
unless  it  decides  otherwise,  the  Security  Council  shall
meet  in  public.  The  holding  of  informal  meetings
should be the exception and not the unwritten rule that
it has become.
The  Council  might  very  well  argue  in  defence
that  it  now  holds  public  debates  under  almost  every
presidency. This, however, would be perilously close to
the Council telling the general membership to eat cake.
When the general membership asked for open meetings
of the Council, it did not want to turn the Council into
a debating society, which is what it now becomes every
once  in  a  while;  the  membership  wanted  it,  before  it
acted  on  matters  of  peace  and  security,  to  hear  the
views of countries outside the Council that might have
a  point  to  make,  a  perspective  to  share  or  advice  to
offer,  which  it  would  be  useful  and  prudent  to  factor
into  and  reflect  in  its  decisions.  The  open  debates  of
the Council have no bearing on the Council’s decisions,
and  frequently  they  are  also  on  issues  outside  its
mandate.  As  decisions  are  taken  before  the  Council
hears  the  views  of  others,  the  statements  made  are  of
academic interest, a mere formality. The Council needs
to  consider  what  purpose  these  open  debates  serve,  if
any.  We  asked  the  Council  to  be  transparent;  what  is
offered is symbolism.
in 
than 
Once again, sadly, the suspicion is not far-fetched
that  the  closed  doors  of  the  Council  may  reflect  a
closed  mind  and  a  fear  of  being  told  truths  it  would
much  rather  do  without,  of  being  given  facts  that
contradict  its  preferences  or  of  accepting  advice  that
undermines  its  settled  orientation.  Nowhere  does  this
create  more  of  a  problem 
the  complex
peacekeeping  operations  it  has  set  up.  The  Council
decides,  in  what  is  essentially  splendid  isolation,  how
an operation should evolve; it certainly has the right to
do so under the Charter, but since the tasks it sets have
to be discharged by the forces on the ground, it  would
be  sensible  to  consult  troop  contributors  and  profit
from  their  experience.  Instead,  the  Council  only  goes
through the motions, speaking to the troop contributors
the  day  before  a  resolution  is  adopted.  This  is  merely
the courteous presentation of a  fait accompli;  it  serves
little  purpose  —  not  the  Council’s,  not  the  host
6
In May and June this year, when the Council held
closed  meetings,  including  a  private  meeting  with  the
Ministers of the Economic Community of West African
States  to  address  the  crisis  in  the  United  Nations
Mission  in  Sierra  Leone  (UNAMSIL),  India  and  other
troop  contributors  asked  that  we  be  invited  to  it.  We
thought the Council would be anxious to hear the views
of  the  countries  most  heavily  involved,  and  were
astonished that our request was turned down. We have
never  been  told  why.  This  indifferent  treatment  is
unacceptable when it is troop contributors, and not the
members  of  the  Council,  including  those  who  believe
that  they  have  a  special  responsibility  for  maintaining
international  peace  and  security,  that  put  the  lives  of
their  troops  on  the  line  for  the  cause  of  the  United
Nations.
Peacekeeping  operations  mandated  by 
the
Council will be successful only if their tasks are doable
and  they  are  given  adequate  resources.  A  partnership
between  the  Council  and  the  peacekeepers  is  not  just
crucial,  but  a  prerequisite.  This  indeed  is  the  spirit  of
Article 44 of the Charter. And it is no surprise that the
Brahimi  Panel  report,  which  was  welcomed  at  the
Council’s  Summit  on  7  September,  has 
also
recommended  this.  We  hope  that  the  Council  will  do
some  soul-searching  and,  in  the  future,  will  genuinely
involve  the  troop-contributing  countries,  in  a  spirit  of
partnership, 
regarding  peacekeeping
operations,  including  on  their  mandates.  The  recent
private  meeting  between  troop  contributors  and  the
Council  on  UNAMSIL  is  a  good  precedent.  However,
it  is  not  enough  only  to  give  troop  contributors  a
hearing;  their  views  should  be  reflected,  if  they  are
reasonable,  in  the  mandates  of  the  Council.  The
Council should institutionalize this mechanism.
in  decisions 
the 
international 
in 
anxiety 
to 
to 
the  countries 
The  situation  in  Afghanistan  remains  a  cause  of
community,
deep 
the  region.  The
particularly 
Taliban’s quest for a military solution, their support for
international terrorism and their utter disregard  for the
humanitarian  crisis  they  have  created  in  Afghanistan
all continue. We are concerned over both the suffering
they  have  inflicted  on  the  Afghan  people  and  their
destabilizing  role  in  the  region.  The  Security  Council,
which has repeatedly expressed grave concern over the
developments in Afghanistan, has urged the Taliban to
seek  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  crisis  and  to  end  its
the  Council  has  not 
support for terrorism, but to no avail. Security Council
resolution  1267  (1999)  was  adopted  over  a  year  ago,
but the Taliban remain intransigent. This is a challenge
to the Council.
Even  as 
to
expectations  regarding  its  activities  in  maintaining
international peace and security, particularly in  Africa,
it  has  continued  to  try  to  assume  a  role  for  itself  in
areas  such  as  health,  the  welfare  of  children  and
humanitarian  assistance,  which  are  clearly  beyond  its
mandate  and  fall  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  General
Assembly.  This  does  not  help  the  smooth  functioning
of the United Nations.
lived  up 
is  now 
them.  There 
A  case  in  point  is  the  Council’s  assuming  for
itself  the  power  to  set  up  judicial  bodies.  Nothing
under  the  Charter  gives  it  the  right  to  set  up  the
tribunals that it has, nor indeed can it be demonstrated
that  those  set  up  have  in  fact  contributed  to  the
maintenance  of  peace  and  security.  In  fact,  they  have
on occasion become a complicating factor, and it would
be  hard  to  justify  the  exponential  rise  in  the  cost  of
maintaining 
the  piquant
development  of  the  recommendation  to  the  Security
Council  from  the  Presidents  of  the  two  Tribunals  that
financial  provisions  should  be  made  to  recompense
those  who  might  have  been  unfairly  accused  before
them;  potentially,  therefore,  the  General  Assembly
could be looking at huge sums of  money  which  would
have  to  be  found  to  compensate  persons  wrongfully
brought before tribunals which were wrongfully set up.
Again,  the  General  Assembly  would  be  merely  a
passive  and  helpless  spectator,  without  a  role  to  play,
except to accept the financial implications of decisions
arbitrarily  taken  by  the  Council.  These  are  systemic
problems that surely need to be addressed.
Many  of  the  flaws  in  the  functioning  of  the
Council are structural. Its composition and structure are
demonstrably  out  of  touch  with  ground  realities.  The
Council  neither  reflects  nor  represents  the  aspirations
and  views  of  the  larger  membership.  It  is  a  relic  of  a
defunct  era.  The  solution 
in  reforming  and
restructuring  the  Council. The  inclusion  of  developing
countries would make the Council more representative,
relevant  and  responsive,  enhancing  the  quality  of  its
decisions  and  their  acceptability  within  the  general
membership.
lies 
We  have  always  believed  that  sanctions  are  a
blunt  instrument  and  should  be  carefully  used  when
A/55/PV.35
their imposition becomes imperative. Reports from the
United  Nations  system  about  the  humanitarian  crisis
caused  by  the  sanctions  on  Iraq  are  disquieting.  We
have also seen the report by the Secretary-General that
over  1,200  contracts  worth  over  $2  billion  under  the
oil-for-food  programme  are  on  hold.  Clearly, 
the
Council  needs  to  address  this  issue  with  dispatch  and
sensitivity.
Mr. Ben Mustapha (Tunisia), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
Only  last  month,  our  leaders  met  in  this  Hall  to
reaffirm  their  common  commitment  to  the  United
Nations  as  our  instrument  of  choice  to  strengthen  and
expand  international  cooperation  as  we  enter  the  new
millennium. It is with a view to building such a United
Nations  that  we  have  offered  our  comments  on  the
report of the Security Council.
Mr.  Kastrup  (Germany):  The  report  of  the
Security Council has always been a comprehensive and
long document which bears witness to the workload of
the  Council.  All  members  of  the  Security  Council
therefore  deserve  our  respect  for  shouldering  this
burden in exercising the duties conferred upon them by
the Member States, under Article 24 of the Charter.
implement  Article  24  and  reform 
I would like to elaborate on three points. How can
we  really 
the
relations between the Security Council and the general
membership?  How  does  the  issue  of  Security  Council
reform relate to a peacekeeping reform, as initiated by
the  Brahimi  report?  And,  finally,  how  can  we  reform
our  own  working  culture  and  not  let  the  principle  of
consensus stop all reform efforts?
One  of  the  most  obvious  innovations  in  the
Council’s  recent  practice  has  been  overlooked  by  the
report, namely, the re-introduction of private meetings.
I am not a psychologist who can give the Assembly an
explanation for that. Since October of last year, I have
been  writing  to  the  Presidents  of  the  Security  Council
on a regular basis to ask them to allow non-members of
the Council to participate in the Council’s deliberations
in  cases  where  their  interests  are  especially  affected.
Last  January,  I  submitted  a  memorandum  containing
proposals on how such meetings could include a wider
membership  of  the  United  Nations  and  yet  remain
confidential  in  character.  That  memorandum  on  the
format  and  modalities  of  private  meetings  has  been
discussed 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on
Security  Council  reform.  Some  of  the  memorandum’s
in 
7
A/55/PV.35
ideas  were  incorporated  into  this  year’s  report  of  the
Working Group.
The changes in the Security Council’s procedures
over  the  last  year  were  quite  significant.  Instead  of
automatically coming together behind closed doors, the
Council  has  moved  towards  being  more  open  to  the
general membership. In some cases, interactive debates
have  taken  place.  In  other  cases,  however,  the  non-
members of the Council were not allowed to participate
in  the  discussion,  as  provided  for  in  the  Council’s
provisional 
this
development  should  receive  closer  attention  in  the
future.
rules  of  procedure. 
I  believe 
the 
that 
indicate 
Statistics 
tendency  of 
the
Security  Council  to  meet  behind  closed  doors  is
continuing.  We  deeply  regret  this,  and  I  would  like
wholeheartedly  to  endorse  everything  that  has  been
said  about  this  problem  by  my  Indian  colleague.
Therefore,  two  questions  remain.  How  can  parties
involved  be  included  prior  to,  and  in,  the  actual
consultations,  and  how  can  third  parties  with  vital
interests be enabled to participate in informal  Security
Council  meetings?  What 
types  of  procedures  are
available  on  a  case-by-case  basis  without  appearing
arbitrary? This is not just a procedural or legal issue; it
is, rather, a fundamental one. The  more that especially
affected  countries  are  heard,  the  more  legitimacy  the
Council’s  decisions  will  have  and  the  more  weight  its
resolutions will carry.
That  brings  me  to  my  next  point,  namely,  the
Brahimi  report  and its  linkage  to  the  issue  of  Security
Council  reform.  Among  other  things,  the  Brahimi
Panel recommends that
“The Security Council should leave in draft
resolutions  authorizing  missions  with
form 
sizeable  troop  levels  until  such  time  as  the
Secretary-General  has  firm  commitments  of
troops  and  other  critical  mission 
support
elements, 
including  peace-building  elements,
from Member States.” (A/55/305, para. 64 (b))
At a later stage, the reports states that
tell 
“The  Secretariat  must 
the  Security
Council what it needs to know, not what it wants
to  hear,  when  formulating  or  changing  mission
mandates,  and  countries  that  have  committed
military units to an operation should have access
to Secretariat briefings to the Council on matters
8
the  safety  and  security  of 
their
affecting 
personnel, 
those  meetings  with
implications  for  a  mission’s  use  of  force.”
(ibid., para. 64 (d))
especially 
That is  exactly  the  point  that  my  Indian  colleague  has
emphasized.
take 
their  views 
The  Security  Council  should  not  only  hear  those
Member  States,  but  also 
into
consideration,  the latter  being  the  more  important  part
of  this  communication  exercise  between  the  Security
Council and the general membership. No Article of the
Charter  needs  to  be  changed  or  amended  for  the
Council  to  involve  more  Members  in  its  deliberations
and 
peacekeeping
missions.  As  we  all  know,  the  Security  Council  is  the
master  of 
that
increasing  the  participation  of  a  wider  portion  of  the
membership is a matter of political will.
its  own  procedures.  That  means 
decision-making 
process 
on 
After  all,  we  are  talking  about  the  future  of
United  Nations  peacekeeping,    which  is  the  United
Nations  fundamental  task,  as  well  as  the  future  of  the
United Nations as a whole. If there is no reform of the
Security  Council 
its  working  methods,
peacekeeping reform will remain incomplete.
and 
The  Secretary-General  rightly  stressed  in  his
speech  before  the  General  Assembly  on  12  September
that
“Consensus  is  highly  desirable,  but  it  need
not  mean  waiting  for  absolute  unanimity  on
every sub-clause among 189 Member States. The
minority, often a very small minority, should not
withhold its consent unreasonably. ... We can no
longer afford to operate always at the level of the
lowest,  and  slowest,  common  denominator.”
(A/55/PV.10, p. 2)
In  practice,  however,  we  do  have  to  wait  for  that
slowest  common  denominator,  and  important  reform
projects  are  being  held  hostage  by  a  minority  even
though we can no longer afford to allow that to happen.
This  year’s  deliberations  of  the  Working  Group
on  Security  Council  reform  once  again  made  it  quite
clear  that  because  of  the  attitude  of  a  minority  it  was
not possible to agree on any substantial chapter in this
year’s report. The valuable efforts of both of our Vice-
Chairmen,  who  had  worked  out  an  extremely
well-balanced  draft  on  general  observations,  were
frustrated.  Together  with  many  other  reform-minded
countries, we would have preferred the original version
of  the  Vice-Chairmen’s  proposals.  Fortunately,  that
original version has become an annex to the report, so
the  Bureau’s  assessment  of 
the  problems  and
perspectives  of  the  reform  debate  are  reflected  in  its
entirety.  I  would  recommend  that  everybody  take  a
close look at this excellent paper and get an idea where
we stand and where we might go from here.
We  need  not  only  a  reform  of  the  Security
Council  and  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  but  also
of  our  own  working  methods.  Seven  years  of  reform
debate are enough. Both the General Assembly and the
Security  Council  should  reform  their  working  culture
and  methods  and  breathe  life  into  the  words  they
produce. Action, not words, are needed.
Mr.  Wang  Yingfan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the
Security Council for the report he has submitted to the
General  Assembly  at  its  present  session.  It  contains
comprehensive and detailed information about what the
Security  Council  did  in  a  working  year  that  straddled
two  centuries.  Today  I  take  this  opportunity  to  share
my  views  on  several  issues,  and  on  United  Nations
peacekeeping operations in particular.
Peacekeeping  operations  are  an  important  means
by which the United Nations fulfils its obligations with
respect  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security.  On  the  one  hand,  the  past  year  witnessed  an
increase  in  both  the  number  and  the  scale  of  United
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  On  the  other  hand,
such  operations  failed  to  yield  the  expected  results  in
Sierra  Leone  and  other  places,  highlighting  to  some
extent  the  fact  that  such  operations  do  indeed  have
problems  that  need  to  be  solved  immediately.  We
believe  that  it  takes  more  than  the  political  will  of
Member  States  and  sufficient  resources  to  strengthen
the  peacekeeping  capacity  of  the  United  Nations.  The
Security  Council  should  be  more  rational  and  more
purpose-specific and case-specific in  making decisions
in this field.
First, better communication and consultation with
the  troop-contributing  countries  is  crucial.  Whether  it
is  a  matter  of  authorizing  the  deployment  of  a  new
peacekeeping mission or of amending the mandate of a
current operation, the views of the contributors must be
heeded  and 
should  be
conducted on a regular basis among the members of the
Security  Council,  troop-contributing  countries  and  the
respected.  Consultations 
A/55/PV.35
troops 
Secretariat on the situation on the ground, conditions of
the  deployed 
and  other  matters.  Such
communication can be carried out at a variety of levels;
it  can  take  place  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  in
New  York and/or in the  field,  where  the  peacekeeping
troops are deployed. The  form  of  such  communication
should  also  be  varied  with  a  view  to  ensuring  its
effectiveness and efficiency.
Secondly,  the  Security  Council  must  try  to  do  a
better  job  of  pooling  expertise  and  information  in  the
decision-making process  and  in  the  review  process.  In
that  regard,  on  the  one  hand,  the  Secretariat  should
strengthen  its  capacity  to  collect,  collate  and  analyse
information so that it can supply the Security Council,
in  a  timely  manner,  with  accurate,  comprehensive  and
reliable  information  concerning  the  situation  on  the
ground  and  concerning  specific  needs  for  deployment.
The  Security  Council,  for  its  part,  should  also  work
hard  to  develop  more  channels  of  communication  and
to listen to information from a wider range of sources.
In recent years, some of the Security Council missions
to  the  sites  of  peacekeeping  operations  have  been
successful. They have helped the Security Council gain
a comprehensive understanding of given situations and
formulate  solutions  accordingly.  The  Security  Council
should therefore continue to do this in the future.
Thirdly, the Security Council should substantially
improve its cooperation with the regional organizations
and countries concerned to address hot-spot issues with
a  view 
to  safeguarding  regional  stability.  Those
regional  organizations  and  countries  can  often  be
pivotal  to  the  solution  of  such  issues,  which,  when
mishandled,  can  easily  spill  over  to  neighbouring
countries  and  to  the  entire  region.  Therefore,  when
seeking  solutions  to  such  issues,  the  Security  Council
must have in mind the big picture of the whole region,
must attach due importance to the views of the regional
organizations  and  countries  concerned  and  must
strengthen  cooperation  with  them  in  carrying  out
peacekeeping operations.
To  sum  up,  coordination  among  the  Security
Council,  troop-contributing  countries,  the  Secretariat’s
Department of Peacekeeping Operations, relevant field
missions  and  the  regional  organizations  and  countries
concerned should be further strengthened. There should
be  an  established  regime  and  mechanism  for  such
coordination,  and  it  should  become  a  regular  practice
of  the  Security  Council.  It  takes  joint  efforts  by  all
Member States to strengthen the peacekeeping capacity
9
A/55/PV.35
of  the  United  Nations.  The  report  (A/55/305)  of  the
Panel  on  United  Nations  Peace  Operations  chaired  by
Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi has provided Member States with
a  good  basis  for  discussion.  It  is  our  hope  that  those
recommendations 
that  enjoy  broad
agreement  and  that  are  easy  to  carry  out  can  be
implemented as soon as possible.
the  report 
in 
In  the  past  year,  the  Security  Council  has  held
quite  a  number  of  discussions  on  hot-spot  issues  in
Africa.  It  remains  a  major  challenge,  however,  for  the
Council  to  find  timely,  effective  and  durable  solutions
to those issues. We  hope  that the  declaration (Security
Council resolution  1318 (2000),  annex)  adopted  at  the
Security  Council  summit  meeting 
last  September,
especially  those  parts  that  relate  to  Africa,  will  be
implemented in an earnest and effective way.
Last  year,  when  adopting  its  resolutions  on  the
arms  embargo  against  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  and  on  the
diamond  embargo  against  Sierra  Leone,  the  Security
Council for the first time explicitly set time-frames for
the  embargoes.  By  doing  so,  the  Council  achieved  a
major  breakthrough  in  its  sanctions  work,  because  it
rightly  responded  to  the  call  of  a  vast  number  of
Member States.
We have always supported the Security Council’s
efforts  to  improve  its  working  methods,  transparency
and  efficiency  so  that  it  can  better  carry  out  its
responsibilities  with  respect  to  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  on  behalf  of  all
Member  States.  The  Chinese  delegation  is  ready  to
continue,  along  with  other  delegations, 
to  work
constructively to that end.
Mr. Valdivieso (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Member  States  for  the
support  they  showed  by  electing  Colombia  as  a  non-
permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  for  the
period  2001-2002.  Colombia  assumes  that  challenge
with  a  great  sense  of  responsibility,  and  will  maintain
positions  that  conform  strictly  to  the  United  Nations
Charter and its fundamental principles.
report.  We 
After looking through the report before us on the
work of the Security Council (A/55/2), I should like to
focus  on  three  issues.  The  first  is  the  methodology  of
the 
the
improvements made in the content of the report and in
the  methodology  used  to  prepare  it.  However,  as  we
have already said on other occasions, a  major problem
remains: The inadequacy of information for States that
recognize 
and 
applaud 
10
are not members of the Security Council, owing to the
high number of informal meetings. In the period under
review,  according  to  the report, there  were  144  formal
meetings.  But  194  informal  consultations  also  took
place, of which non-members know nothing except for
what each country is able to find out for itself. That is a
clear example of how ill-informed are States not part of
the Security Council.
in 
the  decisions 
Colombia understands that certain  meetings  must
be held in private owing to the sensitivity of the issues
under discussion, but there are occasions on  which  we
believe that there is room for openness, for the sake of
transparency 
taken.  Problems  of
international peace and security are of equal concern to
members and to non-members of the Council. For that
reason, we stress the need to reform current practice, or
at  least to consider  alternative  ways to incorporate the
opinions and viewpoints of non-member States that can
contribute innovative ideas. Open debates have been an
important  step  forward,  but  it  is  necessary  to  explore
other  mechanisms  to  increase  the  transparency  of  the
Security Council’s methods and procedures.
Secondly, as concerns the mandate of the Security
Council,  we  believe  that  we  need  to  evaluate  the
Council’s  competence.  According  to  Article  24  of  the
United Nations Charter, the Security Council has
“primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of
international peace and security”.
There  are  “new”  thematic  items  on  the  agenda
that are not clearly linked to the  maintenance of peace
and security and that are usually discussed at least once
a  month  in  the  Council.  These  issues  have  their  own
discussion  forums,  and 
they  are
considered  by  the  Security  Council  as  they  are  now,
they  have  an  impact  on  the  actions  taken  by  other
United Nations bodies. These are very important issues
on  the  world’s  agenda  and  directly  affect  a  great
number  of  countries,  and  we 
it
inappropriate 
from  wider
consideration, unless this procedure genuinely benefits
the Council's work.
they  be  excluded 
therefore,  when 
therefore  deem 
that 
Thirdly,  in  the  past  year  there  has  been  growing
general  dissatisfaction  with  the  effectiveness  of  the
peace operations set up by the Security Council. A lack
of clarity in the mandates of some missions is not only
damaging 
the  Organization’s  credibility  but  also
leading  to  the  loss  of  human  lives.  This  must  change.
We  cannot  continue  to  excuse  the  Organization  for
flaws that are repeated daily. The Security Council has
the responsibility of reviewing this practice. We cannot
keep  sending  Blue  Helmets  to  areas  of  conflict  as  a
sign  of  hope  for  civil  society,  when  the  truth  is  that
perhaps  they  do  not  represent  the  best  way  to  achieve
peace.
If  a  mission’s  mandate  is  not  stated  clearly,  with
enough  human,  economic  and  logistical  resources  to
ensure  its  success,  it  is  better  not  to  create  such  a
mission.  We  cannot  repeat  the  same  mistakes  such  as
the  well-documented  ones  in  Rwanda,  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  and  Sierra  Leone,  to  mention  just  a  few.
All  of  this  is  made  even  worse  when  we  take  into
account the existing serious shortcomings in preventive
actions.
For this reason,  we  believe  that  the  Organization
is  facing  a  very  important  challenge  today.  The  report
submitted  by  the  high-level  Panel  on  United  Nations
Peace  Operations,  contained  in  document  A/55/305,
makes  a  series  of  recommendations  for  improving
these  operations.  In  order  to  adopt  and  adapt  these
recommendations,  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security
Council  and  the  Secretariat  must  work  together.  It
would be pointless for each organ to present individual
conclusions,  as  this  would  only  further  postpone  the
necessary reform of peacekeeping operations.
There  are  some  who  argue  that  this  issue  falls
more within the purview of the Council than that of the
General  Assembly.  It  is  clear  that  a  great  number  of
decisions  concerning  peace  operations  do  fall  within
the purview of the Council. However, we must keep in
mind  that  these  decisions  affect  a  great  number  of
people  and  that  there  is  therefore  a  need  for  open
debate leading to a broadly representative consensus, in
order not to further delay the reform we so desire.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  emphasize  how
important  Security  Council  reform  is  for  Colombia.
The issues we have raised today make clear the need to
transform 
a  more
representative  body  whose  practices  are  transparent
enough to secure the greatest possible trust  and  whose
members can contribute in  a  more balanced  way  to  its
decisions.
the  Security  Council 
into 
Mr.  Vento  (Italy):  I  would  like  at  the  outset  to
congratulate the Permanent Representative of Namibia,
Ambassador  Andjaba,  this  month’s  Security  Council
President, on his clear and detailed presentation of  the
Council’s annual report to the General Assembly. I also
A/55/PV.35
commend  the  Secretariat  for  its  excellent  preparatory
work.
The report is a document that is invaluable to the
necessary  interaction  between  the  Council  and  the
General Assembly, pursuant to the recommendations of
Article 15 of the Charter. As always, however, there is
room for improvement. That is why I reiterate the wish
my delegation has expressed in previous years that the
report, rather than being a mere catalogue of meetings,
resolutions and presidential statements, should be more
substantial  and  analytical,  which  would  allow  us  to
better assess the work of the Security Council in all its
aspects  and  effects,  in  the  areas  of  both  peace  and
resources. That is why I am in agreement with many of
the remarks that have been made by the representative
of India.
This 
annual  occasion  provides 
entire
membership  of 
the  General  Assembly  with  an
opportunity  for  collective  reflection.  I  would  like  to
take this opportunity to share my thoughts on the work
of  the  Security  Council  in  the  fundamental  area  of
peace and security.
the 
There  has  been  a  sharp  and  healthy  increase  in
the Security Council’s activities in the past 12 months.
The  Council  has  had  to  address  some  of  the  most
sensitive  and  difficult  crises  in  the  world,  authorizing
five  new  peacekeeping  missions  of  great  complexity
and importance, namely in Kosovo, East Timor, Sierra
Leone,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and
Ethiopia  and  Eritrea.  At 
it  has
reinforced  the  operation  in  southern  Lebanon.  Italy  is
actively 
those  six  missions.
Considering  the  marked  rise  in  interventions  decided
on  by  the  Council  and  the  enormous  consequences  of
this 
the
Organization,  we  all  have  a  right  to  question  the  way
these  mandates  were  adopted  and  to  ask  whether
different  and  more  effective  means  might  have  been
used to achieve peace.
for  all  Members  of 
renewed  activism 
the  same 
time, 
involved 
in  five  of 
These  same  questions  fuelled  the  report  by  the
group of experts led by the former Minister of Foreign
Affairs  of  Algeria,  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  which  the
competent  bodies  — 
the
Security  Council  and  the  Secretariat  —  must  now
assess  for  action.  Another  question  we  must  ask  is
whether  authentic  and 
timely  conflict  prevention
efforts  have  been  made  by  the  Security  Council,
the  General  Assembly, 
11
A/55/PV.35
drawing  on  the  full  means indicated  under  Chapter  VI
of the Charter.
for 
responsibility 
In the  past  year  the  United  Nations  has  taken  on
growing 
the  maintenance  of
international  peace,  following  an  era  in  which  the
threat of intersecting vetoes had paralysed its ability to
act. This became possible thanks not only to a growing
convergence  of  views  among  the  members  of  the
Security  Council,  particularly 
the  five  permanent
members,  but  also,  and  above  all,  to  the  common
commitment and the joint contributions of the members
of  the  General  Assembly,  because  in  many  cases
important  players  in  crisis  management  and  conflict
resolution  are  members  of  the  General  Assembly  but
not necessarily of the Security Council.
The  maintenance  of 
the  heart  of  peace  agreements, 
international  peace  and
security  is,  in  fact,  a  collective  responsibility  to  be
shouldered by the international community as a whole.
Some  countries,  because  of  their  influence,  strategic
and geographic position as “front-line countries”, offer
contributions decisive  to  the  political  and  stabilization
processes  at 
the
prerequisite for any United Nations intervention. Other
countries,  whose  numbers  are  growing,  have  deployed
their  contingents  of 
troops  and  police  forces  on
missions deliberated by the Security Council. The new
“complex”  missions  in  Kosovo and  East Timor,  which
involve  a  form  of  international  administration  of  the
territories,  require  magistrates, 
judges,  prison  and
border  guards  and  civil  administrators  from  countries
that belong to different geographic groups.
in 
this 
Italy  participates  actively 
renewed
commitment,  both  through  its  specialized  personnel
involved  directly  in  United  Nations  missions  and
through the action conducted by the European Union in
close connection  with the United Nations. This is  why
the  Secretary-General’s  recent  talks  in  Strasbourg  and
Brussels,  aimed  at  strengthening  cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  European  Union  in  the
crucial  area  of  conflict  prevention  and 
crisis
management,  should  be  strongly  supported.  This
process was already implicit when the European Union
High  Representative  for  the  Common  Foreign  and
Security Policy, Javier Solana, made a statement on the
Balkan  crisis  at  the  Security  Council  meeting  last
June —  an  important  first  step  towards  enhanced
collaboration  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
European Union.
12
for 
the 
The  need 
rapid  development  of
peacekeeping  operations  decided  on  by  the  Security
Council, and their substantial evolution in recent years,
has made the United Nations financial crisis even more
glaring.  The  exponential  increase  in  the  peacekeeping
budget  has  placed  a  growing  burden  on  all  United
Nations  Members,  especially  the  top  contributors.  In
the  current  budget  year,  for  example,  Italy  is  paying
approximately  $110  million  to  finance  peacekeeping
operations  that  the  Security  Council  decided  on  in
complete autonomy. We are thus in favour of a review
of  the  scale  of  assessments  for  peacekeeping  that  will
endow  this  fundamental  sector  with  greater  stability
and  resources  and  also  compensate  for  the  persistent
state of financial uncertainty.
The  tragic  experiences  of  Sierra  Leone,  and,
earlier,  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Rwanda,  have
forced  us  to  engage  in  a  profound  reflection  on  the
effectiveness of peacekeeping operations decided on by
the  Security  Council.  In  his  report  to  the  Millennium
Assembly,  the  Secretary-General  bravely  faced  up  to
the grave failures of United Nations missions, some of
them  recent,  and  underlined  the  need  to  increase  the
efficiency and legitimacy of the Council.
First of all, the Security Council must do more in
the  way  of  conflict  prevention  and  adopt  credible
mandates,  after  having  listened  to  all  the  interested
countries, organizations and parties that can contribute
to  the  resolution  of  crisis  situations.  In  the  future,  we
will  be  counting  on  an  improvement  in  the  Council’s
decision-making  procedures,  and  a  full  accounting  of
them in the annual report we are discussing today.
There  is  a  widespread  feeling  that  non-members
of the Council should also be consulted in its decision-
making  process.  Our  Organization’s  future  success  in
restoring peace to some of the most tormented parts of
the  world  will  depend,  to  an  increasing  extent,  on  the
ability  of  Council  members  to  open  up  to  outside
contributions.  The  recommendations  in  the  Brahimi
report are particularly useful in this regard: we need to
work  so  that  active  interaction  with  countries  that
contribute  to  peace  operations  takes  place  during  the
consideration  of  a  new  mandate  and  in  cases  where
mandates have to be modified in response to events on
the ground.
We  need 
the  Council’s  working
methods. Last  year, there  was an  encouraging  increase
in open debates and public meetings.
reform 
to 
improve 
I  should  like  to  say  one  other  thing  about  the
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The  final  Declaration
of  the  Millennium  Summit  properly  recommended
comprehensive  reform  in  all  aspects,  thus  rejecting
quick fixes or short-cuts on key issues such as the veto,
the  equality  of  Member  States  and  effectiveness.  That
is why we do not see how an increase in the permanent
membership  would 
the  decision-making
process  of  the  Security  Council  —  quite  the  contrary,
since the Security Council usually works at the level of
the lowest common denominator among the permanent
five members as a result of the power of the veto or the
simple  threat  of  the  veto.  That  is  the  rule  the  Security
Council  follows.  We  are  therefore  puzzled  by  the
criticism  of  the  way  in  which  the  Working  Group  on
reform works. There is minority rule and majority rule,
but  I  think  the  need  to  reform  the  Security  Council  is
too serious an issue for us to allow it to be dealt with in
a  way  that  promotes  the  interests  of  certain  countries
instead of the membership in general.
in 
The  credibility  of  our  Organization 
the
maintenance of peace depends on its ability to adjust to
new  challenges  and  circumstances.  While  every
Member  State  must  strive  to  strengthen  the  crisis-
management  capacities  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
field  of  peacekeeping  and  to  reform  its  financial
special
arrangements, 
responsibilities.  The  most 
these
responsibilities  regards  decision-making.  This  is  a
commitment that, pursuant to Article 24 of the Charter,
is conferred upon the members of the Security Council
by  the  general  membership,  which,  in  return,  expects
thorough, effective implementation.
the  Security  Council  has 
of 
important 
Mr. Ka (Senegal) (spoke in French): I should like
first of all to convey my delegation’s congratulations to
my brother and friend, Ambassador Martin Andjaba of
Namibia.  As  President  of  the  Security  Council  for
October,  he  introduced  with  his  usual  clarity  and
precision  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council
covering the period 16 June 1999 to 15 June 2000.
It  is  true  that  the  report  is  long,  but  it  is  full  of
facts and figures and provides a complete picture of the
important role of the Security Council in managing the
many situations that pose a threat to international peace
and security in the world.
Member  States  have  a  legitimate  interest  in  the
activities  of  the  Council  and  in  the  General  Assembly
A/55/PV.35
debate on the report of the Council, as provided for in
Article 15 and Article 24, paragraph 3, of the Charter.
a 
This  debate 
certainly  provides 
special
opportunity  to  review  the  work  of  the  Council  and  to
consider  ways  of  maintaining  or  enhancing 
the
credibility  and  effectiveness  of  that  central  body  in
order  to  create  the  necessary  synergy  between  it  and
the  other  principal  organs  of  the  Organization.  We
believe  that  this  discussion  of  the  report  is  useful  for
both  the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly
because  it  helps  to  ensure  perfect  coordination  and
effective interaction.
It is clear from reading the report that once again
the  Council  has  had  a  particularly  busy  year.  During
the  reporting  period,  it  held  144  formal  meetings,
adopted  57 
issued  38  presidential
statements  and  held  194  informal  consultations  of  the
whole.
resolutions, 
I  wish  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to  all
Council members for the high quality and relevance of
the report, which offers us a timely assessment of their
level  of  commitment 
international  peace  and
security.
to 
The report is also the outcome of the efforts made
by  Council  members  and  the  Secretariat  to  fulfil  the
desire  of  countries  members  and  non-members  of  the
Council  to  make  the  work  of  that  strategic  body  more
transparent.
The need  for  greater transparency  in  the  work of
the  Security  Council  has  met  with  great  progress  in
recent  years,  and  we  appreciate 
the  now  well-
established  practice  of  briefing  non-members  of  the
Council.  I  also  wish  to  stress  and  welcome  the  more
frequent use of open debates on items on the Council’s
agenda, as  well  as  the positive  initiatives taken  by  the
Presidents  to  organize  open  meetings  on  specific
questions  of  concern 
international
community.
the  entire 
to 
During  this  year,  the  Council  has  held  thematic
debates on peacekeeping, on security and post-conflict
peace-building, on the promotion of peace and security,
on  humanitarian  aid  to  refugees  in  Africa,  on  children
affected  by  armed  conflict,  on 
the  protection  of
civilians  affected  by  armed  conflicts,  on  small  arms
and light weapons, on the responsibility of the Security
Council  for  the  maintenance  of  peace,  on  the  role  of
the Council in the prevention of armed conflicts, on the
13
A/55/PV.35
humanitarian  aspects  of  items  before  the  Security
Council, and, finally, on an equally important issue, the
question of sanctions.
the  non-members  of 
Clearly,  these  stimulating  debates  are  of  special
importance  for 
the  Council,
because  it  means  that  they  can  make  an  important
contribution  to  the  consideration  of  the  items  on  the
Council’s  agenda. This  is  why  my  delegation  supports
this  innovation,  even  as  we  remain  convinced  of  the
need  to  improve  its  practical  effectiveness  by  holding
more frequent open meetings on specific items, leading
to concrete action.
Again this year, as in previous years, the report of
the Security Council gives special attention to crises in
Africa,  the  continent  which  currently  has  the  greatest
number of conflicts on the Council’s agenda. I refer to
Angola,  Burundi,  Ethiopia/Eritrea, 
the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Guinea-Bissau,  Sierra  Leone,
and  so  forth.  Given  the  unstable  political  situation  in
the  continent,  which  is  a  source  of  concern  for  the
entire  international  community,  the  Council  has  made
commendable  efforts  to  contain  these  conflicts.  It  can
never  be  repeated  too  often  that  unless  there  is  peace
and  stability,  there  can  be  no  sustainable  economic
development in Africa.
In  this  regard,  I  wish  to  welcome  the  many
initiatives  on  Africa  undertaken  by  the  Council during
the reporting period and beyond. I  wish to refer  to  the
memorable days of 24 and 26 January 2000, and during
which  the  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  was  considered,  and  during  which,  under  the
aegis  of  the  United  States  presidency,  the  Security
Council  had  a  high-level  debate  in  the  presence  of
Presidents  Chiluba 
of
Mozambique, Kabila of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo,  dos  Santos  of  Angola,  Mugabe  of  Zimbabwe,
Museveni  of  Uganda  and  Bizimungu  of  Rwanda,  as
well  as  the  Secretary-General  of  the  Organization  of
African  Unity  (OAU)  and  Sir  Ketumile  Masire,  the
facilitator of the inter-Congolese dialogue.
of  Zambia,  Chissano 
The 
taking  of 
the  commitments  of 
timely,  courageous  decisions
validated  the  work  of  that  meeting,  in  particular  the
reaffirmation  of 
the  main
protagonists  of  the  Congolese  crisis  to  work  together
for  the  strict  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the
Lusaka  Agreement  and  for  the  immediate  deployment
of  the  United  Nations  Organization  Mission  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  The  international
14
community  as  a  whole  welcomed  that  United  States
initiative  and  hoped 
to  new
dynamism  and  thus  a  political  solution  to  the  conflict
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
it  would 
lead 
that 
It  is  in  this  same  context  that  we  also  welcomed
the  dispatch  of  the  Security  Council  mission  to  the
Great  Lakes  region  to  build  on  the  outcome  of  the
January  meeting.  It  is  true  that  that  field  mission  did
not bring about a major breakthrough in the Congolese
crisis;  however,  it  did  help  to  enhance  the  Council’s
credibility  by  opening  the  way  for  the  process  of
demilitarizing  the  city  of  Kisangani  and  making  it
safer.  At  that  time,  Kisangani  was  a  hotbed  of  acts  of
violence that caused hundreds of civilian casualties.
Closer  to  us  geographically,  even  if  this  event  is
not  technically  covered  by  the  report,  I  wish  to  point
out  that  the  recent  mission  of  a  delegation  of  the
Security  Council  to  the  subregion  of  West  Africa  is
another illustration of this determination on the part of
Council  members  to  undertake  specific  actions  in  the
field  to  restore  peace  and  security  in  areas  torn  by
conflict and civil war.
Finally,  among  the  most  outstanding  activities  of
the  Council  during  this  year  was  the  meeting  held  in
parallel  with  the  Millennium  Summit  where  heads  of
State  of  countries  members  of  the  Council  discussed
primarily problems of security and peace in Africa.
In  the  interest  of  peace  and  development  in  the
African  continent,  the  Security  Council  should  start
considering  ways  to  give  Africans  the  capacity  to
strengthen  their  own  capacity  for  peacekeeping,  and
particularly  their  capacity  for  prevention  in  order  to
deal  with  crisis  situations.  I  have  used  the  word
“capacity”  repeatedly  because  I  wish  to  stress  this
need.  All  too  often,  the  Council  has  been  accused,
rightly or wrongly, of reacting to African problems and
of  being  slow  to  take  proper  preventive  action.  My
delegation  believes  that  a  rapid  reaction  mechanism
should  be  designed  and  put  into  place  jointly  by  the
Council and the regional organizations, on the basis of
a partnership that would strike a balance between their
respective roles and responsibilities.
African  leaders,  the  Organization  of  African
Unity  and  the  subregional  organizations,  such  as  the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States,  the
Southern  African  Development  Community  and  the
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States,  have
the
decided 
their  field  of  action 
include 
to 
in 
prevention  and  security  mechanisms  to  deal  with  the
many African conflicts.
Another  aspect  of  the  work  of  the  Council  to  be
considered is the need to improve the working methods
of that central body. In this regard, I am pleased to note
that there is already broad consensus on such essential
points  as  the  participation  of  non-members  in  Council
meetings,  the  programme  of  work  of  the  Council  and
the briefings convened by the President of the Council
for the benefit  of  non-members  and  troop-contributing
countries.  It  now  remains 
to
institutionalize  these  trends  so  that  from  now  on  the
promotion of international  peace  and  security  is  based
on  a  revitalized,  more  effective  and  more  transparent
Security Council.
to  go  further  and 
We  must  finally  end  a  deplorable  trend  that
prevents the Council from fulfilling its mandate — that
of  Member  States  and  regional  organizations  taking
coercive  action  without  the  Council’s  authorization  or
acting  unilaterally,  invoking  the  right  to  humanitarian
intervention.  This  trend  should  be  discouraged  by
asserting the Council’s competence in the areas defined
by  the  Charter,  so  that  the  Security  Council  is  in  step
with the changing world and so that it can demonstrate
imagination  and  determination  in  the  maintenance  of
global peace, security and stability.
Precisely  since  it  functions  solely  in  the  service
of  peace,  the  Council  —  to  enhance  the  authority  and
credibility  with  which  it  carries  out  its  essential  and
fundamental  mission  of  preserving  global  peace  and
security  —  needs  the  unequivocal  support  of  its
members and of the other members of the international
community.  In  this  regard,  the  valuable  contribution
that  the  Brahimi  report  could  make  to  the  Council’s
exercise of its  mandate should be stressed. It  seems  to
me that, were they to be adopted, some of the relevant
recommendations  contained 
report  could
considerably  improve  the  work  of  the  Council  —  for
example,  in  the  future  management  of  peacekeeping
operations.
that 
in 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  extend  heartfelt
congratulations  to  the  representatives  of  Mauritius,
Ireland, Norway, Colombia and Singapore, which have
just been elected to the Security Council.
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
in
Spanish):  We  thank  Ambassador  Martin  Andjaba  of
Namibia  for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the
Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly.  We  also
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
A/55/PV.35
thank  the  other  members  of  the  Security  Council  and
the  Secretariat  for  the  work  they  did  to  prepare  this
large amount of material.
Without  failing  to  recognize  its  value  as  part  of
the  institutional  memory  of  the  Council,  we  reiterate
that this kind of information is far from  what  we hope
to receive and what we need. The annual report is not a
privilege  granted  to  the  Member  States  represented  in
this Assembly; it is an obligation clearly established in
Articles  15  and  24  of  the  Charter.  We  have  the
legitimate right to expect a proper accounting from the
body  to  which  we  have  entrusted  with  the  primary
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security  and  which,  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Charter,  acts  on  behalf  of  all  the
Member States.
In 1996 the General Assembly adopted resolution
51/193,  with the precise objective  of  ensuring  that  the
reports of the Security Council to the Assembly would
provide a timely, substantive and analytic account of its
work. However, most of the proposals contained in this
resolution  continue  to  be  ignored.  The  Assembly
should  therefore  undertake  a  consideration  of  the
reasons  for  this  non-compliance  and  take  action  to
remedy the situation.
The  General  Assembly  still  does  not  receive  the
special reports that should be submitted by the Council,
in  accordance  with  Article  24,  paragraph  3,  of  the
Charter.  The  presentation  of  such  reports  would  in  no
way  prejudice  the  work  of  the  Council.  On 
the
contrary, it would be beneficial for all. It would enable
the  Assembly  to  make  useful  recommendations  on  the
work  of  the  Council  and  make  possible  active  and
continuous  relations  between 
two  bodies  —
something that is lacking at present.
the 
Greater transparency in the work of the Council is
urgently  needed.  In  an  increasingly  interdependent
world,  decisions  taken  by  that  body  have  a  growing
effect,  directly  or  indirectly,  on  all  Member  States.  In
addition,  when  those  decisions  are  implemented,  the
financing  comes  from  all  the  Member  States  and  not
solely from those States taking the decisions.
In  the  specific  case  of  the  Latin  American  and
Caribbean Group, we must express appreciation for the
constant  efforts  made  by  Argentina  and  Jamaica  to
keep the countries of the region as informed as possible
on the  work of the Council. But such efforts  alone are
not sufficient.
15
A/55/PV.35
the 
rule  has  become 
According  to  its  own  rules  of  procedure,  the
Council  must  meet  in  public  unless  it  is  decided
otherwise.  However, 
the
exception. The  Council  continues  to  carry  out  most  of
its  work  behind  closed  doors,  despite  the  fact  that  the
majority  of  Member  States  have  emphatically  and
repeatedly  stated 
is  unacceptable.  The
Council’s  provisional  rules  of  procedure  are  not  even
applied during these closed meetings.
that 
this 
We welcome the fact that, although such meetings
remain the exception, over the past year there has been
an  increase  in  the  number  of  open  meetings  of  the
Security Council. This trend should be maintained, but
the  objective  is  not  merely  to  have  an  increase  in
quantity;  open  meetings  should  provide  non-Member
States  a 
to  make  an  effective
contribution  to  the  work  of  that  body.  Too  often  we
witness  lengthy  open  debates  in  the  Security  Council
that  ultimately  have  no  effect  on  the  resolutions  or
presidential  statements  adopted,  since  the  texts  have
been  agreed  on  previously  in  closed  meetings  among
the Council members.
real  opportunity 
So  long  as  the  current  practice  remains  in  place,
the annual report of  the  Council  must  include  detailed
information  on  the  discussions  held  behind  closed
doors.  At  present  we  are  told  only  how  long  the
meetings  lasted.  In  general  the  monthly  reports  of  the
Council  President  offer  little  or  no  analysis.  The
presentation of these reports must become the rule, and
we  must  establish  parameters 
the  minimum
information that must be contained in them.
for 
We  are  concerned  by  the  trend  in  the  Security
Council  to  discuss  issues  and  adopt  texts  ruling  on
questions  of  a  general  nature  —  activities  that  far
exceed the responsibilities entrusted to that body by the
Charter.  This  approach  is  being  used  with  increasing
frequency  by  the  Council  in  order  to  legitimize  its
actions  in  the  economic,  social  and  humanitarian
spheres.
The  Council  must  not  assume  tasks  entrusted  to
the General Assembly and other United Nations bodies.
Instead,  its  efforts  should  be  focused  on  achieving
greater coordination and cooperation between it and the
Assembly  and  other  bodies,  as  established  by  the
Charter.  As  to  the  increasingly  complex  mandates
adopted by the Council, there can be  no  excuse  for  its
failure to adhere strictly to the principles of respect for
16
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs
of States.
We welcome the inclusion in the Council’s report,
for  the  second  consecutive  year,  of  the  reports  of  the
sanctions  Committees.  At  the  same  time,  we  reiterate
that  these  Committees’  working  methods  are  affected
by  the  same  distortions  evidenced  in  the  Security
Council’s  meetings  and  need  to  be  reviewed.  The
meetings  of  sanctions  Committees  must,  as  a  rule,  be
open and when they are held behind closed doors on an
exceptional  basis,  detailed 
the
deliberations must be provided in the Council’s reports.
The  countries  affected  must  have  the  full  right  to
participate 
sanctions
Committees.
the  discussions  of 
information  on 
the 
in 
Sanctions 
regimes  cannot  become  punitive
instruments  against  some  countries  based  on 
the
hegemonic  interests  of  certain  Council  members,  as,
unfortunately,  now  occurs  in  well-known  cases.  It  is
paradoxical that the very countries that are determined
to  preserve  sanctions  regimes  which  reflect  their  own
national interests and affect innocent  civilians  are  also
among those that try to convince us of the value of so-
called  humanitarian 
is  a  clear
intervention.  This 
example of hypocrisy and double standards.
today 
While the Council’s annual report reflects the fact
that  most  of  the  items  on  its  agenda  involve  Africa,
attention  and  available  resources  also  remain  focused
on  that  continent.  The  undeniable  truth  is  that  Africa
has  more  armed  conflicts 
than  any  other
continent. More than one third of African countries are
presently or have recently been involved in conflicts. It
is clear that, beyond rhetoric,  we  need practical  action
and the necessary political will to find solutions to the
growing  and  pressing  problems  of  an  entire  continent,
which are due primarily to their colonial past and to the
current poverty, marginalization and underdevelopment
in which African nations are mired.
We are convinced that many of the problems that
we  have  addressed  will  be  satisfactorily  resolved  only
if  there  is  complete  reform  of  the  Security  Council,
which is undoubtedly the most delicate and urgent task
of  United  Nations  reform  as  a  whole.  It  should  not,
however,  be  cited  as  an  excuse  for  maintaining  the
status quo while such reforms are being developed. As
clear  proof  of  the  genuine  will  to  move  forward,  we
hope that the comments and suggestions that have been
made  and  will  continue  to  be  made in  this  debate  will
be  taken  duly  into  account  by  the  members  of  the
Security Council.
I 
Mr.  Fonseca  (Brazil): 
thank  Ambassador
Martin  Andjaba  for  his  presentation  of  the  Security
Council report for the period June 1999 to June 2000. I
take  this  opportunity  also  to  congratulate  the  newly
elected members of the Council: Colombia, Singapore,
Ireland, Norway and Mauritius.
This  annual  debate  should  serve  the  purpose  of
discussing how decisions of the Council could be taken
with  broader  communication  with  Member  States.  We
support  initiatives  aimed  at  enhancing  accountability
and  transparency  in  the  work  of  the  Security  Council.
Indeed,  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  must  be
brought  closer  to  the  general  membership.  In  this
respect, we commend the holding of daily briefings by
the presidency for their quality and level of detail. The
increasing practice of open briefings, open debates and
more  frequent  private  meetings  is  also an  encouraging
sign.  The  sanctions  Committee’s  reports  could  be
debated  in  open  meetings.  We  encourage  outgoing
Presidents  to  brief  Member  States  on  the  work  of  the
Security Council during their term and to circulate their
assessments.  Resolutions  and  presidential  statements
should  be  preceded  by  broader  discussions  and  better
reflect the general sense of open debates.
reasons 
The report of  the  Security  Council  summarizes  a
year  of  intense  activities,  some  success  stories  and,
unfortunately,  many 
for  concern.  Africa
remains 
the  main  focus  of  Council  actions  and
discussions.  The  recurring  violence  in  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo, the difficulties in implementing
the  peace  process  in  Sierra  Leone,  the  continuation  of
the  civil  war  in  Angola  and  the  territorial  dispute
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  are  powerful  reminders
that  the  United  Nations  still  has  a  long  way  to  go
before our goal of a  more stable international  scenario
can be achieved.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  positive  prospects  in
Angola, since the Government’s forces are well able to
contain  the  military  challenge  posed  by  UNITA  in
defiance of the Lusaka Protocol. We also  welcome the
fact  that,  since  the  United  Nations  Office  in  Angola
became  operational, 
there  has  been  a  noticeable
improvement in the flow of humanitarian assistance.
The  Middle  East,  especially  after  the  events  of
recent  weeks,  is  a  source  of  grave  concern.  We
welcome  the  adoption  of  resolution  1322  (2000)  and
A/55/PV.35
stress  the  need  for  the  Council  to  respond  to  possible
outbreaks  of  violence 
the  region.  Brazil  also
reaffirms  that  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973)
must  be  the  bases  of  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the
Arab and Israeli conflict.
in 
Also  concerning  the  Middle  East,  the  Council,
although  far  from  showing  unity,  was  able  to  adopt  a
resolution on Iraq in the period covered by the report.
We hope to see peace and stability taking root in
the  Balkans.  Despite  recent  positive  developments  in
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia, 
the  Security
Council’s attention to the region is no less crucial than
it was before. We reaffirm our support for the  work of
the  United  Nations  Interim  Administration  in  Kosovo
and  our  call  for  the  local  population  to  develop  a
culture  of  tolerance  and  multiculturalism.  We  note,
however,  that  the  implementation  of  resolution  1244
(1999) was also a highly divisive issue for the Council.
The situation in East Timor is of close interest to
Brazil. The leadership of the Secretary-General and the
determined  action  of  the  Council  during  all  stages  of
the  crisis  were  essential  to  assert  the  message  that  the
Timorese  people’s  democratic  option 
self-
determination  could  not  be  reversed  by  force.  East
Timor  has 
transitions:  from
oppression  to  self-determination  and  independence;
from 
sustainable
development;  and  from  fear  and  terror  to  stability  and
tranquillity.  The  complex  task  of  administering  East
Timor’s  transition  to  independence  is  being  conducted
with  great  competence  by  Under-Secretary-General
Sergio  Vieira de  Mello  and his  team.  Acts  of  violence
and infiltration by  militia groups in East Timor should
not  be  allowed  to  disrupt  the  construction  of  the  new
State.
to  complete  several 
backwardness 
economic 
for 
to 
are 
operations 
Peacekeeping 
increasingly
complex and  numerous. The  Security  Council  must be
attentive  to  the  current  efforts  to  reflect  on  how  to
respond  to  new  peacekeeping  mandates.  The  Brahimi
report  offers  a  valuable  framework  on  how  to  build
upon  lessons  learned  from  mistakes  of  the  past.  The
courageous  reports  on  Rwanda  and  Srebrenica  should
be  standing  references.  The  challenge 
the
Brahimi  report  itself  points  out,  the  establishment  of
mandates 
that  are  clear,  credible  and  achievable.
Financial  resources,  mandate  and  political  will  must
converge  to  make  every  United  Nations  peacekeeping
initiative feasible.
is,  as 
17
A/55/PV.35
Sanctions must be a tool for the normalization of
international  relations,  not  a  collective  punishment
imposed  on  the  population  of  a  targeted  country.
Sanctions  are  an  extreme  measure  that  is  justifiable
only when alternatives for a peaceful settlement of the
dispute  have 
failed  altogether.  They  should  be
proportional  to  the  objectives  and  limited  to  precise
targets,  bear  in  mind  the  humanitarian  impact  and  the
effect  on  third  parties,  and  contain  clear  terms  of
duration  and  termination.  We  praise  the  efforts  of
Ambassador 
the
regime  against
implementation  of 
UNITA.  We  are  also  looking  forward  to  the  results  of
the  Security  Council’s  working  group  on  how  to
improve  the  effectiveness  of  United  Nations  sanctions
established in April.
in 
sanctions 
strengthening 
Fowler 
the 
At  the  Millennium  Summit,  our  leaders  set  the
priorities for the agenda of the United Nations and the
Security  Council.  Tolerance,  democracy,  development,
human  rights  and  humanitarian  principles  are  at  the
core  of  what  is  to  be  achieved  by  the  international
community.  The  foundation  of  international  law,  upon
which  our  quest  for  the  Millennium  Summit  goals
should be based, lies in the United Nations Charter. We
reaffirm our view that the Security Council is the only
impose  enforcement
body  whose 
measures 
accepted
instrument.  The  alternative  to  legitimacy  provided  by
the  United  Nations  Charter  is  an  unstable  order  in
which the goals established at the Millennium  Summit
will be more distant.
to 
a  universally 
legitimacy 
is  based  on 
The  leaders  of  the  world  called  for  intensified
efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the
Security  Council  to  make 
it  more  representative,
effective  and 
legitimate.  The  Council’s  present
composition reflects events that occurred 55 years ago.
The  decision-making  process  in  the  Council  must
reflect 
international
community  as  a  whole.  Otherwise,  the  Council  will
have a very modest role — if any at all — in our search
for a durable solution to international crises.
the  collective  will  of 
the 
Mr.  Valdez  Carrillo  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
The  Peruvian  delegation  wishes  to  thank  Ambassador
Martin Andjaba, Permanent Representative of Namibia
and  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  for
submitting  the  annual  report  of  that  body  (A/55/2),
covering  the  period  from  16  June  1999  to  15  June
2000. We have received this report in accordance  with
Article  24  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  and  we
18
welcome the  dialogue that  can  be  established,  through
this debate, between  two of the  most  important  bodies
of the system.
The  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  is  one  of
the  basic  purposes  of  the  Organization,  reflected  in
Article 1 of the Charter, and it is also an ongoing desire
and  concern  of  nations.  The  Security  Council  is  the
body  responsible  for  this  duty,  acting  on  behalf  of  the
Members  of 
the  Organization.  Members  have  a
legitimate  interest  in  the  follow-up  of  achievements
and  progress,  as  well  as  problems  and  setbacks.  That
interest must be acknowledged and reciprocated.
Peru  welcomes  the  efforts  for  openness  made
over  the  past  year  through  the  holding  of  more  open
meetings  of  the  Council  on  various  topics  of  interest,
and  hopes  that  this  attitude  will  continue  to  prevail  in
the  future  so  that  the  Security  Council  will  become
more  transparent  in  its  work  and  will  consider  the
points  of  view  of  the  majority  of  the  States  of  this
Organization.
Peru also welcomes the first steps to establish an
ongoing,  direct  dialogue between the  Security  Council
members and troop-contributing countries on the basic
aspects  of  peacekeeping  operations,  such  as 
the
mandate,  financial  base  and  human  resources  of  every
mission.  My  delegation  also  considers  that  every
member  elected  to  that  organ  must  make  an  ongoing
effort  to  disseminate  and  update  information  to  its
respective  region,  as  the  delegation  of  Argentina  does
through  weekly  meetings  at 
the
delegation of Jamaica does at the meetings of the Latin
American and Caribbean Group.
its  Mission  and 
specifically 
Recent  years,  and 
the  period
corresponding  to  this  report,  have  posed  enormous
challenges in terms of planning and implementation by
the Organization because of the size and importance of
deployed peacekeeping operations. These new realities
have arisen from internal conflicts whose destabilizing
force  involves  or  spreads  to  neighbouring  countries,
necessarily  leading  to  an  adjustment  of  traditional
peacekeeping  operation  duties.  This  situation  has
produced  the  emergence  of  new  concepts  and  the
expansion  of 
in  mandates,
stemming  from  deliberations  and  decisions  that  leave
the  great  majority  of  the  States  of  the  Organization
outside  the  debate  on  the  best  way  to  face  these  new
realities.
traditional 
functions 
have 
Moreover,  we 
recently  witnessed
discussions within the Security Council on aspects that
fall  within  the  jurisdiction  of  other  forums  of  the
Organization, such as the Economic and Social Council
and  the  General  Assembly.  It  has  thus  become  more
common  to  restrict  to  a  small  group  of  countries  the
debate  on  concepts 
that,  without  an  appropriate
framework, can lead to intervention and interference in
the  internal  affairs  of  States.  For  example,  there  is  no
clear  basis  of  action  and  interpretation  for  so-called
humanitarian intervention, which would justify the use
of  force  due  to  serious  violations  of  humanitarian  law
and  human  rights.  Questions  arise  about  who  will
determine  when  these  violations  occur,  and  by  what
standards  and  why  this  discussion  does  not  take  place
within a more participatory forum.
We  cannot  ignore  that  the  mandate  conferred  by
the  Charter  on  the  Security  Council  responded  to  a
reality  in  which  relations  between  States  prevailed  in
the  international  arena.  Therefore,  the  Charter  alludes
to  those  relations  when  it  deals  with  measures  to
prevent threats to peace and security.
Peru  has  also  carefully  followed  the  debates  in
the  Security  Council  on  the  prevention  of  armed
conflict.  Positions  have  been  expressed 
these
meetings  promoting  a  broad,  unilateral  expansion  of
the  concept  of  the  causes  of  conflicts  and  of  the  very
concept of security, incorporating factors of a political
nature and of government management.
in 
factors 
Peru favours preventive action that deals with the
main  causes  of  conflicts,  particularly  well-known
economic 
and
such 
underdevelopment.  However, 
this
subject must be framed within the principles and norms
of the Charter of the Organization and must result from
ongoing  dialogue  with  the  competent  bodies  of  the
system, such as the Economic and Social Council.
as 
it  believes 
poverty 
that 
That  body  has  a  basic  role  to  play  in  efforts  to
prevent  conflicts.  It  understands  that  items  on  poverty
and  development  are  of  high  priority  within  the
framework of the United Nations — the “promotion of
the  economic  and  social  advancement  of  all  peoples”,
as  is  mentioned  in  the  Charter.  These  priorities  have
been postponed despite having the  majority  support of
Member  countries  and  being  in  keeping  with  the
preventive effort promoted by the Security Council.
We  also  believe  that  it  could  be  difficult  for  the
the  responsibilities
in  fulfilling 
Security  Council, 
A/55/PV.35
assigned to it under the Charter, to achieve the desired
results  unless  there  is  also  a  process  allowing  for  the
strengthening of the General Assembly.
Peru is convinced that it is essential to strengthen
the role and effectiveness of the General Assembly, the
most  representative  and  democratic  body  of 
the
international system, in order for it to regain a decisive
role  in  managing  and  deciding  on  those  matters  over
which  it  has  legitimate  and  direct  jurisdiction.  These
include 
international  peace  and
security, as stipulated in Article 11 of the Charter. This
function  must  be  performed  in  order  to  determine  the
frameworks  of  collective  security,  which,  as  I  have
mentioned, is faced with situations of internal conflict,
for  which  the  Security  Council  was  not  designed,
especially  in  those  cases  in  which  consequences  and
decisions of universal application may arise.
issues  related 
to 
of 
consideration, 
We believe that the General Assembly is not only
capable 
and
recommendations in these matters, but that the need for
the  fulfilment  of  this  role  is  more  evident  than  ever
before.  There  is  no  better  place  than  this  to  negotiate,
express  and  agree  consensually  on  new  concepts  that
will be applied later by the Security Council.
reflection 
This forum also contributes to the safeguarding of
the basic principles of relations between States and the
establishment of a common basis for action that derives
from the participation of all States. We reaffirm that the
Special  Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations  is  the
relevant forum within the Organization to deal with all
matters relating to such operations.
Peru  received  with  interest  the  statement  of  the
Security  Council  during  the  Millennium  Summit.  We
believe  that  most  aspects  dealt  with  therein  form  a
basis  for  a  general  consensus  among  States.  We
emphasize, among other things, the reaffirmation of the
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter,  the  search  for
greater  effectiveness  in  peacekeeping  operations,  the
strengthening  of  the  security  of  the  Organization’s
personnel  in  the  field,  the  expansion  of  consultations
with 
the
importance  of  reintegrating  former  combatants  into
society.
troop-contributing 
countries 
and 
the 
These  same  aspects  have  been  particularly
emphasized  in  the  report  of  the  Panel  of  experts,
presided  over  by  the  former  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Algeria, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, which has led
the
to  an 
in  various  forums  of 
intense  debate 
19
A/55/PV.35
Organization and on which Peru will submit its opinion
in the relevant bodies.
lacked 
to 
specific 
reference 
However,  we  believe  that  the  Security  Council
statement 
studying
sanctions regimes, as was mentioned by some Security
Council  delegations  during  its  debate.  The  purpose  of
such  reviews  will  be  to  ensure  that  sanctions  do  not
have 
some  cases,
permanently  —  on  a  civilian  population  that  ends  up
being  the  direct  victim  of  the  sanctions  imposed  on  a
particular Government.
their  greatest 
impact  — 
in 
On the other hand, Peru is pleased with efforts to
analyse the economic causes of conflicts, in connection
with the role played by rebel groups and third States in
their  illegal  exploitation  of  natural  resources.  We
believe that this is a very important factor in sustaining
current conflicts, and it must be addressed. For its part,
the  Peruvian  delegation  has  informed  the  appropriate
national  authorities  of  the  specific  provisions  of  the
Security Council pertaining to this situation.
My delegation has followed, and will continue to
follow  attentively,  all  these  matters  regarding  the
Security Council. We are convinced of the fundamental
role  assigned  to  the  Council  by  the  Charter  of  the
Organization.  That  is  why  we  would  like  for  it  to
achieve  its  full  potential,  for  we  acknowledge  that  the
success  of 
the
Organization and, consequently, the achievement of the
desire for peace and security of all our peoples.
its  efforts  means 
the  success  of 
Mr. Buallay (Bahrain) (spoke in Arabic): I would
like  to  thank  our  colleague  Ambassador  Andjaba,  the
Permanent Representative of Namibia and President of
the Security  Council  for  the month  of  October,  for  his
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  for
the  period  June  1999  to  June  2000.  It  is  also  my
pleasure 
congratulate  Singapore,  Mauritius,
Colombia, Norway and Ireland on their election to the
Council for 2001 and 2002.
to 
Our  delegation  has  examined 
the  document
containing  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the
General Assembly. We pay tribute to the effort that has
gone  into  preparing  the  report,  and  we  would  like  to
reaffirm  the  importance  of  the  role  of  the  Security
Council  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security.  Bahrain  spared  no  effort  to  play  an  effective
role  during  its  membership  in  the  Security  Council,
from January 1998 to December 1999  — a period that
witnessed many raging conflicts, from Africa to Europe
20
to  Asia.  My  country  was  able  to  witness  at  first-hand
the  importance  of  the  role  entrusted  to  the  Security
Council in ensuring stability in the world. However, we
were  likewise  able  to  see  at  first-hand  that  there  were
many  obstacles  standing  in  the  way  of  the  Council’s
achieving  its  purpose  that  is  organically  linked  to  the
maintenance of international peace and security. It may
be  appropriate  here  to  touch  upon  some  of  those
obstacles.
First,  given  the political  map  of  the  international
community,  there  is  the  question  of  the  inequitable
representation  in  the  membership  of  the  Security
Council.  It  goes  without  saying  that  this  map  is
different today from what it was at the time the Charter
was  established,  in  1945.  This  is  true  whether  one
looks  at  numbers,  geographical  distribution  or  the
balance  of  political  power.  Some  say  that  increasing
the number of members in the Council in the interest of
equity  might  affect  the  efficiency  of  the  Council’s
work. While that might be true to a certain extent, it is
not  sufficient  reason  to  justify  having  15  members  of
the Council represent 189 Member States of the United
Nations.
number 
possible 
of  members 
Secondly,  there  is  the  issue  of  the  lack  of
transparency  in  the  work  of  the  Council,  in  particular
where  the  concept  of  collective  security  is  concerned.
That  concept  presupposes  the  participation  of  the
largest 
the
international  community,  including  members  of  the
Council  itself.  It  is  true  that  there  has  been  greater
access in recent years by other  members of the United
Nations  to  the  work  of  the  Council.  But  there  has  not
been enough openness to enable non-member States of
the  Council  to  participate  effectively.  This  applies
especially  to  members  of  the  Organization  whose
countries  are  facing the  same  problems  as  those  being
discussed by the Council.
of 
Thirdly, there is a difference in the  ways that the
permanent and non-permanent members of the Council
deal with various issues. We are not here to discuss the
issue of  veto power;  but  perhaps  the  right  of  veto  and
the  fact  that  one  group  has  permanent  membership
status and the other does not, serve to engender within
the  Council  two  different  views  and  two  methods  of
work on the same issue.
Fourthly,  there  is  the  issue  of  the  crisis  faced  by
peacekeeping operations  — which  are  entrusted  to  the
Council  —  whether  with regard  to  logistical,  financial
is 
there 
apparently 
or  organizational  aspects  of  those  operations.  Despite
the  fact  that  each  peacekeeping  operation  has  its  own
particularities, 
clear
organizational  methodology  or  planning  in  place  for
those  operations.  As  a  result,  decisions  on  resolutions
to  deploy  United  Nations  peacekeepers  stem  from
considerations  reflecting  the  views  and  analyses  of
certain  members  of  the  Council,  in  particular  those  of
the most influential members.
no 
Fifthly,  the  sanctions  regimes  established  by  the
Charter  of  the  Organization,  whose  imposition  and
implementation  have  been  entrusted  to  the  Council,
have negative consequences when they are imposed for
a  long  period  of  time  and  turn  the  acute  suffering  of
peoples  into  chronic  suffering.  There  is  a  need  for  a
standardized  system 
that  would  mitigate  negative
effects  on  populations  as  months  and  years  go  by.
Moreover,  we  believe  that  the  imposition  of  sanctions
should  not  be  comprehensive;  rather,  sanctions  should
be  confined  to  specific  areas.  To  give  one  example,
sanctions  should  not  prevent  people  from  fulfilling
religious  obligations  that  may  require  travel  outside
their  countries,  simply  because  the  sanctions  prohibit
travel outside the country under sanctions. This  matter
requires 
the
guidelines  established  by  the  non-permanent  members
of the Council in 1999,  which can  serve  as a  basis  for
such a review.
in  accordance  with 
review, 
radical 
I  would  like  to  say  a  few  final  words  about  the
Middle East situation and where that question stands in
the Council. The Middle East problem is closely linked
to  international  peace  and  security  and  has  resulted  in
more than one war. Although the problem has been on
the  international  scene  since  1948,  it  is  not  on  the
agenda  of  the  Council.  The  recent  tragic  events  in  the
region,  which  have  led  to  over  100  Palestinian  deaths
as a result of an Israeli act of provocation, should make
us  realize  the  importance  of  this  question.  It  is  high
time for the Security Council once again to take up this
issue  that  was  the  subject  of  much  discussion  by  the
Council in the past and led to the adoption of a number
of resolutions. Of particular importance are resolutions
242 (1967) and 338 (1973), whose implementation has
been pending for quite some time.
Mr.  Nguyen  Thanh  Chau  (Viet  Nam):  The
delegation of Viet Nam wishes to thank His Excellency
Permanent
Ambassador 
Representative  of  Namibia  and  President  of 
the
Security  Council  for  the  month  of  October,  for  his
Andjaba, 
Martin 
A/55/PV.35
succinct  and  informative  presentation  of  the  report  of
the  Security  Council  (A/55/2).  His  statement  surely
helped us to  understand  more  fully  the  contents of  the
comprehensive report, which is rich in factual material,
as  well  as  the  work  of  the  Council  during  the  period
under  review.  I  wish  to  congratulate  the  Security
Council secretariat on the hard work that went into the
production of the report.
the  organ 
in  which  every  Member 
The Millennium  Summit showed that  the  general
membership  of  the  United  Nations  has  the  intense
aspiration  to  enhance  the  authority  of  the  General
Assembly, 
is
represented.  The  Millennium  Declaration 
also
underlined  the  importance  of 
the  task  of  further
strengthening  the  relationship  between  this  body  and
the  Security  Council.  In  that  context,  the  Assembly’s
consideration  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council
today is of special significance. We hope that  what  we
do  today  will  contribute  to  improving  the  work  of  the
Council  and  will  thus  make  a  worthy  contribution  to
the  maintenance  of  world  peace  and  security  in  the
coming years.
We  have carefully  studied  the report  and  wish  to
underline the positive developments in the work of the
Council  in  the  period  from  16  June  1999  to  15  June
2000. It is  quite  noticeable  that  there  has  been  greater
transparency in the meetings conducted by the Council
during  that  period.  The  general  membership  has  long
been  very  energetic  in  calling  for  greater  transparency
in  the  conduct  of  the  business  of  that  body.  We  have
seen  a  greater  number  of  public  meetings  and  prompt
briefings 
to
representatives of States not members of the Council. It
is noteworthy that in recent years, non-members of the
Security Council have been increasingly engaged in the
discussions  of  important  issues  before  the  Council.
There is no doubt that such participation is essential for
the success of the Council’s activities. It is a  welcome
development.
the  Council 
Presidents 
by 
of 
We  welcome  the  prompt  actions  of  the  Security
Council  during  the  period  in  resolving  crises  in  many
regions  throughout  the  world.  In  that  regard,  we  wish
the Security Council would apply the same approach to
the current Middle East crisis. We earnestly hope that a
solution  will  be  found  to  the  crisis  and  that  the  peace
process will be put back on track.
We  also  welcome 
the  parties
concerned  in  given  issues  have  been  invited  to  take
the  fact 
that 
21
A/55/PV.35
part in some of the consultations of the Council. Their
participation  has  helped  the  Council  to  produce  more
balanced  and  impartial  solutions  to  the  issues  under
discussion. They  have brought  greater,  valuable  inputs
into the work of the Council.
it 
Reading the report and following the work of the
Council, we recognize that the Council has made great
efforts  to  conduct  a  larger  number  of  public  meetings
consisting  of  thematic  debates.  These  debates  have
focused  on  many  issues  that  relate  to  the  maintenance
of  world  peace  and  security,  such  as  the  protection  of
civilians in armed conflict; protection for humanitarian
assistance to refugees; children and armed conflict; and
others. This initiative has received an earnest response
from States not members of the Council. We hope that
this  procedure  will  continue,  because 
is  our
conviction that  it  will  help the  Council  to  better  equip
itself to deal with crises when they occur in the future.
In  that  regard,  we  wish  to  caution  members  that
the  question  of  so-called  humanitarian  intervention
raises many delicate and controversial questions. These
include  a  fundamental  principle  of  the  United  Nations
Charter,  namely  State  sovereignty.  We  hold  that  the
Security  Council  should  not  attempt  to  expand  its
purview  beyond  what  is  authorized  under  the  Charter,
because that  would  in  time diminish  the roles  of other
competent  organs  of  the  United  Nations;  here,  the
General  Assembly  is  a  case  in  point.  The  general
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  for  instance,  will
not accept the Council indulging in efforts to establish
certain norms.
We wish to take this opportunity to stress that the
Security Council should  do its  utmost  to  avoid  private
meetings. It is our view that private meetings should be
the  exception  rather  than  the  norm,  as  they  are  now.
The world community today cannot accept the practice
by  which  the  Council  holds  formal  meetings  only  to
conduct  thematic  debates  or  to  inform  the  general
membership of the work it has done in secret.
As regards the decision-making mechanism of the
Council, my delegation is particularly concerned at the
fact that, although the veto power was not used during
period under review, some Council members still resort
to  the  threat  of  using  it,  thus  making  the  work  of  the
Council  less  effective.  Because  of  this  practice,  many
meetings  and  consultations  of 
the  Council  are
prolonged  into  the  wee  hours,  and  awaited  solutions
have  not  been  forthcoming.  The  Council’s  impasse  in
22
reviewing ongoing sanctions regimes is a good case in
point.
that  are  under 
the  sanctions  regimes 
My  delegation  calls  on  the  Council  urgently  to
review 
the
authority  of  the  Council.  Viet  Nam  believes  that
sanctions should be the last resort, that their scope and
duration  should  be  clearly  defined  and  that  great
caution  should  be  exercised  before  they  are  imposed.
Most  important  of  all,  they  should  never  be  used
indefinitely.  In  this  connection,  we  call  on  Council
members  to  urgently  review  and  lift  all  the  sanctions
imposed  upon 
their
debilitating effects on the Iraqi people.
into  account 
taking 
Iraq, 
the  Council.  With 
We  note  with  pleasure  the  continued  practice  of
including in the report  monthly assessments by former
Presidents  of 
these  voluntary
assessments, the report of the Security Council is more
analytical and insightful. It helps non-member States to
have a better and deeper understanding of the  work  of
the Council. We also commend the  fact that  the report
includes  information  about  the  work  of  the  Council’s
subsidiary 
sanctions
committees.  We  hope  that  this  good  example  will  be
continued in future reports of the Council.
particularly 
bodies, 
the 
In  a  nutshell:  on  the  one  hand,  due  recognition
should  be  given  for  improvements  in  the  working
procedures  and  the  business  of  the  Council.  On  the
other hand, we are sorry to note that the Council, more
often  than  not,  has  not proved  to  be  the  useful  tool  of
all States Members of the United Nations. Some members
of 
certain  permanent
members, still act only on their own behalf rather than
on behalf of the general membership as is stipulated in
the  Charter.  It  is  high  time  that  this  was  corrected,
unless  we  want  the  Council  to  be  irrelevant  to  current
world realities.
the  Council,  particularly 
Viet  Nam  has  on  various  occasions  called  for  an
expanded  and  reformed  Council.  We  strongly  believe
that  urgent  efforts  should  be  exerted  to  make  the
Council  truly  representative  and  accountable  and  its
work  truly  democratic  and  legitimate.  We  have  also
expressed  our  support  for  the  curtailment  of  the  veto
power, as an interim measure.
Before concluding my statement, I wish to extend
our  warmest  congratulations  to  Colombia,  Ireland,
Mauritius,  Norway  and  Singapore  on  their  election  to
membership  of  the  Council  last  week.  We  strongly
believe 
contributions to the work of the Council.
those  countries  will  make  worthy
that 
to 
report 
Mr. Hasmy (Malaysia): My delegation is grateful
to  the  President  of  the  Security  Council,  Ambassador
Martin  Andjaba  of  Namibia,  for  his  precise,  objective
and  factual  presentation  of  the  Council’s  fifty-fifth
annual 
the  General  Assembly.  The
consideration of this report, pursuant to Articles 15 and
24  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  affords  the
Assembly an opportunity to examine all aspects of the
work  of 
the  Council  —  substantive  as  well  as
procedural  —  and  to  make  constructive  critiques  and
recommendations for further improvements in the work
of  the  Council.  It  also  provides  for  more  effective
coordination and interaction between the Assembly and
the Council.
My  delegation  is  gratified  at  the  ongoing  efforts
to improve the format and content of the annual report
of  the  Council.  In  its  current  format,  the  report  now
contains a fuller and much more accurate record of the
Council’s  activities,  beyond  a  mere  compilation  of
already  published  documents,  as  was  the  case  in  the
past. The inclusion in the report of brief descriptions of
the  Council’s  informal  consultations  of  the  whole,
information  on  the  work  of  the  Council’s  various
subsidiary bodies, and assessments by the Presidents of
the Council has made the report  more substantive and,
hopefully, more useful to the larger membership of the
Organization.  A  particularly  welcome  development  is
the  trend  towards  a  more  in-depth  reporting  on  the
work  of  the  Council  by  its  Presidents,  which  is  a
departure from past practice. This trend towards greater
transparency  in  the  work  of  the  Council,  which  was
initiated largely by the elected members of the Council,
will,  hopefully,  become  a  permanent  feature  in  the
working methods of the Council.
in  order 
to  make 
future 
further 
However, 
improvements  may 
be
necessary 
reports  of
the  Council  more  comprehensive  and  useful  to  the
general  membership.  General  Assembly  resolution
51/193  of  1996  contains  a  number  of  important  and
constructive  recommendations  for  such  improvements.
At  the  same  time,  discussions  in  the  Assembly  and  in
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council
reform  have  also  addressed  this  matter  and  have
made 
these
recommendations  was  the  need  for  submission  of
special  reports  of  the  Council,  as  provided  for  under
Articles  15  and  24  of  the  Charter.  We  believe  that  the
suggestions.  One 
constructive 
of 
A/55/PV.35
submission  to  the  Assembly,  when  necessary,  of  such
special reports highlighting major critical issues before
the  Council,  will  contribute  to  even  closer  interaction
and  coordination  between  the  two  principal  organs  of
this  Organization.  There  have  been  situations  in  the
recent  past  in  which  the  submission  of  such  special
reports  would  have  been  extremely  valuable  to  States
Members of the United Nations.
It  is  also  gratifying  to  note  that  the  working
methods  of  the  Council  represent  an  ongoing  process
that continues to evolve. This is largely due to the ever-
increasing  calls  from  the  general  membership  of  the
United  Nations,  as  well  as  from  within  the  Council
itself,  for  more  openness,  enhanced  transparency  and,
most  important  of  all,  increased  effectiveness  of  the
Council. Wide-ranging and constructive discussions are
continuing,  with  the  objective  of  finding  ways  and
means  of  enabling  the  Council  to  more  effectively
carry out its primary responsibility  in  the  maintenance
of  international  peace  and  security,  on  behalf  of  the
general membership of the Organization.
A  number  of  practical  improvements  to  the
Council’s  procedures  have  indeed  been  effected  and
have  been  welcomed by  the larger  membership.  These
include, the regular briefings given by the President of
the  Council,  among  others,  to  non-member  States  on
issues  discussed  during  the  informal  consultations  of
the Council, as well as the increased frequency of open
debates  and  open  briefings,  with  the  participation  of
interested  Member  States  that  are  not  members  of  the
Council.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  these  briefing  sessions
will be fully utilized by the larger membership.
The  convening  of  the  so-called  thematic  debates
in  the  Council  has  become  a  useful  forum  for  more
effective  and  broader  consultations  between  Council
members and interested Member States not members of
the  Council,  as  well  as  relevant  intergovernmental
organizations  and  experts  from  the  Secretariat  and
United  Nations 
and  other
international bodies. These thematic debates provide an
opportunity for the participants to address complex and
cross-cutting  issues  relating  to  the  overall  question  of
peace  and  security.  They  contribute  to  enriching  the
Council’s understanding of complex peace and security
issues and to improving its decision-making process.
specialized  agencies 
While  the  Council’s  informal  consultations  have
their  purpose  and  are,  in  many  ways,  indispensable,
transparency  demands 
there  should  be  more
that 
23
A/55/PV.35
increasingly, 
the  Council.  Also, 
frequent public or formal meetings of the Council. It is
gratifying to note that during the period covered by the
report, we have seen an increase in the number of such
meetings  of 
the
Council now receives briefings from the  Secretariat  or
the Special Representatives of the Secretary-General in
respect  of  existing  United  Nations  peacekeeping
operations in the format of the open meetings to which
the  larger  membership  of  the  Organization  is  invited.
The  Council  has  also  resorted  to  the  more  frequent
convening  of  so-called  private  formal  meetings,  with
the  participation  of  concerned  or  directly  affected
States,  and  at  times  with  others  that  have  special
interests 
in  such  private  meetings.  Such  private
meetings allow for candid exchanges of views between
Council  members  and  representatives  of  concerned
States  that  may  not  be  possible  in  an  open  setting.  In
this  sense, 
the
Council do serve a purpose.
the  so-called  private  meetings  of 
intended 
and 
individuals 
to  what 
With  the  more  frequent  use  of  the  format  of
private  meetings  of  the  Council,  the  mechanism  of
the  Arria  formula  has  reverted 
it  was
originally 
to  be,  namely  a  mechanism
for  informal  exchanges  of  views  between  Council
members 
non-
governmental  organizations  or  institutions  that  could
to  a  better  understanding  by  Council
contribute 
members  of  particular 
that  body’s
consideration.  We  are  pleased  with  the  more  frequent
use of private meetings of the Council, as provided for
under its rules of procedure, as well as with the proper
use of the Arria formula.
issues  under 
representing 
Even  as 
to  deal  with  pressing 
the  Council’s  working  procedures
continue  to  evolve,  there  should  be  more  focused
attention  in  addressing  the  most  contentious  aspect  of
the  Council’s  decision-making  process,  that  is,  the
anachronistic  institution  of  the  veto.  Experience  has
shown, as recently as late last week, that the Council’s
ability 
international  crises
promptly  and  effectively  is affected  by  the  veto  or the
threat  of  use  of  the  veto.  Pending  its  ultimate  demise,
there  is  a  need  to  regulate  and  restrict  the  use  of  the
veto  to  ensure  a  more  democratic  functioning  of  the
Security  Council.  We  urge  those  members  of  the
Council  with  veto  power  to  manifest  the  necessary
political  will  in  this  regard.  We  are  pleased  with  the
great restraint shown by the majority of the permanent
members with respect to the use or threat of use of the
veto.
24
My  delegation  welcomes 
these  missions  may  not  result 
the  more  frequent
dispatch  of  Council  missions  to  conflict  situations,
such as those that were sent to East Timor, Kosovo, the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Ethiopia  and
Eritrea,  and,  more  recently,  to  Sierra  Leone.  Even
though 
in  major
breakthroughs  in  the  resolution  of  the  conflict,  they
afford  Council  members  a  better  understanding  of  the
real situation on the ground and a better appreciation of
the  nature,  complexity  and  dynamics  of  the  conflict.
The deeper insights that such missions bring to bear in
Council  discussions  of  specific  conflict  situations  can
only result in enhancing the decision-making process in
the Council. The missions sent to Africa, namely to the
Great  Lakes  region,  to  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  and  to
Sierra Leone, are particularly important to the Council
given  its  preoccupation  with  the  conflict  situations  on
the  continent.  They  will  result  in  more  informed  and
focused discussions on the conflicts and on the role of
the Council in resolving them.
Clearly,  the  success  of  any  Council  action  in
addressing  conflict  situations  around  the  globe  is
determined by many factors, including the cooperation
and  political  will  of  the  parties  concerned  to  achieve
peace.  But  the  effectiveness  and  credibility  of  the
Council  in  carrying  out  its  responsibility  for  the
maintenance of international peace and security largely
depend  on  determined  efforts  —  prompt,  united  and
concrete  action  —  by  the  Council  itself.  Clearly,  this
will  require  political  will  on  the  part  of  Council
members,  which,  if  not  forthcoming,  will  result  in
paralysis in the Council, thereby blocking any concrete
action  by  the  Council.  Needless  to  say,  this  will
undermine  they  very  credibility  of  the  Council  in  the
eyes of the international community.
The  lack  of  political  will  on  the  part  of  the
Council can inadvertently result in a selective approach
in  addressing  conflict  situations.  This  should  be
avoided. The Council must deal with conflict situations
in  an  even-handed  manner,  irrespective  of  where  the
crisis occurs. A non-selective approach by the Council
is vital to ensure its credibility and prestige, as well as
the necessary support for its actions.
Sanctions  remain  a  legitimate  instrument  of  the
Council in giving effect to its decisions  with regard to
to  a  conflict.  While
certain  States  or  parties 
recognizing 
is
provided for in Article 41 of the Charter, my delegation
strongly  believes  that  sanctions  are  an  exceptional
this  enforcement  mechanism 
that 
measure  that  should  be  resorted  to  only  in  extreme
situations,  after  all  peaceful  means  of  influencing  the
behaviour  of 
the  States,  Governments  or  other
authorities  concerned  have  been  exhausted.  Sanctions
should  be  imposed  only  after  careful  consideration  of
their  objectives  and  should  be  properly  targeted,  with
specified  time-frames,  with  clear  provisions  for  their
lifting  and  in  full  cognisance  of  their  possible  impact
on third States.
Upon  the  imposition  of  sanctions,  the  Council
should  establish  a  clear  mechanism  for  an  assessment
of  the  impact  of  the  sanctions.  The  Council  should
avoid imposing blanket or comprehensive sanctions on
an  entire  country  because  of  the  likely  debilitating
effects that that would have on the populace. Sanctions
should  be  lifted  as  soon  as  possible  once  they  have
served  their  purpose  or  are  no  longer  pertinent  to  the
situation.  My  delegation  is  encouraged  by  the  current
efforts  in  the  Council  to  address,  in  a  comprehensive
manner, all issues pertaining to sanctions, and to move
in the direction of more focused and targeted sanctions.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  take  this
opportunity  to  warmly  congratulate  the  newly  elected
non-permanent  members  of 
the  Council,  namely,
Colombia,  Ireland,  Mauritius,  Norway  and  Singapore.
Malaysia  pledges  its  full  support  and  cooperation  to
them as they prepare to take their seats on the Council
in  January  next  year.  We  trust  they  will  build  on  the
achievements  made 
new
breakthroughs  in  enhancing  further  the  transparency
and  effectiveness  of  the  Council  during  their  tenure.
We  are  confident  that  they  will  do  so.  We  wish  them
every success.
forge 
thus 
and 
far 
Mr. Satoh (Japan): At the outset, I would like to
congratulate  the  five  countries  —  Colombia,  Ireland,
Mauritius, Norway and Singapore — that  were elected
to  non-permanent  membership  of  the  Council  last
week.  The  palpable  excitement  which  filled  this  Hall
on  election  day  was  testimony  to  the  importance
Member States attach to  the  Council’s  work. I  wish to
convey  to  the  newly  elected  members,  and  to  all  the
members of the Security Council, assurances of Japan’s
full 
their  enormous
responsibilities.
they  discharge 
support  as 
I  also  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the
President of the Security Council, Mr. Martin Andjaba,
Ambassador  of  Namibia,  for  his  introduction  of  the
report  of  the  Security  Council  on  its  work  from  June
A/55/PV.35
1999  to  June  2000.  This  is  indeed  a  useful  document,
and  I  very  much  appreciate  the  enhanced  monthly
assessments  made 
former  Presidents,
particularly the detailed assessments of the work of the
Council  made  by  the  non-permanent  members  during
their tenures.
the 
by 
It  has  become  increasingly  apparent  in  recent
years  that  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security  requires  a  comprehensive  approach,  one  that
addresses  not  only  political  and  military  but  also
economic  and  social  dimensions,  which  are  the  root
causes of conflicts. The open debate chaired by United
States  Vice-President  Al  Gore  last  January  on  the
devastating  impact  of  AIDS  in  Africa  is  perhaps  the
most  telling  example  of  the  Council’s  wider  approach
to peace and security issues.
in 
the 
The  need  to  expand  the  perspective  from  which
we  consider  international  peace  and  security  is  also
evident 
recent  multifaceted  mandates  of
peacekeeping operations, which, in addition to military
and  police  activities,  often  extend  to  nation-building
and  include  activities  in  the  area  of  development  and
governance.  The  doubling  of  the  total  budget  of
peacekeeping operations in the past two years is also a
reflection  of  that  need.  Against  this  background,  the
cooperation  of  the  entire  international  community  in
the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  is  becoming
ever-more  essential.  It  is  largely  through  the  support
and  cooperation  of  non-member  States,  which  provide
personnel 
for
peacekeeping  and  peacemaking  activities,  that  the
decisions of the Security Council are implemented. Our
experiences  in  East  Timor,  Kosovo  and  Sierra  Leone
are cases in point.
resources 
as  well 
financial 
as 
to  have 
I  heartily  support  the  recent  increase  in  the
number  of  so-called  open  debates  and  open  briefings.
The  need  to  engage  interested  non-members  in  the
Council’s  deliberations  and 
their  views
reflected in the Council’s decisions has been repeatedly
stressed in the course of the deliberations of the Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council  reform.
However,  I  must  point  out  that  non-members  are  not
given  the  opportunity  to  express  their  views  at  open
briefings.  Moreover,  the  considerations  underlying  the
Council’s decisions on peacekeeping operations are not
always clear to non-members. I would therefore like to
suggest that every effort be made to hold open debates
rather 
that  non-member
than  open  briefings,  so 
25
A/55/PV.35
countries  are  given  the  opportunity  to  ask  questions
and to make their views known.
We  would  like  to  thank  the  Ambassador  of  Namibia,
for his excellent introduction.
I  also  welcome  the  Council’s  recent  practice  of
holding informal consultations with the participation of
troop contributors. But that is not enough. I would like
to bring to the attention of the Assembly the statement
by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  of  28  March
1996 and note by the President of the Security Council
of  30  October  1998,  contained 
in  documents
S/PRST/1996/13  and  S/1998/1016  respectively,  which
point out that the Council should continue the existing
practice of inviting Member States which make special
contributions  to  peacekeeping  operations  other  than
troops and civilian police, such as contributions to trust
funds, logistics and equipment.
I have to point out that this practice has not been
followed.  The  exclusion  from  those  consultations  of
countries making such contributions runs counter to the
trend towards greater transparency and accountability.
in 
it 
the  Council’s 
tackling 
faces, 
While  we  support  the  steps  the  Security  Council
has taken to improve its interaction with the rest of the
United Nations membership, these measures will not in
themselves  enhance 
legitimacy  and
effectiveness.  In  order  to  make  the  Council  truly
increasingly 
effective 
complex
challenges 
composition  must  be
fundamentally  reformed  to  reflect  the  realities  of
today’s  international  community.  Let  me,  therefore,
stress  again  my  conviction,  which  I  believe  is  shared
by a majority of countries, that both the permanent and
non-permanent  membership  of  the  Council  must  be
expanded,  and  that  both  developing  and  developed
countries  must be included in the expanded permanent
membership.
the 
its 
The fact that more than 150 countries stressed the
need to reform the Security Council in the course of the
Millennium  Summit  and  in  the  subsequent  general
debate is a reflection of the growing frustration among
the United Nations membership over the slow progress
that  has  been  made in that regard. Indeed,  as  stated in
the  Millennium  Summit  Declaration,  we  should
intensify our efforts to realize genuine reform to ensure
that  the  Security  Council  can  effectively  carry  out  its
crucially important work in the years to come.
Mr.  Niehaus  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Consideration  of  the  Security  Council’s  annual  report
is one  of the  main  activities  of  the  General  Assembly.
26
is 
Undoubtedly, 
the  Security  Council 
the
Organization’s  most  visible  body  in  the  international
public’s eye, given the emergency situations in which it
is called upon to play a leading role. However, we must
not forget that the decisions of the Security Council are
not exclusively the decisions of its members, but rather
those  of  the  international  community  as  a  whole.
Ultimately,  the  Council  is  acting  on  behalf  of  all
Members  of  this  Organization.  For  this  reason,  it  is
possible to say today that both the Security Council as
a  whole  and  each  of  its  members  are  presenting
accounts to those whom they represent.
At  the  same  time,  the  other  Members  of  the
Organization  have  an  obligation  to  consider  the  work
of the Council conscientiously in order to determine if
its
the  Council 
responsibilities 
our
interests.
is  effectively  complying  with 
representing 
faithfully 
and 
image  of 
Unfortunately, events over the past year have not
provided  a  very  positive 
the  Security
Council’s  work.  In  Sierra  Leone  hundreds  of  United
Nations peacekeepers were taken hostage. In Timor the
Organization’s  personnel  fell  victim  to  cold-blooded
murder.  In  the  Congo,  cities  have  been  bombed  and
innumerable  massacres  have  taken  place,  while  in  the
Horn of Africa we have witnessed an incomprehensible
war, despite the last-minute personal diplomatic efforts
of a number of Security Council members.
The responsibility for these setbacks seems to be
clear. As revealed in the Brahimi report:
“Most occurred because the Security Council and
the  Member  States  crafted  and 
supported
ambiguous, 
under-funded
mandates  and  then  stood  back  and  watched  as
they failed.” (A/55/305, para. 266)
inconsistent 
and 
If we are to trust this report, we must conclude that the
Council has repeatedly failed in its work.
country 
recognizes 
Nevertheless,  my 
that
coordinated  action  by  the  international  community,
through  this  Organization,  is  the  sole  mechanism  that
humanity  can  rely  on  to  face  the  perils  that  lie  in
ambush.  For  that  reason,  we  cannot  lose  faith  in  the
Security Council; rather, we must strengthen it.
We  know  that  in  some  circles 
it  has  been
suggested that humanitarian intervention by a group of
States particularly interested in a given crisis might be
a  valid  substitute  for  the  work  of  the  Council.  My
delegation  does  not  share 
thesis.  Unilateral
humanitarian intervention can easily become an excuse
for  ignoring  the  prohibition  of  the  use  of  force.  The
doctrine  of  a 
to
legitimizing  war,  destruction  and  death  through  weak
theological arguments.
just  war  ultimately 
is  reduced 
this 
We  believe  that  banning  the  use  of  force  is  the
cornerstone  for  the  society  of  nations,  and  it  must
continue  to  be  that.  On  this  prohibition  is  based  the
trust  of  the  majority  of  the  States  which  deem  this
Organization the main guarantor for their security, and
on  it  is  based  every  effort  to  achieve  disarmament,  as
well  as  all  supporting  initiatives  to  resolve  disputes
peacefully.  We  fear  that  if  this  ban  is  weakened,  the
door  to  violence  in  international  relations  will  be
opened.
Under the legal regime established by the Charter,
the  Security  Council  is the only  legitimate  mechanism
available to the international community as a whole for
responding to armed conflicts or humanitarian crises of
such  a  serious  nature  that,  in  and  of  themselves,  they
become 
limited
exception  of  the  right  to  legitimate  self-defence,  prior
authorization  by  the  Security  Council  is  essential  for
any initiative that could require the use of force or that
attempts to dominate the States involved in conflict.
to  peace.  With 
the  very 
threats 
In  this  context,  it  is  essential  that  we  develop  a
new  strategy  and  doctrine  for  the  establishment  and
conduct  of  peacekeeping  operations,  in  light  of  the
experience  gained  over  the  past  decade.  The  Brahimi
report is but one step forward in this direction, and we
believe  that  we  need  an  in-depth  and  transparent
discussion  within 
the
recommendations and views expressed in that report.
the  General  Assembly  on 
The  impartiality  of  the  peacekeeping  forces,  the
consent of parties in conflict and the limiting of the use
of  force  to  legitimate  defence  must  continue  to  be  the
basic  principles  of  the  political-military  doctrine  of
peacekeeping  operations.  Any  departure  from  these
principles,  if  such  is  really  deemed  essential,  ought  to
be  dealt  with 
the  greatest  caution  and
forethought.
Over 
the
establishment  and  growth  of  a  new  kind  of
the  past  year,  we  have 
through 
seen 
A/55/PV.35
the 
operation: 
transitional 
peacekeeping 
civil
administrations in Kosovo and East Timor. This kind of
operation  presents  an  unprecedented  challenge  for  the
Organization,  creating  obligations  and  expectations
never contemplated in the past. The United Nations, on
its own, is expected to provide basic services in health,
education,  public  administration, 
justice,  security,
postal  service  and  tax  collection;  and  it  is  also  to
promote 
the
establishment  of  democracy  in  an  area  of  transition.
Despite  the  intrinsic  difficulties  in  a  task  of  this
magnitude, the  experiences  in  Kosovo  and  East  Timor
have,  in  general,  been  positive.  They  provide  us  with
examples of the capacity of this institution to act when
there  is  the  political  will  to  respond  effectively  to  the
requirements  of  the  situation  on  the  ground.  We  feel
that this experience should serve as a  model for future
actions.
reconstruction 
economic 
and 
Over  the  past  year  we  have  also  seen  some
positive  developments  in  Security  Council  practices.
These developments should be encouraged.
First,  we  welcome 
the  sending  of  observer
missions  made  up  of  Permanent  Representatives  of
Member  States.  We  believe  that  such  missions  allow
members  of  the  Council  to  familiarize  themselves  at
first  hand  with  the  requirements  of  the  situation  they
must  address.  At  the  same  time,  the  missions  allow
members  to  send  a  clear  message  to  the  parties.
However,  we  believe  that  the  scope  of  these  missions
should  not  be  exaggerated.  In  this  regard,  it  would  be
well  to  assess  the  true  results  of  the  Security  Council
missions 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Kosovo,  and
Eritrea and Ethiopia.
in  April  and  May  of 
this  year 
to 
Secondly,  we  welcome  the  candour,  courage  and
enthusiasm  of  the  group  of  experts  charged  with
considering  sanctions  against  UNITA.  We  also  admire
the  honesty,  independence  and  the  bravery  of  the
Independent  Inquiry  into  the  actions  of  the  United
Nations  during  the  1994  genocide  in  Rwanda.  We
believe that  such investigations  are an essential  aspect
of  the  work  of  the  Organization  and  that  their  high
standards should become the norm for Security Council
activities.
Thirdly,  we  appreciate 
the
approach  to  imposing  sanctions  regimes.  In  particular
we welcome the fact that the bans imposed against the
parties  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  under  resolution  1298
the  changes 
in 
27
A/55/PV.35
(2000)  were  imposed  for  a  limited  period  of  time,
without  the  possibility  of  automatic  extension.  Any
extension  of 
require  a
subsequent  official  decision  of  the  Security  Council.
My  delegation  has  for  several  years  advocated  such
time  limits  on  sanctions  regimes.  We  hope  that  this
precedent will be followed in future cases.
these  measures  would 
logistical 
resources 
resources  — 
In order to realize its purposes and principles the
United Nations needs the firm  and  constant  support of
all  Member  States.  It  is  therefore  essential  to  provide
this  Organization  with  sufficient  financial,  operational
and 
that  are
proportionate to the tasks entrusted to it. In this regard
we  need  to  reassess  the  possibility  of  establishing
permanent  reserves  of  military,  civilian  and  political
experts who are available at a moment’s notice, as well
as reserves of materiel for missions. At the same time,
troop-contributing  countries 
should  provide  duly
trained  and  equipped  personnel.  We  need  to  give
peacekeeping missions clear mandates in order to avoid
conflicts  regarding  the  control  of  these  missions,  and
we  also  need  to  establish  uniform  procedures  and
operational norms for the conduct of these missions. In
short, we must see peacekeeping missions as one of the
normal  and  ongoing  activities  of  the  Organization  and
not as exceptional undertakings.
We  are  aware  that  it  is  expensive  to  maintain
international peace and security effectively. Most of the
proposals we are endorsing require additional financial
resources. If Member States are truly committed to the
maintenance  of peace,  greater efforts  must be  made to
resolve  the  financial  crisis  afflicting  the  Organization.
My delegation believes that those States that contribute
to endangering international peace and security — that
is,  those  countries  that  are  the  main  producers  of
weapons  or  that  have  disproportionately  large  military
budgets  —  should  contribute  more  to  the  budget  for
peacekeeping  operations  than  those  nations  whose
military budgets are relatively small in relation to their
gross national products.
In  addition,  we  must  note  that  armed  conflicts
and humanitarian crises are closely related phenomena.
The causes of conflicts can be found in poverty, social
injustice, the systematic disregard of human rights and
the  lack  of  democratic  mechanisms  for  resolving
political, ideological and social conflicts.
Promoting 
security
involves  more  than  setting  up  peacekeeping  missions
international  peace  and 
28
failed.  However,  defending  peace 
or  calling  for  negotiations.  The  work  of  the  Security
Council is limited to dealing with specific events when
all  the  previous  safeguards  for  peaceful  coexistence
have 
requires
preventive  efforts  before  conflicts  occur  and  peace-
building  efforts  at  the  end  of  conflicts.  Promoting
peace requires an ongoing and sustained effort to create
an  atmosphere  in  which  there  is  mutual  respect  and
violence  is  rejected.  True  and  sustainable  peace  can
only  be  achieved  when  decent  living  conditions  are
guaranteed for all inhabitants, when there is a sufficient
level  of  economic  development  to  meet  all  the  basic
needs, when fundamental rights are respected and when
disputes are resolved by democratic means.
are 
the 
appropriate 
My  delegation  believes  that,  in  accordance  with
the  distribution  of  tasks  laid  down  in  the  Charter,  the
the  Economic  and  Social
General  Assembly  and 
Council 
the
implementation  and  coordination  of  such  sustained
efforts  to  prevent  conflicts  and  to  build  peace.  In  this
context,  invests  in  development,  education,  health,
human  rights  and  democracy  are  direct  investments  in
future peace  —  and, therefore,  work of that  kind  is  as
important as the activities of the Security Council.
bodies 
for 
In  assessing  the  work  of  the  Security  Council
over the past year, we must also reflect on the activities
of each of our States and on the contributions that have
been made to the Organization during this same period.
Have  we supported  the  United  Nations  in  deeds as  we
have  supported  it  in  words?  Have  we  furnished  the
necessary  human  and  material  resources  so  that  the
Organization  can  do  its  work?  Have  we  provided  the
necessary  political  support?  In  short,  the  successes  of
the  Security  Council  are  the  successes  of  the  entire
international  community,  just  as  the  failures  of  the
Council are the failure of us all.
Mr.  Mahbubani  (Singapore):  At 
the  outset,
please allow  me to thank  the President of the  Security
Council for the  month of October, Ambassador Martin
Andjaba,  for  the  excellent  presentation  he  made  today
of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  for  the
period 16 June 1999 to 15 June 2000. I would also like
to  thank  the  Security  Council  secretariat  for 
the
excellent  work  it  did  in  producing  the  voluminous
report that we have before us today.
Also before I begin, I  would like to thank all the
countries 
five  new
members  of  the  Security  Council  elected  this  year,
that  have  congratulated 
the 
including Singapore. We realize that we have a big job
to  do,  and  we  will  try  to  do  it  to  the  best  of  our
abilities.
In  his  seminal  Millennium  Assembly  report
entitled  “We  the  peoples”,  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  drew  a  vivid  analogy  of  our  world  as  a  global
village. If we use this analogy of the global village, we
can see the Security Council’s role as akin to that of a
magistracy  that  has  been  entrusted  and  authorized  by
the village to keep the peace. But this magistracy has a
two-tier  structure.  It  comprises  first  a  small  group  of
five  villagers,  who,  by  virtue  mainly  of  an  historical
fait  accompli,  have  been  given  security  of  tenure  and
other privileges.
The  second  group  consists  of  a  bigger,  but
significantly  less  influential  group  of  10  members  of
the  community,  chosen  by  the  village  to  serve  for  a
limited  duration  based  on  their  ability  to  advance  the
cause  of  peace  in  the  village.  In  exchange  for  the
magistracy’s 
primary
responsibility for maintaining peace and security in the
global  village  on  behalf  of 
this
magistracy is granted wide-ranging powers. The village
community  has,  in  turn,  agreed  to  be  bound  by
decisions of the magistracy.
the  community, 
undertake 
agreeing 
to 
Surprisingly,  the  magistracy  has  few  obligations
in  return  to  the  village  community.  One  of  these,  of
course,  is  to  submit  an  annual  written  report  that
contains  information  on  the  work  undertaken  by  the
magistracy. Article 15 (1) of the Charter states:
“The  General  Assembly  shall  receive  and
consider  annual  and  special  reports  from  the
Security  Council;  these  reports  shall  include  an
account of the measures that the Security Council
taken 
has  decided  upon  or 
to  maintain
international peace and security.”
That  is  why  we  are  here  today.  These  annual
reports, it would seem, are the only institutional avenue
through  which  the  global  village  community  can
inform  itself  of  the  activities  of  the  magistracy.  Each
year, at  an  annual  gathering of  the  village  community,
several  members  take  the  floor  to  express  their  views
on the annual report and the magistracy. Some are even
critical.  However,  there  is  little  evidence  so  far  that
these  discussions  have  had  any  significant  impact  on
the  magistracy,  which 
remains  very  much  an
instrument  of  the  most  powerful  magistrates.  As  John
A/55/PV.35
Foster Dulles wrote in a somewhat prescient fashion in
1950:
“The  Security  Council  is  not  a  body  that  merely
enforces agreed law. It is a law unto itself . ... No
principles of law are laid down to guide it; it can
decide  in  accordance  with  what  it  thinks  is
expedient.” (War or Peace, Macmillan, NY, 1950)
The  key  question  that  we  therefore  have  to
address under this agenda item is  whether this state of
affairs  is  satisfactory.  At  the  Millennium  Assembly
gathering  of  our  global  village,  should  we  merely
comment on and criticize this  annual report,  or  should
we  do  more?  Should  we,  for  example,  ask 
the
magistracy to account for its failures to perform its role
in maintaining peace and security? Should we also seek
from the magistracy a clarification for its non-action on
issues relating to peace and security, particularly when
such  non-action  is  tantamount  to  a  dereliction  of  its
primary responsibility? This is no abstract question for
small  States.  Small  States,  which  depend  on  the
Security Council for their security, will find their lives
seriously  imperilled  if  the  Council  fails  to  fulfil  its
obligations under the Charter.
The  bottom-line  issue  is  accountability.  I  do  not
think  that  many  will challenge  the  merits  of  rendering
the  Security  Council  accountable  for  its  action  and
non-action, including those members holding positions
of  special  privilege  in  the  Council.  There  is,  after  all,
ample proof that accountability and its sister principle,
transparency, are now widely regarded as integral parts
of good governance.
The  consideration  of  agenda  item  11  today  has
assumed added significance against the backdrop of the
reports  on  the  fall  of  Srebrenica  and  the  Rwanda
genocide  of  1994  and  ongoing  consultations  on  the
implementation of the recommendations of the Brahimi
Panel on United Nations Peace Operations. I would, in
fact,  commend  to  all  a  careful  study  of  these  reports.
They  tell  a  sobering  story  of  gross  ineptitude,  the
primacy  of  narrow  national 
interests  among  key
members of the Security Council over everything else,
and  the  protection  of  soldiers  over  civilians,  all  of
which conspired to cause the loss of countless civilian
lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda.
Perhaps  no  other  report  on  these  recent  debacles
of 
international  diplomacy 
serves  as  a  greater
indictment of the Security Council, the Secretariat and,
indeed,  the  international  community  as  a  whole  —  all
29
A/55/PV.35
of  us  —  than  the  report  of  the  International  Panel  of
Eminent Personalities appointed by the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) to investigate the events leading
to  the  genocide  in  Rwanda  in  1994.  This  report  was
released  in  early  June  2000,  four  months  ago.  It  is
puzzling, perhaps even shocking, that there has been no
move to have the OAU report discussed by the Security
Council.  Let  me  quote  a  few  pertinent  findings  of  the
OAU  report 
the  need  for  enhancing
accountability in the Security Council.
to  explain 
“[T]he  evidence  is  clear  that  there  are  a  small
number of major actors whose intervention could
directly  have  prevented,  halted  or  reduced  the
slaughter  …  Nigeria’s  Permanent  Representative
to 
the  United  Nations,  Ambassador  Ibrahim
Gambari, has reminded us that, ‘There is nothing
wrong  with 
is  not
attributable  to  its  members,’  which  led  him  to
conclude:  “Without  a  doubt,  it  was  the  Security
Council,  especially  its  most  powerful  members,
and the international  community  as  a  whole,  that
failed the people of Rwanda in their gravest hour
of need ...
the  United  Nations 
that 
“The  price  of  this  betrayal  was  paid  by
countless  Rwandans,  overwhelmingly  Tutsi,  who
will  forever remain anonymous to  the  rest  of  the
world.  In  contrast,  none  of  the  key  actors  on  the
Security  Council  or  in  the  Secretariat  who  failed
to prevent the genocide has ever paid any kind of
price.  No  resignations  have  been  demanded.  No
one  has  resigned  on  a  matter  of  principle.  Many
of  their  careers  have  flourished  greatly  since
1994.  Instead  of  international  accountability,  it
appears  that  international  impunity  is  the  rule  of
the  day.”  (Special  report  of  the  International
Panel of Eminent Personalities to Investigate the
1994  Genocide  in  Rwanda  and  the  Surrounding
Events, paras. 15.40 and 15.41)
That  last  suggestion  is  particularly  ironic,  as  the
Security Council has itself never hesitated in the past to
decry  the  culture  of  impunity  that  purportedly  exists
among  state  and  non-state  actors  in  many  troubled
parts  of  the  world.  It  is  also  inexplicable  that,  while
individual  countries  that  had  been  implicated  in  the
incident  have  extended  their  apologies  officially  for
their part in failing to prevent deaths in Rwanda, a few
others have not. As for the Security Council, the  word
“sorry” appears to be unmentionable.
30
It is not my intention to oversimplify the question
of  accountability.  This  is  not  an  easy  issue  by  any
means.  It  can  also  become  a  highly  charged  political
issue. At the same time, accountability has implications
in  the  legal  areas  of  culpability  and  reparations.  We
need to confront the issue fairly and squarely, however,
lest the credibility of the Security Council erode further
in the coming years.
In this respect, there are several questions that we
should  address.  First  and  perhaps  most  obvious,  to
whom  and/or  to  which  body  should  the  Security
Council  be  held  accountable?  The  answer  should  be
clear  enough.  We  should  first  recall  that,  in  their
Millennium  Declaration  adopted  at  the  end  of  the
Millennium  Assembly  last  September,  our  leaders
reaffirmed
chief 
policy-making 
“the  central  position  of  the  General  Assembly  as
the 
deliberative, 
and
representative  organ  of 
the  United  Nations.”
(resolution 55/2, para. 30)
The  relevant  provisions  of    the  United  Nations
Charter  would  also  support  the  view  that  the  Security
Council,  as  the  beneficiary  of  specific  powers  granted
by the Members of the United Nations, has a fiduciary
duty to account to the General Assembly for its actions.
Article  24  (1)  of  the  Charter  explicitly  states  that  the
Security  Council  exercises  its  powers  in  maintaining
international  peace  and  security  on  behalf  —  and  I
stress,  on  behalf  —  of  the  Members  of  the  United
Nations.
Secondly,  what  criteria  should  we  use 
to
determine the  performance of the  Security  Council?  A
related  question  is  whether  the  report  of  the  Security
Council  in  its  existing  format  —  the  thick  document
that  we  have  before  us  —  contains  adequate
information for the General Assembly to make such an
assessment.  We  note that,  earlier today, the  Permanent
Representative  of 
several  pertinent
questions  about  the  structure  and  contents  of  these
annual  reports,  and  we  hope  that  these  questions  will
be addressed.
India  asked 
Given that the objective of this review exercise is
for  the  General  Assembly  to  assure  itself  that  the
Security  Council  has  indeed  discharged  its  primary
responsibility,  we  should  be  examining  such  issues  as
timeliness  and  appropriateness  of  action  and  other
measures  taken  by  the  Council  in  response  to  specific
developments.
Thirdly,  how  do  we  ensure  that  the  views  of  the
General Assembly expressed during this debate on this
agenda  item  are  officially  transmitted  to  the  Security
Council  and then taken cognisance of  by  the  Council?
On  this  issue,  I  note  the  absence  of  any  formal
mechanism for the comments and views of members of
the  General  Assembly  expressed  during  the  debate  on
this  agenda  item  to  be  communicated  to  the  Security
Council.  No  doubt,  the  members  of  the  Security
Council are represented in this Hall. But can they also
respond  to  comments  made  here?  This  annual  debate
could  be  more  interactive  if  members  of  the  Security
Council  could  provide  immediate  feedback  to  issues
raised by Member States during this debate. It may also
be useful for the Security Council to meet immediately
after  this  agenda  item  is  debated  in  the  General
Assembly  to  discuss  and  perhaps  implement  some  of
the suggestions made here.
Security  Council 
The suggestions we have made today may seem a
little  radical.  But  the  issue  at  stake  here  is  the
continuing  credibility  and  authority  of  a  key  organ  of
the  United  Nations.  Our  hope  is  that  our  suggestions
today  will  motivate  or  stimulate  other  proposals  on
how  cooperation  between  the  General  Assembly  and
the 
concerning
international  peace  and  security  could  be  further
strengthened. At the same time, we are also fully aware
that a delicate balance must be struck between the need
for  the  Security  Council  to  preserve  its  ability  to  take
prompt and effective action on issues on one hand, and
the  continuing  demands  for  greater  transparency  and
accountability  on  the  other.  The  work  of  the  Security
Council must not be hampered by our work here.
on  matters 
in 
is  not  an  end 
Finally,  we  would  also  like  to  stress  here  that
accountability 
itself.  Beyond
acknowledging  that  mistakes  have  been  made  in  the
past,  it  is  also  imperative  that  the  Security  Council
should  apply  lessons  learned  from  its  experiences  —
both  failures  and  successes  —  in  its  future  work.
Eventually,  it  is  our  common  goal  to  enhance  the
capacity  of  the  Security  Council  to  discharge  the
primary  responsibility  that  it  has  been  entrusted  with
by members of this Organization.
Mr.  Stuart  (Australia):  Ambassador  Mahbubani
is always a hard act to follow and I think he has made a
particularly interesting  intervention  today.  I  thank  him
for  that.  My  delegation  would  also  like  to  thank
Ambassador  Andjaba  of  Namibia  for  presenting  the
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly
A/55/PV.35
today  in  its  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security
Council for the month of October.
and 
volatile 
international 
It seems that each year in this debate we note the
growing demands placed on the Security Council by an
uncertain 
security
environment.  Regrettably,  the  last  year  has  been  no
exception. Tension and conflict persist in many parts of
the  world.  Old  conflicts  continue  to  cost  lives  and
untold  hardship.  And  as  we  are  acutely  aware  in  our
own part of the world, new disputes have flared, posing
new threats to international peace and security.
and 
complex 
sometimes 
As  the  Security  Council’s  report  to  the  General
Assembly (A/55/2) shows, the Council has been called
on to play a central role in addressing many of these. It
has  been  a  demanding  year  in  which  the  Council  has
confronted 
seemingly
from
intractable  disputes.  Sometimes  cooperation 
disputing  parties  has  been, 
it  mildly,
questionable.  The  Council  has  had  to  make  some
difficult  decisions.  Four  new  major  peacekeeping
missions have been established — in East Timor, Sierra
Leone, Democratic Republic of the Congo and Ethiopia
and  Eritrea.  The  Council  has,  in  many  other  ways,
contributed to the maintenance of peace and security in
various parts of the world.
to  put 
One of the clear lessons that my delegation draws
from  experience  in  the  last  twelve  months  is  that  the
circumstances  of  each  dispute  are  different.  The
specifics  in  each  case,  the  historical  and  political
contexts,  vary  widely.  The  kinds  of  response  the
Council  might  consider  to  any  dispute  will  need  to  be
tailored to the particular circumstances.
to 
has 
delegation 
this  point 
highlighted 
I  draw  attention 
to  underline
something  my 
in
discussions  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  in
previous  years:  the  need  for  the  Council  to  look  for
new  and  innovative  ways  to  exercise  its  influence  and
authority  and  to  promote  peace  and  security.  My
delegation  in  the  past  been  critical  of  the  excessive
rigidities of the Council’s work practices, and we have
urged Members to look beyond the limitations imposed
by  narrow  interpretation  of  the  rules  of  procedure  to
find new ways of doing things.
By  our  assessment,  important  steps  have  been
taken in this  direction over the  last  year.  A  number  of
Council  Presidents,  and  the  Council  membership  as  a
whole,  have  been  willing  to  look  for  ways  of  more
the  Council’s  business  and
effectively  conducting 
31
A/55/PV.35
asserting  its  influence.  I  note  that  Ambassador  Hasmy
of Malaysia  has  described  some of those  efforts in  his
intervention today.
Perhaps  most  significant  of  the  innovations  from
my  delegation’s  point  of  view  over  the  last  year  or  so
has  been  the  series  of  Council  missions  to  regional
trouble spots. Building on the success of the Council’s
mission to East Timor a little over a year ago, a number
of further missions have taken place since, including to
Sierra Leone and Ethiopia and Eritrea. They have been
important  elements  of  the  international  community’s
response  to  these  conflicts.  They  help  to  inform  the
Council about the exigencies of the disputes, and send
an  important  signal  to  the  disputing  parties  about  the
strength of international concern.
We  have  also  seen  a  welcome  evolution  in  the
Council’s  procedures  with  regard  to  meetings.  The
series of meetings that took place in January this  year,
bringing  together  the  leaders  of  several  countries
directly  interested  in  the  conflict  in  the  Great  Lakes
region of Africa, is one example. Other ways have been
found to enable disputing parties to put  their  positions
directly to the Council. This more flexible approach to
the  convening  of  meetings, 
the
presidential note adopted earlier this year, represents an
important  step  towards  a  more  open,  effective  and
transparent Council.
formalized 
in 
We  note  from  the  report  of  the  Security  Council
that  there  has  been  a  reduction  in  the  number  of
informal consultations, or so-called consultations of the
whole,  over  the  period  of  the  report  compared  to  the
year  before.  There  has  also  been  an  increase  in  the
number  of  formal,  open  meetings.  This  trend,  to  the
extent that it reflects a real shift to greater transparency
and openness, is also welcome.
In  saying  this,  my  delegation  does  not  advocate
the  holding  of  open  meetings  just  for  the  sake  of
holding  them.  They  should  be  used  genuinely  as
opportunities  for  Member  States  to  put  their  views  on
issues of direct and immediate relevance to them and to
the  Council.  When  such  meetings  are  held,  Council
members  should  listen  carefully  to  the  views  of  the
non-Council  members, 
their
responsibility under the Charter to act on behalf of the
whole membership.
in  mind 
bearing 
This  trend  towards  greater  openness  is  welcome,
but, of course, more that needs to be done. The Brahimi
report  makes  a  number  of  important  recommendations
32
about  the  way  the  Council  deals  with  aspects  of
peacekeeping,  including  defining  clear  and  achievable
mandates  and  enabling  the  participation  of  troop-
contributing  countries  in  key  aspects  of  the  planning
and  implementation  process.  Australia  supports  these
recommendations,  and  we  look  forward  to  moving
ahead  with  the  Security  Council  and  other  Member
States to implement them.
The  key  element  missing  in  this  process  of
change  is,  however,  expansion  of  the  size  of  the
Council’s  permanent  and  non-permanent  membership,
as  well  as  related  reforms  covering  the  veto  and
periodic  review.  We  look  forward  to  addressing  this
question  under  the  relevant  agenda  item  later  in  this
session.
May  I  conclude  with  a  brief  expression  of
appreciation and congratulations to all the  members of
the  Council  for  their  contributions  over  the  last  year,
and particularly to those whose elected terms conclude
at the end of  December:  Argentina,  Canada,  Malaysia,
Namibia  and  the  Netherlands.  I  would  also  like  to
warmly congratulate the newly elected members of the
Council  on  their  election,  and  pledge  Australia’s  full
support for the work that faces them.
Mr. Tello (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): We would
like to thank the Permanent Representative of Namibia
and President of the Security Council for the month of
October,  Ambassador  Martin  Andjaba,  for  introducing
the report on the activities of the Council for the period
16  June  1999  to  15  June  2000.  Undoubtedly,  that
compendium  of 
and
resolutions stemming from its work over a period of 12
months 
is  extremely  useful  as  a  quick-reference
document  for  academics  and  researchers  interested  in
decisions taken by the Council.
the  Council’s  documents 
express 
nevertheless 
While  recognizing  the  efforts  of  the  members  of
the  Security  Council  to  improve  the  content  of  its
report,  we  must 
our
disappointment  that  the  right  of  Member  States  to
expect  a  substantive  document  has  not  yet  been  fully
met. We once again urge the members of the Council to
take  measures  to  ensure  that  those  of  us  who  do  not
participate  in  the  Council’s  debates  can,  at  the  very
least,  turn  to  this  document  for  a  substantive  look  at
how  issues  under  the  Council’s  consideration  are
treated.  We  would  like  the  report  to  go  beyond  mere
formal  compliance  with  the  obligation  imposed  by
Article 24, paragraph 3, and Article 15, paragraph 1, of
the Charter of the United Nations, and we would like to
see  respect  for  the  right  of  Member  States  to  have
substantive information on the Council’s deliberations,
during  which  decisions  are  made  with  which  all
Member States must subsequently comply.
Although  there  has  been  an  increase  in  the
number of open meetings which all Member States may
attend and/or participate in, we continue to be surprised
by  the  trend  of  holding  informal  consultations  as  the
normal working procedure of the Council, in disregard
of the provisions of rule 48 of the Council’s provisional
rules of procedure. That rule clearly establishes that, as
a  general  rule,  the  Council  should  meet  publicly.
Unfortunately,  the  exception  provided  for  in  that  rule
has  become  the  Council’s  practice,  and  it  meets  daily
behind  closed  doors  in  informal  consultations  —  a
format that is not foreseen in the rules. Open meetings
only serve to formalize substantive agreements arrived
at  private  gatherings.  Similarly,  we 
is
inappropriate  to  convene  private  meetings  that  do  not
allow non-members of the Council and parties directly
involved to participate. If we take into account the fact
that  the  Council’s  decisions  affect  all  Members  of  the
Organization,  then  it  is  inconceivable  to  accept  the
mysterious  and  secretive  way  in  which  the  Council
carries out its work.
feel 
it 
they  held 
the  months 
We congratulate the members of the Council that
have  prepared  reports  on  the  work  of  the  Council
during 
the  presidency.  In
particular,  we  congratulate  those  that  asked  that  their
reports  be  published  as  official  documents.  We  invite
them  to  improve  the  content  of  their  reports  so  that
they are useful to all Members of the Organization, and
we  urge  them  to  promote  actions  that  allow  the  needs
of all Member States to be met and foster transparency
and democratization in the Council.
The  work  of  the  Council  Committee  of  Experts
on  working  methods  is  a  good  indication  that  its
members  are  aware  of  the  importance  of  making  the
work of  the  Council  more  transparent  and  democratic.
Similarly,  discussion  of  these  matters  in  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council  reform  is
very  useful  within  the  framework  of  measures  to
improve the work of the Council.
We  are  convinced  that,  in  strict  compliance  with
the  provisions  of  the  Charter,  the  Council  must  limit
itself  to  the  actions  provided  for  in  Article  24,  rapid
and effective responses to maintain international peace
A/55/PV.35
the  most 
representative  body  of 
and  security  and  the  prevention  of    the  worsening  of
conflict situations. It is necessary to keep in  mind that
the Council is not a deliberative body and that it lacks
the  ability  to  issue  generally  applicable  regulatory
provisions.  As  we  have  said  on  other  occasions,  that
sort  of  action  is  entrusted  to  the  General  Assembly,
which 
the
international  community.  The  Assembly’s  broad
competency 
includes  discussing  any  questions  or
matters within the scope of the Charter, as provided in
Article 
of
cooperation  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and  security;  discussing  the  entire  question  of  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  as
established  in  Article  11;  and  discussing  any  other
issue stipulated in Article 13.
considering 
10; 
is 
general 
principles 
We  reiterate our  position that the  Council  should
limit  its  work  to  the  spheres  of  action  entrusted  to  it
and  that  it  should  not  continue  to  make  general
pronouncements  with  regard  to  matters  not  under  its
purview.  The  General  Assembly’s  role  is  to  carry  out
deliberations  and  establish  norms  and  doctrines  on
contemporary  problems.  It  is  up  to  the  Council  to  act
on crisis situations as they arise.
We  reiterate  our  appeal  to  the  members  of  the
Council  to  contribute  to  the  irreversible  process  of
openness,  transparency  and  reform  of  its  working
methods, to which Mexico, and the vast majority of the
Members of the United Nations, are fully committed.
Lastly,  my  delegation  would  like  to  congratulate
Colombia,  Ireland,  Mauritius,  Norway  and  Singapore
on  their  election  to  the  Council.  We  wish  them  every
success in the course of the next two years.
Mr.  Levitte  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The
Ambassador  of  Singapore  asked  whether  the  members
of  the  Security  Council  present  in  the  Hall  wished  to
respond to his comments. I would be happy to do so. In
responding,  I  would  also  like  to  respond  to  what  has
just been said by the Ambassador of Mexico.
Today,  I  do  not  intend  to  address  every  subject
dealt with by the Security Council in the course of the
12  months  covered  by  the  report  before  the  General
Assembly.  I  simply  wish  to  make  a  few  comments  on
the  working  methods of the Council and on the  way  it
discharges  its  responsibilities  for  the  maintenance  of
peace and security. First of all, I  would like to  make a
preliminary  comment  to  illustrate  that  the  Security
33
A/55/PV.35
Council  is  not  as  powerless  and  paralysed  as  certain
critics claim it is.
territories: 
Much has been done since June 1999. Despite its
internal differences —  which  are perfectly  normal and
often  healthy  —  the  Council  has,  among  other  things,
been  able  to  establish  complex  missions  for 
the
administration  of 
the  United  Nations
Interim  Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK)
and  the  United  Nations  Transitional  Administration  in
East Timor (UNTAET). After lengthy negotiations, the
Council  agreed  on  framework  resolution  1284  (1999)
for  resumed  cooperation  between  Iraq  and  the  United
Nations,  even  if,  as  we  believe,  it  is  still  necessary  to
clarify  and  finalize  certain  aspects  and  to  have  a
positive response from Iraq.
The  Council  has  decided  also  on  an  approach  to
the  problem  of  Sierra  Leone  which  comprises  several
facets — such as the United Nations Mission in Sierra
Leone  (UNAMSIL),  diamonds  and  justice  —  even
though much remains to be done.
It  is  true  that  little  progress  has  been  made  in
some  other  areas;  I  am  thinking  in  particular  of  the
conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. But
we must stress here the responsibility that lies with the
parties  themselves.  We  cannot  make  peace  without
them.
the 
Concerning 
functioning  of 
the  Security
Council,  three  developments  seem  to  me  particularly
noteworthy. The first is the Security Council’s effort to
obtain better information about the conflicts of which it
is seized, an effort  which has three elements. The  first
is 
the  dispatch  of  Council  field  missions.  Since
September  1999,  the  Council  has  dispatched  five
missions:  to  Timor,  to  Kosovo,  to  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  other  Central  African
countries, to Ethiopia and Eritrea, and just last week to
Sierra Leone. Next month a mission will travel to East
Timor  and  then  to  West  Timor.  It  is  clear  to  all  how
useful  these  missions  are.  They  make  it  possible  to
make  on-the-spot  in-depth  assessments  of  complex
problems;  they  are  an  invaluable  reality-check.  Such
missions  could  also  be  dispatched  in  advance  of  the
formulation  or  modification  of 
the  mandates  of
peacekeeping operations.
The second way to improve our understanding of
a problem is to develop direct contacts with the parties
to  a  conflict  and  with  other  regional  actors,  as
demonstrated  by  several  recent  initiatives.  In  January
34
the  signatories  of 
of  this  year,  Ambassador  Holbrooke  of  the  United
States  organized  a  Security  Council  meeting  with  the
heads  of  State  of 
the  Lusaka
Ceasefire  Agreement  and  some  other  countries  of  the
region.  In  June,  during  its  presidency  of  the  Council,
France  continued  that  direct  dialogue  by  convening  a
meeting  of  the  Council  with  members  of  the  Political
Committee  of  the  Lusaka  Agreement,  comprising  its
State and non-State signatories. That meeting was held
in  private,  and  it  provided  an  opportunity  for  a  most
useful,  frank,  interactive  discussion.  It  led  to  the
adoption  of  Council resolution 1304 (2000)  and to the
adoption  of  a  statement  by  the  Political  Committee.
Then,  in  June,  the  Security  Council  held  a  private
meeting  with 
the  Economic  Community  of  West
African  States  (ECOWAS)  Ministerial  Mediation  and
Security  Committee  on  Sierra  Leone,  an  exchange  of
views that was, again, very frank. Meetings of this kind
should  be  encouraged  with  a  view,  inter  alia,  to
improving interaction with regional actors and regional
organizations with a central role to play.
Finally,  the  Security  Council  has  acknowledged
that troop contributors must be consulted  more closely
and  more  regularly.  Experience  shows  that  in  the  past
there  was  insufficient  dialogue  between  the  Security
Council  and  troop  contributors.  Such  dialogue 
is
essential for better understanding of the objectives that
are being pursued, and for unity of concept and action
between the Council, which decides on the mandates of
peacekeeping  operations,  and  the  troop  contributors,
which  implement  them.  Such  dialogue  is  particularly
necessary  when  there  is  great  tension  in  the  field  or
when  a  mandate  must  be  adapted 
to  a  changed
situation.  Accordingly,  the  French  delegation  recently
proposed  a  private  meeting  of  the  Security  Council
with  countries  contributing 
the  United
Nations  Mission  in  Sierra  Leone;  in  the  light  of  that
initial, most interesting, experience, we hope that such
meetings will take place regularly.
troops 
to 
tools  for 
taking  action.  These 
The  second  recent  development  relates  to  the
Council’s 
include
sanctions.  Since  June  1999  the  Council  has  adopted
new  sanctions,  but  has  taken  care  to  learn  from  past
experience;  these  sanctions  are  targeted,  especially  in
the  sense 
those  whose
behaviour  they  are  aimed  at  changing.  The  sanctions
were  put  in  place  for  a  defined  period  of  time,  which
can be extended if the Council so decides. The Council
has  also  discussed 
the  effectiveness  of  sanctions
they  directly  affect 
that 
regimes  by  setting  up  expert  panels  to  consider  how
they are implemented and complied  with, and to  make
recommendations to the Council in that regard. Finally,
in the same spirit, the Council has begun discussing the
link  between 
illegal  exploitation  of  natural
resources — in particular precious materials — and the
continuation  of  conflicts,  especially  in  Angola,  Sierra
Leone and the Democratic Republic  of  the  Congo.  All
these  developments  are  welcome  and  should  be
encouraged.
the 
Secondly, 
operations 
peacekeeping 
have
themselves  undergone  some  changes.  There  has  been
rich  and  useful  debate  on  this  subject  since  the
publication  of  the  report  (A/55/305)  of  the  Panel  on
United  Nations  Peace  Operations  chaired  by  Mr.
Lakhdar  Brahimi,  whose  recommendations  we  hope
will  be  speedily  implemented.  Yet  it  should  be  noted
that  over  the  past  year  the  Security  Council  has  taken
decisions  along  the  same  lines:  its  resolution  1291
(2000), on the United Nations Organization Mission in
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUC),
requested  the  Secretary-General  to  plan  for  any  future
deployment of an operation. And now the performance
of  additional  tasks  by  UNAMSIL  has  been  made
continent  on  the  availability  of  the  needed  human  and
material resources.
a 
this  year 
Finally, the  Council  has tried to  ensure a  smooth
transition  between  peacekeeping,  which  clearly  falls
within  its  purview,  and  post-conflict  peace-building,
which  draws  on  a  variety  of  actors.  In  Guinea-Bissau,
the  Post-Conflict  Peace-Building  Support  Office
established  last  year  has  done  an  outstanding  job.  In
February 
successful  peacekeeping
operation — the United Nations Mission in the Central
African Republic (MINURCA) — was replaced by the
United  Nations  Peace-Building  Support  Office  in  the
Central  African  Republic  (BONUCA).  And  in  March,
the  United  Nations  Civilian  Police  Mission  in  Haiti
(MIPONUH)  handed over to the International  Civilian
Support  Mission  in  Haiti  (MICAH),  a  peace-building
operation  established  by  the  General  Assembly.  Such
actions  should  continue,  because  it  is  essential  for  us
not to lose the investment made by the United Nations
in the peacekeeping phase, and for us to build on what
has been achieved, so as not to fall back into a spiral of
crisis and violence.
A/55/PV.35
to  progress 
A  third  noteworthy  development  in  the  work  of
the  Council  relates 
the  area  of
transparency; I am thinking here of comments made by
two  previous  speakers.  All  the  Presidents  of  the
Security  Council  have  sought,  whenever  possible  and
to  hear
appropriate, 
Secretariat 
briefings 
by 
Special
Representatives 
the  Secretary-General.  That
establishes  a  new  practice  which  France  welcomes.  I
think we can go further in this area.
to  convene  public  meetings 
by 
the 
of 
in 
or 
With  respect  to  informal  consultations,  Council
members  have  sought  to  improve  the  information  that
is  provided  in  real  time  to  non-members.  That  was
certainly  an  abiding  concern  of  the  French  presidency
last  June,  as  reflected  in  oral  briefings  and  on  our
Internet  site.  I  know  that  other  Presidents  have  shared
the same concern.
Having  said  that  —  and  this  will  be  my  last
comment  —  improvements  are  still  desirable  and
possible. In the area of peacekeeping, I have described
our  hopes  regarding  the  speedy  implementation  of  the
recommendations contained in the Brahimi report. The
Security  Council  has  a  special  responsibility  with
respect to  mandates,  which have to be  clearly  defined,
credible,  achievable  and  appropriate,  and  with  respect
to relations with the troop contributors.
Greater  attention  should  be  given  to  the  regional
dimension  of  conflicts,  in  particular  in  a  preventive
approach.  The  destabilizing  effects  of  the  conflict  in
Sierra Leone on Guinea are an example of this. In that
same  spirit,  we  must  increase  interaction  between  the
Security  Council  and  the  regional  organizations,  for
several  reasons.  First,  these  organizations  have  a  vital
role  to  play  in  the  prevention  and  settlement  of
conflicts,  as  can  be  seen 
today  with  Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the
Sierra Leone conflict; and secondly, to see to it that in
a peace agreement negotiated at the regional level, the
United  Nations  is  not  be  assigned  tasks  that  are
impossible to carry out.
These  are 
the  comments 
the  French
delegation  wished  to  make  in  this  debate,  which  we
consider useful and productive  and  which,  we  believe,
makes clear the good working relationship between the
Assembly and the Council.
that 
35
A/55/PV.35
Programme of work
The President: I  should  like  to  inform  members
that the tenth emergency special session of the General
Assembly  will  resume 
tomorrow,  Wednesday,  18
October  2000,  at  3  p.m.  The  list  of  speakers  is  now
open. On Friday, 27 October 2000, at 10 a.m. there will
be open-ended informal consultations of the plenary on
agenda  item  182,  on  follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the
Millennium  Assembly, 
in  Conference
Room 2.
to  be  held 
The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.
36
