United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
11th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 12 September 2000, 3 p.m.
New York

A/55/PV.11
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Patrick Leclercq, Prime
Minister, Minister of State and Director for
External Relations of the Principality of
Monaco
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
statement by the Prime Minister, Minister of State and
Director  for  External  Relations  of  the  Principality  of
Monaco.
Mr. Patrick Leclercq, Prime Minister, Minister of
State  and  Director  for  External  Relations  of  the
Principality  of  Monaco,  was  escorted  to  the
rostrum.
The  President: 
in
welcoming  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  State  and
Director  for  External  Relations  of  the  Principality  of
Monaco,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Patrick  Leclercq,  and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
I  have  great  pleasure 
Mr. Leclercq (Monaco) (spoke in French): Allow
me,  first  of  all,  to  congratulate  you  most  warmly,  Mr.
President,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
fifty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Allow  me
also to express the conviction that under your authority
our work will be conducted with the same high level of
vision  and  competence  demonstrated  by  the  President
of  your  country,  Ms.  Tarja  Halonen, 
in  her
Co-Chairpersonship  of  the  Millennium  Summit  at  the
side  of  the  President  of  Namibia,  Mr.  Sam  Nujoma.  I
also  extend  my  thanks  and  congratulations  to  the
Secretary-General,  who  continues 
the
international  Organization  and  the  entire  international
staff  he  commands  with 
rigour,
moderation  and  integrity  that  he  embodies  in  his
service to the great ideals of the Organization.
the  virtues  of 
imbue 
to 
Those  are  the  same  ideals  that  have  just  been
reaffirmed  by  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government.
They also reaffirmed their confidence in the capacity of
the  United  Nations  to  ensure  the  advancement  of,  and
respect  for,  those  ideals  so  long  as  the  international
the  Organization 
community  gives 
the  necessary
support through a renewed commitment.
For  a  small  State  such  as  Monaco,  nothing  is
more important than  such a reaffirmation  of  the ideals
that  should  govern  relations  between  sovereign  States
in a spirit of equality and dignity. It is not a question of
disregarding  the  profound  differences  that  may  exist
between  States  with 
their  objective
characteristics, influence or weight in the affairs of the
world.  However,  it  is  appropriate  to  reaffirm  the  fact
that, no matter how small, each State should enjoy the
right to respect, and that all States are be bound by the
same rules in conducting international affairs.
regard 
to 
Its  history  of  over  seven  centuries  makes  it
possible  for  Monaco  to  gauge  what  that  reaffirmation
represents,  a  reaffirmation  supported  by  the  common
determination  of  all  States  represented  here.  For  its
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-63938 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.11
part,  the  Principality  associates  itself  fully  with  the
impetus  provided  by  the  Millennium  Summit.  To  the
extent  it  is  able,  Monaco  intends  to  contribute  to
developing the full potential of that impetus.
Allow  me,  before  I  touch  on  the  principal  issues
we  will  be  dealing  with  at  this  session  (cid:151)  in  which
Monaco  has  a  longstanding  interest  (cid:151)  to  address  a
topic  that  seems  to  require  some  clarification:  the
Principality of Monaco itself.
Though  the  notoriety  enjoyed  by  the  Principality
seems  well  established,  since  the  whole  world  has
heard of it, all too often people have a one-sided view
of  it  in  which  it  is  reduced  to  a  set  of  appealing  but
vaguely archaic clichØs.
Many  people  still  believe  that  the  casino  is  the
main  source  of  income  for  the  State,  while  in  fact  the
assessment  paid  by  the  SocietØ  des  Bains  de  Mer,
which  manages  the  casino,  yields  only  4  per  cent  of
public  revenue.  The  rest  derives  primarily  from  taxes
and income from public property. In truth, the structure
of  our  budget  is  not  very  different  from  that  of  any
other country. As concerns expenses, many might envy
us,  as  we  are  able  each  year  to  devote  a  third  of  our
resources to investing in civil engineering projects.
Many  people  also  believe  that  we  depend  to  a
large extent on tourism. We are pleased, of course, that
Monaco  attracts  about  6  million  visitors  a  year.  But
here  again  reality  contradicts  the  image  of  a  tourism-
dependent economy, because tourism accounts for only
10  per  cent  of  the  principality(cid:146)s  revenues.  Of  the  rest,
40  per  cent    are  the  product  of  local  or  international
commerce, 20 per cent of banking activities, 10 percent
of  industrial  activities  (cid:151)  emanating  from  about  100
high-technology,  non-polluting  companies  (cid:151)  and  the
rest derive from a variety of services.
Clearly,  Monaco, rather than  being a  sort  of  old-
the
style  paradise 
characteristics of a highly developed country.
few,  has  all 
for  a  happy 
In  this  connection,  we  must  also  note  to  what
extent  the  Principality  provides  jobs  in  the  region.
Though  Monaco  has  30,000  residents,  it  has  38,000
workers, some 30,000 of which live outside of Monaco
and  commute  to  the  Principality  every  day,  which
enables  them  and  their  families  to  enjoy  the  same
social  benefits  and  educational,  sports  and  medical
amenities as the people of Monaco themselves.
2
Monaco  is  undoubtedly  a  small  country,  but  it
does  not  live  in  the  past.  On  the  contrary,  we  have  a
broad and modern outlook, and it is this vision that has
enabled us to become a highly developed State that use
state-of-the-art  technology  and  is  involved  in  massive
projects,  such  as  the  one  that  has  enabled  us  to  build
out over the sea and thus expand our territory by more
than  20  per  cent  during  the  reign  of  the  current
Sovereign Prince.
Although  all  of  this  is  based  on  unarguable  fact,
some still question the source of our prosperity. To our
surprise and indignation, we recently heard it said that
the Principality  was too  lenient  with respect  to  certain
criminal activities. Quite the opposite:  we have sought
ways  and  means  of  combating  criminal  activities  and
have  consistently  reaffirmed  our  will  to  strengthen the
measures we take to meet the challenges of today.
foreign 
activities 
All 
every  week 
investigation.  Nearly 
require  Government
authorization,  which  is  granted  only  following  an  in-
depth 
the
Governmental  Council  must  veto  certain  projects.  In
the  area  of  banking  and  finance,  monitoring  systems
have been set up, and here we also rely on the help of
our great friend and neighbour, France. The legislation
in  place  to  combat  money-laundering  is  the  same  as
that  in  most  developed  countries.  In  fact,  in  certain
areas, it is even more stringent.
legal  authorities  when  necessary  and  for 
Monaco has set up an information and monitoring
service on financial flows to allow for the involvement
of 
the
exchange  of  information  with  the  equivalent  foreign
institutions.  The  Principality  is  in  no  way  a  laissez-
faire  zone  in  which  all  types  of  wealth  can  be
accumulated.  Nor  can 
it  be  termed  an  (cid:147)opaque(cid:148)
financial  venue,  unless  we  believe  that  transparency
does not exist anywhere.
Some see Monaco as a kind of fiscal paradise, as
if  we  had  attempted  to  create  artificial  mechanisms  to
attract  floating  capital  and  wealthy  people  trying  to
avoid taxation in their own countries. The truth is that
direct  taxation  was  abolished  in  1869,  at  a  time  when
there  was  no  tax  on  the  income  of  natural  persons
anywhere in the world, and thus competition could not
have  been  an  issue.  The  fact  that 
this  situation
continues  to  prevail  today  certainly  places  Monaco
among  the  countries  having  (cid:147)soft(cid:148)  tax  laws.  But  there
are,  in  fact,  taxes:  two-thirds  of  the  country(cid:146)s  income
emanates  from  direct  or  indirect  fiscal  contributions,
that  is  to  say,  the  value-added  tax  and  the  tax  on  the
profits 
industrial  and
intellectual activities.
from  commercial, 
realized 
In  sum,  Monaco  is  a  highly  developed  country
that wishes to be an active participant in the European
sphere and that observes all international commitments
to  combat  present-day  scourges  such  as  financial
criminality  and  money  laundering,  which  pose  a  clear
threat  to  the  equilibrium  of  financial  systems.  The
Principality  is,  by  its  very  nature,  supportive  of  its
environment, but this is also the will of leadership.
I  now  turn  to  the  basis  of  its  external  activities,
which also reflect its status as a small State focusing on
a  few  areas  in  which  its  tradition,  experience  and
abilities  can  provide  added  value  at  the  international
level.
One  of  our  priorities  has 
always  been
humanitarian  action  and  social  development.  This  was
made clear when, on 26 June last, His Serene Highness
the  Hereditary  Prince  of  Monaco,  signed,  in  the
presence of the United Nations High Commissioner for
the
Refugees, 
the 
Convention  on 
the
involvement  of  children  in  armed  conflict  and  on  the
sale  of 
child
pornography.
two  Optional  Protocols 
the  Rights  of 
to 
the  Child,  on 
children, 
child  prostitution 
and 
The actions taken in relation to the World Summit
for Social Development will be followed up during the
special session to review  the  achievement of  the  goals
of the World Summit for Children, to be held next year.
We  expect that  session  effectively  to  address the  issue
of  the  protection  of  children,  who  are  always  the  first
among the civilian population to suffer in time of war.
The  Principality  also  wishes  to  contribute  to
development  at  the  public  level  as  well  as  in  terms  of
the  non-governmental  organizations,  which  are  very
active  in  Monaco,  where  they  receive  the  strong
support  of  all  those  who  feel  themselves  morally
obligated to contribute to the activities undertaken in a
spirit of solidarity by a country that allows them to lead
a  privileged 
the  upcoming
Conference  on  the  fight  against  poverty  in  the  least
developed  countries,  to  be  held  next  May,  and  in
particular  from  the  10-year  review  of  the  outcome  of
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment  and
Development,  known  as  Rio  +  10,  a  new  impetus  for
international  cooperation  in  these  areas  so  vital  to  the
life.  We  expect  from 
A/55/PV.11
future  of  humanity,  in  which  progress  is  currently
lagging.
It  goes  without  saying  that environmental  issues,
including  in  particular  those  relating  to  the  marine
environment,  have  always  been  priority  concerns  for
Monaco,  situated  as  it  is  on  the  Mediterranean  coast.
We will continue to follow up on these activities and to
take  initiatives  along  the  lines  of  those  we  have  been
promoting.
I  can  only  reaffirm  the  role  that  the  Principality
plays  in  all  relevant  forums  to  intensify  the  struggle
against  the  severe  scourges  of  our  times,  such  as
terrorism,  trafficking  in  drugs  and  in  human  beings,
and  the  illegal  financial  flows  which  they  create  or
sustain.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  the  hope  that  I
have  been  able  to  provide  a  clearer  view  of  the
situation 
in  present-day  Monaco,  a  situation  of
contrasts.  Monaco  is  one  of  the  smallest  countries  in
the world, but at the same time one of the most highly
developed.  It  is  an  anachronism  for  those  with  an
unrealistic  or  prejudiced  view,  but 
its  economic
structures  reflect  great  modernity  and  dynamism.  Its
image  may be identified  with  play  and  leisure,  but the
fact is that it creates jobs well beyond its borders. It is
viewed  as  a  curiosity,  yet  it  remains  an  acknowledged
sovereign  State,  as  proved  by  its  participation  in  the
principal  international  organizations  and  by  the  fact
that  its  voice  is  heard  in  areas  where  its  contribution
deserves to be taken into account.
I  could  continue  that  list  of  contradictions,  but  I
think those are sufficient to provide a key to  what  His
Serene  Highness  Prince  Rainier  III  said  when  he
the  fabulous  new  Grimaldi  Forum  (cid:151)  a
opened 
conference  and  cultural  centre 
in
summarizing  the  inspiration  that  has  always  sustained
his dynasty and the Principality over the centuries:
in  Monaco  (cid:151) 
(cid:147)One does not need a great territory to have great
dreams,  or  a  great  number  of  people  to  make
them come true(cid:148).
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister
of  State  and  Director  for  External  Relations  of  the
Principality  of  Monaco  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
3
A/55/PV.11
Mr. Patrick Leclercq, Prime Minister, Minister of
State  and  Director  for  External  Relations  of  the
Principality  of  Monaco,  was  escorted  from  the
rostrum.
Address by Mr. GnassingbØ Eyadema, President of
the Togolese Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Togolese Republic.
Mr.  Gnassingbé  Eyadema,  President  of 
the
Togolese Republic, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  the  President  of  the  Togolese  Republic,  His
Excellency Mr. GnassingbØ Eyadema, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
the  concerns  of 
President  Eyadema  (spoke  in  French):  Before
discussing  some  of 
the  African
continent  and  our  views  on  some  of  the  problems
facing the United Nations, I should like at the outset to
congratulate you, Mr. President, on having been chosen
to  guide the  work  of  our  world  body  at  this  important
session.  The  high  office  to  which  you  have  risen  in
your  country,  Finland,  and  the  major  role  that  Finland
plays  in  the  world  constitute  a  guarantee  that  the
General Assembly is truly in good hands.
I  wish  also  to  pay  tribute  to  our  brother  the
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  whose  ability  and
dedication we highly appreciate.
The General Assembly session that took place 40
years  ago  was  seen  as  the  session  of  Africa.  It  was  at
that  session  that  many  newly  independent  African
countries  participated  in  the  work  of  United  Nations
bodies  for  the  first  time  as  States  Members  of  the
Organization.
Yet  despite  the  progress  our  continent  has  made
the  past  40  years,  Africa  continues 
to  be
over 
weakened  by  the  ills  of  underdevelopment.  Today,  33
of the world(cid:146)s 48 least developed countries are African
countries.  In  other  words,  three  fifths  of  the  States  of
our continent belong to that group of countries that are
lagging behind in the pursuit of development.
As  the  world(cid:146)s  least  developed  region,  Africa
suffers from a number of specific ills which hamper its
growth  and  for  which 
the
important 
that 
it 
is 
4
international  community  help  provide  a  substantial,
effective  remedy.  Here  I  would  first  mention  two
pandemics that ravage the continent and  whose human
and economic consequences are particularly severe and
alarming:  AIDS and  malaria.  We  are  most  grateful  for
the initiative taken last January by the Security Council
to  consider  the  question  of  AIDS  in  Africa.  More
recently, 
AIDS
Conference,  held  at  Durban,  South  Africa,  took  stock
of the  situation  regarding the  advance  of  the  epidemic
and  of  possible  ways  to  control  it.  Members  are
undoubtedly aware that 70 per cent of the 34 million to
35  million  AIDS  sufferers  worldwide  live  in  sub-
Saharan  Africa,  and  that  in  some  African  countries
schools  have  been  closed  because  of  the  ravages  of
AIDS among the teachers.
International 
Thirteenth 
the 
In  a  number  of  countries  the  skilled  workforce
has  been  considerably  reduced  by  AIDS.  The  number
of orphans in many countries affected by this epidemic
is  relatively  high,  thus  exacerbating  the  economic  and
social  situation  of  those  countries.  Therefore,  it  is
essential  that  the  international  community  rapidly  and
genuinely  mobilize 
the  African
continent  control  AIDS  and  eliminate  its  ravaging
effects.
in  order 
to  help 
With  respect  to  malaria,  a  special  summit  of
heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  countries
concerned  was  held  on  24-25  April  in  Abuja,  Nigeria,
where  a  plan  of  action  was  adopted  to  combat  the
disease.  Malaria  kills  one  person  somewhere  in  the
world  every  30  seconds.  The  Assembly  of  Heads  of
State  and  Government  of  the  Organization  of  African
Unity  (OAU),  meeting  in  LomØ  from  10-12  July  this
year,  appealed  to  the  United  Nations  to  proclaim  the
period  2001-2010  the  decade  to  combat  malaria.  We
firmly hope that this Assembly  will respond positively
to  our  appeal,  at  this  session,  taking  the  necessary
measures to ensure the decade(cid:146)s success.
The African debt problem was also of concern to
the OAU Heads of State and Government at the  LomØ
summit.  At  a  session  more  than  12  years  ago,  the
African  countries  adopted  a  common  position  on  the
African 
crisis.  Unfortunately,  our
continent continues to be the region of the world where
the  debt  burden  is  heaviest.  As  the  General  Assembly
noted last year in resolution 54/202,
foreign  debt 
(cid:147)the continuing debt and debt-servicing problems
of heavily indebted developing countries(cid:148)
are one of the factors that hinder their development and
economic  growth.  This  finding  should  motivate  the
international  community,  especially 
the  developed
countries  and  international  financial  institutions,  to
take  more  courageous  measures,  such  as  the  outright
cancellation  of  the  African  countries(cid:146)  debt.  Such  a
decision would greatly contribute to the success of the
efforts  of  our  countries,  which  have  committed
themselves  to  implementing  sustained  programmes  to
eradicate poverty.
That is why we strongly support the proposals of
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  believes  that  the
industrialized  countries  should 
take  a  number  of
measures  for  the  benefit  of  the  African  countries  and
other  developing  regions  to  ensure  the  possibility  of
their  making  significant  progress  in  the  new  world
economy.
The  African  continent  is  grateful  to  the  United
Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP)  for 
its
invaluable assistance over many  years, resulting in the
carrying  out  of  numerous  projects.  However, 
the
continuous  decline  in  UNDP  resources  worries  us,
because it affects our development prospects.
At  a  more  global  level,  we  note  that  major
transnational  companies,  which  play  a  crucial  role  in
the world economy, are remarkably absent from United
Nations  economic  forums.  As  in  the  International
Labour  Organization  (ILO),  where  representatives  of
Governments, employers and employees work together,
it is desirable that in the Economic and Social Council
representatives of Governments should sit side by side
with  those  of  multinational  companies.  That  would
enhance the effectiveness and impact of this important
United Nations body. The international community, for
its  part,  should  prove,  by  decisive  action,  that  it  truly
wishes  to  put  an  end  to  the  suffering  of  the  poorest
peoples, the largest proportion of whom, unfortunately,
are in Africa.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  President  Bill
Clinton for having the United States Congress approve
a  law  making  possible  the  establishment  of  a  closer
partnership  between  the  United  States  of  America  and
the African States.
I  also  welcome  the  convening  in  Cairo  in  April
this year of the first Africa-Europe summit. We place a
great  deal  of  hope  in  such  meetings,  which  can  only
strengthen 
the
European Union and the African countries.
the  existing  cooperation  between 
A/55/PV.11
It is well known that our continent is not afflicted
solely  by  the  economic  underdevelopment  that  puts  it
in last place in terms of the quality  of  life. It is  also  a
region  of  the  world  where  numerous  lethal  conflicts
continue  to  sow  death  and  desolation.  Consequently,
Africa accounts for the largest number of refugees and
internally  displaced  persons.  We  are  grateful  to  the
United  Nations 
agencies,
particularly  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Refugees,  for  their  assistance  in
helping  our  continent  to  control  various  conflicts  and
mitigate their disastrous consequences.
specialized 
and 
its 
We  must  recognize  very  sadly,  however,  that,  by
comparison to other regions of the world that have also
experienced  bloody  conflicts,  the  attention  that  our
continent receives from the international community is
somewhat  meagre.  We  strongly  urge  the  Security
Council to demonstrate the same concern for us that it
bestows  on  other  regions  of  the  world  that  have  been
affected by conflicts, inter alia, Europe and Asia.
We  subscribe  to  the  relevant  recommendations
made  by  the  Panel  of  experts  which  the  Secretary-
General has  mandated to  consider all  problems  related
to the improved use of peace operations. We are of the
view that the mandates of United Nations peacekeeping
missions  should  be  clear,  credible  and  achievable.
These  missions  must  be  adequately  financed  and
rapidly  deployed  where  they  are  expected.  They  must
be capable of fulfilling their mandates successfully and
able  to  defend  themselves  and  control  all  those  who
would seek to hinder their action on the ground.
In 
in  Africa, 
the  area  of  peacekeeping 
the
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  has  endowed
itself  over  the  years  with  valuable  instruments  for
managing  conflicts,  such  as 
for
Conflict  Prevention,  the  Conflict  Management  Centre
and  the  Early  Warning  System.  More  than  five  years
after the creation of these mechanisms, we believe that
they  should  be  complemented  by  the  establishment  of
an  operational  and  effective  African  peacekeeping
force. If such a force were created, it would discourage
all subversive actions that underpin conflicts.
the  Mechanism 
that  force, 
That  is  why  I  have  proposed,  with  a  view  to
strengthening 
the  establishment  of  an
African institute for peace and conflict prevention, with
the assistance of the United Nations and the OAU. This
institution  would  train  African  cadres  in  the  art  of
5
A/55/PV.11
negotiation,  conflict  management  and  the  culture  of
peace.
The  persistence  of  conflicts  in  Africa  seriously
affects  the  continent(cid:146)s  opportunities  for  development
and  hampers its efforts  to  achieve  unity.  It  was  with  a
view to remedying this situation that the heads of State
and  Government  of  the  OAU  decided  in  Syrte,  Libya,
on 9 September 1999, to transform the OAU into a new
organization  to  be  known  as  the  African  Union.  Its
Charter was unanimously adopted at the 36th Assembly
of Heads of State and Government of the OAU, held at
LomØ last July. We are convinced that, with the birth of
the African Union, the continent will hasten its process
of  economic  and  political  integration  and  strengthen
the  peace  and  solidarity  that  are  indispensable  to
development.
The  General  Assembly  was  right  to  convene  the
Millennium Summit that was held here last week from
6 to 8 September. That historic conference was held to
consider the role of the United Nations in the world at
the dawn of the twenty-first century. In my message to
the Millennium Summit, I stressed two basic problems.
One  related  to  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  in
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.
The  other  concerned 
the  stakes  of  development,
particularly in relation to Africa.
When  the  Organization  was  established  55  years
ago, two thirds of its current Members did not exist as
sovereign States and their peoples still lived  under the
colonial  yoke.  The  planet  had  a  scant  2.5  billion
inhabitants, as compared to 6 billion today. Despite the
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  over  the  years,  its
composition has in truth remained virtually unchanged
since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations.  To  use
the  words  of  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  this
composition
therefore 
(cid:147)does  not  fully  represent  either  the  character  or
the  needs  of  our  globalized  world(cid:148).  (A/52/2000,
para. 44)
We 
to
reconsider  the  composition  of  the  Security  Council,
with  a  view  to  admitting  new  permanent  members
selected  from  the  new  economic  Powers  that  have
emerged since the  Second World  War, to  which  would
be  added 
the  developing
countries.
regional  Powers 
is  high 
from 
think 
that 
it 
time 
6
These are a few ideas that I wanted to contribute
to this general debate.
Despite  its  imperfections  and  shortcomings,  I
think  that  the  United  Nations  is  irreplaceable,  but  we
must do everything possible to  enhance its impact and
influence.
In conclusion, I would like to underscore that the
African  continent,  despite  its  difficulties,  continues  to
be  a  region  of  great  potential  wealth;  however,  its
resources 
inventoried,
developed and exploited.
inadequately 
been 
have 
We must not despair and think that Africa will not
overcome  these  difficulties.  We  are  resolved  to  do
everything  within  our  power  to  improve  the  political,
economic and social situation of our continent.
We  simply  need  the  benevolent  assistance  of  all
those  who are today richer and are prepared to join  us
to bolster our efforts.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Togolese
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Gnassingbé  Eyadema,  President  of 
Togolese  Republic,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall.
the
the
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
Mr.  Indulis  Bērziņ(cid:154),  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Latvia.
Mr. Bērziņ(cid:154) (Latvia): Finding ourselves in a new
century and in a new millennium, it is natural to review
what  we have done right and to  meditate also on  what
we  could  have  done  better.  The  United  Nations  is  the
forum and the system that allows us to contemplate the
status  of  the  world(cid:146)s  development  from  the  widest
possible perspective.
Latvia is small, but the success of our democracy
and  the  success  of  our  efforts  at  European  integration
will have a strong positive effect on the destiny of the
Baltic Sea region. The success of an Organization  like
the  United  Nations  can  be  measured  by  how  its  work
has  affected  the  lives  of  individual  people  in  all
countries. In the age of globalization the challenge  we
collectively 
beneficiaries.
face 
is 
to  ensure 
that  all  can  be
the 
importance  of 
As  a  result  of  the  revolution  in  information
technology,  the  world  has  grown  smaller.  Nations  and
people  are  closer  to  each  other  than  ever  before.  This
underlines 
the  principle  of
universality.  Today  the  decisions  taken  in  one  part  of
the  globe  affect  people  and  nations  all  around  the
world.  This  calls  for  wider  representation  and,  in  the
case  of  the  United  Nations,  for  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council,  which  needs  to  be  carried  out  to
reflect the present political and economic realities.
To  respond  to  modern  challenges,  the  United
Nations  needs  both  political  will  and  courage.  In  this
regard,  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the
Secretary-General  for  his  efforts  in  strengthening  and
modernizing the Organization through its reforms.
to 
prevent 
and  manage 
The  United  Nations  also  needs  to  be  better
conflicts.
equipped 
Unfortunately,  the  demand  for  peacekeeping  is  still
high.  The  Member  States,  both 
individually  and
collectively, must do more to meet this demand. Latvia
has  done  its  best  to  make  its  practical  contribution  to
peace  and  security.  During  the  past  year  Latvia(cid:146)s
peacekeepers  have  been  present 
in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  and  Kosovo  as  a  part  of  North  Atlantic
Treaty Organization-led forces. In accordance  with the
United  Nations  decision to  extend  the  mandate  for  the
operation 
its
participation  and  will  allocate  more  resources  for
peacekeeping operations in next year(cid:146)s budget.
in  Kosovo,  Latvia  will  continue 
As  a  future  member  of  the  European  Union,
Latvia attaches great importance to the development of
a  common  European  security  and  defence  policy  that
will  increase  the  European  capabilities  in  conflict
prevention  and  crisis  management.  We  are  willing  to
contribute  our  forces  and  to  participate  in  European
Union operations.
reforms  of 
implemented  to  reflect 
To  provide  the  United  Nations  with  proper  tools
the  scale  of
for  peacekeeping, 
the 
contributions  must  be 
the
capabilities and responsibilities of every Member State.
At the same time, the United Nations  must ensure that
the resources are spent wisely and operations managed
properly. For its part, Latvia is considering a review of
its contribution to the peacekeeping budget with a view
to gradually increasing its share.
A/55/PV.11
Human rights must remain high on the agenda of
the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century.  As  a
member  of  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  and  its
Bureau,  Latvia  remains  strongly  committed  to  the
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  human  rights
mechanisms. In particular, the role of the Office of the
United Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights
and  its  programmes,  including  the  development  of
national capacities for the promotion and protection of
human rights, should be strengthened.
Latvia remains committed to the establishment of
the  International  Criminal  Court.  We  welcome  the
efforts  of  its  Preparatory  Commission  in  tackling  the
task of finalizing the texts of the rules of procedure and
evidence,  and  the  elements  of  crime,  in  a  timely
manner.  Those  who  commit  crimes  against  humanity
must not go unpunished.
Fifty  years  of  foreign  occupation  left  us  with  a
heavy  social,  economic  and  psychological  burden.
From  the  time  of  our  return  to  independence  in  1991,
Latvia  has  made  every  effort  to  overcome  this  legacy.
To  be  successful  in  the  new  millennium,  we  need  the
consolidated input of all our people, regardless of their
occupation, ethnicity or place of residence. That is why
the  Latvian  Government  has  elaborated  its  programme
of  integration  of  society.  This  is  an  experiment  and  in
many  ways  unique.  The  integration  programme  is  our
vision of how our society can function most effectively
on  the  basis  of  democracy  and  respect  for  human
rights.
This  programme  complements  the  integration
measures  being  implemented  through  education  with
the  United  Nations  Development
the  help  of 
Programme.  The  programme  will 
increase  public
participation  and  it  will  reduce  differences  among  the
various  regions  of  Latvia.  It  is  a  sign  of  Latvia(cid:146)s
readiness to explore new ways of improving the living
standards and the social climate.
the  people  of  Latvia  and 
Latvia(cid:146)s  international  role  has  grown  in  the  past
decade  of  freedom.  Each  year  we  are  able  to  do  more
for 
international
community.  With  the  beginning  earlier  this  year  of
talks for European Union membership, Latvia entered a
new phase in its international relations. This November
Latvia  will  assume  the  presidency  of  the  Council  of
Europe  (cid:151)  our  first  presidency  in  a  pan-European
organization.
the 
7
A/55/PV.11
Latvia  is  determined  to  participate  even  more
actively  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  Therefore
Latvia  has  put  forward  its  candidacy  to  be  a  non-
permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  for  the
period  of  2006  to  2007.  I  believe  Latvia  is  ready  to
assume this high responsibility.
It  is  an  honour  to  present  Latvia(cid:146)s  perspective
here today at the outset of the fifty-fifth session of the
General  Assembly.  I  wish  all  of  us  a  very  useful  and
productive session.
The  President:  I  now  call  the  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Senegal, His Excellency Mr. Cheikh
Tidiane Gadio.
Mr.  Gadio  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  The
General Assembly has unanimously chosen you, Sir, to
guide  our  debates.  This  is  a  tribute  both  to  your
qualities  as  a  diplomat  and  statesman  and  to  your
country,  Finland,  for  the  very  positive  role  it  plays  in
addressing  the  great  issues  of  our  modern  world.
Senegal  is  happy  to  convey  to  you,  through  me,  its
congratulations  and  hopes  for  success  in  leading  this
session.
in 
You  were  preceded 
this  office  by  His
Excellency  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  Minister 
for
Foreign Affairs of our sister Republic of Namibia, who
presided  in  the  name  of  our  continent,  Africa.  He
guided  our  debates 
throughout  his
mandate,  which  was  full  of  important  events  for  our
Organization.
successfully 
I would like at the same time to pay tribute to the
work  of  our  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  who
has  devoted  himself  and  all  his  energy 
to  our
Organization, in an increasingly complex world. Let us
pay him the tribute he richly deserves for the success of
the  Millennium  Summit,  which  proved  to  the  world
that  Mr.  Kofi  Annan  has  achieved  what  he  set  out  to
do,  i.e.  to  restore  the  dignity  and  prestige  of  the
Organization 
for
concertation  and  concord,  and  as  a  peacemaker  and
promoter of progress for all.
indispensable 
forum 
as 
the 
I  would  also 
the
delegation  of  Tuvalu,  which  has  become  the  189th
Member State.
like,  finally, 
to  welcome 
History  will  recall  that,  in  the  framework  of  the
Millennium  Assembly, 
the  Millennium  Summit
gathered in this venerable Hall our illustrious heads of
State  and  Government,  who  examined  the  role  our
8
Organization is being called upon to play in the twenty-
first century. These eminent dignitaries thereby gave us
a  new  vision  of  how  to  take  up  the  great  challenge
posed  by  globalization  (cid:151)  by  promoting  a  new  human
international order.
The first half of the year 2000 was also an intense
time  for  the  United  Nations  and  the  international
community, what with the holding in June of two major
special  sessions  of  the  General  Assembly.  These  two
special  sessions  (cid:151)  following  up  on  and  reviewing  the
Fourth  World  Conference  on  Women,  which  was  held
in  Beijing,  and 
the  World  Summit  on  Social
Development,  held 
in  Copenhagen  (cid:151)  produced
encouraging results.  My  delegation  cherishes  the  hope
that  these  sessions  will contribute to  strengthening  the
status and role of women in our respective societies by
promoting  gender  equality,  the  eradication  both  of
poverty  and  of  its  feminization,  and  the  promotion  of
productive employment and social integration. If we do
not  fully  respect  women  and  recognize  their  essential
contribution to the progress of our societies, our world
is  going  continue  walking on  one leg,  when  obviously
there are two.
Despite 
their
historical importance, this session is not without causes
for  grave  concern  and  even  despair.  Despite  our
ongoing  efforts,  a  number  of  conflicts  are  persisting
and  deepening.  From  Sierra  Leone  to  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  from  Angola  to  the  border
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea, 
to
Somalia,  from  Kosovo  to  East  Timor  we  hear  the
echoes  and  see  the  images  and  the  horror  of  conflict
zones.
these  new  perspectives  and 
from  Burundi 
Senegal would like to here voice its great concern
at  what  is  occurring  between  Guinea  and  Liberia.  Our
country  calls  upon  these  two  countries  to  carry  out  a
brotherly,  peaceful  dialogue  in  accordance  with  the
purposes  and  principles  of 
the
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  We  make  the
same  urgent  request  of  the  political  leaders  of  C(cid:244)te
d(cid:146)Ivoire,  urging  them  to  find  a  political  compromise
that will enable the great country, C(cid:244)te d(cid:146)Ivoire, which
we love so well, to live in peace, stability and unity.
the  Charter  of 
It  is  in  view  of  such  situations  that  regional
organizations, aware of the fact that Africa is paying a
high  price  for  all  these  conflicts,  have  resolutely
undertaken to seek political solutions,  with the help of
the  international  community.  This  is  what  occurred  in
Sierra  Leone,  where  the  LomØ  Agreement,  reached
under  the  aegis  of  the  Economic  Community  of  West
African  States,  allowed  us  to  nourish  hopes  for  a
lasting  solution. The  same  can  be  said  for  Angola  and
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  two
Lusaka  agreements  of  1994  and  1999,  respectively.
Unfortunately,  these  praiseworthy  efforts  often  run  up
against  a  lack  of  commitment  on  the  part  of  rebel
movements  or  armed  factions  to  the  very  agreements
that they themselves have signed.
However,  in  spite  of  this  bleak  situation,  we
the
the  United  Nations  Educational,
should  not  give 
constitution  of 
Scientific and Cultural Organization says,
to  discouragement.  As 
in 
(cid:147)since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the
minds of men that the defences of peace  must be
constructed(cid:148).
perseverance, 
We  have  a  moral  obligation  to  continue  to  act  with
determination 
the
protagonists  of 
to  recognize  and
embrace  a  culture  of  peace  that  will  allow  people  to
progress,  committing  themselves  to  forgiveness  and
reconciliation.
and 
these  conflicts 
bringing 
It 
is 
in 
this  context 
that  my  delegation
congratulates  the  members  of  the  Panel  on  United
Nations  Peace  Operations  for  its  recent  report.  The
subtlety  of  the  analyses  and  the  relevance  of  the
new
recommendations 
perspectives  for 
terms  of
reducing 
tensions  and  wisely  managing  conflicts.
Senegal attaches  great importance  to  the  consideration
of 
that  a  new
the  Panel(cid:146)s  recommendations,  so 
peacekeeping doctrine can be established.
therein 
the  United  Nations 
open 
in 
contained 
Experience  has  shown  us  that  the  language  of
weapons,  as  well  as  feeding  conflicts  by  illicitly
exploiting  natural  resources,  cannot  produce  humanly
acceptable solutions. The only possible solution is one
that  allows  peoples  to  fully  enjoy  conditions  of  peace
and economic and social security.
It  is  in  this  context  that  the  Constitutive  Act  of
the  African  Union  was  signed  on  12  July  at  LomØ,  at
the  thirty-sixth  session  of  the  Assembly  of  Heads  of
State  and  Government  of  the  Organization  of  African
Unity  (OAU),  committing  Africa  to  resolutely  engage
in  a  spirit  of  unity  in  finding  African  solutions  to  its
many  challenges.  This  is  why  the  President  of  the
Republic,  Ma(cid:238)tre  Abdoulaye  Wade,  a  convinced  Pan-
A/55/PV.11
Africanist,  led to its  completion the  procedure  making
Senegal  the  second  African  country  to  ratify  this
historic Act.
Before  LomØ,  Africa  had  already  taken  another
meaningful  decision,  at 
the  Algiers  summit,  by
proclaiming 2000 the year of peace and concord on the
continent.
The  advent  of  democracy  in  Guinea-Bissau  and
the efforts to bring about a gradual return to normality
in the life of its citizens and institutions are part of the
response  to  the  demand  for  democracy.  Is  not  the
recent  peaceful  political  transition  in  my  country,
which  brought  Ma(cid:238)tre  Abdoulaye  Wade  to  the  highest
executive  position,  further  proof  that  our  peoples  can
choose  their  leaders  in  a  sovereign  and  democratic
fashion?
I now turn to the Middle East, where my country
has  noted  the  major  breakthroughs  this  year  in  the
Israeli-Arab  conflict,  at  the  heart  of  which  is  the
question  of  Palestine.  The  evacuation  of  Lebanese
territory  by  the  Israeli  occupation  troops  and  the  long
and  delicate  negotiations  at  Camp  David  between
Palestinians  and  Israelis  give  rise  to  hope,  despite  the
talks(cid:146) relative failure. Our hopes include that of seeing
the creation of a space of lasting cohabitation between
Israelis and Palestinians, as well as between Israel and
its  Arab  neighbours,  with  respect  for  the  dignity  and
rights of the peoples and States of the region.
in  particular 
its  constant  support 
It is only right to pay tribute to all the participants
in 
this  positive  development, 
the
Palestinian  and Israeli leadership,  who, thanks to  their
political courage and sense of history have opened this
avenue  towards  a  new  dawn  of  peace  in  the  Middle
East.  Senegal  reiterates 
for
President  Yasser  Arafat  and  its  admiration  for  his
courage  and  political  lucidity.  He  has  never  dropped
the olive branch to which he referred here in 1974. Our
congratulations  also  go 
to  President  Clinton.  We
express  our  support  for  the  Prime  Minister  of  Israel,
Mr.  Barak,  as  well  as  the  other  actors  in  the  peace
process,  whom  we  commend  for  their  determined
efforts  in  search  of  peace  and  reconciliation  between
all the peoples of the region. We hope that their efforts
will soon be crowned with positive results.
The year 2000 was also marked by a relaxation of
major importance in relations between the two Koreas.
This  highly  significant  political  development  will
contribute  to  consolidating  peace  and  security  on  the
9
A/55/PV.11
Korean peninsula and in the entire subregion of South-
East Asia. The United Nations, universal symbol of the
peoples(cid:146) aspirations to peace and security, should make
a  significant  contribution  to  protecting  the  ongoing
process between the two Koreas.
It  is  in  the  name  of  rapprochement  between
peoples  and  the  principle  of  universality  that  my
country  supports  the  request  of  the  Republic  of  China
on  Taiwan  to  rejoin  the  concert  of  free  nations  within
the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies,  and
thus to participate in the consolidation  of international
peace and security.
With the completion last June of the definition of
what  constitutes  crimes,  and  of  the  rules  of  procedure
and  testimony,  the  Preparatory  Committee  for  the
International  Criminal  Court  passed  a  significant
milestone  in  the  establishment  of  this  important  legal
institution.  This  progress  and  the  new  ratifications  of
the  Rome  Statute,  are  encouraging  signs  of 
the
international  community(cid:146)s  rejection  of  criminal  faits
accomplis,  injustice  and  impunity.  I  repeat  Senegal(cid:146)s
support  for  the  process,  which  should  bring  about  a
credible, 
International
Criminal Court.
independent  and  efficient 
to  meeting 
Building and consolidating peace also, and above
all,  means 
the  chronic  challenge  of
underdevelopment,  for,  as  we  know,  development  is
another  name  for  peace.  Twenty  years  ago  the  North-
South  Commission  on  development  problems  strongly
emphasized  that  where  hunger  reigns  there  cannot  be
peace, and that whoever wants to banish war must also
banish poverty. Yet today, despite that warning, poverty
persists  and  grows,  although  we  have  the  means  to
fight it.
We  dare  to  hope  that  next  year(cid:146)s  high-level
meeting  on  financing  development  will  be  a  unique
opportunity  to  examine  in  depth  the  causes  of  the
decline in official development assistance and will find
ways and means to redress this  worrying situation: the
urgent  need  to  deal  with  the  debt  crisis,  rebalance
international 
risks  of
the 
marginalization resulting from globalization.
trade  and  deal  with 
I recall President Wade(cid:146)s appeal, warmly received
by  his  peers,  for  an  in-depth  analysis  of  the  African
debt and for a world summit on globalization to correct
its injustices and contradictions.
10
such 
as 
frameworks 
I would also like to reiterate Senegal(cid:146)s support for
cooperation 
the  EU-ACP
agreements and the Tokyo International Conference on
African  Development  (TICAD).  We  hope  that  recent
decisions made at the G-8 Summit in Okinawa, as well
as 
initiative,  (cid:147)African  Growth  and
Opportunity  Act(cid:148),  will  be  the  starting  point  of  a  new
partnership based on solidarity and mutual benefits.
the  American 
Development  is  inseparable  from  the  promotion
and  protection  of  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and
sound  governance,  principles  to  which  my  country
remains  firmly  attached.  By  creating  a  human  rights
unit  attached  to  the  presidency  of  the  Republic,  the
Head  of  State  has  shown  his  personal  commitment  to
the  protection  and  promoting  of  citizens(cid:146)  fundamental
rights and freedoms by the Administration and at every
level  of  public  life.  Senegal  will  continue  to  make
every  effort  to  consolidate  the  foundations  of  the  rule
of law, to protect human rights defenders and to honour
the  obligations 
to
international legal instruments on human rights.
it  assumes  by 
its  adherence 
With  the  momentum  created  by  the  success  in
Senegal of the peaceful change-over of political power
and a peaceful transition, my country feels equipped to
continue  to  defend  the  image  of  a  serene  Africa,  a
mature Africa, a tolerant and democratic Africa.
Today,  more  than  ever,  our  people  wonder  about
the  political  will  and  capacity  of  our  States  to  take
advantage  of  the  current  international  climate,  which
seems propitious for a dynamic of peace and for taking
into  account  the  human  dimension  in  technological
innovations.
In  Africa  our  thoughts  often  turn  to  the  anguish
caused  by  the  ravages  of  HIV/AIDS,  although  with  a
l.6 per cent rate, Senegal strengthens the hope that this
scourge will be defeated.
Fifty  years  ago,  at  the  end  of  the  planetary
nightmare  of  the  Second  World  War,  a  hope  and
conviction were born: that men and women throughout
the world would do everything possible to prevent new
wars  from  breaking  out  and  would  work  together  to
ensure  respect  for  the  right  of  each  individual  to
freedom,  justice  and  progress.  Today  the  intellectual
and  material  resources  available  to  humanity  should
logically be increasingly dedicated to building a future
of peace, progress and shared happiness. But it must be
said  that  for  the  great  majority  of  peoples  and  nations
international 
the 
aspirations to peace and progress.
situation  does  not  meet 
their
to  create 
the  basis 
In the final analysis, to build a pan-human society
which  is  at  peace  with  itself  we  must  unite  all  our
energies 
for  more  human
development with greater solidarity, bringing new hope
to  future  generations.  This  is  the  importance  and
meaning  of  the  Millennium  Summit,  in  urging  us  to
make  a  collective  contribution  to  strengthening  our
Organization for the salvation of humanity.
As it has become a tradition in my country, I will
leave  the  last  word  of  my  statement  to  the  inimitable
Senegal-Cameroon  poet  of  love  and  hope,  David
Mandesijop, who said:
(cid:147)Hope lived in us as in a citadel.(cid:148)
I  hope  the  aspiration  to  a  more  just  and  happy
world  will live  within us all as  an  impregnable citadel
so,  as  Mandesijop  said,  that  spring  will  grow  beneath
our footsteps.
The Acting Co-Chairperson (Finland): I call on
the  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  Kazakhstan,  His
Excellency Mr. Erlan Idrissov.
Mr.  Idrissov  (Kazakhstan):  The  current  political
debate  is  taking  place  against  the  background  that  is
not quite usual. This  Hall just  heard  statements by the
participants in the Millennium Summit. Unprecedented
round tables have just been conducted. The last several
days have brought unusual hectic activity to the United
Nations and the city that hosts the headquarters of  our
Organization.
triggered  an 
The  most  spectacular  thing,  however,  is  that  the
Summit  has 
intellectual  burst,  an
explosion  of  collective  thinking.  Apparently,  this  has
been  predetermined  by  a  special  quality  of 
this
particular  moment in time, as  we  find  ourselves at the
threshold  not  just  of  a  new  century,  but  of  a  new
millennium. Our acquisitive mind tries to look forward
as  far  as  possible  and  aspires  to  see  there,  against  all
odds,  a  better  future.  Such  is  the  predominant  human
trait (cid:151) to look forward with optimism.
Our  past  experience,  however,  warns  us  against
excessive  euphoria  and  illusions.  We  realize  that  the
world is still full of threats, and our common impulse is
to understand these threats and their causes and to find
ways to overcome them collectively.
A/55/PV.11
This  is  what  I  felt  during  the  days  I  spent  at  the
Summit. I am probably not the only one who thinks the
same  way.  But  let  us  hope  that  the  intellectual  tide
generated by the Summit  will not just die down  in the
humdrum  of  everyday  life,  but  will  force  us  to  get
down to business in order to make our planet a safe and
prosperous place.
As  we  approach  the  new  millennium,  we  surely
want to take a fresh look at the road we have travelled
so  far.  At  the  threshold  of  a  new  century,  we  are  in  a
position to say that our  most important achievement is
that the  world has become freer. I believe  that  the  key
word  explaining  the  substance  of  the  changes  that  are
taking place today should be the word renewal. By our
definition,  it  means  an  absolutely  new  era  of  relations
between  nations,  free  of  the  vestiges  of  the  past:
pressure  and  diktat.  It  should  be  a  triumph  of  the
principle  of  genuine  democracy  and  justice  when  all
States have equal rights and obligations, irrespective of
their economic and political differences.
The  renewal  of  international  relations  should  be
guided  by  the  understanding  that  we  live  now  in  a
global  and  interdependent  world  whose  overriding
principle  is  global  partnership.  The  United  Nations
Secretary-General  has  rightly  proclaimed  a 
three-
pronged  task:  freedom  from  fear,  freedom  from  want
and  saving  the  human  environment,  precisely  in  the
context  of  globalization. 
that
globalization should not overshadow the problems and
concerns of the ordinary man. Our efforts will be futile
if  we  do  not  address  the  issues  we  face  today  in  this
logical sequence.
is  also 
true 
It 
Let  me  dwell  on  the  three  main  components  of
our  common  goal:  making  the  world  a  safe,  free  and
prosperous place.
and 
on 
While 
aspects 
humanitarian 
recognizing 
increasingly 
that  global  security  and
economic,
depend 
stability 
environmental 
of
development,  we  should  not  belittle  the  importance  of
the  military  and  political  dimension  of  security.  A
fundamental  issue  of  the  elimination  of  weapons  of
mass  destruction  continues  to  be  a  matter  of  our
common  concern.  International  instruments  in  this
field, first of all the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear  Weapons,  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  and  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention
have not yet gained universal support and, thus, cannot
be fully effective. The situation with regard to the Anti-
11
A/55/PV.11
Ballistic Missile Treaty is also a cause for concern. We
call  on  all  countries  to  radically  change  this  state  of
affairs and to support the Secretary-General(cid:146)s proposal
to  hold  an  international  conference  to  find  ways  to
avert the nuclear threat.
Kazakhstan,  having  been  the  epicentre  of  cold-
war  nuclear  confrontation  and  having 
resolutely
resisted  the  temptation  to  turn  into  a  nuclear  power
after  it  gained  independence,  has  every  right  to  raise
this issue with vigour.
has 
been 
As  for  Kazakhstan,  it  continues  to  contribute  to
efforts  to  ensure  global  security.  Fully  respecting  its
obligations  under  the  above-mentioned  international
instruments,  Kazakhstan 
consistently
promoting its initiatives  with regard to the Conference
on  Interaction  and  Confidence-building  Measures  in
Asia  (CICA)  and  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear-free
zone in Central Asia. We are convinced that the CICA
initiative  has  a  rational  kernel,  and  we  call  on  the
United  Nations  and  the  Asian  States  to  continue  their
support  of  the  CICA  process  in  the  interests  of  Asian
and global security.
We  should  be  no 
less  and,  probably,  more
concerned  by  new  threats: 
international  terrorism,
extremism,  illegal  trafficking  in  arms  and  drugs,  and
organized  crime.  Our  newly  independent  State  has
come  into  direct  contact  with  these  threats.  We  are
seriously  alarmed  by  the  situation  in  Central  Asia  and
view  the  conflict  in  Afghanistan,  the  bandit  groups(cid:146)
infiltrations  in  Uzbekistan  and  Kyrgyzstan,  and  the
situation in Chechnya in Russia as links in one and the
same  chain.  Members  have  heard  our  neighbours  -
Uzbekistan,  Kyrgyzstan  and  Tajikistan  -  talking  here
about the same thing.
I want to emphasize again that the way we see it,
the root of the evil is the prolonged war in Afghanistan,
and  we  urge  the  Security  Council  to  seriously  address
the  problem  in  that  country  on  a  long-term  basis.
Without addressing it, it would be na(cid:239)ve to hope for the
elimination of the threat to stability in  our region  and,
thus, in the whole world. At the same time, we believe
that the key to the solution of the Afghan problem is in
the  economic  revival  of  Afghanistan.  Our  common
experience  points  to  the  futility  of  palliative  measures
and  attempts  to  bring  the  conflicting  sides  to  the
negotiation table without a clear economic plan. There
should  be  a  comprehensive  plan  for  the  economic
rehabilitation  of  Afghanistan  which,  together  with
12
the 
incorporate 
economic  measures,  should 
fight
against  the  production  of  drugs,  illegal  arms  trade,
terrorism and extremism, and should take into  account
the  specificity  of  the  ethnic  and  religious  situation  in
Afghanistan.  Of  course,  adequate  financial  resources
should bolster this comprehensive approach. The  price
of peace and human life is worth it.
I  would  like  now  to  look  at  the  threat  to  the
stability in our region through the prism of the Caspian
Sea.  The  Caspian  treasure-trove  has  turned  now  into
the  centre  of  attention.  The  interests  of  many  States,
not  just  of  our  region,  converge  there.  The  recent
discovery  in  Kazakhstan(cid:146)s  part  of  the  Caspian  Sea  of
the  Kashagan  oilfield,  which  is  the  largest  one  in  the
last  30  years,  with  forecasted  reserves  of  7  billion
tonnes of high-quality oil, confirms once again that the
potential  of  the  Caspian  Sea  is  enormous.  It  is  our
genuine desire and intention to see that this gift of God
serves the interests of peace and prosperity.
Globalization involves  a  new  level  of  interaction
and interdependence of States. However, along with the
obvious  benefits,  globalization  entails  the  danger  of  a
lopsided distribution of these benefits, both at the inter-
State and intra-State levels.
A  widening  gap  between  developed 
and
developing  countries  is  a  burning  issue.  In  fact,  this
gap  is  getting  bigger,  and  debates  are  underway  as  to
the forms of involvement of both groups of countries in
the  processes  of  globalization,  particularly  from  the
point of view of the solution of the problems facing the
developing countries.
in 
appraising 
the  differences 
The  situation  with  regard  to  the  future  of  the
World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  provides  a  good
example  of 
the
globalization  phenomenon.  This  organization,  uniting
some  140  States,  has  become  a  trade  and  economic
counterpart  of  the  United  Nations.  It  should  be  said,
however, that the WTO has to be thoroughly reformed
in  order  to  really  liberalize  and  democratize  trade
relations. It should not be a controlling and selectively
discriminating body of world trade policy.
The  Bretton  Woods  institutions  also  have  to  be
reformed.  We believe that  the  most  important  goals  in
reforming  them  are  to  ensure  their  openness  and
democratization,  competence  and  adequacy  and  to
improve cooperation with the United Nations. We share
the  criticism  of 
the  International  Monetary  Fund
loans  are
regarding 
its  arm-twisting  policy  when 
conditioned on many political factors that have nothing
to do with the actual economic situation.
In  the  context  of  the  role  of  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions  in  the  world,  I  would  like  to  mention  the
issue of  the  integration into the  world  economy  of  the
economies  in  transition.  The  role  and  importance  of
this group of countries, which includes my own, in the
world economy and politics will grow. I stress that it is
important  for  Kazakhstan  to  continue  constructive
cooperation  with  the  agencies  of  the  United  Nations
family,  as  well  as  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions
and  other  international  organizations,  in  promoting
economic reforms in my country.
Kazakhstan continues to give priority attention to
the  development  of  the  transit  transport  system  in  the
States of Central  Asia  and in  neighbouring  developing
countries.  We  think  it  is  important  to  actively  pursue
the  improvement  of  existing  programmes  and  the
development  of  new  ones  designed 
the
efficiency of the present transit system in Central Asia.
Our  landlocked  country,  and  the  region  as  a  whole,
should  have  secure  multiple  access  to  the  world
market.  This 
is  a  matter  of  strengthening  our
sovereignty and independence.
to  raise 
issues  (cid:151) 
particularly 
Environmental 
transboundary  water 
the
management  of 
resources,
environmental  pollution  and  the  greenhouse  effect  (cid:151)
long ago moved from the social and economic plane to
the  political  one,  and  have  acquired  truly  global
significance.  All  countries  face 
the  problems  of
protecting  the  environment.  Yet  the  effect  on  the
environment  experienced  by  developing  countries  and
economies in transition is immeasurably  much  greater.
Economic growth has increased the pressure on all the
natural resources of our planet. The problem of lack of
natural  resources  and  their  depletion  creates  serious
economic 
Economic
development cannot  stop.  However,  it  should  follow  a
different  path. 
the
environment  so  aggressively.  It  is  because  of  the
underestimation 
that
Kazakhstan  today  faces  such  ecological  disasters  as
those  involving  the  Aral  and  Caspian  Seas  and  the
former Semipalatinsk testing ground.
should  cease 
environmental 
to  destroy 
factors 
problems 
and 
poverty. 
It 
of 
There have been many cases in history of nations
and  States  being  in  conflict  over  the  lack  of  drinking
water  and  water 
irrigation.  Thousands  and
thousands  of  people  have  often  had  to  pull  up  their
for 
A/55/PV.11
roots  because  of  problems  with  water.  Reducing  the
number  of  people  without  access  to  safe  water  is  as
vital today as ever. Kazakhstan calls for every country
to  adopt,  under  bilateral  and  multilateral  treaties,
legislative  and  administrative  measures  with  regard  to
transboundary water resources and their management.
of 
and  multiple 
energy 
The  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for
Europe  and  the  United  Nations  Economic  and  Social
Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  have  devised  a
joint Special Programme for the Economies of Central
Asia  (SPECA),  which  encompasses  all  priority  issues
facing  the  region:  development  of  the  transit  transport
the
capacity 
management 
resources;
environmental  protection;  and  technological  growth.
Such  a  comprehensive  approach  promotes  better
regional  cooperation 
the
integration  of  its  considerable  potential  into  the  world
economy.  It  serves  common  interests.  We  therefore
urge  the  international  donor  community  to  actively
contribute  to  the  SPECA  programmes  and  to  promote
the  economic  and  democratic  growth  of  Kazakhstan
and other newly independent States in Central Asia.
pipeline 
and  water 
in  Central  Asia  and 
systems; 
The  three-pronged  goal  of  global  development,
which  I  mentioned  at  the  beginning  of  my  statement,
would  be  unattainable  without  an  effective  common
tool. Such a took we see in the United Nations, and we
are  convinced  that  there  is  no  alternative  to  our
Organization. But the next century and the new, highly
complex tasks we face will demand a radically renewed
Organization free from the stereotypes of the past. This
matter is  in  our  hands.  We  should  support  the  genuine
desire  of  the  Secretary-General  to  drastically  revamp
our Organization.
We  believe  that  it  is  important  to  start  from  the
head  (cid:151)  that  is,  the  Security  Council.  The  debates  on
that  subject  have  gone  on  far  too  long.  Shall  we
continue  to  mark  time,  or  shall  we  take  a  responsible
collective decision?  We  stand  for the  expansion of  the
Security Council, in both categories of membership, on
the  basis  of  equitable  geographic  representation  and
respect for the sovereign equality of all United Nations
Member  States.  Kazakhstan  supports  the  inclusion  of
Germany  and  Japan,  as  well  as  major  developing
countries  of  Asia,  Africa  and  Latin  America,  as
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council,  and  also
supports  an  increase  in  the  number  of  non-permanent
members.
13
A/55/PV.11
also 
should 
We  believe  that  the  peacemaking  capacity  of  the
United  Nations 
strengthened
considerably,  and  we  support  the  conclusions  of  the
report  (A/55/305)  by 
the  Brahimi  Panel.  As  for
Kazakhstan, it is forming peacekeeping forces through
its  participation 
the  Central  Asian  battalion,
composed of three States of Central  Asia, and through
the creation of its own Kazakhstan battalion.
be 
in 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  financial  capacity  of
the  United  Nations  should  be  commensurate  with  the
new  tasks  that  the  Organization  is  asked  to  perform.
All  Member  States  should  meet 
financial
obligations  under  the  United  Nations  Charter.  In  spite
of  its  temporary  economic  difficulties,  Kazakhstan  is
striving  to  do  just  that  and  is  taking  practical  steps  in
that  direction.  As  to  the  scale  of  assessments  and  its
methodology, we have always believed, and continue to
believe,  that  the  main  criterion  should  be  a  country(cid:146)s
real capacity to pay.
their 
We  have  set  ambitious  tasks  for  ourselves.  Are
we up to them? I am absolutely sure that we are, if we
join our efforts. In fact, there  is  no other  way.  Such  is
the imperative of a new era, such are the aspirations of
our nations.
I thank the Assembly for its attention and wish it
success  in  its  endeavour  to  build  a  safer  and  better
world in the next century.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Chile,  Her  Excellency
Mrs. Soledad Alvear Valenzuela.
like 
I  would 
Mrs. Valenzuela (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): First
of all, Mr. President, permit me to congratulate you on
your election to preside over the Assembly(cid:146)s fifty-fifth
session,  the  first  of  the  new  millennium.  I  wish  you
every  success  in  your  presidency,  and  promise  you
full  cooperation  as  you  carry  out  your
Chile(cid:146)s 
important  duties. 
to  express  our
admiration and affection for the country you represent,
Finland. My appreciation also goes to the praiseworthy
efforts of  Foreign  Minister Gurirab  of  Namibia  during
the  work  of  the  session  that  has  just  come  to  an  end.
Likewise, we congratulate the Secretary-General on the
leadership he has demonstrated since taking office. We
recognize and value his commitment to the vision of a
new  United  Nations  for  the  twenty-first  century.  We
encourage  him  to  continue  his  efforts  to  reform  the
Organization.
14
Globalization is  without a doubt the name of our
era.  Today  it  is  pointless  to  ask  ourselves  whether  we
want  to  participate  in  globalization.  Isolation  is  not  a
realistic  option.  Chile  views  globalization  as  an
unquestionable reality and as a font of opportunity that
has  brought  us  very  valuable  benefits.  The  opening  of
our  economy  has  enabled  us  to  double  the  size  of  our
gross domestic product within 10 years, compared with
the almost 50  years it took to accomplish the previous
doubling. Technological advances have helped to bring
us closer to major world centres.
Globalization  gives  rise  to  opportunities,  but  it
can  also  deepen  the  inequities  which  have  always
characterized  the  international  system.  The  United
Nations  can  help  to  ensure  that  globalization  does  not
result  in  exclusion,  with  the  benefits  of  modernization
limited 
lucky  few.  We  must  make  a  firm
commitment to developing a new form of international
cooperation, focused in particular on broadening access
to the knowledge-based economy.
to  a 
The flows of goods, services, capital, information
and  technology  characteristic  of  globalization  tend  to
bypass  domestic  regulations  and  escape  the  control  of
Governments.  This  lack  of  regulation  is  generally  not
counterbalanced by other standards or authorities. It  is
up  to  us  to  fill  this  vacuum  by  using  all  available
multilateral forums.
on 
depends 
collective 
the  daily  problems 
As  never  before  in  the  history  of  humanity,
faced  by  people
resolving 
worldwide 
international
decision-making. The challenge confronting the United
Nations  today  is  to  lend  a  certain  degree  of  order  to
globalization;  to  establish  effective  institutions  and
rules,  so  that  globalization  will  serve  to  advance  the
development  of  our  peoples;  and  to  ensure  that  the
fruits  of  scientific  and  technological  advances  benefit
all peoples.
At the Rio Group(cid:146)s most recent Summit of Heads
of  State  or  Government,  held  in  Cartagena,  Colombia,
the  countries  that  make  up  this  regional  political
coordination  body  prepared  a  joint  contribution  to  the
Millennium Summit, reaffirming the central role of the
United  Nations  in  this  new  era  on  which  we  are
embarking.
The past year has given rise to a mixture of hope
and  concern  with  regard  to  peace  and  security.  Chile
followed  with particular interest the historic  talks  held
between the leaders of North and South Korea, from 13
to 15 June of this year. We congratulate the leaders and
the  peoples  of  both  countries  on  the  progress  made  at
this groundbreaking summit.
The conflict in the Middle East has entered  what
seems to be  a  decisive  stage.  We  are  heartened  by  the
advances  made  this  year  and  encourage  the  parties  to
continue  their  negotiations  in  accordance  with  the
established  timetables  and  relevant  Security  Council
resolutions.  We  are  confident  that  Israel  and  the
Palestinian  National  Authority  will  find  satisfactory
solutions  to  the  remaining  issues,  particularly  those
related  to  Jerusalem.  We  are  also  encouraged  by
Israel(cid:146)s withdrawal from southern Lebanon.
We  support  the  Security  Council(cid:146)s  decisions
establishing  a  massive  humanitarian  programme  for
Iraq    under  the  (cid:147)oil-for-food(cid:148)  formula,  and  we  favour
an ongoing evaluation of that programme. We urge the
Iraqi Government to cooperate effectively with the new
inspection  agency  (cid:151)  the  United  Nations  Monitoring,
Verification  and  Inspection  Commission  (cid:151)  whose
work we deem particularly important.
We  have  followed  closely  developments  in  the
intolerance  and  (cid:147)ethnic
Balkans.  The  seeds  of 
cleansing(cid:148)  are  still  present  in  the  region.  Chile  views
with fear the possibility of a new Balkan conflict. Only
full respect for democracy and human rights can bring
about peace in the region.
We  are  concerned  by  the  conflicts  in  Africa.  We
are  hopeful  as to the  significant  mediating  role  played
by  regional  entities  such  as  the  Organization  for
African  Unity,  especially 
the  Ethiopia-Eritrea
dispute,  and 
the  Southern  African  Development
Community.  We  hope  that  these  efforts,  along  with
those  of  the  United  Nations,  can  bring  about  peace,
allowing  the  continent  to  fully  develop  its  enormous
potential.
in 
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Security  Council
has  directly  addressed  the  scourge  of  HIV/AIDS  in
Africa, designating it as an international security issue
requiring urgent action. We hope that initiatives will be
adopted to effectively combat this problem, which casts
an even greater shadow over the future of the continent
than the current armed conflicts.
We view with concern the difficulties surrounding
the upcoming referendum in the Western Sahara. Chile
would  like  to  see  the  elections  take  place  as  soon  as
possible,  on  the  basis  of  a  free  and  secret  ballot  and
A/55/PV.11
adequate  voter  information.  We  are  concerned  about
the obstacles that are hindering this undertaking.
Although post-cold-war hopes for a world free of
nuclear weapons in the near future have been tempered,
that  goal  remains  fully  valid.  I  have  the  honour  to
report than on 12 July, Chile deposited its instrument of
ratification  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty (cid:151) the sixteenth country to do so. We call upon
all  nations  to  ratify  this  Treaty  as  soon  as  possible  in
order to reach the quorum of 44 countries necessary for
its entry into force.
of 
the 
of 
concept 
In  our  information-based  society,  the  problems
experienced  by  any  one  country  affect  the  world
community  as  a  whole.  No  state  can  shirk  its  the
responsibility  to  promote  peaceful  coexistence  within
and among nations. From the ethical standpoint of our
common  humanity,  we  have  viewed  with  interest  the
development 
humanitarian
intervention. Chile continues to abide by the principles
of  non-intervention  and 
the  self-determination  of
peoples.  But  these  principles  must  be  linked  to  other
principles  of  equal  or  higher  priority,  which  have
emerged prominently since the end of the cold war. We
cannot 
the
humanitarian  catastrophes  caused  by  great  conflicts.
Thus,  we  propose  that  in  specific  cases,  and  in
accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,
concerted  multilateral action  be  taken  to  provide  rapid
assistance  to  those  who  are  suffering.  Chile  is  also  an
enthusiastic  participant 
the  Human  Security
Network,  in  response  to  an  initiative  put  forward  by
Canada and Norway.
impassive 
face  of 
remain 
in 
the 
in 
in 
Chile  considers 
it  an  ethical  and  political
its
imperative  of  the  greatest  urgency  to  expand 
participation 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping
forces. Since 1999, we have developed an internal legal
framework that is in closer harmony with international
requirements  for  participation  in  these  operations.
Those 
to
the  United  Nations  Transitional
participate 
Administration in East Timor, beginning in February of
this year.
legal  modifications  have  enabled  us 
in 
My  country  is  also  willing  to  discuss  a  new
payment  scale  for  the  financing  of  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations.  We  believe  that  this  scale
must  be  adjusted 
the  current  financial
situation of Member States.
to  reflect 
15
A/55/PV.11
We cannot fail to mention the process of Security
Council reform. While some progress has been noted in
discussions  of  the  Council(cid:146)s  methods  of  work  and  of
the  degree  of  transparency  required  by  this  body,  we
note that there have been few, if any, advances toward
the expansion of its membership.
Chile  feels  a  certain  dismay  and  fatigue  at  the
lack  of  progress,  which  is  the  result  of  positions  that
appear  irreconcilable.  The  issue  of  the  veto  further
complicates  this  sensitive  subject.  Until  we  seriously
address the question of limiting the veto with a view to
its ultimate abolishment, we doubt that the discussions
undertaken  by  the  Assembly(cid:146)s  Open-ended  Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation  on
and  Increase 
the  Security
Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the  Security
Council will bear fruit.
the  Membership  of 
in 
Globalization  is  not  limited  to  the  economic
sphere.  It  also  involves  the  universalization  of  values
and  principles  of  our  common  humanity,  and  the
strengthening  of  the  rights  of  the  individual,  which
have 
increasingly  become  subjects  addressed  by
international law. The absence of democracy and good
governance,  and  the  people(cid:146)s  lack  of  a  voice  and
participation  in  public  affairs  in  States  Members  of  the
Organization  are  of  concern  to  us  all.  The  United
Nations  exists  for  individuals,  not  for  those  who
govern.  Under  the  imperative  of  putting  people  at  the
centre of all our efforts,  we must support and promote
human rights and democratic processes.
Chile  was  among  the  countries  that  worked  to
convene  the  Towards  a  Community  of  Democracies
conference  held  at  Warsaw,  Poland,  last  June.  More
than  100  United  Nations  Member  nations  participated
in that gathering and endorsed its final declaration. We
are  convinced  that,  as  time  passes,  the  community  of
democracies will be an increasingly potent moral force
within  the  United  Nations,  provided  that  it  maintains
its high standards and requirements.
supports 
enthusiastically 
that  all  countries  will 
Democracy is based on justice, both national and
universal.  Chile 
the
establishment  of  an  International  Criminal  Court,  and
hopes 
its  statute.
Establishing  a  permanent  body  to  exercise  criminal
jurisdiction  over  those  accused  of  crimes  that  fall
irregular
within 
domestic  proceedings  which  have  allowed 
such
its  purview  will  discourage 
ratify 
the 
16
individuals  to  enjoy  impunity,  as  well  as  limiting
jurisdictional disputes among countries.
At  the  World  Summit  for  Social  Development,
held  at  Copenhagen 
in  1995,  heads  of  State  or
Government met for the first time in the history of the
United  Nations  to  declare  with  force  and  clarity  that
the  chief  responsibility  of  our  societies  is  to  improve
the  quality  of  life  of  our  populations,  particularly  for
their  most  marginalized  and  dispossessed  members.
This year, in a special session, the Assembly reviewed
the  progress  made  towards  fulfilling  the  Summit(cid:146)s
commitments  and  launched  new  initiatives  on  their
genuine implementation. That was an important step in
the  quest 
the  process  of
globalization.  We  must  continue  to  incorporate  the
objectives  of  the  social  Summit  into  our  national  and
multilateral policies.
to  better  humanize 
together  with  our 
In  the  social  sphere,  the  United  Nations  has
recognized  the  vital  need  to  promote  gender  equality.
Chile  has  worked 
regional
neighbours  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  to
reaffirm  the  principles  and  proposals  of  the  Fourth
World  Conference  on  Women.  We  have  renewed  our
commitment  to  the  advancement  of  women,  and  have
developed a new plan to equalize opportunities for men
and  for  women.  A  concrete  demonstration  of  that
commitment 
third  of
President  Lagos  Escobar(cid:146)s  cabinet  members  are
women.
that  about  one 
the  fact 
is 
We 
strong 
support 
reiterate  Chile(cid:146)s 
Chile  has  volunteered 
for
preparations  for  the  General  Assembly(cid:146)s  2001  special
session  to  follow  up  the  World  Summit  for  Children.
We also attribute special significance to the concern of
the  United  Nations  for  the  rights  and  welfare  of
indigenous populations and of the elderly.
to  host 
the  regional
preparatory  meeting  for  the  World  Conference  against
Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and
Related  Intolerance.  We  aim  to  contribute  to  the
regional  consensus  in  that  area,  confirming  our  very
firm commitment to tolerance and respect for diversity.
Environmental protection is  an  issue  that  crosses
national  borders  and  has  become  a  global  concern,
driven  in  part  by  an  emerging  international  civil
society.  Here,  international  cooperation,  under  the
auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  continues  to  be  an
urgent  necessity.  The  United  Nations  Conference  on
Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro,
It 
laid the foundations for agreements on climate change,
forest  conservation  and  biodiversity. 
is  very
important  that  we  fulfil  and  gradually  expand  those
commitments  with  new  agreements  and  protocols
ensuring  the  management,  protection  and  conservation
of  our  planet(cid:146)s  resources.  This  session,  as  well  as  the
Rio + 10  event  which  will  take  place  in  2002,  must
continue  to  spur  commitment  to  a  new  ethic  of
environmental conservation.
We  are  witnessing  the  globalization  of  financial
markets,  which  significantly  affect  capital,  currency
and  credit  flows,  as  well  as  the  economies  of  all  of
nations. As recent experience demonstrates, a financial
crisis  in  one  corner  of  the  world  can  rapidly  trigger  a
domino  effect,  spreading  the  crisis  even  to  faraway
nations  with  no  responsibility  for  or  control  over  the
causes of the original disturbance. It is a great injustice
that countries that have been prudent and responsible in
the  management  of  their  domestic  economies  can  be
affected  by  problems  with  which  they  had  nothing  to
do. It is urgent for us to find ways to impose order and
standards  of  good  management  on  the  international
world.  This  does  not  mean  obstructing  international
capital  flows,  but  rather  establishing  an  appropriate
international  framework  to  address  the  problems  they
may cause.
Chile 
the
international  community(cid:146)s  progress  towards  free  trade
through 
of
protectionist  measures  and  barriers.  The  failure  of  the
1999  Seattle  World  Trade  Organization 
(WTO)
conference  was  unfortunate.  But  let  us  be  frank:  that
failure  was  not  brought  about  by  civil-society
demonstrations,  but  by  the  lack  of  agreement  among
the  world(cid:146)s 
leading  commercial  Powers.  Chile
continues to believe in the urgent necessity of initiating
a new round of multilateral trade negotiations.
enthusiastically 
deregulation 
elimination 
supported 
and 
has 
the 
in 
improvements 
The  United  Nations  must  play  a  key  role  in
bringing  about  substantive 
the
management  of  commercial,  monetary  and  financial
systems, so that their operations  will take into account
the  needs  of  all  countries.  The  Economic  and  Social
Council  has  done  commendable  work  to  coordinate
United  Nations  activities  with  those  of  the  Bretton
Woods  institutions.  But  the  General  Assembly  too  has
a critical role to play in this area.
The  decision  to  hold  a  High-level  International
Intergovernmental  Event  on  Financing 
for
and 
A/55/PV.11
Development 
in  2001  was  of  groundbreaking
significance, and we must resolve to carry forward the
commitments  expressed  at  the  Millennium  Summit  to
ensure the  success  of  that  event.  That  would  lead  to  a
new phase in North-South relations,  since the political
legitimacy  arising  from  a broad  multilateral  consensus
will allow us to design a new financial architecture and
a  system  of  international  trade  and  exchange  that
reflect  the  legitimate  interests  of  all 
the  world(cid:146)s
peoples.
is 
to 
still 
promote 
necessary 
My  country  believes  that  official  development
the
assistance 
regions.  A
development  of  many  countries  and 
globalized  world  cannot  neglect 
the  principle  of
solidarity,  which  is  an  idea  so  central  to  the  United
Nations  tradition.  In  the  same  spirit,  international
assistance  must  be  provided  to  relieve  the  distressing
burdened  with
conditions 
of  many 
unsustainable  debt,  so 
the
challenges of development.
countries 
that 
they  can  meet 
the  rule  of 
This  year  Chile  began  a  new  six-year  political
term, under fully democratic conditions. Our country is
in complete harmony with the international community.
We possess a vibrant civil society, which made its own
contributions  to  our  preparation  for  the  Millennium
Summit.  Human  rights  and 
law  are
respected  in  Chile.  Our  courts  impart  justice  with
rigour  and  a  sense  of  responsibility.  We  enjoy  a
vigorous  and  open  economy,  and  we  have  resolved  to
continue reducing inequalities in our country. We reach
out  to  the  world  from  a  firm  foundation  in  our  own
region,  Latin  America.  We  are  strengthening  our
multilateral policies, based on open regionalism and on
cooperation  with  countries  with 
similar  criteria
throughout the world.
We  are  confident  that  this  General  Assembly
session,  dedicated  to  the  millennium,  will  be  recorded
as  the  one  in  which  we  began  to  address  the  great
challenge  of  our  time:  to  give  order  to  the  forces  of
globalization and promote the extension of its benefits
to  an  ever-increasing  number of  the  inhabitants  of  our
planet. You can rest assured, Mr. President, that Chile(cid:146)s
delegation  will  lend  its  full  support  to  meeting  this
challenge.
The President: I now give the floor to the Vice-
Chairperson of the delegation of Finland, Ms. Marjatta
Rasi.
17
A/55/PV.11
Ms.  Rasi  (Finland):  I  will  deliver  this  statement
on  behalf  of  Mr.  Erkki  Tuomioja,  the  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Finland.
The  heads  of  State  and  Government  have  just
completed  the  largest-ever  United  Nations  gathering,
the  Millennium  Summit.  They  adopted  a  forward-
looking  and  ambitious  Millennium  Declaration.  This,
together  with  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  report  for  the
Summit,  sets  a  demanding  agenda  for  the  United
Nations  for  the  new  millennium.  A  new  spirit  was
kindled in the Summit. We need to keep that spirit alive
in  the  Assembly,  which  now  has  the  responsibility  to
start 
the  Millennium
the 
Declaration.
implementation 
of 
The President of Finland made a statement on the
need  for  the  United  Nations  to  be  relevant  for  the
Member  States  and  their  people.  I  should  like  to
elaborate  on  some  of  her  ideas  a  little  further,  fully
supporting  the  statement  made  by  the  French  Foreign
Minister,  Mr.  VØdrine,  on  behalf  of  the  European
Union.
One  of  the  most  inspiring  concepts  that  the
Secretary-General  has  advocated  is  the  culture  of
prevention.  If  we  want  the  United  Nations  to  be
relevant,  we  must  equip  it  with  the  means  to  be  one
step  ahead  of  developments.  Successful  prevention
requires  a  profound  understanding  of  underlying
causes.  By  understanding 
these  causes,  we  can
establish an early warning system that allows us to act
in time, before the conflicts erupt.
One of the root causes of conflicts is poverty. As
almost half of the world(cid:146)s population still have to make
do  with  less  than  $2  dollars  a  day,  and  struggle  for
existence, conflicts can  flare  up  easily. Poverty  is  also
an  affront  to  human  dignity.  Trying  to  halve  the
proportion of people living in extreme poverty requires
common  efforts.  Democracy  and  respect  for  human
rights  are  important  preconditions  for  all  development
and  for  poverty  eradication  to  be  sustained.  Without
democratic  decision-making,  respect  for  the  rule  of
law,  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  gender
equality  and  good  governance,  it  is  unrealistic  to
expect sustainable results in poverty reduction.
Demand 
for  human 
for  respect 
rights  will
continue  to  shape  the  destiny  of  humankind  in  the
future. One of the greatest achievements of the United
Nations  has  been  the  codification  of  a  core  set  of
the
human 
standards.  Governments  have 
rights 
18
obligation  to  implement  these  standards.  The  United
Nations  is  the  only  global  organization  primarily
mandated to ensure respect for human rights. It should
devote  more  attention  and  resources 
the  full
realization and enjoyment of these rights universally.
to 
of 
the 
process 
familiar 
continuation 
interdependence.  In 
Globalization is  not  only  an  unavoidable  process
but also something which is on the whole beneficial for
human development. Globalization today is not merely
a 
of
internationalization  of  trade,  market  integration  and
growing 
these  processes,  we
encounter  the  phenomenon  of  quantity  changing  into
quality.  The  development  of  new  technologies  greatly
multiplies  the  effects,  both  positive  and  negative,  of
globalization.  I  believe  that  the  great  majority  of  the
world(cid:146)s  population  have  benefited  from  globalization.
Some have certainly made vast profits from it. As such,
this  is  not  to  be  deplored;  but,  at  the  same  time,  too
many  people  are  losers  in  the  same  process.  Many
more fear the potential threats and losses they perceive
as  negative  effects  of  globalization.  Still  more  are
anxious  as  to  whether  global  processes  are  under
control any longer. For these reasons, it is of the utmost
importance  for  us  to  be  able  to  face  the  challenges  of
globalization  and  to  counter  many  of  its  negative
effects.
Mr. Sychov (Belarus), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
The  United  Nations, 
the  Bretton  Woods
institutions and  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO),
as well as other international actors, must join forces in
adopting  and  implementing  the  common  rules  needed
to  harness  the  positive  power  of  globalization.  Trade
liberalization and trade rules under the  auspices of the
WTO  should  be  implemented  in  such  a  way  that  they
benefit  all,  particularly 
the  poorest,  as  well  as
safeguard our common environment.
One aspect of managing globalization is the need
to  enhance  stability, 
transparency  and  responsible
behaviour  in  international  financial  markets.  We  must
counter  disturbances  caused,  for  example,  by  short-
term speculative capital movements. Initiatives such as
currency  transaction  taxes,  the  so-called  Tobin  tax,
deserve  careful  consideration.  If,  as  some  studies
indicate,  such  a  tax  is  unworkable,  it  is  all  the  more
important  to  propose  and  adopt  other  means  and
instruments to achieve the same aims.
technology.  Computerization 
One  of  the  most  recent  challenges  is  the  digital
divide  created  by  the  revolution  in  information  and
communication 
and
Internet  literacy  are  not  an  end  as  such.  They  should
serve the purposes of development: education, literacy,
health  care,  empowerment  and  inclusion.  By  closing
the  digital  gap,  we  help  developing  countries  join  the
knowledge-based global  economy.  In  the long run,  the
digital  revolution  has  the  greatest  potential  for  the
developing  countries.  Information  and  communication
technology 
leap-
frogging possible for developing countries.
(ICT)  will  make 
technological 
The  global  agenda  set  in  the  United  Nations
conferences and summits in the 1990s addressed many
such  basic  needs  of  human  life  which  need  common
attention  in  the  process  of  globalization.  Progress  was
made  on  human  rights,  gender  equality,  population,
social  development,  sustainable  development,  drugs,
environmental  issues  and  many  others.  In  the  new
millennium,  we  must 
the  accelerated
implementation of the plans of action adopted  at these
conferences. Still, our agenda keeps growing. Children,
HIV/AIDS, racism and racial discrimination, financing
for  development,  least  developed  countries  as  well  as
sustainable  development  and  the  environment  require
more  profound  attention  from  the  world  community.
Even  with  these  issues,  I  am  afraid  that  our  agenda  is
not  exhausted.  The  growing  agenda  poses  valid
demands  of  coherence  on  the  United  Nations  system
and its work, as well as on the Member States.
focus  on 
No  matter  how  well  we  implement  the  global
to
agenda  and  no  matter  how  much  we  resort 
preventive actions, we have to have improved means to
solve  crises  and  conflicts  as  peacefully  and  rapidly  as
possible.  Finland  welcomes  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
initiative  to  take  a  critical  look  at  the  United  Nations
peace  operations  by  a  Panel  of  eminent  persons.  The
Brahimi  report  suggests  a  comprehensive  reform  of
peace operations. We need a detailed discussion on the
report  without  delay.  There  are  lessons  to  be  learned
for  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States.  We
should particularly  learn  from  the  failures  so  as  not to
repeat them, but we also must learn from successes and
see what works.
We need to address the whole continuum of peace
operations from the standpoint of prevention. It is most
important  to  try  to  prevent  crises  from  erupting.
Prevention  is  an  important  element  during  a  crisis  as
we try to stop its escalation. Prevention continues after
A/55/PV.11
crises  in  post-conflict  peace-building,  as  we  need  to
minimize their consequences and their duration, not to
speak of their repetition. Kosovo is a prime example of
this.
I  am  stating  the  obvious  when  I  say  that  the
United  Nations  needs  a  rapid-reaction  capability,
qualified  and  experienced  personnel  to  perform  the
operations, as well as the money to pay for them. This
would  make  it  easier  to  address  an  increased  demand
for United Nations peacekeeping.
The critical approach taken in the Brahimi report
should also be extended to other fields and activities of
the  United  Nations  in  order  to  attain  efficiency  within
the  Organization.  Reorganization  and  prioritization
would free both human and financial resources  for  the
core areas of our responsibilities.
is 
example 
There  have  been  positive  developments  in  some
crises  that  have  long  been  on  the  United  Nations
agenda.  A  most 
the
encouraging 
rapprochement 
the  Korean  peninsula.  Finland
in 
welcomes  the  positive  development  to  bring  peace,
stability and reunification to the Korean peninsula and
encourages  the  two  parties  to  advance  the  process  of
dialogue.  Finland  also  welcomes  the  withdrawal  of
Israeli  troops  from  southern  Lebanon  in  accordance
with  Security  Council resolution 425  (1978).  We  hope
this leads to a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in
the Middle East.
The  nation-building  process  in  East  Timor  has
started  successfully.  I  hope  that  the  present  transition
period  will  soon  lead  to  full  independence  for  East
Timor.  Recent  incidents  in  West  Timor  against  United
Nations  personnel,  however,  jeopardize  the  progress
and  the  capabilities  of  the  United  Nations  system  to
help. We also strongly support  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  settlement  of  the
Cyprus problem.
not 
have 
in  Africa 
Developments 
been
encouraging. I regret deeply that the safety and security
of United Nations personnel  have  not been  guaranteed
in all United Nations operations, such as that in Sierra
Leone. However, Eritrea and Ethiopia have reached an
agreement and international monitoring can start. I am
happy  to  announce  that  Finland  will  participate  in  the
United Nations mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea.
The  continuum  of  multidimensional  crises  must
be  prevented,  managed  and  solved  with  appropriate
19
A/55/PV.11
multidimensional  means.  Addressing  them  requires
cooperation among different organizations, such as the
United  Nations,  the  European  Union, the  Organization
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  North
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization, 
the  Organization  of
African  Unity  and 
the  Organization  of  American
States, to  mention  but a  few. The  complexity  of  crises
has  shown  that  no  single  organization  is  capable  of
dealing with all aspects of a crisis (cid:151)  military, civilian
and  humanitarian.  Sad  experiences,  for  example  from
the Balkans, remind us that many weaknesses still exist
in the conflict-prevention and management capabilities
of  the  international  community.  A  clearer  division  of
labour between the organizations is needed. They must
concentrate  on  what  they  can  do  best,  following  the
principle  of  comparative  advantage.  Complementarity
and cooperation are the friends, and rivalry the enemy,
of any operation.
is  needed 
to  address 
Coherent  action 
the
situations,  bearing in  mind  the  comprehensive  concept
of  security.  I  stress  the  need  to  enhance  our  civilian
crisis-management  capabilities  in  all  relevant  fields.
Complex crises  need  expertise  in  the  fields  of  civilian
police,  the rule of law,  human  rights,  justice,  electoral
assistance,  institution-building,  economic  reconstruction
and rehabilitation, as well as impartial media. As stated
in  the  Brahimi  report,  doctrinal  shifts  and  more
thorough  strategic  planning  are  needed  at  the  United
Nations 
intrastate
conflicts.
to  address  complex  and  often 
Peace  and  security  are  indivisible.  Disarmament
is  a  part  of  comprehensive  and  integrated  action  in
preventing conflicts and in promoting a global dialogue
on  peace  and  stability.  Arms  control  agreements,
including  the  Treaty  between  the  United  States  of
America  and  the  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics
on  the  Limitation  of  Anti-Ballistic  Missile  Systems,
remain  a  cornerstone  of  international  security.  The
successful  outcome  of  the  Review  Conference  of  the
States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  created  a  new  momentum  in
nuclear  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation.  The
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  must  be
ratified by all.  We  hope  for a  swift  entry into  force  of
the START II Treaty and we are looking forward to the
commencement of the START III negotiations.
One  of  the  main  concerns  is  the  regional  arms
the  few  countries
race.  We  need 
remaining  outside  the  NPT  regime  do  not  develop
to  ensure 
that 
20
weapons of mass destruction. Also, conventional arms,
and in particular anti-personnel  landmines,  small  arms
and  light  weapons,  remain  a  concern  in  regional  and
internal  conflicts.  The  United  Nations  Conference  on
the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in
All  Its  Aspects  should  aim  at  achieving  significant
results 
approach
integrating security and development.
comprehensive 
adopting 
in 
a 
Enhanced  international  action  is  also  needed  in
humanitarian  demining,  particularly  in  post-conflict
situations  where  civilian  populations  continue  to  be
victims of anti-personnel landmines.
I  wish  to  join  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  call  on  all
States  to  sign  and  ratify  the  Rome  Statute  of  the
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  at  the  earliest
possible date. It is important now to build on what has
been achieved in and after the Rome Conference and to
secure  the  early  establishment  of 
the  ICC,  fully
respecting  the  integrity  of  its  Statute.  More  and  more
States, including my own, are approaching the stage of
ratification of the Rome Statute. We are confident that,
in the long run, all States will recognize the benefits of
a permanent International Criminal Court.
Terrorism  is  an  evil  we  must  combat  decisively
and  effectively  so  that  everyone  can  live  and  travel
freely  in  the  world  without  having  to  fear  crime  and
kidnappings.  We  have  negotiated  12  major  anti-
terrorism  conventions  within 
the  United  Nations
framework  that  make  it  clear  that  terrorist  acts  are
criminal  and  can  never  be  justified  by  any  ends.  This
obviously  also  applies  to  the  means  used  to  combat
terrorism.
Finland  welcomes  the initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  offer  an  opportunity  to  sign  any  treaty  or
convention  of  which  the  Secretary-General  is  the
depositary.  In  this  connection,  I  should  also  like  to
make  reference  to  the  Tampere  Convention  on  the
Provision  of  Telecommunication  Resources 
for
Disaster Mitigation and Relief Operations. As the host
country of the relevant conference, Finland  would like
to  encourage  all  States 
the
Convention  in  order  to  bring  it  into  force  as  soon  as
possible.
to  sign  and 
ratify 
The  purposes  enshrined  in  the  Charter  and  the
new  challenges  the  United  Nations  is  facing  require
unwavering  support  for  the  United  Nations  and  for
multilateralism  from  its  Member  States.  The  United
Nations  is  an  expression  of  the  will  of  its  Member
States  to  deliberate  and  act  multilaterally.  There  are
many  reasons  why  multilateralism  is  the  preferred,  as
well  as perhaps the only  sustainable,  way  to  deal  with
problems. It involves all the actors that are needed  for
the  long-term  solution  of  conflicts.  It  provides  the
transparency  that  modern  conflict  resolution  requires.
It  strengthens  respect  for  international  law  in  general.
Last  but  not  least,  it  diminishes  the  possibility  that
force will be used unnecessarily or disproportionately.
A  tendency  towards  unilateralism  would  only
reopen  old  divisions  or  create  new  ones.  The  United
Nations  is  a  stronghold  of  multilateralism,  and  it
should be used to safeguard the primacy of multilateral
action.  In  this respect,  we  must  ensure that  the  United
Nations is able to act effectively when the need arises.
The  role  and  ability  of  the  Secretary-General  must  be
enhanced  to  enable  the  Organization  to  act  when  it  is
otherwise threatened with paralysis.
In  this  context,  I  want  to  make  it  clear  that  the
crisis  management  capacity  under  construction  in  the
the
European  Union  will  be  at 
international  community. 
for
unilateral interventionism. The Union will contribute to
international peace and security in accordance with the
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the
principles  and  objectives  of 
the  Organization  for
Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe  Charter  on
European Security.
the  service  of 
intended 
is  not 
It 
For this kind of a multilateralism to work, United
Nations  finances  must  be  put  on  a  sound,  sustainable
and equitable basis. This is crucial for its strength and
credibility.  Charter  obligations  related  to  the  payment
of contributions must be fulfilled by all, on time, in full
and without conditions.
to  carry  alone. 
Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations,
Governments  and  non-governmental  organizations  has
been  very  successful,  and  it  must  be  intensified  and
facilitated. It has to be extended to cover the  whole of
civil  society.  Present  challenges  are  too  heavy  for  the
United  Nations 
the
Secretary-General  for  his  several  initiatives  in  this
respect.  In  particular,  I  would  mention  his  Global
Compact initiative, which seeks to engage corporations
in the promotion of equitable labour standards, respect
for human rights and the protection of the environment.
Cooperation  with  civil  society  is  a  necessity  for  the
new  millennium.  Strong  partnerships  are  needed  to
meet  the  challenges  posed  every  day  in  the  present
I  commend 
A/55/PV.11
world.  This 
encouraged.
trend 
should  be 
strengthened  and
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency Mr. Roberto Flores Bermœdez, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Honduras.
Mr.  Flores  Bermœdez  (Honduras)  (spoke 
in
Spanish): It is an honour for me to address the General
Assembly,  which  will 
recent
complement 
the 
Millennium  Summit  by  providing  a 
fundamental
contribution to the current stage of transition towards a
United Nations in tune with reality.
the 
become 
International  peace  and  security,  along  with
cooperation  and  solidarity  for  sustainable  human
development,  must 
fundamental
instruments  of  our  new  Organization  in  the  new
millennium.  Peace  and  security  require  a  renewed
commitment  to  international  law,  full  respect  for  and
faithful,  prompt  compliance  with  the  decisions  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice,  national  compliance
with  the  standards  imposed  by  treaties  and  good  faith
in the application of laws, uncompromised by domestic
political agendas.
that 
considers 
the  decisions  of 
Honduras,  a  founding  Member  of  the  United
Nations, 
the
International  Court  of  Justice  are  a  solid  basis  for  the
resolution  of  international  conflicts  and  that  they
represent 
for  coexistence
among States, with the support of the Security Council
as the guarantor of their implementation.
the  fundamental  norms 
Peace  and  security  among  nations  require  the
delimitation  of  land  and  maritime  areas,  in  keeping
with the rules of international law. They require respect
for historical rights and the non-use of force. Only with
defined  boundaries  can  we  determine  clearly  what
contribution everyone can make to our common causes
and  promote  the  development  of  borders  of  solidarity
on the basis of a culture of peace.
The 1,000  years that now lie behind  us  produced
extraordinary advances in the history of humanity. But
they  also  left  us  tasks  to  be  completed  relating  to
problems  such  as  racism,  xenophobia,  an  arsenal  of
weapons  of  various  magnitudes  and  the  effects  of  a
culture  of  violence  and  destruction.  This  is  why  we
firmly support the consolidation of the peace process in
the Middle East. We welcome the constructive dialogue
launched  by  the  two  Koreas  in  an  effort  to  normalize
21
A/55/PV.11
their  relations,  as  we  welcome  peaceful  solutions  for
any divided society.
As regards globalization, we must tackle not only
the  economic  aspect,  but  also  social  well-being.
Education  is  a  passport  to  the  future,  but  only  if  the
education provided is the same for all, and not just for
a  minority,  and  only  if  education  is  life-affirming  and
promotes change so as to teach all human beings on the
earth to live together.
For 
this  purpose,  as 
the  United  Nations
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization    has
pointed  out,  we  must  learn  to  know,  we  must  learn  to
do,  we  must  learn  to  be.  In  this  area,  we  believe  that
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  of  our  Organization
must  promote  and  pursue  its  initiative  for  greater
dissemination 
as
proposed by its members during the high-level segment
in
this  year.  It  must 
technological 
only
industrialized countries.
to  prevent  disparities 
technological 
information, 
development 
that 
benefit 
of 
try 
Millions  of  human  beings  are  noting  with
amazement that there exist realities very different from
their  own  harsh conditions. When  they  try  to  travel  to
that  fantastic  world,  to  that  dream  of  hope,  they  find
out that borders do exist and that they are free only to
continue dreaming.
Globalization is a coin with two faces. On the one
hand,  it  creates  wealth,  benefits,  possibilities,  but  on
the  other,  poverty,  problems,  inequity  and  even  new
forms of exclusion. Instead, globalization should create
for  the  benefit  of  all  a  world  without  any  exclusions.
Our responsibility is to bring about the globalization of
the development of the human being.
Honduras is participating in the Central American
integration  process.  We  see  this  as  a  way  of  having  a
greater  presence  and  being  more  active 
this
globalized  world.  This  is  why  we  actively  support  the
strengthening  of  the  institutional  process  of  Central
American integration.
in 
Despite  the  advances  that  occurred  in  the  past
millennium, the terms of trade continue to work against
the  development  of  many  of  our  countries.  The
increase  in  oil  prices  has  a  devastating  effect  on  the
weakest  economies,  and,  paradoxically,  the  more  we
increase  production,  the  more  we  open  our  doors  to
international  trade  and  eliminate  barriers,  the  more
obstacles  we 
to
to  gaining 
encounter 
access 
22
international  markets.  This  creates  a  crisis  for  our
export  capacity.  Trade  globalization  must  produce
benefits in both directions.
In  addition  to  the  asymmetries  and  disparities  to
which I have referred, there are also threats of different
types  that  no  State,  however  powerful  or  strong,  can
successfully  confront  in  isolation.  The  report  of  the
Secretary-General  to  the  Millennium  Summit  attached
as much importance to the topic of the environment as
it did to peace and development. This demonstrates that
in  the  year  2000  we  recognize  that,  in  addition  to
achieving  peace  and  economic  development,  we  must
take  care  of  our  environment.  If  we  do  not,  the  future
of  humanity  will continue to be  threatened.  Every  day
we  are increasingly  threatened by  the  lack  of  drinking
water,  desertification,  the  destruction  of  the  ozone
layer  and  climate  change.  These  processes  have
produced  an  increase  in  natural  disasters.  Honduras,
my country, was the victim of a disaster of catastrophic
proportions.  This  is  why  we  attach  such  priority  to
caring for the environment and to education on how to
promote and preserve it.
The need to control the production of greenhouse
gases, the  widening of the hole in  the  ozone layer,  the
drop  in  oxygen  production,  the  pollution  of  fresh  and
salt water, the extinction of thousands of species (cid:151) all
these  form  part  of  that  greater  concern  that  we  must
confront jointly.
Similarly,  terrorism,  organized  crime  and  drug
trafficking  can  be  combated  effectively  only  if  we  act
jointly  and  in  coordination.  If  we  do  not,  we  will  be
jointly responsible as accomplices in the destruction of
the hopes of the future (cid:151)youth and children.
Our Organization should  make a greater effort  to
overcome  the  disparity  between  abundance  and  want,
of which very concrete examples abound. For instance,
today  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  medicines  are
produced, but the millions of human beings affected by
HIV/AIDS need access to these medicines if their pain
is  to  be  relieved.  It  is  truly  horrifying  that  the  world
produces  thousands  of  metric  tons  more  food  than  is
needed to feed its population, and yet people are dying
of hunger and malnutrition. The poverty and hunger of
millions of  human  beings is an insult  to  humanity  and
an  affront  to  the  dignity  of  individuals.  Here  there  is
room for improved coordination.
Our  Organization  continues  its  important  efforts
to  prevent  world  conflicts.  There  have  been  many
achievements  in  implementing  machinery  for  world
order and peace, including peacekeeping activities and
the  work  of  the  international  tribunals.  We  have  also
seen  progress  in  disarmament,  particularly  in  terms  of
weapons of mass destruction. Aware of its international
responsibilities,  Honduras, 
its
resources  permit,  has  also  contributed  to  international
peace  and  security,  participating  in  the  missions  in
Haiti and Western Sahara.
the  extent 
that 
to 
The  United  Nations  Development  Programme
(UNDP) has also acted as a partner in the development
process  in  many  countries  around  the  world.  It  has
worked  with  national  Governments,  with  society  and
local  communities.  UNDP  is  a  trustworthy,  active
implementation  of
partner 
medium- 
to
contribute  to  the  reduction  of  poverty.  The  Executive
Board  meeting  of  UNDP,  held  yesterday,  was  very
successful  in  advancing  UNDP  reform.  Honduras  is
actively participating in this process.
the  elaboration  and 
and 
long-term  national 
strategies 
in 
The  world  of  bipolar  confrontation  is  no  longer,
and the era of cooperation is  under  way.  Nevertheless,
our  Organization  is  still  leaving  out  States  that  have
contributed  to  development,  that  represent  millions  of
beings  and  that  participate  actively  in  the  world
economy.  For  these  and  other  reasons,  which  we  have
often  cited  in  this  General  Assembly  and  in  other
international 
be
participating  in  our  debates  and  decisions.  One  such
State is the Republic of China.
these  States 
forums, 
should 
representation 
At  the  dawning  of  the  new  millennium  we  must
strengthen  our  membership,  expand  our  representation
of  peoples  and  nations  and  ensure  fairer  and  more
the  discussions  and
balanced 
decisions  of 
this  end,
Honduras  believes  that  the  Security  Council  should
make  room  for  important  development  partners  and
representatives of the developing world, on the basis of
equitable  geographical  representation  and  with  the
consensus of the existing regional groups.
the  Security  Council.  To 
in 
We also believe that the right to exercise the veto
presently enjoyed by a limited number of States should
be  confined  to  specific  topics  and  circumstances,  so
that it is not used merely to protect vested interests.
The  new  vision  we  have  of  a  renewed  United
Nations  requires  that  our  Organization  become  more
competent, more agile and more responsible; that it be
better  administered,  with  a  healthy  financial  system;
A/55/PV.11
and  that  it  produce  more  tangible  results  for  the
peoples  of  the  world.  This  is  why  we  support  the
results of the Working Group of the General Assembly
and  believe  that  reforming  and  expanding  the  Council
must  be  based  on  the  broadest  possible  consensus  and
be  in  keeping  with  fair  and  equitable  geographical
representation,  by  which  developing  countries  will  be
able  to  make  substantial  contributions  to  the  decision-
making  process  so  as  to  solidify  world  peace  and
security.
Our  Organization  must  engage  in  self-criticism
and  be  the  first  to  propose  changes  to  its  working
methods.  Thematic  dialogues  designed  to  produce
consensus and plans of action should replace the long,
costly world conferences, the concrete results of which
are  not  always  easy  to  see.  These  lofty  conferences
should be replaced by a genuine debate in the General
Assembly,  and  the  procedures  should  be  simplified  so
as to save the Organization the  large  sums  that  we are
presently wasting because of duplication of efforts.
I conclude by referring to the Millennium Summit
held just last week. I would like to recall the idea of the
President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  Mr.  Carlos
Flores,  that  the  United  Nations  can  and  must  work  to
bring  about  the  required  coexistence  of  the  poor  and
the  rich,  the  large  and  the  small,  by  means  of  a
platform of sovereign equality and human solidarity.
And our President said,
(cid:147)More  than  a  world  pained  by  poverty  and
inequity for the overwhelming majority, the world
should be the sum of its peoples with at least their
basic  needs  and  essential  requirements  met.(cid:148)
(A/55/PV.3)
The  President:  I  now  call  on  the  Minister  for
Foreign  Affairs,  Culture,  Youth  and  Sport  of
Liechtenstein, Her Excellency Ms. Andrea Willi.
Ms. Willi (Liechtenstein): Allow me to begin my
remarks by congratulating  you,  Mr. President,  on  your
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of
the  General  Assembly.  I  wish  you  much  success  in
guiding  the  Assembly  to  a  fruitful  outcome  and  I
pledge  to  you  the  full  support  of  the  Liechtenstein
delegation. I would also like to congratulate the newest
Member,  Tuvalu,  on  its  admission  to  the  United
Nations  and  in  particular,  to  welcome  Tuvalu  into  the
group of small countries.
23
A/55/PV.11
the 
I  have  had  the  honour  of  participating  in  the
general  debate  before,  but  this  year  is  very  special.  It
marks 
tenth  anniversary  of  Liechtenstein(cid:146)s
membership  in  the  United  Nations.  I  would  therefore
like  to  include  in  my  remarks  some  of  the  issues  to
which  Liechtenstein  attaches  particular  importance  in
its  United  Nations  engagement.  For  Liechtenstein,  as
for many other countries, the United Nations stands for
the protection  of  human  rights  and  human  dignity  and
for the promotion of common values.
and 
energy 
enormous 
The  United  Nations  has  been  particularly
challenged  during  the  last  12  months  in  playing  its
rightful  role  in  the  pursuit  of  peace  and  security.
Although  remarkable  efforts  have  been  made,  some
conflict  situations  still  do  not  allow  for  effective
peacekeeping  to  take  place.  When  the  Secretary-
General called last year for a culture of prevention, my
delegation fully supported his ideas and we still believe
that the prevention of conflicts must be the key concept
in  the  maintenance  of  peace.  We  all  know 
that
preventing conflicts can save hundreds of thousands of
lives.  Political 
financial
resources  can  be  used  for  other  purposes.  The  term
(cid:147)culture  of  prevention(cid:148)  entails  a  comprehensive
approach  to  different  kinds  of  problems.  However,
preventive  approaches  can  be  perceived  as  a  threat  to
the  sovereignty  of  a  State.  The  classic  notion  of  the
term  obviously  no  longer  enables  us  to  cope  with  the
changed  realities  of  the  world.  The  sovereignty  of
States  remains  a  cornerstone  of  the  United  Nations.
Creating  a  culture  of  prevention  is  therefore  a  process
that  requires  a  concerted  effort  by  the  United  Nations
membership as a  whole.  Addressing the root causes of
so  many  of  today(cid:146)s  internal  conflicts  will  constitute  a
further step in meeting this humanitarian, political and
economic necessity. Liechtenstein has for several years
promoted 
ideas  and  suggestions  on  a  preventive
approach  with  regard  to  problems  arising  from  the
application of the right of self-determination. It is time
to free ourselves of biased and obsolete thinking and to
recognize that the effective application and exercise of
for
the 
preventing 
violent
disintegration of States.
The  adoption  of 
right  of  self-determination 
conflicts 
the
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  in  1998  was  an
historic  step.  The  conclusion  of  the  work  on  the
elements  of  crimes  and  the  rules  of  procedure  by  the
Preparatory  Commission  this  summer  was  a  further
the  Rome  Statute  of 
the  basis 
internal 
is 
and 
the 
24
step forward, and the ratification process is promising.
We hope to be able to contribute to the entry into force
of the Statute soon. It is of crucial importance that the
integrity of the Rome Statute be maintained throughout
the  remaining  work  to  be  done  by  the  Preparatory
Commission. The qualities of the ICC have often been
praised. The ICC(cid:146)s potential for prevention is certainly
one  of  its  outstanding  characteristics.  An  effective
criminal  court  will  make  an  important  contribution  to
impunity  which  has
terminating 
prevailed 
seriously
challenged.
long  without  being 
the  practice  of 
for 
so 
Nations 
cooperation 
Liechtenstein  has  always  supported  enhanced
United 
regional
organizations, inter alia,  the Organization for Security
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  as  well  as  the
Council of Europe, in particular in the areas of human
rights, 
post-conflict
rehabilitation.
prevention 
conflict 
with 
and 
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights
can also contribute to the prevention of conflicts. This
is  more  than  a  legitimate  concern  for  all of  us  (cid:151)  it  is
our duty. Ever since Liechtenstein became a Member of
the United Nations 10 years ago, this  issue  has  been a
top priority. In recent years, human rights have become
more  important  in  foreign  policy  and  in  the  world
economy.  There  is  increased  awareness  that  human
rights  issues  cannot  be  considered  in  an  isolated
manner,  since  there  is  a  clear  connection  between
human  rights  and  economic  prosperity,  social  welfare,
and peace and security.
The 
full  enjoyment  of  human 
rights  and
fundamental freedoms by women must be the basis for
full  equality  in  a  stable  society  and  we  must  continue
to  take  further  action  in  order  to  achieve  the  full
advancement  and  empowerment  of  women.  Together
with 12 women Foreign Ministers, I last night signed a
letter  addressed  to  the  Secretary-General  in  which  we
noted  the  special  needs  of  women  in  HIV/AIDS
prevention,  care  and  treatment,  and  called  upon  the
United  Nations  membership  to  take  into  account  the
need for an enhanced availability of education, testing,
counselling, care and treatment designed to address the
specific needs of women and girls.
Liechtenstein  fully  supports  the  fight  against
transnational  organized  crime,  in  particular  trafficking
in persons, and offences against children as well as the
fight  against  money  laundering.  Financial  crime  is
increasingly  a  key  concern  in  today(cid:146)s  open  and  global
financial  world,  which  is  characterized  by  the  high
mobility  of  funds  and  the  rapid  development  of  new
payment tools. In our view, international cooperation in
the  global  fight  against  money  laundering  can  only  be
enhanced  if  all  international  financial  services  centres
work  towards  full  implementation  of  internationally
agreed  standards,  and  my  Government  therefore  fully
supports  the  objectives  of  the  United  Nations  Global
Programme  against  Money  Laundering 
(GPML)
Forum.  The  approach  must,  however,  be  transparent,
inclusive  and  non-discriminatory,  and  the  positive
action  already  taken  or  being  taken  by  individual
countries  must  be  properly  recognized.  Any  punitive
approach,  including  the  establishment  of  lists  and  the
imposition  of  sanctions  on  individual  jurisdictions,  as
well  as  the  failure  to  distinguish  between  the  fight
against  money  laundering  and  tax  issues,  runs  counter
to the  spirit  of  international  cooperation.  We  therefore
regret, 
in  particular,  recent  proceedings  by  some
international  and  regional  bodies  directed  against
certain  financial  centres,  including  Liechtenstein.  The
lack of transparency and the manner in which this was
done  are  not 
the  established
principles and procedures of international cooperation.
These established principles and procedures must
guide the cooperation between States and the resolution
of difficulties they may have. International cooperation
must be handled in the same way when large States are
dealing  with  small  States  and  when  small  States  are
dealing  with  large  States.  No  organization  should  be
allowed 
in
international  relations.  Cooperation  by  small  States
must  never  be  interpreted  as  capitulation;  cooperation
implies consideration of the rights and interests of all.
from  established  practice 
in  conformity  with 
to  depart 
The President: I now call on Her Excellency Ms.
Nadezhda  Mihailova,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Bulgaria.
Ms. Mihailova (Bulgaria): First of  all, on behalf
of  the  Bulgarian  delegation,  I  take  this  opportunity  to
congratulate you, Mr. President, and the other members
the  particularly
of 
important 
this 
important
millennium  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to
wish  you  every  success  in  guiding  it  to  a  successful
conclusion.
the  presidency  on  assuming 
task  of  presiding  over 
A/55/PV.11
Let  me  start  by  saying  that  the  Republic  of
Bulgaria, as an associated country, aligns itself with the
statement delivered on behalf of the European Union.
This  past  year  has  been  marked  by  a  series  of
events,  culminating  in  the  Millennium  Summit.  From
this  General  Assembly  session  we  expect  consensus
decisions  aimed  at  a  strengthened  and  more  efficient
United  Nations,  capable  of  bringing  us  closer  to  a
common vision for a better future, rid of the scourge of
conflict  and  war,  poverty  and  disease,  backwardness
and  under-development,  and  based  on  peace  and
security, sustainable development and prosperity in the
context  of  a  dominating  tendency  towards  a  more
globalized  and  interdependent  world.  This  truly  is  a
formidable  task.  It  cannot  be  achieved  by  or  for  a
separate  country  or  region.  It  requires  a  broad  and
sustained  effort  to  create  a  shared  future,  based  upon
our  common  humanity  in  all  its  diversity,  as  rightly
pointed out in the Millennium Declaration.
that  humanity 
On the verge of the new millennium, it would not
be an exaggeration to say that humanity has achieved a
lot.  Nowadays  we  have  at  our  disposal  far  better  and
efficient means to produce more goods and services, to
fight  diseases  and  live  longer  and  better  lives,  to  reap
the benefits of the new information technologies in all
spheres  of  life.  But  at  the  same  time,  we  cannot  but
recognize 
still  confronted  by
tremendous  challenges.  Poverty  and  misery  are  still
dominant  over  large  parts  of  the  world.  People  in  so
many places are still exposed to  conflict  and  violence.
The  world  is  still  threatened  by  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  New 
terrorism,
international crime, illicit traffic in narcotics and small
arms, are coming to the fore. Also of particular concern
are the changes in the  world climate  and  environment,
which  are  bringing  disasters  capable  of  destroying  the
homes and livelihoods of millions.
threats, 
such 
as 
is 
the 
To  cope  with  these  challenges  we  must  act
together.  This 
reason  why  we  need  a
strengthened and effective United Nations, which could
be  achieved  through  the  shared  responsibility  and  the
good  political  will  of  all  its  Member  States.  The
Millennium  Assembly  is  giving  us  the  opportunity  to
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  purposes  and  the
founding principles of the United Nations, to go ahead
with 
role  and
effectiveness,  so  as  to  make  it  serve  us  all  better  in
meeting  the  challenges  we  are  confronted  with  at  the
beginning of the new millennium.
reforms  and 
strengthen 
its 
is 
to 
25
A/55/PV.11
of 
joins 
Bulgaria 
in  particular 
the  General  Assembly, 
the  other  Member  States 
in
supporting  the  proposals,  contained  in  the  Millennium
Report 
the  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan
(A/54/2000) and aimed at the system-wide streamlining
and strengthening of the Organization and at making it
more  efficient  and  responsive  to  new  realities.  Of
particular importance in this regard is the strengthening
and revitalization of the principal organs of the United
Nations, 
the
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council.
Regarding the  reform  and  the  enlargement of the
Security  Council,  we  share  the  view  that  this  process
should  result  in  a  more  representative,  effective  and
legitimate  Security  Council,  taking  into  consideration
both  the  increased  number  of  the  United  Nations
membership  and  the  enhanced  role  and  political  and
economic potential of certain States, like Germany and
Japan, 
the
responsibilities  of  permanent  members.  In  our  view,  a
reformed Council should be more transparent, open and
accessible  to  the  interested  non-member  States.  A  fair
and  balanced  representation,  including  the  Group  of
Eastern  European  States,  whose  membership  has
doubled 
last  decade,  should  definitely  be
secured. A decision on the enlargement of the Council
and on its working methods should be supported by the
broadest  possible 
including 
the
permanent members of the Security Council.
example,  which 
could  assume 
consensus, 
the 
for 
all 
in 
in 
that  progress 
During the past year, the international community
continued  to  be  engaged  closely  with  the  situation  in
south-east  Europe.  As  a  country,  suffering  most
directly  the  impact  of  the  developments  in  the  region,
Bulgaria is particularly concerned with the situation in
Kosovo.  We  note 
implementing
resolution  1244  (1999)  of  the  Security  Council  has
been  achieved,  particularly  with  regard  to  restoring
peace and stability in the province. At the same time, it
must  be  recognized  that  in  terms  of  multi-ethnic
coexistence  the  situation  is  still  far  from  satisfying.
Continuing ethnic violence is  causing  serious  concern.
Particularly  worrying  are  the  attacks  against  members
of 
international  peacekeeping  contingents  and
United  Nations  personnel.  The  situation  requires
resolute  steps  on  behalf  of  all  community  leaders  in
Kosovo to reject violence and to promote tolerance and
cooperation 
adopted
declarations.  We  see  such  an  approach  as  a  key
prerequisite 
for  building  up  an  atmosphere  of
confidence and ethnic tolerance.
compliance  with 
the 
the 
in 
26
The  successful  preparation  and  holding  of
municipal elections  with the participation  of  all  ethnic
minorities, including refugees and displaced persons, is
particularly  important  for  speeding  up  the  political
process  in  Kosovo  and  for  securing  lasting  peace  and
stability.
Since  the  very  beginning  of  the  Kosovo  crisis,
Bulgaria  has  been  actively  engaged  in  the  overall
efforts  of  the  international  community  to  settle  the
conflict  and  ensure  lasting  peace  and  stability  in  the
region.  As  is  well  known,  Bulgaria  participates  in  the
international  peacekeeping  forces 
in  Kosovo  and
renders logistical  support  to  the peacekeeping  Mission
in  the  province.  Furthermore,  my  country  has  been
mobilizing  significant  resources,  in  accordance  with
our  potential, 
to
international peace activities.
contribution 
increase 
its 
to 
In  response  to  the  appeal  to  increase  the  size  of
the  United  Nations  civilian  police  force  in  Kosovo,
Bulgaria  has  increased  its  contingent  to  60  police
officers,  and  is  now  considering  the  possibility  of
increasing  that  number  to  100.  Bulgaria  has  sent  an
engineering  platoon  to  join  the  international  presence
in  the  field.  Bulgarian  companies  are  engaged  in  the
construction  and  assembling  of  houses 
to  shelter
displaced  persons  and  refugees  in  Kosovo.  Last,  but
low-cost
not 
electricity 
these
endeavours has so far reached $6 million.
least,  Bulgaria  has  been  supplying 
to  Kosovo.  The  overall  cost  of 
We  deem  particularly  important  the  involvement
of  all  the  countries  of  the  region  in  the  process  of
seeking  settlement  of  the  outstanding  issues  through
the process of multilateral and bilateral negotiations. In
this context, the informal meetings held at the level of
prime  ministers  and  the  meetings  of  the  foreign  and
defence  ministers  of  the  countries  neighbouring  the
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  that  are  devoted  to
different aspects of cooperation are useful.
is 
for 
the 
areas 
economic 
conflict-stricken 
Of  particular  importance  to  the  post-conflict
reconstruction  of 
the
elaboration  and  the  implementation  of  a  long-term
strategy 
and
development  of  the  countries  of  the  region  through
their  integration  into  the  European  and  Euro-Atlantic
structures. The  speedy  implementation  of  the  different
projects  within the framework of the Stability Pact for
South-Eastern  Europe  could  contribute significantly  to
the  economic  development  and  stability  of  the  region.
reconstruction 
We  deem  infrastructure  projects  as  being    particularly
important  in  that  regard.  Such  projects  will  contribute
to  enhancing  the  transportation  and  communications
links of the region and connecting them with the rest of
Europe.  Attracting  investments  and  developing  trade
and  the  participation  of  companies  from  the  region  in
the reconstruction process are important as well.
Bulgaria not only supports international efforts to
overcome the crisis in south-eastern Europe, but it also
fully  supports  the  efforts  aimed  at  resolving  conflict
situations  in  Cyprus,  the  Middle  East,  the  Caucuses,
Africa and elsewhere in the world. Bulgaria notes with
satisfaction 
the  relations
between South and North Korea.
the  positive  progress 
in 
A/55/PV.11
We  highly  appreciate  the  progress  achieved  in
strengthening cooperation between the countries of the
region  in  such  fields  as  fighting  organized  crime  and
corruption,  the  illicit  traffic  in  narcotics,  curbing  the
uncontrolled  possession  of  small  arms,  and  so  on.  An
important  achievement  of 
the
creation of a multinational peace force in south-eastern
Europe,  with  joint  headquarters  in  Plovdiv,  Bulgaria.
We  are  confident  that  the  establishment  of  this  force
will strengthen the spirit of confidence and cooperation
in the region of south-eastern Europe.
that  cooperation 
is 
An  issue  of  special  relevance  to  Bulgaria  and
also, I believe, for other countries of the region, is the
negative  impact  on  the  national  economy  of  the  strict
implementation  of  the  economic  sanctions  imposed
until  recently  by  the  Security  Council  on  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  As  is  well  known,  Bulgaria
strictly  abided  by  the  decisions  of  the  United  Nations
Security  Council,  and  as  a  result  suffered  economic
losses  commensurate  with  the  country(cid:146)s  foreign  debt.
Those  losses  still  affect  our  economic  development.
Given  the  continued  relevance  and  importance  of  this
issue  under  the  present  international  setting,  Bulgaria
supports  the  view  that,  since  the  provisions  of  the
Charter  have  equal  importance,  the  issue  of  assisting
third  States  affected  by  sanctions  has  to  be  taken  into
consideration together with the imposition of sanctions.
The elaboration of a concrete mechanism for that
purpose  is  therefore  important  for  the  United  Nations,
which  must  find  ways  and  means  of  alleviating  their
negative  effects,  in  particular  on  third  States.  The
international community as a whole should take care of
this. In our view, it is necessary that there be closer and
more  direct  participation  in  the  whole  process  by  all
third States that could potentially be adversely affected
by  the  imposition  of  sanctions.  We  are  confident  that
the  discussions  on  this  issue  at  the  present  session,
based  on  the  decisions  already  adopted  and  on  the
report  of 
resolution
54/107,  will  result  in  more  concrete  decisions  to  that
end.
the  Secretary-General  under 
the  efforts  of 
In  the  context  of  the  new  challenges  in  the  field
of  international  peace  and  security,  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations  continue  to  be  a  crucial
element  in  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  My
country  supports 
international
community  aimed  at  ensuring  the  necessary  tools  and
resources  required  to  promote  conflict  prevention,  the
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes,  and  post-conflict
peace-building  and  reconstruction.  We  are  convinced
that  the  new  generation  of  peacekeeping  operations
should 
their  mandates  a  proportionate
combination  of  political,  military,  humanitarian,
reconstruction and other relevant activities.
the 
include 
in 
in 
In  this  regard,  we  believe  that  there  are  still
unexploited opportunities to strengthen the cooperation
of the United Nations and to make its cooperation with
regional  organizations 
the  field  of  preventive
diplomacy,  crisis  management  and  peacekeeping  more
effective  on 
their  competitive
advantages.  We  share  the  concern  of  other  Member
States  over  ensuring  the  United  Nations  ability  to
deliver  on 
its  mounting  array  of  peacekeeping
commitments,  and  we  are  committed  to  work  together
to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations in this
vital area.
the  basis  of  on 
We  fully  support  the  need  to  reform  the  United
Nations  peacekeeping  scale  of  assessments.  I  would
like  to  point out,  as  a clear  demonstration  of  this  fact,
that the Government of Bulgaria has decided to assume
an  additional  financial  commitment  by  increasing  its
contribution to peacekeeping operations.
An  issue  closely  linked  to  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  is  the  fight  against
terrorism  and  international  crime.  Bulgaria  attaches
paramount  importance  to  the  efforts  of  the  world
community in the fight against terrorism. We condemn
all  terrorist  acts  and  lament  the  loss  of  life  and  the
destruction  inflicted  by  such  acts.  We  share  the  view
that  the  threat  of  terrorism  is  assuming  a  magnitude
that requires a decisive and joint response by the whole
international 
the
community.  Bulgaria 
supports 
27
A/55/PV.11
activities of the United Nations aimed at setting norms
and  standards  for  the  fight  against  terrorism  and
international  crime  through  the  negotiation  of  various
legal 
appropriate
institutions for that purpose.
instruments 
and  by 
creating 
is 
a 
that 
We  consider 
the  establishment  of 
the
International  Criminal  Court 
significant
achievement in that regard. I would like to reiterate my
country(cid:146)s  strong  commitment  to  the  fight  against  the
most  serious  kinds  of  international  crime  in  all  their
is  a  consistent  part  of
forms.  That  commitment 
Bulgarian  policy.  We 
are 
the
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  will
be  an  efficient  step  by  the  international  community
towards  deterring 
the  potential  perpetrators  from
committing such acts.
confident 
that 
the 
Together with peacemaking and the building of a
more secure world, the broadening of the human aspect
of  development  through  democracy  and  participation
has  been  widely  accepted  and  has  become  one  of  the
priorities  of  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  The
principle  of 
the  universally
recognized  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and
cultural rights continues to be a key element of today(cid:146)s
system  of  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights
and  freedoms.  Bulgaria  is  confident  that  the  activities
of  international  forums  in  the  field  of  human  rights
should be aimed at ensuring the effective and universal
enjoyment of those rights on a global scale.
indivisibility  of 
The  principle  of  the  indivisibility  of  universally
recognized  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and
cultural rights continues to be a key element in today(cid:146)s
system  of  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights
and freedoms. Bulgaria is convinced that the  activities
of  international  forums  in  the  field  of  human  rights
should be aimed at ensuring the effective and universal
enjoyment  of  those  rights  on  a  global  scale.  In  this
respect,  the  monitoring  and  effective  control  of  the
implementation  of  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms remain of crucial importance. Guided by this
understanding,  Bulgaria  is  now  party  to  all  universal
human rights instruments that have established specific
monitoring bodies and has recognized their competence
to consider communications from individuals.
In  our  view,  the  relevant  experiences  of  some
regional  organizations  with  competence  in  the  human
rights  field also  could be  taken into  consideration.  We
share  the  view  that  a  more  effective  coordination  and
28
better 
implementation 
exchange  of  information  and  even  joint  efforts  are
needed  between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations  such  as  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE).
A 
international
standards  could  be  achieved  by  improving  existing
mechanisms and by constructive and open dialogue on
the  most  sensitive  issues,  including  those  related  to
human  rights  in  individual  States.  Accordingly,  the
Bulgarian Government attaches great importance to the
enjoyment  of  all  human  rights  by  Bulgarians  living
abroad  and  considers  respect  for  their  rights  as  an
essential element in the enhancement of relations.
of 
Enhanced socio-economic development is another
important factor for securing stability and peace in the
world. The achievements registered in this field should
be  recognized  and  encouraged.  The  review  process,
based on the relevant ideas contained in the millennium
report  of  the  Secretary-General,  must  result  in  the
strengthening of the coordinating role of the Economic
and Social Council and of the entire  machinery of this
Organization. Of particular relevance in this regard are
the  steps  aimed  at  the  practical  realization  of  the
follow-up  measures 
international
conferences.
the  major 
to 
in 
the 
Bulgaria attaches major importance to the role of
field  of  sustainable
the  United  Nations 
development  and 
the  United
Nations  dialogue  and  the  activities  of  the  respective
United Nations bodies and agencies on issues related to
demographics,  social  development,  women,  the  fight
against diseases and drugs, and so on.
is  following  closely 
of 
system 
agencies 
specialized 
Bulgaria  is  cooperating  actively  with  the  United
and
Nations 
programmes.  We  are  interested  in  further  developing
this  cooperation.  We  are  looking  forward  to  more
dynamic  and  streamlined  activities,  especially  through
the use of the potential of United Nations Development
Programme  for capacity-building  and  assistance  in  the
development  and  implementation  of  joint  projects.  In
this regard, the system of resident coordinators and the
efforts  to  make  that  system  more  operational  will
undoubtedly play an important role.
Bulgaria  shares  the  concern  of  the  international
community  regarding 
in
particular the AIDS virus. We  support the activities  of
the United Nations in this field, and we join our efforts
the  spread  of  diseases, 
those 
of  Governments, 
to 
non-governmental
organizations,  and  academic  and  research  institutions
in the fight against this dangerous disease.
economic 
Development 
and 
full  participation 
are
impossible  without 
in  global
economic  and  financial exchanges.  In  our  opinion,  the
United  Nations  and  its  institutions  could  play  a  more
active role with regard to the specific problems related
to economic transition and reforms.
growth 
to 
of 
to  strengthen 
international  efforts 
Disarmament issues continue to play an important
role in overall efforts to secure a better world for future
generations.  The  Bulgarian  Government  attaches  high
priority 
the
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  We  call  for  an  early
entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  as  an  important  step  in  that  direction  and
support 
on
Disarmament  to  establish  an  ad  hoc  committee  to
conduct negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty.
We favour the strengthening of the Biological and
Toxin  Weapons  Convention  and  believe  that  a  further
acceleration of the negotiations and an early conclusion
of the protocol to the Convention is required.
the  Conference 
decision 
the 
like 
to  contribute 
As  a  State  party  to  the  Chemical  Weapons
Convention,  Bulgaria  would 
to
increasing the number of accessions to the Convention
in  order  to  achieve  recognition  of  the  prohibition  of
chemical weapons as a universal norm of international
law.  As a  concrete  effort  to  this  end,  we  are  hosting  a
regional 
the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  in  Sofia  from  28  to
30 September of this year.
the  Organization 
seminar  of 
for 
With regard  to  conventional  arms,  anti-personnel
landmines are  widely recognized  as  a terrible  weapon,
which kills and maims hundreds of thousands of people
worldwide.  Convinced  of 
total
prohibition  of  anti-personnel  mines,  on  29  July  1999
the  Bulgarian  Parliament 
the  Ottawa
Convention,  thus  contributing  to  its  early  entry  into
force.
the  need 
ratified 
for  a 
We  are  also  ready  to  contribute  to  the  efforts  of
the  international  community  to  reduce  conventional
weapons, 
their
excessive  and  destabilizing  accumulation  in  areas  of
conflict.  We  regard  universal  participation 
the
United  Nations  Register  of  Conventional  Arms  as  an
including  small  arms,  especially 
in 
A/55/PV.11
important  step  towards  effective  transparency,  on  both
a regional and a global scale.
to  move 
forward  with 
For  Bulgaria  this  past  year  has  been  a  period  of
continued intensive efforts by the Government to build
on  the  economic  stabilization  that  has  been  achieved
and 
reforms,
modernizing State administration, enforcing the rule of
law in civil  society and  creating  favourable  conditions
for  sustainable  economic  growth.  The  steps  and
initiatives  that  have  been  undertaken  in  compliance
with  the  Government  programme  (cid:147)Bulgaria  (cid:151)  2001(cid:148)
are  directed  at  moving  ahead  with  the  integration  of
Bulgaria into European and Euro-Atlantic structures.
structural 
Being an integral part of Europe, Bulgaria regards
accelerated  accession  to  the  European  Union  and  full
membership  in  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization
(NATO)  as  an  expression  of  our  sovereign  political
choice based on broad public support. Since Bulgaria is
endeavouring  to  promote  and  enhance  the  values  of
democracy,  we  are  sincerely  interested  in  seeing  these
values  become  widely  accepted  throughout  South-
eastern Europe. The Republic of Bulgaria welcomes its
inclusion in the process of enlargement of the European
Union,  together  with  other  associated  countries  from
Central  and  Eastern  Europe,  as  well  as  Cyprus.  The
Bulgarian Government is fully aware that our accession
endeavours  are  contingent  on  the  success  of  domestic
economic and legislative reforms.
The  Bulgarian  Government  has  developed  a
clear-cut  national  strategy  to  meet  the  criteria  for
NATO membership, based on a comprehensive national
programme of preparation, which is being updated and
optimized.  Bulgaria  has 
is
undertaking  concrete  steps  to  translate  and  fulfil  in
regional  terms  the  objectives  of  the  Euro-Atlantic
Partnership  Council  and  the  enhanced  Partnership  for
Peace. Our positive attitude is reflected in the ongoing
regional  political  dialogue  and  the  practical  follow-up
measures  to  enhance  regional  security  and  defence
cooperation in South-eastern Europe.
the  political  will  and 
In conclusion, I  would like once again to declare
my  country(cid:146)s  readiness  to  cooperate  actively  with  all
Member  States  for  the  successful  implementation  of
the lofty goals  which  we have before us at the  present
session of the General Assembly. We are confident that
discussions  on 
items  will  be
translated into practical measures.
important  agenda 
29
A/55/PV.11
The President: I give the floor to the Minister of
Foreign  Affairs  of  Colombia,  His  Excellency  Mr.
Guillermo FernÆndez de Soto.
Mr.  FernÆndez  de  Soto  (Colombia)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  Allow  me  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the
current  session.  I  am  confident  that  under  your  able
guidance  our  deliberations  will  yield  success.  I  also
wish  to  thank  your  predecessor  for  his  leadership  and
for  the  his  exemplary  work  as  President  of 
the
Assembly  during  the  fifty-fourth  session.  I  also  have
the  honour  to  extend  convey  my  greetings  to  the
Secretary-General  and 
firm
leadership and his continuing interest in the search for
practical and innovative solutions.
to  acknowledge  his 
For  Colombia,  this  session  represents  a  historic
challenge:  the  challenge  to  forge  new  relationships
aimed at carrying out the mission agreed upon by heads
of  State  or  Government  at  the  Millennium  Summit.
They  have  defined  the  parameters  of  the  world  in
which we wish to live and the conditions for creating a
new  international  political  and  economic  order.  My
country  had  the  honour  to  submit  the  Cartagena  de
Indias  Declaration  (A/54/929),  a  commitment  adopted
by  heads  of  State  of  the  Rio  Group,  which  enunciates
the  aspirations  of  our  region  and  is  an  exceptional
contribution  to  the  future  of  the  United  Nations.  We
will  now  undertake  a  careful  follow-up  of  these
initiatives  so  as  to  translate  them  into  realities  for  the
benefit of humankind.
Perhaps  the  dawn  of  the  new  millennium  will
enable  us  to  face  this  challenge  with  optimism,  to
signal  a  break  with  the  legacy  of  half  a  century  and
with  the  many  proposals  that  have  so  often  met  with
indifference.  It  represents  an  opportunity  to  translate
our collective aspirations into tangible reality.
taking  place 
In  large  part,  our  expectations  relate  to  the
meaning  and 
scope  of  globalization.  Sweeping
revolutions  are 
in 
the 
fields  of
transportation,  communication  and 
the  electronic
media.  Every  day  we  are  astonished  by  advances  in
technology  and  by  the  discoveries  of  applied  science.
The  main  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  its
various  forums  and  agencies 
this
enormous 
scientific
knowledge  towards  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable
sectors of the population.
technological  and 
to  channel 
store  of 
is 
30
technology 
Information 
is  bringing  structural
change to the international economy and unprecedented
opportunities  to  promote  creative  cultural  interaction
among peoples. But the information revolution can also
become  a  source  of  exclusion.  We  face  the  risk  of
creating  a  new  form  of  illiteracy:  cyber-illiteracy.  We
must  bridge  the digital  divide and  convert information
technology  into  a  positive  factor  for  education  and
poverty-reduction  so  that  the  information  revolution
may become truly global. Failure to do so will increase
the gap between rich and poor.
One  of  our  principal  challenges  is  therefore  to
globalize globalization and to make it an imperative for
the  twenty-first  century.  It  is,  in  other  words,  to  bring
the  benefits  of  this  process  to  more  regions,  nations
and 
to  new
technologies, 
and
investment  and  recognizing  that  the  resources  with
which  nature  provides  us  are  the  common  heritage  of
future generations.
individuals  by  democratizing  access 
eliminating  barriers 
trade 
to 
Here,  preservation  of  the  environment  is  a  key
element. We have an obligation to respect nature and to
build  a  sustainable  future.  We  must  put  an  end  to  the
destruction being caused by the irrational use of natural
resources and by unsound patterns of consumption and
production. This requires greater political commitment
to  control  climate  change,  eliminate  sources  of  water
pollution and put an end to the loss of our forests. The
provision  of 
transfer  of
environmentally safe technologies are issues still to be
resolved. The international community must honour the
commitments  it  has  assumed  in  this  field  before  it  is
too late.
resources  and 
financial 
For 
their  part, 
to  prevent  and  respond 
the  United  Nations  and 
the
multilateral  financial  institutions  must  develop  a  new
framework 
to  risks  and
economic crises. We need a stable, ordered, transparent
and predictable financial  system,  one in  which  we can
strengthen  our  early  warning  capacity,  effectively
control  the  volatility  of  capital  flows  and  ensure
sufficient 
to
countries  affected  by  crisis.  Another  urgent  priority  is
to create social protection networks that can be used in
times of financial crisis.
timely  support 
to  provide 
liquidity 
The  beginning  of  the  millennium  is  marked  also
by new concerns and threats to peace and security. The
proliferation  and  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  is  one  of
these.  The  illegal  traffic  in  such  arms  has  reached
than 
unacceptable  proportions;  its  impact  has  been  even
more  devastating 
that  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  Despite  this,  the  international  community
is  not  giving  it  the  importance  and  priority  which  this
grave problem demands. Urgent and effective measures
are needed to halt and completely eliminate this illegal
trade.
to 
irreparable  damage 
the  criminal  activities  of 
Countries  affected  by  this  phenomenon  must  not
remain  exposed 
the
networks  of  arms  traffickers  who,  taking  advantage  of
the  absence  of  monitoring  and  oversight  mechanisms,
are  causing 
to  our  societies.
Governments 
and  moral
responsibility  to  act  decisively  against  illicit  arms
exports  and  to  bring  all  the  force  of  the  law  to  bear
against the merchants of death and violence who profit
from  this  nefarious  trade.  My  country,  Colombia,  has
paid a very high price in human lives as a consequence
of this criminal activity.
political 
have 
the 
Countries  that  are  exporters  of  small  arms  must
establish  controls  on  intermediaries  and  refrain  from
authorizing  sales  if  there  is  a  risk  of  improper  use.
There  is  a  need  for  greater  transparency  and  for  the
exchange  of  information  on  the  modalities  and  routes
of  this  trade.  We  must  urgently  create  mechanisms  to
provide  financial  and  technical  assistance  so  that
affected  countries  will  be  better  able  to  implement
effective  controls.  We  have  a  responsibility  to  ensure
that the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade
in Small Arms and Light Weapons in all its Aspects, to
be  held  in  2001,  results  in  concrete  commitments  and
effective action.
The  global  problem  of  illicit  drugs,  for  its  part,
continues  to  be  one  of  the  most  serious  threats  of  our
time.  It  is  a  factor  for  violence  and  corruption,
economic  disruption  and  impoverishment,  erosion  of
the  social  fabric  and  instability  in  democracies.  It  is
also a cause of alarming environmental disasters.
No  nation  has  suffered as  tragically as  Colombia
from  the  consequences  of  this  global  problem.  Every
day,  lives  are  lost  in  Colombia  through  the  action  of
outlaw  groups  whose  activities  are  financed  from
resources  obtained  from  the  traffic  in  drugs.  Now,
when  all  our  efforts  are  focused  on  the  difficult  battle
against  this  problem,  we  need  increased  support  and
the effective solidarity of the international community.
Only  by  accepting  and  fully  implementing  the
principle  of  shared  responsibility  will  humankind  be
A/55/PV.11
able to free itself from the scourge of illicit drugs. We
ask for no  more. Let us all assume the cost that  is our
share to bear in order to wipe this illegal activity from
the face of the earth.
Colombia 
is  making  extraordinary  efforts 
to
advance towards a solution to its internal conflict. It is
a  fundamental  objective  that  we  will  never  renounce.
We are aware that the building of peace takes time, but
we  are  making  steady  progress.  In  the  midst  of  the
complexities of our situation  in  Colombia,  and despite
the  cruelty  of  the  present  conflict,  we  have  made
progress in confidence-building, in the dialogue, in the
discussion  of 
the
participation  of  civil  society.  We  know  full  well  that
the  achievement  of  peace  requires  in-depth  action  in
the economic and social fields that could give real and
lasting content to these efforts.
thematic  agendas  and 
the 
in 
A  number  of  countries  have 
this
process,  at  the  request  of  the  Government.  Today,
peace in Colombia is important for the world. I appeal
to the international community to reaffirm its solidarity
and offer its material support to our peace process.
joined 
in 
One  of  the  most  important  developments  of  the
last  two  decades  has  been  the  increasing  commitment
to  respect  for  human  rights.  We  have  made  some
progress  in  defining  economic  and  social  rights  as  an
indivisible component of so-called traditional rights or
individual freedoms. The old objections that prevented
us 
the  universal  validity  and
application  of  human  rights  are  gradually  losing  way
and  States  have  accepted 
their  responsibility  for
ensuring compliance.
from  proclaiming 
of 
violence. 
is  essential 
to  deal  with 
expression 
law 
In  recent  years,  civil  conflicts  have  become  a
International
major 
the
humanitarian 
consequences of these confrontations. Its enforcement,
however, requires  agreement  on  the  minimum  rules  of
respect  for  the  civil  population  and  the  interests  of
States.  The  key 
that
that  enforcement 
humanitarian 
its  postulates,  norms  and
mechanisms (cid:151) should be equally applied by all parties
in conflict.
to 
law  (cid:151) 
is 
The  movements  of  people,  including  refugees  or
migrants,  must  also  be  recognized  as  a  priority  issue.
They are protected by a concrete framework of human
rights. In  a  world  that  promotes  the  free  movement  of
capital and free trade, it is unacceptable that unjustified
31
A/55/PV.11
restrictions continue to be  applied to the  movement of
people.
well  be  channelled  towards  United  Nations  poverty-
reduction programmes.
The  solution 
to  concrete  problems  on 
the
international  agenda  necessarily  requires  concerted
action  and  multilateralism;  Colombia  has  always  been
and  will  continue  to  be  firmly  committed  to  it.  We
believe  that  this  multilateralism  can  be  supplemented
by  convergent  regional  initiatives  and  bilateralism  as
part  of  an  approach 
reduce  distances  and
imbalances (cid:151)  in  other  words,  a  multilateralism  that
serves  as  a  bridge  for  rapprochement,  solidarity  and
shared  responsibility,  concepts  upon  which  the  entire
building  of  the  contemporary  international  order  must
be constructed.
to 
Our  peoples,  in  whose  name  the  Charter  of  the
United  Nations  was  conceived,  yearn  to  see  how  the
fulfilment  of the purposes and  functions  of  the  United
Nations  can  be  reflected  in  the  satisfaction  of  their
hopes  and  aspirations.  Even  though  in  many  respects
we  are  still  far  from  this  objective,  we  must  preserve
the  gains  achieved.  An  attitude  of  passivity  is  not
convenient  for  the  Organization.  This  Assembly  must
adopt  decisions  to  reactivate  the  process  of  United
Nations  reform,  on  realistic  grounds,  but  without
further  delaying  the  measures  that  require  urgent
implementation. There are many initiatives that can be
realized without the need for reform of the Charter. The
only thing required is the will to show solidarity and to
make timely political decisions.
The  United  Nations  acts  as 
the  world(cid:146)s
conscience,  requiring  greater  priority  in  order  to  meet
the  needs  of  the  poor  countries.  Strategies  must  be
urgently  developed  to  mobilize  funds  to  remove  the
causes of underdevelopment. The growing gap between
the  wealth  of  the  prosperous  and  the  poverty  of  those
who  are  marginalized  from  progress  is  in  itself  an
appeal  for  attention  which  should  be  listened  to  and
should lead to the translation of words into deeds.
In this connection,  we  welcome the  growing  role
being  played  by  non-governmental  organizations,
whose  activities  should  be  accompanied  by  a  proper
definition  of  their  responsibilities.  For  their  part,  the
transnational  corporations,  which  play 
such  an
important  function in the  global economy,  should  give
serious  consideration  to  the  United  Nations  through
financial  support  to  the  Organization,  which  is  in
urgent need of additional resources. This support could
32
adjustment 
regional 
of  multilateral 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  continues  to
be  one  of  the  principal  reforms  anticipated  from  the
expected 
political
institutions.  But  in  this  area  we  need  a  gradual,  less
maximalist  approach.  Formulas  must  be  explored  to
ensure  greater  participation  of  developing  countries.
We  must  take  effective  steps  to  promote  greater
representativity  in  the  Council,  on  the  understanding
that  this  does  not  constitute  a  privilege,  but  rather  a
responsibility.  Broader 
representation,
restrictions  on 
the  veto  and  greater
transparency  in  the  decision-making  process  could
bring the Security Council closer to a reality that is not
the  same  now  in  the  twenty-first  century  as  it  was  in
1945.
the  use  of 
international 
The election of new members to the Council will
take place in a few weeks. Colombia has the support of
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  to  be  elected  as  a
non-Permanent  Member  of  this  important  organ.  Once
our entry is approved by the General Assembly, we will
assume this responsibility as of 1 January. It will be an
opportunity to reaffirm Colombia(cid:146)s commitment to, and
confidence  in,  multilateralism  and  its  resolute  and
unconditional commitment to the norms and principles
of 
law.  We  will  also  reaffirm  our
conviction  that  peaceful  and  negotiated  solutions  to
disputes and respect for international humanitarian law
by all parties to a conflict are essential in order to build
firm and lasting foundations for peace and security. We
will  promote  better 
the  Council,
especially  in  terms  of  information  and  consultation
with States that are not part of that organ, and  we  will
foster  a  more  permanent  and  closer  relationship  with
the  General  Assembly  as  the  supreme  organ  of  the
United Nations.
functioning  of 
Never  before  has  humankind  had  the  prospect
like  the one  now  afforded  at  the beginning  of  the  new
millennium  to  make  steady  progress  towards  peace,
progress and international stability. It is an opportunity
for the leaders of the world to make a decisive political
step in that direction. Let us give our peoples new hope
that  the  change  in  the  millennium  will  signify  not
merely  a  chronological  change  but  also  the  beginning
of a true political and social transformation. Only thus
will  future  generations  recognize  that  we  had  the
courage to assume our obligations with responsibility.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
Would  anybody  wish  to  take  the  floor  at  this
stage?
I see none.
The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.
A/55/PV.11
33
