
A/55/PV.53
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Fifty-fifth session 

53rd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 7 November 2000, 10 a.m.  
New York 





President:  Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland) 
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mungra 
(Suriname), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 

to 
thank 
the  Director  General  of 
Agenda item 14 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 

Note by the Secretary-General transmitting 

the report of the Agency (A/55/284 and Corr.1)

Draft resolution (A/55/L.25) 


Amendment (A/55/L.26/Rev.1) 


Amendment (A/55/L.27) 


Ms. Chin Powles (New Zealand): My delegation 

the 
wishes 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
Mr. ElBaradei, for his introduction of the report of the 
Agency  for  1999.  The  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) gave the Director General and 
his team a resounding vote of confidence. The Agency 
has  New  Zealand’s  unqualified  support 
its 
important  work  in  carrying  out  its  mandate  fully  and 
professionally.  New 
special 
significance to two pillars of the Agency’s work. They 
are  the  contribution  that  it  makes  to  nuclear  non-
proliferation  and  disarmament  through  its  safeguards 
and  verification  role,  and  its  activities  in  promoting  a 
global nuclear safety culture. Although  much has been 
achieved, there is still much to be done in both areas. 
attaches 
Zealand 
for 
is  a 
system 
safeguards 

New  Zealand  was  among  the  first  to  bring  into 
force a protocol additional to our safeguards agreement 
with the Agency. The slow  growth in adherence to the 
strengthened 
source  of 
disappointment.  Certainly  the  number  of  signatories is 
growing — around 53 by last count  — but  with fewer 
than  half  of  the  protocols  in  force,  more  determined 
effort  is  required  if  universal  adherence,  and  the 
assurance  of  non-proliferation  it  would  confer,  are  to 
be achieved. 
New  Zealand  applauds  the  recent  developments 

on the Korean peninsula, but again we must record our 
concern  about  the  lack  of  progress  on  safeguards 
implementation  issues  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of  Korea. We  hope  that  the  new  climate  that 
is  prevailing  in  that  country  will  move  it  to  cooperate 
fully  with  the  Agency  in  coming  into  full  compliance 
with  its  safeguards  agreement,  which  remains  binding 
and in force. 

Since  December  1998,  the  Agency  has  not  been 
in a position to implement its mandate in Iraq under the 
relevant Security Council resolutions, and there is thus 
no assurance of compliance with those resolutions. The 
Agency’s  visit  to  Iraq  in  January  pursuant  to  Iraq’s 
safeguards  agreement  was  welcome,  but  it  did  not 
constitute a substitute. 

the  effect  of 
nuclear-related  accidents  on  humanity  and  our 
environment  runs  deep.  We  therefore  support  strongly 
the  Agency’s  work 
international 
cooperation  in  nuclear  radiation  and  waste  safety,  and 
New  Zealand’s  concern  about 
strengthen 
to 









This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

00-73175 (E) 
*0073175* 

A/55/PV.53 

to 
the 
has 
The 
fulfil 
international 
the  maritime 
It  can  only  continue 
the  assistance  it  is  able  to  give  in  the  event  of  an 
accident.  New  Zealand  has  done  everything  it  can  to 
minimize  the  risks  of  nuclear-related  accidents  in  our 
own  country  and 
in  our  region.  But  we  remain 
vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  a  nuclear-related  accident 
because  of 
transport  of  radioactive 
materials. 

At  this  year’s  General  Conference  New  Zealand, 
along with a group of co-sponsors from a wide range of 
geographic regions, was responsible for a resolution on 
the  safety  of  transport  of  radioactive  materials.  That 
resolution, while perhaps not as strong as we would all 
have  liked,  moved  the  issue  forward  in  a  useful  and 
balanced way. We were particularly pleased that it was 
possible  to  secure  a  successful  outcome  by  consensus 
on a subject to which New Zealanders and others in our 
immediate region attach such importance. 

community 
high 
expectations  of 
International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency. 
those 
expectations if Member States ensure that the Director 
General  has  the  resources  and  the  support  to  meet  the 
challenges the  membership establishes for the Agency. 
New  Zealand  for  its  part  will  continue  to  contribute 
constructively  in  support  of  the  Agency’s  extremely 
important work. 
Mr. Šerkšnys (Lithuania): At the outset, I wish to 

thank Director General Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei for his 
comprehensive and excellent report on the work of the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA).  We  also 
wish  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  Agency’s 
outstanding  performance,  and  we  commend  his 
dedicated and effective leadership. 

Lithuania  has  aligned  itself  with  the  European 
Union  statement  delivered  yesterday  in  connection 
with  this  agenda  item. Apart  from  that,  I  wish  to  take 
this opportunity to outline a number of specific issues. 
The report of the Director General, transmitted in 

document  A/55/284,  comprehensively  and 
fairly 
reflects  the  wide  range  of  issues  that  have  been  the 
focus of the Agency’s attention over the last  year. The 
aspect  of  the  IAEA’s  activities  to  which  Lithuania 
attaches  special 
the 
promotion  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy. 
Against  the  background  of  growing  energy  demands 
world-wide,  Lithuania  concurs  with 
the  Director 
General that there are various opinions on the future of 
nuclear power.  Nuclear power  can  help to  meet  global 
importance 
its  work 
in 
is 
and 
Safety 
regional 
financial 
economic 
long-term 
improvements 
and  national 
competitiveness, 
notwithstanding, 
energy  needs  in  a  sustainable  and  environmentally 
conscious  manner. Yet,  much  still  needs  to  be  done  to 
increase 
advance 
technologies  and,  in  particular,  to  improve  public 
confidence. 

Over  a  number  of  years,  Lithuania  has  been 
among  the  leading  countries  in  terms  of  the  share  of 
nuclear  energy in  its  total  energy production.  Bilateral 
assistance  provided  by  donor 
and  multilateral 
countries, 
technical 
cooperation projects of the IAEA, have helped elevate 
the  safety  level  of  the  Ignalina  nuclear  power  plant  to 
internationally recognized safety standards. 

the 
parliament  of  Lithuania  earlier  this  year  took  the 
decision  to  shut  down  one  of  the  two  nuclear  reactors 
by  2005. The  estimated  cost  of  decommissioning  runs 
to  more  than  $1  billion,  and  the  overall  cost  of 
decommissioning  plus  the  treatment  and  storage  of 
radioactive  waste  and  used  nuclear  fuel  could  reach 
$3.5 billion. Given such an enormous financial burden, 
timely  decommissioning  could  well  depend  on 
considerable 
and 
technical 
assistance from the international community. 

The  first  international  donor  conference,  which 
took  place  in  Lithuania  in  June  2000,  marked  the 
beginning  of  a  long  process.  I  wish  wholeheartedly  to 
thank Governments of the European Union, the Group 
of  Seven  and  other 
financial 
institutions  and 
their  pledges  and 
commitments  with  respect  to  the  decommissioning  of 
the  Ignalina  nuclear  power  plant.  It  is  extremely 
important  that  the  participation  of  the  international 
community in managing the issues of decommissioning 
be long-term and continuous. 

the 
importance of IAEA activities. Lithuania has benefited 
greatly  from  technical  cooperation  programmes  in 
recent  years.  Now,  we  look  forward  to  having  a  new 
project  approved  under 
technical  cooperation 
programme,  whereby  the  IAEA  would  provide  long-
term technical assistance in decommissioning Unit 1. 
We  attach  utmost  importance to  the  safety  of  the 

reactor  during  the  phase-out  period.  Lithuania  has 
taken  steps  to  ensure  high  standards  of  safety  while 
decommissioning  the  reactor.  The  main  safety  criteria 
are  set  out 
the 
decommissioning  of  the  Ignalina  nuclear  power  plant, 
the  general  requirements  for 
regard,  we  wish 
interested  States, 
the  IAEA  for 
to  underline 
In 
that 
the 
in 
2 




A/55/PV.53
years 
in 
and 
the 
and 
guidelines 
and 
legally 
promoting 
Apart  from  safety, 
the  serious  issue  of 
International  Commission 
which  were  drafted  on  the  basis  of  documents  of  the 
IAEA 
on 
Radiological  Protection,  as  well  as  European  Union 
directives.  Last  year,  Lithuania  took  advantage  of 
missions  by 
the  International  Physical  Protection 
Advisory  Service  and  the  International  Probabilistic 
Safety Assessments  Review Team,  which  strengthened 
our confidence in our safety measures and criteria. 
The  vital  role  that  the  IAEA  has  been  playing 

over  many 
international 
cooperation to strengthen nuclear safety and the culture 
of safety is to be commended. The IAEA has spared no 
effort  to  develop  internationally  recognized  safety 
standards 
binding 
international conventions with regard to nuclear safety 
and  radiation  protection.  In  that  respect,  we  wish  to 
note  the  Convention  on  Assistance  in  the  Case  of  a 
Nuclear  Accident  or  Radiological  Emergency,  which 
was recently ratified by Lithuania. 

the 
management  of  radioactive  waste  and  spent  fuel  will 
remain  on the agenda  for the  longer term.  Minimizing 
the  amount  of  nuclear  waste  and 
its 
segregation  and  treatment  are  the  main  objectives  of 
our review of a national approach to radioactive waste 
management.  In  that  task  Lithuania  is  following  the 
guidelines  and  principles  of  the  Joint  Convention  on 
the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on  the 
Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. We strongly 
support  and  encourage  the  Agency’s  work  on  waste 
minimization,  especially  during  decommissioning 
operations. 

The  Agency’s  continuing  work  in  the  field  of 
sustainable energy strategies must also be commended. 
Over  the  years  the  Agency  has  developed  substantial 
expertise.  Its  data,  information  and  analysis  help 
national  decision-makers 
take  well-considered 
decisions on how best to meet the energy needs of their 
countries.  The  Agency’s 
research  and 
development projects on innovative nuclear fuel cycles 
and power plants is also to be noted. 

The debate on the future of nuclear power should 
not be confined to sustainable development but should 
be extended also to climate change. In that regard, the 
development  of  small  and  medium-sized  reactors  that 
could  be  competitive  in  their  own  right  is  to  be 
encouraged so as to keep all options open for the future 
improving 
to 
role 
in 
to 
inspections  and 
expansion  of  electricity  supply  systems  in  countries 
that lack sufficient alternative energy resources. 

The international community’s resolve to advance 
the  non-proliferation  regime  was  demonstrated  during 
the  2000  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT).  The  States  parties 
the  NPT  clearly 
acknowledged  that  the  non-proliferation  regime  could 
hardly  be  effective  without  input  from  the  Agency. 
Lithuania commends and strongly supports the work of 
the  Agency  in  its  pursuit  of  universal  signature  of 
additional  safeguards  protocols.  Lithuania  was  one  of 
the  first  States  to  sign  an  additional  protocol,  and  we 
ratified ours this year. 

The creation of a strengthened safeguards system 
has  yet  to  restore  confidence  in  the  system.  We  must 
ensure  that  the  Agency  has  the  financial  and  human 
resources  it  needs  to  carry  out  its  responsibilities  and 
improve  its  ability  to  detect  the  diversion  of  fissile 
materials  and  other  undeclared  activities.  In 
this 
regard, we commend the Agency’s efforts to strengthen 
the  overall  safeguards  system.  The  increased  use  of 
short-notice 
the  development  of 
advanced  verification  technologies  have  proved  to  be 
of  particular  value  in  this  respect.  However,  IAEA 
safeguards  can  be  effective  only  so  long  as  all  States 
honour their commitments. 

The  number  of  States  without  comprehensive 
safeguards  agreements  raises  concerns.  However,  it  is 
even more worrisome that the IAEA has not been able 
so  far  to  carry  out  its  Security-Council-mandated 
activities in Iraq or to provide assurances regarding the 
correctness  and  completeness  of  the  initial  declaration 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  We 
hope  that  the  latest  positive  developments  regarding 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  soon 
find their way into the area of safeguards. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  reiterate  that  Lithuania  looks 
forward  to  continuing  its  cooperation  with  the  IAEA, 
which  we  value  so  highly.  The  Agency  can  count  on 
Lithuania’s 
support.  Lithuania  has 
sponsored  draft  resolutions  on  the  report  of  the  IAEA 
for  a  number  of  years.  We  will  do  our  utmost  to 
support  the  draft  resolution  introduced  by  Nigeria;  we 
strongly wish to see it adopted by consensus. 
Mr. Ivanov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  I  wish 

at  the  outset  to  thank  the  Director-General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr. 
constructive 


3 

A/55/PV.53 

of 
the 
the 
Because 
to  meet 
limits  of 
ever-increasing 
among 
extensive 
international  organizations, 
interdependence 
develop 
Mohamed ElBaradei, for his introduction of the report 
of the Agency. My delegation has carefully studied the 
report, and highly appreciates its excellent quality. 

pace 
of 
technological progress, economic globalization and the 
the 
specialization  of  production,  and  because  of 
States, 
increasing 
Governments  must 
energy 
the  growing  demand  for 
infrastructures 
electricity.  Given 
traditional  energy 
sources,  it  was  necessary  to  find  a  new  way  of  safely 
providing affordable energy. That way was the peaceful 
use  of  nuclear  power.  But  we  know  from  bitter 
experience  that  even  the  peaceful  atom  has  caused 
terrible tragedies with world-shaking consequences.  

Under  those  circumstances,  the  work  of  the 
IAEA,  one  of  the  most  extraordinary  and  highly 
respected 
is  extremely 
important. We believe that the IAEA is playing a more 
important  role  than  ever  before  in  guaranteeing  the 
non-proliferation  regime,  in  creating  safe  systems  for 
current nuclear installations, and in providing scientific 
and technical assistance to its member States. 

Belarus  has  always  supported  the  work  of  the 
IAEA  aimed  at  guaranteeing  the  non-proliferation 
regime 
the 
strengthening  of  that  regime. This  is  evidenced  by  the 
fact 
that  my  country  has  signed,  and  is  strictly 
implementing 
the  Reduction  and 
Limitation  of  Strategic  Offensive Arms,  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the 
Safeguards Agreement. This  year,  our  Republic  joined 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  and  the 
Nuclear Suppliers Group. 
Guided  by  the  principles  of  non-proliferation, 

Belarus  of  course  complies  with  all  the  commitments 
entered  into  under  the  Safeguards Agreement.  Experts 
in  my  country  are  now  completing  the  process  of 
studying  the  protocol  additional  to  the  Safeguards 
Agreement with a view to signing it. In this respect, we 
are  grateful  to  the  Agency  for  organizing  in  Minsk  a 
special  seminar  on  sharing  experience  on  working  to 
implement the additional protocol. 

Our  delegation  would  like  to  inform  the  General 
Assembly that Belarus has now carried out a number of 
elements  on 
the  strengthened  safeguards  system. 
Agency  inspectors  have  annual  visas  and  are  able  to 
gain  access  so  that  they  can  take  samples  from  the 
the  Treaty  on 
consistently 
advocated 
and 
has 
the  IAEA  programme 
surfaces of hot chambers. The Government has made a 
decision  about  a  remote  monitoring  system  at  the 
National  Academy  of  Sciences  of  Belarus  Scientific 
and  Technical  Centre 
in  Sosny.  We  are  also 
participating  in  the  open-ended  working  group  to 
discuss the possibility and advisability of reviewing the 
1980 Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear 
Material. 

Should  the  States  Parties  adopt  an  agreed  and 
positive  decision  in  this  regard,  Belarus  will  seek  to 
ensure  that  due  account  is  given  to  the  interests  of 
countries  that  do  not  have  adequate  institutional  and 
financial  resources  in  order  to  help  to  improve  their 
is  also 
national  protection  systems.  Our  country 
actively  participating  in 
to 
combat  the  illicit  trafficking  in  nuclear  material  and 
other  radioactive  sources.  We  believe  that  it  is  now 
urgently  necessary  to  develop  a  single  conceptual 
approach  to  establishing  radiation  standards. As  many 
speakers  have  noted, 
introducing  such  common 
standards,  to  replace  the  various  standards  that  now 
apply,  would  help  countries  to  combat  trafficking  in 
nuclear  materials  and  also  facilitate  the  trade  in  and 
transport of goods across borders. 

is 
ensuring  maximum  security  for  currently  operative 
nuclear  energy  and  nuclear  technology  installations. 
Our  people  paid  an  enormous  price  in  learning  how 
important it is to ensure the safety of technology. As a 
result of the Chernobyl disaster thousands of adults and 
children  are  suffering  from a  variety of  cancers,  much 
of our fertile land has been taken out of production and 
our State has been forced to spend more than it spends 
on  national  defence 
the 
consequences  of  our  disaster.  In  this  context,  we  are 
grateful to the IAEA for the practical assistance that is 
has  provided  in  the  past  and  that  it  is  still  providing 
under the technical cooperation programme. 

for 
partnership  for  development  and  approves  of  the 
current 
technical 
cooperation  based  on  model  projects,  national 
framework programmes and thematic planning. We are 
particularly  impressed  by  the  fact  that  each  IAEA 
project is geared towards actual concrete output. 

Having  carefully  studied  the  report,  we  must 
point out that one of the most striking consequences of 
radiation  accidents  is  fear  of  radioactivity  on  the  part 
important  aspect  of  IAEA  work 
IAEA’s  proposal 
to  deal  with 
three-pronged 
supports 
Another 
strategy 
Belarus 
simply 
the 
for 
4 




A/55/PV.53
of  the  public.  This  can  be  overcome  only  by  proving 
that  nuclear  power  can  be  used  safely  to  help  people, 
both in theory and in practice. On the theoretical side, 
we  must  encourage  more  scientific  research  on  a  new 
generation  of  nuclear  power  plants  that  is  much  safer, 
even  in  emergency  situations,  and  more  efficient.  We 
hope that the IAEA will accord even more attention in 
future to developing this area of nuclear science. 

We  are  very  concerned  about  the  tendency  of 
young  scientists  and  specialists  with  nuclear  expertise 
to  leave  our  countries.  We  believe  that  the  safe 
functioning of our nuclear power structures will not be 
possible if we do not have highly educated and talented 
young people working in this area. To some extent this 
problem is due to a certain stagnation in efforts to find 
new  applications  for  nuclear  energy  and  to  improve 
existing technology. 

In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  Belarus  would 
like  to  commend  the  work  of  the Agency  and  support 
the  main  areas  of  future  activity.  We  hope  that  there 
will be close cooperation with the Agency in resolving 
all  problems  relating  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
power. 
Mr. Ahmad (Pakistan): First of all, I should like, 

on  behalf  of  my  delegation, 
extend  our 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), for his leadership and for the effective manner 
in which he is steering the work of the IAEA. 

Pakistan  remains  firmly  committed  to  the  goals 
and  objectives  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency.  As  a  founding  member  of  the  IAEA,  we  are 
glad  to  note  that  the  it  remains  among  the  most 
the  entire  United 
efficiently  run  organizations 
Nations 
it  are 
scientifically 
complex, 
politically  sensitive  and  financially  demanding.  The 
IAEA’s  statutory  objective  that  the  Agency  shall  seek 
to  accelerate  and  enlarge  the  contribution  of  atomic 
energy  to  peace,  health  and  prosperity  throughout  the 
world,  gives  it  a  unique  and  multifaceted  role  in  the 
process of economic development. 
We  acknowledge  with  appreciation  the  IAEA’s 

role  in  helping  Pakistan  to  benefit  from  the  peaceful 
use  of  the  atom  in  fields  ranging  from  nuclear  power 
production 
technical 
assistance,  the  IAEA  has  contributed  to  our  efforts  at 
establishing a base of professional manpower, research 
tasks  assigned 
technically 
to  agriculture.  Through 
system.  The 
challenging, 
its 
to 
in 
to 
its  part,  Pakistan  has  provided 
institutes, training  facilities,  medical  centres  and other 
technical  services  in  the  field  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
the atom. 

For 
training 
opportunities to many IAEA nominees. Our experience 
with  the  peaceful  uses  of  technology  is  being  shared 
with  other  developing  countries  only  under  IAEA 
auspices.  We  believe  that  such  interactions  among  the 
developing  countries  will  further  strengthen  the  spirit 
of technical cooperation among developing countries. 
Pakistan’s  impeccable  record  in  terms  of  nuclear 

safety and safeguards, its participation in the Agency’s 
promotional  activities  and  its  active  and  constructive 
role  in  the  IAEA’s  policy-making  organs  reflect  our 
abiding  commitment  to  the  promotion  of  the  peaceful 
uses of atomic energy. 

The  promotion  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy is the raison d’être of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency.  The  world  is  steadily  requiring  more 
energy.  Energy  multiplies  human  labour,  increasing 
productivity.  World  population  surpassed  the  6  billion 
mark last year. Yet one third of that number — 2 billion 
people  —  lack  access  to  electricity.  Development 
depends on energy, and the alternative to development 
is poverty and suffering. 

The  energy  demand  cannot  be  met  by  fossil  fuel 
alone,  as  this  would  place  an  unacceptable  burden  on 
the  environment.  The  massive  development  of 
hydropower  is  one  option.  The  only  other  proven  and 
sustainable option is the use of nuclear energy. We feel 
that  opposition  to  nuclear  power,  despite  its  good 
safety record and environmentally friendly character, is 
either  based  on  misunderstanding  or  is  a  deliberate 
pretext 
to  developing 
countries. 

Pakistan,  in  view  of  the  limitations  of  its  fossil 
fuel  and  hydropower  resources,  is  keen  to  make 
increasingly  large  use  of  nuclear  power  to  meet  its 
future electricity requirements. 

Moreover,  as  a  large  part  of  current  power-
generation requirements are being met through the use 
of  oil,  huge  oil-import  bills  are  incurred.  In  order  to 
diversify  the  country’s  power-generation  system  and 
reduce  its  dependence  on  energy  imports,  increasing 
the  use  of  nuclear  power  is  a  desirable  option  for 
Pakistan.  In  this  context,  we  duly  acknowledge  the 
cooperation  extended  by  the  IAEA  in  the  construction 
technology 
to  deny 
this 


5 

A/55/PV.53 

A 
is 
the 
The 
“safety 
culture” 
high-profile 
the  Convention 
immediately  and 
important  facet  of 
implementation  of  nuclear 
phase of our second nuclear plant at Chashma, which is 
under IAEA full safeguards. 

an 
indispensable  component  of  any  successful  nuclear 
power programme. The lessons of Chernobyl  must not 
be  forgotten in the context  of the  safe development  of 
nuclear  energy.  We  are  pleased  that  the  IAEA  has 
played  a  very  important  role  in  providing  information 
and  advice  to  all  its  members  on  safety-related issues. 
Pakistan has ratified the Convention on Nuclear Safety, 
as  we  believe  that  this  Convention  has  an  important 
role  in  improving  the  safety  culture  of  States  parties. 
We  call  upon  all  countries  with  nuclear  power 
programmes that have not already done so to accede to, 
and  ratify, 
thus 
enhance nuclear safety worldwide. 
safeguards 

agreements  constitutes  an 
the 
IAEA’s  activities.  We  are  satisfied  at  the  fact  that 
during  1999, 
IAEA’s  vast  safeguards-related 
activities,  extending  to  900  facilities  in  some  70 
countries  and  involving  more  than  10,000 person/days 
of inspection, show that the nuclear material and other 
items  declared  and  placed  under  Agency  safeguards 
were  used  in  peaceful  nuclear  activities  and  were 
adequately  accounted  for.  For  its  part,  Pakistan  has 
faithfully  discharged  its  safeguards  obligations  under 
its  agreements  of  the  INFCIRC/66  category  with  the 
Agency. 

Seen  in  the  context  of  the  IAEA’s  statutory 
obligations and the aspirations of a vast majority of its 
membership,  technical  cooperation  and  the  transfer  of 
IAEA’s 
technology 
promotional 
that,  as 
compared  to  the  projected  $73  million,  the  voluntary 
Technical  Cooperation  Fund  has  received  only  $64 
million.  While  lauding  the  Agency’s  positive  role  in 
technical  cooperation,  we  urge  that  this  aspect  of  the 
IAEA’s work be further strengthened. 

It is important, for the credibility of the IAEA and 
for  ensuring  widespread  benefits  from  the  peaceful 
uses  of  the  atom,  that  the  IAEA  maintain  its  focus  on 
its  technical  promotional  character.  As  such,  we  are 
concerned to note that there has been a visible shift in 
emphasis  towards  the  verification  role  of  IAEA.  This 
trend  needs  to  be  countered  and  corrected  and  the 
balance  restored.  Of  course,  safeguards  constitute  a 
basic  function  of  the  Agency.  But  safeguards  provide 
remain  at 
the 
role.  We  are  not  satisfied 
the  heart  of 
to 
We 
adopt 
expect 
the  Agency 
only  a  legal  framework  for  pursuing  the  primary 
objective  of  the  IAEA,  namely  the  promotion  of 
peaceful uses of atomic energy. 

non-
discriminatory measures in providing access to nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes.  The  Agency’s  primary 
purpose  is  to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
power under technically safe conditions, not to serve as 
a nuclear policeman. 

Pakistan  remains  committed  to  the  goals  of  non-
proliferation  and  nuclear  disarmament.  Pakistan  has 
historically  supported  all  proposals  and  agreements 
aimed  at  the  limitation,  progressive  reduction  and 
eventual  elimination  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
For  over  a  quarter-century,  we  made  efforts  and 
initiated  proposals  to  keep  South  Asia  free  of  nuclear 
weapons.  Those  efforts  collapsed  in  the  face  of  the 
Indian nuclear tests conducted in May 1998. 
It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  the  Indian  nuclear-

weapon  programme  developed  and  matured  on  the 
basis  of  the  illicit  acquisition  of  sensitive  technology 
and  a  not-so-secret  rechannelling  of  India’s  nuclear 
power  programme, 
its 
international  commitments  and  obligations.  For  many 
to  have  a  peaceful  nuclear 
years, 
programme.  Subsequent 
however, 
clearly  exposed  the  wide  gap  that  has  always  existed 
between its words and deeds. 

The  enormity  of  the  resultant  threat  to  our 
security  forced  us  to  conduct  our  own  nuclear  tests  to 
restore  a  strategic  balance  and  maintain  peace  in  the 
region. Restraint and responsibility remain the guiding 
principles of our nuclear policy. We have announced a 
unilateral moratorium on further testing and emphasize 
the need to prevent a nuclear arms race. 

We have also proposed to India the establishment 
of a strategic restraint regime in South Asia. During the 
past  year,  we  have  further  strengthened  our  already 
stringent  domestic  regulations  against  the  export  of 
nuclear equipment or materials. 
Mr.  Granovsky  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  would 
to 
welcome  the  Director  General  of  the  International 
(IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed 
Atomic  Energy  Agency 
ElBaradei,  and 
the 
Agency’s latest report to us. 
in  blatant  disregard  of 
developments, 
it  professed 
thanks  him 
introducing 
like 
for 
6 




A/55/PV.53
of 
through 
to  strengthen 
In  our  view, 
nuclear  weapons 

the  IAEA  report  provides  an 
objective  picture  of  the  multifaceted  work  of  the 
Agency,  covering  such  key  areas  as  ensuring  the  non-
proliferation 
its 
monitoring  functions  and  promoting  the  peaceful  use 
of  nuclear  energy  for  development.  The  Russian 
Federation believes it important to work with the IAEA 
to  develop  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  One 
noteworthy  example  of  this  was  the  signing  in  March 
this  year  of  the  protocol  additional  to  the  safeguards 
agreement between Russia and the IAEA. We are ready 
to  continue  doing  our  utmost 
the 
Agency’s policy-making and scientific potential. 

The  Agency  report  is  being  issued  after  the 
successful completion of the Review Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  Russia,  as  one  of 
the 
depositories for the NPT, is pleased that the documents 
adopted  at  the  Review  Conference  set  forth  a  detailed 
agenda for furthering nuclear disarmament. We believe 
that the Conference’s success derived from achieving a 
carefully  calibrated  balance  of  interests  in  the  final 
document.  Now,  if  we  want  that  document  to  be 
effective,  we  have  to  preserve  that  balance  without 
upsetting  it  for  the  benefit  of  this  or  that  national 
position. 

It  is  also  important  to  realistically  assess  the 
situation.  Further  reductions  of  strategic  offensive 
weapons  can  be  achieved  only  in  close  concurrence 
with  the  preservation  and  strengthening  of  the  Anti-
Ballistic  Missile  (ABM)  Treaty.  Preservation  of  the 
1972  ABM  Treaty,  which  is  the  keystone  of  global 
strategic stability, opens the possibility of concluding a 
START III agreement that provides for lower levels of 
warheads for each of the parties — 15,000 each. 

NPT  Conference  decisions  certainly  enhance  the 
role and the status of the IAEA as a universal organ for 
cooperation  among  States  in  the  nuclear  field.  In  our 
view,  the  main  tasks  facing the Agency  in the  twenty-
first  century  are,  on 
facilitating 
international  cooperation  to  provide  for  economically 
sound and environmentally safe uses of weapons-grade 
materials  in  civilian  nuclear  fuel  cycles  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  helping 
to  develop  new  nuclear 
technologies that cannot be used for weapons purposes. 

is  already  working  hard  on 
monitoring  the  use  of  fissionable  materials  generated 
by  weapons  programmes.  We  place  great  stock  in  the 
the  one  hand, 
The  Agency 
in 
in 
to  be  done 
this  area.  At 
crust  without 
sustainable  development,  both 
joint  work  being  carried  out  by  the  experts  of  Russia, 
the  United  States  and  the  IAEA,  under  the  framework 
of  the  1996  trilateral  agreement,  as  regards  applying 
Agency  monitoring  to  fissile  materials  from  weapons 
sources. The work is proceeding in accordance with the 
schedule approved by the three parties. 

As  for  establishing  innovative  technologies  that 
would be safe in terms of nuclear weapon proliferation, 
much  remains 
the 
Millennium  Summit,  our  President,  Mr.  Vladimir 
Putin, proposed a means of ensuring the energy needed 
for 
fundamentally 
resolving the problem of nuclear-weapons proliferation 
and  improving  the  health  of  the  global  environment. 
The  Russian  proposal  is  aimed  at  gradually  excluding 
the basic weapons-grade materials — enriched uranium 
and  pure  plutonium  —  from  being  used 
the 
production  of  peaceful  nuclear  energy.  We  have  done 
research  in  our  country  that  shows  there  is  a  real 
possibility  of  producing  nuclear  energy  without  these 
weapons-grade materials. Moreover there appears to be 
a  possibility  of  burning  plutonium  and  other  elements 
so as to ensure that these wastes can be returned to the 
Earth’s 
natural 
radioactivity of the Earth. This would put an end to the 
negative  impact  of  nuclear  energy  on  the  environment 
and  solve  definitively  the  problem  of  radioactive 
wastes. 
We  are  pleased  that  in  September  2000,  at  the 

IAEA  General  Conference, 
the  Director  General 
supported  the  Russian  proposal.  Work  has  now  begun 
on  its  practical  implementation.  In  this  regard  the 
IAEA  has  decided  to  establish  an  ad  hoc  group  on 
innovative  nuclear  reactors  and  fuel  cycles.  The  first 
meeting  of  this  group  will  be  held  at  the  end  of 
November 6, 2000. 

I  would  like  to  stress  that  the  Russian  proposal 
does  not  mean  the  immediate  renunciation  of  the 
current nuclear fuel cycle and the shutting down of all 
operating  nuclear  power  plants.  What  we  envisage  is 
broad international cooperation so that together we can 
develop future-oriented innovative reactor technology. 

We  are  pleased  that  the  draft  resolution  on  the 
IAEA  report  invites  interested  Member  States  to  work 
together  under  the  aegis  of  the  Agency  to  consider 
these matters. We also support IAEA efforts to prevent 
trafficking in nuclear materials, so as to raise the level 
of physical protection and develop national accounting 
disrupting 
the 


7 

A/55/PV.53 

in 
support 
to  provide 
the  Agency’s 
The  Agency’s  work 
and  monitoring  systems  for  nuclear  materials.  We 
support  broadening  cooperation  among  States  so  as  to 
stop nuclear smuggling. 

technical 
cooperation  to  developing  countries  so  that  they  can 
implement priority programmes relating to the peaceful 
use of nuclear energy is vitally important to Russia. We 
actively  participate 
technical 
cooperation  programmes  by  providing  equipment  and 
organizing  and  conducting 
training  courses  and 
seminars for specialists from developing countries. 

At  the  same  time,  we  think  it  important  that  the 
Agency support countries with economies in transition, 
the  consequences  of 
above  all  with  eliminating 
technological 
disasters.  We 
continuing 
international  community  assistance  to  countries  that 
are  suffering  from  the  after-effects  of  the  Chernobyl 
accident. We welcome the decision by the President of 
Ukraine to finally close this nuclear power plant. 

We  note  the  positive  political  changes  occurring 
in the Korean peninsula. Despite efforts to ignore these 
changes at the IAEA  General  Conference, a resolution 
was  adopted  regarding  these  changes.  We  hope  that 
positive  shifts  in  this  region  will  help  to  ensure  full 
implementation  of  the  safeguards  agreement  between 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the 
Agency. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  join  others  in  expressing 
approval  of  the  IAEA  annual  report  and  in  expressing 
the  hope  that  a  consensus  draft  resolution  containing 
the results of this review will be prepared. 
Mr.  Salazar  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  wishes  to  express  its  satisfaction  with  the 
comprehensive  report  by  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr. 
Mohamed  ElBaradei,  which  confirms  once  again  the 
efficient  performance  of  the  Organization  and  the 
Director  General’s  successful  leadership  of  a  group  of 
able  professionals,  committed  to  the  cause  of  nuclear 
safety and the peaceful use of nuclear energy. 

Peru, which is in one of the first nuclear-weapon-
free  zones,  places  great  importance  on  the  role  of  the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency  in  the  realization 
of the objectives of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  confirmed  at  the  last 
Conference 
important 
total  nuclear 
international 
of 
instrument  promoting 
parties 
this 
the 
to 
them 
to  give 
countries 
disarmament.  The  IAEA  also  has  an  important  role  in 
the  application  of  the  guarantees  and  safeguards  to 
which  States  possessing  nuclear  energy  must  commit 
themselves,  since  nuclear  energy  has  a  dual  character, 
threatening  but  at  the  same  time  with  ever  greater 
applications for the social development of peoples. 

Nevertheless,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  the  third 
pillar in the Agency’s work: technical cooperation with 
developing 
the  many 
possibilities  offered  by  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy, with its social impact. 

With respect to my country and subregion, I wish 
to refer to IAEA’s support for the development plan for 
the Peru-Ecuador border area for the period 2001-2002, 
with  the  approval  of  two  projects,  one  in  the  area  of 
nuclear  medicine,  which  is 
to  receive  significant 
funding,  and  the  other  on  the  application  of  isotopic 
techniques in  hydrology. The latter  has  been  approved 
as  a  regional  project,  in  which  Chile,  Costa  Rica, 
Colombia,  Ecuador,  Paraguay  and  Uruguay  also 
participate. The Agency  has  allotted  $2  million to this 
project.  
The  official  visit  of  the  Director  General  of  the 

Agency  to  Peru  in  October  1999  strengthened  the 
relationship  between  the  Agency  and  my  country, 
which  was  confirmed  at  the  highest  level.  That  visit 
enabled  us  to  inform  the  Agency  about  the  various 
activities for the peaceful use of nuclear energy carried 
out  in  my  country.  Furthermore,  the  signing  of  the 
Memorandum 
technical 
cooperation  with  the  IAEA  on  18  October  made  it 
possible  to  make  our  country  a  sort  of  regional 
technical  cooperation  centre,  using 
Instituto 
Peruano  de  Energia  Nuclear  (IPEN)  as  a  regional 
subcontractor,  in recognition  of  the Institute’s  work  as 
a  nuclear  research  centre,  as  well  as  a  producer  of 
the 
technological 
the 
Memorandum  of  Understanding 
context  of 
technical 
cooperation  programmes  for  the  region  for  the  period 
2001-2002,  as  well  as 
the  preparatory  work  for 
drawing up programmes for the next biennium. 

Lastly,  I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  the 
support  given  by  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  in  offering  my  country  a  regional  seminar  to 
promote the Additional Protocol, to be held in Lima in 
2001,  which  will  also  enjoy  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Peace,  Disarmament  and 
regional  workshop  on 
of  Understanding 
signing 
is 
services. 
timely, 
The 
the 
a 
on 
of 
in 
8 




A/55/PV.53
first 
in  Latin  America  and 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
Development  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  as 
well  as  the  Agency  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons 
the  Caribbean 
(OPANAL), which has its headquarters in Mexico. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  
I  should  like  to  inform  Members  that  action  on 

draft resolution A/55/L.25 and the amendments thereto 
will be taken on Friday, 10 November 2000, as the last 
item on the agenda. 

speaker 
current  Chairman 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/55/498)
The  President:  The 
is 
Agenda item 27 
Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Organization of African Unity 



the 
representative  of Togo,  who  will  make  a  statement  on 
behalf of the Organization of African Unity. 

Mr.  Kpotsra  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  In  his 
address  to  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session, 
President  Eyadéma, 
the 
Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU),  placed 
particular  stress  on,  among  other  things,  the  need  for 
the  international  community  to  resolutely  support  the 
tireless  efforts  made  by  African  countries  to  find 
lasting  solutions  to  the  enormous  problems  that  they 
still face several decades after attaining sovereignty. 

in  which 
African  States  find  themselves is  marked  by  a  notable 
lack  of  stability,  decaying  national  economies  and  a 
continually  worsening  health  situation.  This  situation, 
exacerbated by the perverse effects of globalization, in 
Africa 
international 
community  to  enhance  its  cooperation  with  African 
countries. 

the  United  Nations  clearly 
remains  the  most  appropriate  framework  for  action. 
Through  its  bodies,  its  funds,  its  programmes  and 
specialized  agencies, 
the  United  Nations  plays  a 
leading 
the  preservation  of  peace  and 
peacekeeping, as  well  as in promoting development in 
Africa. The conditions  in Africa  today require that the 
world  Organization  be  a  catalyst  for  the  assistance 
needed  by  African  countries,  by  strengthening  its 
subregional 
cooperation  with 
the 
organizations,  African  Governments 
and 
non-
The  particularly  difficult  situation 
should  naturally 
this  context, 
the  OAU, 
lead 
the 
of 


In 
role 
in 
to 
like 
further, 
electoral 
I  would 
peacekeeping, 
governmental  organizations  (NGOs).  That  is  why, 
before  going 
to  warmly 
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on  his  report  on 
cooperation between  the  OAU  and the  United  Nations 
system in the past year. 

Governed  by  the  Agreement  of  15  November 
1965, updated on 9 October 1990, cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU  has  in  recent  years 
grown  steadily.  It  covers  such  varied  areas  as  conflict 
prevention, 
assistance, 
humanitarian  aid  and  emergency  relief,  post-conflict 
reconstruction, the protection and promotion of human 
rights,  access 
information  and  communication 
technology, economic and  social  development,  as  well 
as managing refugee problems and demographic issues. 

As  is  the  case  every  year,  the  debate  offers  an 
opportunity  to  review  what  has  been  done  in  the 
different  fields  covered  by  this  partnership  in  the 
previous year, and especially to identify possibilities to 
further deepen and strengthen the partnership. 

With  respect  to  peacekeeping  and  security,  on 
which the United Nations undeniably has considerable 
experience,  which  it  could  use  to  help  strengthen  the 
capacity of the OAU and subregional organizations, we 
are  pleased  to  note  that  the  two  organizations  have 
continued to combine their efforts to settle and prevent 
conflicts in Africa. 

Thus,  under  the  tireless  leadership  of  President 
Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, the OAU’s  mediation 
efforts  in  the  conflict  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea 
made  it  possible  to  conclude,  on  18  June  2000,  the 
Agreement  on  Cessation  of  Hostilities  and 
the 
establishment and deployment by the Security Council 
of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Eritrea  and  Ethiopia 
under  the  terms  of  resolutions  1312  (2000)  and  1320 
(2000),  which  have  been  steadfastly  supported  by  the 
United  Nations.  The  final  phase  of  the  Mission,  in 
which  almost  4,200  troops  will  be  deployed  in  both 
countries,  will  be  launched  shortly,  according  to  the 
latest 
this  momentum 
towards  peace  will  continue  and  that  a  definitive 
settlement  to  this  border  dispute  between  the  two 
countries will be found. 

Congo, 
organizations. 
In  Burundi  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
involving  both 
initiatives  are  under  way 
information.  We  hope 
that 


9 

A/55/PV.53 

to 
In 
taken 
to  be 
to  note 
in  order 
this  respect,  I  am  pleased 

Another  important  element  of  United  Nations 
monitoring  of  African  conflicts  is  the  fact  that  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  in  close 
cooperation  with  the  OAU  Secretary-General,  has 
appointed  personal  representatives  or  special  envoys, 
inter alia, to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
Ethiopia/Eritrea.  This  cooperation  can  also  be  seen  in 
the  United  Nations  support  for  African  subregional 
organizations. 

the 
establishment  of  such  frameworks  of  cooperation  as 
the  coordination  mechanism  between 
the  United 
Nations,  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  (ECOWAS)  and  the  Government  of  Sierra 
Leone. The first  meeting of this  mechanism, held here 
in New York on 11 September, allowed us to assess the 
peace  process  in  Sierra  Leone  and  to  identify  urgent 
measures 
implement 
harmoniously  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council and the Lomé Peace Agreement. 

In spite of everything, the prevention of conflicts 
remains, in our opinion, the focal point for cooperation 
between  the  OAU  and  the  United  Nations.  Indeed,  it 
has been determined that the parties to a dispute tend to 
be  less  entrenched  in  the  early  stages  and  to  be  far 
more  inclined  to  seek  negotiated  solutions  than  they 
are after violence erupts. Loss costly from a human and 
financial  point  of  view,  prevention  also  offers  the 
greatest possibilities of addressing the root causes of a 
dispute, thus providing a genuine opportunity to lay the 
basis of a lasting peace. 

It  is  in  this  regard  that,  at  the  thirty-fifth  OAU 
Summit  in  Algiers,  the  African  heads  of  States  and 
Government,  having  proclaimed  the  year  2000  as  a 
year of peace, stability and development in Africa, are 
striving to join forces to prevent the emergence of new 
internal  and  inter-State  conflicts  and  the  political  and 
social  upheavals  that  are  likely  to  lead  to  serious 
disturbances. The steps undertaken a few weeks ago on 
behalf  of  the  pan-African  organization  by  some  10 
heads  of  State  are  part  of  this  process  and  should  be 
reinforced elsewhere and whenever necessary. 

Our  catchphrase  should  be  “focus  on  preventive 
measures”. In this respect, it is encouraging to note, as 
indicated  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  that  the 
Department  of  Political Affairs  is  working  to  that  end 
with 
the 
Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  has  posted  a 
the  OAU  Secretary-General  and 
that 
On 
in 
military  liaison  officer  to  the  OAU  office  in  Addis 
Ababa  in  order  to  enhance  information-sharing  and 
coordination. 

Similarly,  we  are  pleased  by  the  partnership 
established  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU 
through  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
to  strengthen  OAU  capacities 
the  prevention, 
management  and  settlement  of  conflicts  and  through 
the Trust Fund created to that end. 

Africa’s resolve to take control of its own affairs 
and  the  different  lines  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  OAU  should  not  make  us lose 
sight of the fact that the primary responsibility for the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  lies 
with  the  Security  Council.  In  this  regard,  the  United 
Nations  must  firmly  support  the  initiatives  of  African 
States  to  strengthen  African  capacity  in  peacekeeping 
and conflict settlement. 
It  is  extremely  distressing,  however,  to  note  that 

the international community has not always granted the 
kind  of  appropriate  attention  to  the  management  of 
conflicts in Africa that it has always accorded to other 
regions  of  the  world.  Moreover,  the  efforts  made  by 
Africans  themselves  —  I  refer  in  particular  to  those 
undertaken  pursuant  to  Chapter  VIII  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  such  as  the  involvement  of  the 
ECOWAS  Monitoring  Group  in  Guinea-Bissau  and 
Sierra  Leone  —  are  not  given  adequate  financial  and 
logistical support. 

thirty-sixth  OAU 
Summit,  through  the  Lomé  Declaration,  invited  the 
United  Nations  and  the  international  community  to 
accord  the  necessary  attention  to  the  management  and 
settlement of conflicts in Africa and actively to support 
initiatives  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  United 
Nations Charter. 

the 
We  hope 
recommendations  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Panel 
on  United  Nations  Peace  Operations, 
led  by 
Ambassador  Brahimi,  will  allow 
international 
community to find appropriate solutions to the problem 
of  peace  and  security  that  remains  the  central  concern 
of African countries. 
The  management  of  emergency  humanitarian 

situations 
is  another  important  area  of 
interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU. 
Emerging  as  a  result  of  crises  and  conflicts  between 
the  basis  of 
review  of 
in  Africa 
thorough 
that  a 
this, 
the 
the 
10 




A/55/PV.53
In 
the 
anniversary  of 
and  within  States,  the  issue  of  refugees  and  displaced 
persons  has  grown  in  importance,  while  the  resources 
allocated  to  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  have  been 
continuously on the decline. 

In  this  regard,  I  cannot  fail  to  welcome  the 
extensive cooperation between the OAU and UNHCR, 
which  led  to  a  special  OAU/UNHCR  meeting  of 
government  and  non-government  technical  experts  in 
Conakry  from  7  to  9  March  on  the  occasion  of  the 
thirtieth 
the OAU  Convention 
Governing  the  Specific  Aspects  of  Refugee  Problems 
in  Africa.  The  plan  of  action  adopted  at  that  meeting 
and  later  by  the  OAU  Council  of  Ministers  seeks  to 
remedy the critical situation of refugees in Africa.

Moreover,  natural  disasters  in  Africa  in  recent 
years  —  flooding  in  Mozambique,  the  cyclone  in 
Madagascar  and  drought 
in  Ethiopia  —  have 
highlighted the need for Africa to coordinate its efforts 
to  strengthen,  with  United  Nations  assistance,  its 
capacities  to  respond  more  swiftly  and  effectively  to 
emergencies and natural disasters. 
In  this  regard,  we  would  note  that,  in  the  2000-

2002 biennial action programme, drafted by the United 
Nations and the OAU at the conclusion of the meeting 
on  cooperation  held  by  their  respective  secretariats  in 
Addis Ababa on 10 and 11 April, the two organizations 
agreed on concrete measures to strengthen cooperation 
between  the  OAU  and  the  departments  and  competent 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  in  particular  the 
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. 

The  United  Nations  Children’s  Fund,  through  its 
actions  in  countries  affected  by  war,  such  as  Burundi, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Sierra 
Leone, has focused particular attention on  meeting the 
needs  of  children  in  the  framework  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  Similarly,  in  cooperation  with  the  World 
Bank  and  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific 
and Cultural Organization, the World Food Programme 
has sought over the past year to assist African countries 
that  have  adopted  national  plans  to  improve  primary 
school attendance. 
humanitarian 

assistance and development efforts all go hand in hand, 
we  must  also  address  the  root  causes  of  conflicts,  not 
merely  their  symptoms.  In  other  words,  the  effective 
management  of  conflicts  must 
to 
promote  sustainable  development,  eradicate  poverty, 
include  efforts 
prevention, 
conflict 
While 
reforms, 
area  of  democratic 
ease  the  unbearable  debt  burden  of  the  poor  countries 
and  encourage  and  follow-up  measures  for democratic 
and economic reform. 

the 
cooperation provided by the United Nations is a useful 
support  to  the  efforts  made  in  this  area  by  African 
States,  be  it  in  the  area  of  elections,  good  governance 
or  respect  for  human  rights.  The  electoral  assistance 
provided by the United Nations through its Department 
of Political Affairs is part of the efforts undertaken by 
African  countries  themselves  in  setting  up  stable  and 
representative  Governments  —  an  essential  factor  for 
the prevention of conflicts.  

From an economic point of view, there is no need 
to  point  out  that  the  quest  for  adequate  and  lasting 
solutions  to  the  problems  of  growth  and  economic 
development  are  concerns  of  African  States.  In  this 
respect, the OAU and African countries have, in recent 
years,  endeavoured  to  begin  drastic  economic  reforms 
and programmes on a continental scale: the Lagos Plan 
of Action is still relevant 19 years later, as  well as the 
African  Economic  Community  —  launched  in  1991; 
the Cairo Programme of Action of 1995  — devoted to 
enhancing economic and social development in Africa; 
and  finally  the  African  Union  —  a  project  that  was 
launched  at  the  special  summit  in  Surt  in  September 
1999  and  was  adopted  at  the  last  OAU  Summit  in 
Lomé. The expertise of the Economic Commission for 
Africa  of  the  United  Nations  is  particularly  beneficial 
for  the  Secretary-General of  the  OAU  in  his  efforts to 
draw  up  various  strategies  for  integration  within  the 
continent.  
The implementation of these different integration 

measures 
through 
cooperation among African States, the World Bank and 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  —  the  latter  two 
providing  the  assistance  to  the  African  States  that 
would  allow  them  to  strengthen  their  capacity  for 
macroeconomic management.  

Likewise,  cooperation  among the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development,  the  OAU  and 
African  States  would  allow  Africa  to  implement  the 
programmes  mentioned  above  insofar  as  they  would 
help African countries in multilateral trade negotiations 
and  would  allow 
from 
advantages  offered  by  globalization  and  to  be  able  to 
deal with the risks it brings. 
further  benefit 
enhanced 
certainly 
can 
them 
to 
be 


11 

A/55/PV.53 

the  part  of 
sustainable  development 

The  objectives  pursued  by  the  United  Nations 
through its deep and multi-faceted partnership with the 
OAU  and  African  countries  include  the  effort  to 
eradicate poverty in Africa. If, in spite of commitments 
made  and  efforts  undertaken,  the  awaited  results  are 
late in coming, it is because of the diversity and scope 
of the problems.  

As  we  are  aware,  the  financial  situation  of  the 
continent  is  characterized  by  an  enormous  external 
debt,  stagnant  national  savings,  as  well  as  declining 
official  development  assistance  and  weak  private 
capital flows.  

During  the  review  of  agenda  item  50,  entitled 
“Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace 
and 
in  Africa,”  many 
delegations  highlighted  the  impact  of  these  different 
factors on prospects for development in Africa.  

Of  course  the  critical  situation  of  financing  for 
development  in  Africa  will  not  improve  overnight 
without  a  new  political  will  and  a 
renewed 
commitment  on 
international 
community.  In  this  regard,  the  United  Nations  plays  a 
leading  role  in  mobilizing  the  adequate  resources  that 
Africa requires. It must also play a more active role in 
the  crusade  carried  out  by African  countries  to  cancel 
their external debt. 
Likewise,  since  information  and  communication 

technologies can  help to  promote economic and  social 
development  and  to  alleviate  poverty,  the  United 
Nations must firmly support African States in this area 
as well.  

The high-level debate organized by the Economic 
and Social Council during its substantive session of the 
year  2000  on 
theme  of  “Development  and 
international  cooperation  in  the  twenty-first  century: 
the  role  of  information  technology  in  the  context  of  a 
knowledge-based global economy”  made it possible to 
take  stock  of  the  importance  of  this  matter  vis-à-vis 
African  countries  and  of 
that 
separates Africa from the other regions of the world.  

It  is  therefore  desirable  that  initiatives  designed 
to assist Africa, such  as the first African  Development 
Forum  —  organized  in  Addis  Ababa  in  October  1999 
under  the  aegis  of  the  Economic  Commission  for 
Africa — should be often repeated. This Forum made it 
possible  for  the participants to adopt a  certain  number 
of  programmes,  including  NGO-NET  —  an  action 
the  digital  divide 
the 
the 
Health 
in  all 
Last  week, 
group  that  aims  to  include  civil  society  in  promoting 
information  and  communication  technologies  in  the 
service of development in Africa. 

is  also  a  very 
important  area  of 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU. 
In  this  regard,  actions  carried  out  by  the  United 
Nations  system  to  control  HIV/AIDS  on  the  one  hand 
and to fight malaria on the other are to be welcomed.  

the  General  Assembly  adopted 
without a vote — certainly in a spirit of solidarity with 
the people of Africa — resolution 55/13, in which it 

“decides  to  convene,  as  a  matter  of  urgency,  a 
special session of the General Assembly, from 25 
to  27  June  2001,  to  review  and  address  the 
problem  of  HIV/AIDS 
its  aspects.” 
(resolution 55/13, para. 1) 

Africa  expects  a  great  deal  from  this  meeting, in 
the  preparation  of  which  the  Director  of  the  Joint 
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  should  play 
a  leading  role.  In  this  regard,  it  warrants  the  support 
and  the  constant  encouragement  of  the  international 
community.  

We  must  also  welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the 
World  Health  Organization  in  the  area  of  protection 
and  improvement  of  health  for  all,  in  particular  the 
poorest and the most vulnerable. The campaigns, “Roll 
Back  Malaria”  in  Africa,  the  programme  to  reduce 
maternal mortality through better access to appropriate 
care  in  developing  countries  and  the  Global  Alliance 
for Vaccines and Immunization are all telling examples 
of these efforts that greatly benefit Africa. 

To conclude, I would like to point out that despite 
the  continuing  enhancement  of  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU,  many  challenges 
remain. In order to overcome these challenges, we need 
time,  resources  and  comprehensive  initiatives  that  are 
appropriate  and  bold  on  the  part  of  the  OAU  and  the 
United Nations, its funds, programmes and specialized 
agencies,  as  well  as  the  international  community  as  a 
whole.  

Africa,  as  was  mentioned  on  12  September  2000 
by  the  current  Chairman  of  the  OAU,  must  face  all 
kinds  of  difficulties,  but  it  remains  a  region  that  is 
potentially wealthy and as a result must be assisted and 
supported  in  order  to  fulfil  its  immense  potential. 
Cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU 
will help to achieve this objective. 
12 




A/55/PV.53
their  senior  advisers, 
Mr. Levitte  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am 

pleased  to  take  the  floor  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  The  countries  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe 
associated  with  the  European  Union  –  Bulgaria,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania, 
Poland,  Romania,  Slovakia  and  Slovenia  –  and  the 
associated countries of Cyprus, Malta and Turkey align 
themselves with this statement. 

First  of  all  the  European  Union  would  like  to 
express  its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  report  he  submitted  to  the  Assembly  under  this 
agenda  item.  Although  much  remains  to  be  done,  the 
report shows the extent to which the two organizations 
have  been  able  to  develop  close  ties  in  order  to  work 
together in various fields. 

The  European  Union  especially  welcomes  the 
ongoing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  to  enhance 
their  mutual  capacity  to  prevent  and  resolve  conflicts 
in  Africa.  While  it  feels  it  vital  to  continue  holding 
regular  meetings  between  the  two  Secretaries-General 
the  European  Union 
and 
nevertheless  feels 
the  current  Chairman  and 
members of the OAU General Secretariat could appear 
more  often  before  the  Security  Council  to  provide 
information  on  their  management  of  various  African 
crises. 

the 
United Nations and the OAU is taking place at what is 
still  a  critical  time  for  the  African  continent.  On  the 
one hand, we can see some signs of political and socio-
economic  progress.  On  the  other  hand,  more  than  a 
third  of  African  countries  are,  or  have  recently  been, 
involved  in  armed  conflict.  The  European  Union  is 
deeply  concerned  over  the  increase  in  the  number  of 
armed  conflicts,  the  constant  influx  of  arms  and 
military 
role  of 
the  growing 
uncontrolled rebel groups in armed conflicts. 

the 
Security Council has the primary responsibility for the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  the 
European Union welcomes the commitment by African 
countries  and  regional  organizations  to  play  a  leading 
role in conflict prevention and resolution in Africa. The 
European  Union  commends  the  efforts  by  African 
leaders  and  States,  as  well  as  by  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  and 
the 
Today’s  debate  on  cooperation  between 
While  recalling 
in  particular 
the  Charter, 
that,  under 
equipment 
that 
and 
Organization  of African  Unity,  to  resolve  conflicts  by 
peaceful means. 

As  we  said  last  year,  the  European  Union  has  a 
consultative mechanism with the OAU, which we wish 
to  develop  further.  In  particular,  we  are  willing  to 
strengthen  dialogue  with  the  OAU  and  subregional 
organizations on concrete ways of backing their efforts, 
inter  alia, 
in  preventive  diplomacy,  peacekeeping, 
heightening awareness of the importance of respect for 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law,  and 
promoting  the  rule  of  law  and  a  pluralist  society.  The 
European  Union  has  adopted  a  common  position  on 
human  rights,  democratic  principles,  the  rule  of  law 
and good governance in Africa. It gives high priority to 
a  positive  and  constructive  approach,  with  a  view  to 
supporting efforts by the OAU, subregional groups and 
African  countries  to  promote  respect  for  human  rights 
and good governance. 

In this context, the European Union welcomes the 
success  of  the  Africa-Europe  Summit  which  was  held 
in  Cairo  this  year  under  the  aegis  of  the  European 
Union  and  the  OAU.  In  many  respects,  the  Cairo 
Declaration  and  the  Cairo  Plan  of  Action  serve  as 
reference  documents  and  instruments  for  cooperation 
on  security,  social  welfare  and  health,  particularly  in 
against  HIV/AIDS.  The 
respect  of 
countries 
commitments  made 
themselves 
the 
environment,  good  governance  and  human  rights  must 
be actively supported by the international community. 

various 
subregional  situations,  I  would  like  to  pinpoint  three 
areas  in  which  we  feel  all  the  bodies  concerned, 
particularly  the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU,  should 
cooperate more closely. 

The  first  is  the  fight  against  trafficking  in  small 
arms  and  light  weapons.  The  initiative  taken  by  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS) to impose a moratorium on the import and 
manufacture  of 
should  be  actively 
supported and most certainly extended to other regions 
of Africa. 
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  establishment  of  an 

integrated  and  coordinated  mechanism 
to  counter 
trafficking  in  raw  materials  and  arms,  the  European 
Union  welcomes  the  Security  Council’s  efforts  to 
improve its understanding of the economic origins and 
commercial  aspects  of  certain  African  conflicts.  It 
the  African 
small  arms 
concerning 
Before 
sector, 
social 
going 
detail 
about 
the 
fight 
by 
the 
into 


13 

A/55/PV.53 

to 
the 
investigate 
the  various 
the  same  from  one  crisis 
notes with satisfaction the establishment for Angola of 
a  mechanism to  monitor sanctions against UNITA; the 
setting  up  of  a  panel 
illegal 
exploitation of resources in the Democratic Republic of 
Congo; and the creation of a panel to investigate illegal 
trade in  diamonds  and  arms  in  Sierra  Leone. It  is  also 
possible to envisage having a single expert body, under 
the  aegis  of  the  United  Nations  Secretary-General,  to 
centralize  all  information  and  draw  vital  comparisons 
between 
situations.  Trafficking,  by 
definition,  knows  no  frontiers,  and  criminal  interests 
are  often 
to  another. 
Cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU 
in this field will be decisive. 

Thirdly,  and  lastly, there  should  be  a  much  more 
systematic awareness campaign against the use of child 
soldiers 
in  all  countries  in  conflict.  The  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Children 
and Armed Conflict, Mr. Olara Otunnu, and the United 
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) are doing excellent 
groundwork,  which should be  more actively supported 
by all the political bodies involved. 

The European Union attaches great importance to 
its  regular  dialogue  on  crisis  management  with  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  with 
African regional and subregional organizations. 

With  regard  to  Sierra  Leone  and  the  situation  in 
the  three  countries  of  the  Mano  River  Union,  the 
European  Union  is  in  close  contact  with  ECOWAS. A 
preliminary  ministerial  meeting  between  the  European 
Union  and the West African regional  organization  was 
held  in  Abuja  on  15  October  2000.  The  European 
Union  also  supports  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Sierra  Leone 
(UNAMSIL)  to  restore  peace  to  the  country,  and  calls 
on the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) to engage in 
the  process  of  demobilization,  disarmament  and 
rehabilitation provided for under the Lomé agreements. 
The  European  Union  also calls on  all the  States in  the 
region to scrupulously respect the embargo on arms for 
non-governmental  forces  and  the  embargo  on  non-
certified  diamonds 
imposed  by  Security  Council 
resolutions 1132 (1997) and 1306 (2000). 

With  regard  to  the  Horn  of Africa,  the  European 
Union  reiterates  its  full  support  for  the  diplomatic 
efforts  by  the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU  to  resolve 
the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. It welcomes 
the recent resumption of talks in Algiers with Ethiopia 
to 
to 
the 
and 
the  Congo 
and  Eritrea,  and  considers  that  the  creation  of  the 
United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea should 
constitute  a  crucial  factor  in  stabilizing  the  situation. 
The European Union calls on the parties to implement 
Security  Council  resolution  1320  (2000).  It  also 
commends the extremely positive results of the process 
conducted  by  President  Guelleh  of  Djibouti  regarding 
Somalia.  The  success  of  the  Arta  conference  and  the 
creation  of  new  Somali  institutions  have  won  the 
unequivocal  and  firm  support  of  the  international 
community.  The  European  Union  calls  all  on  all  sides 
that have not yet done so to participate in this process. 

The  European  Union  reaffirms  its  support  for 
United Nations and OAU efforts to restore peace to the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  region.  It 
urges  the  parties  to  implement  the  Lusaka  Ceasefire 
relevant  Security  Council 
Agreement 
regional  players  and 
resolutions.  Together  with 
the  Southern  African 
organizations,  particularly 
Development  Community, 
the  OAU  played  an 
important part in bringing the parties to the conflict in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the 
negotiating  table  in  1999  and  in  the  signing  of  the 
Lusaka  Ceasefire  Agreement.  The  OAU  also  made  a 
tangible  contribution 
the 
Ceasefire  Agreement  by  sending  observers,  creating 
the  Joint  Military  Commission  and  appointing  the 
facilitator  of  the  inter-Congolese  national  dialogue. 
The  European  Union  supports  OAU  efforts  and 
provides  assistance  for  funding  the  Joint  Military 
Commission and facilitating the national dialogue. 
The  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 

Congo remains very troubling. The Union is concerned 
about 
resumption  of 
hostilities,  which  could  jeopardize  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  (MONUC).  It  is  essential  that  the  OAU 
pursue  its  endeavours  to  achieve  a  settlement.  In  this 
connection,  we  note  that  the  States  parties  to  the 
conflict  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  at 
the recent Maputo summit, asked the OAU to assist in 
appointing  the  new  Chairman  of  the  Joint  Military 
Commission.  We  also  think  the  OAU  can  play  an 
important  role  in  helping  overcome  the  deadlock 
stalling the inter-Congolese dialogue. 
Sustainable  development  in  Africa  is  a  priority 

for 
the  European  Union.  The  European  Union’s 
commitment  to  Africa  is  based  on  shared  interests, 
values and objectives. We  wish  to  help Africa  achieve 
the  dangers  of  a  general 
implementation  of 
14 




A/55/PV.53
living 
and 
a  key 
role 
remains 
countries 
the  major 
and  African 
assistance  plays 
peace  and  stability  in  order  to  improve  the  quality  of 
life  of  its  people.  A  political  climate  conducive  to 
respect  for  human  rights  and  good  governance  and  an 
active  civil  society  are  essential 
for  sustainable 
development. In this respect, development cooperation 
must play an important role. 

The European Union remains determined to fight 
poverty  and  meet  the  target  of  halving  the  number  of 
in  extreme  poverty  by  2015.  The 
people 
European  Union 
source  of 
development  aid  for Africa.  It  accounts  for  more  than 
two thirds — I repeat, more than two thirds — of total 
official  development  assistance  to  sub-Saharan Africa. 
Development 
in 
underpinning  the  policies  pursued  by  the  African 
countries.  This  is  particularly  the  case  in  the  least 
developed  countries,  three  quarters  of  which  are  in 
Africa.  Donors 
share 
responsibility for ensuring that development assistance 
is used effectively. 

With  particular  regard  to  the  question  of  debt,  I 
would like to stress that the European Union considers 
the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) 
Debt  Initiative  an  essential  ingredient  for  fighting 
poverty 
sustainable  development 
objectives.  So  far the  European  Union  has  contributed 
68  per  cent  of  the  total  payments  made  to  the  Trust 
Fund  to  finance  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries 
Debt Initiative. It  calls  on  eligible countries to  honour 
their  international  political  commitments  and  to  take 
the necessary political and economic measures in order 
to  begin 
that  upon 
implementation  of 
the 
resources mobilized are allocated to social sectors such 
as education and health and that they promote the rule 
of  law,  good  governance,  the  participation  of  civil 
society and human development. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  highlight  the  European 
Union’s  willingness  to  work  with  all  our  African 
friends  in  drawing  up  a  draft  resolution,  much  more 
focused than those of years past, that could truly place 
emphasis on those issues that are a priority for renewed 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization of African Unity. 
Mr.  Ka  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  wish  to 

begin  by  associating  myself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  Ambassador  of  Togo,  the  country  currently 
presiding  over  the  Organization  of  African  Unity 
the  HIPC  Debt  Initiative, 
the  United  Nations  and 
this  process,  and 
to  ensure 
achieving 
this 
The 
item 
review  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  United  Nations  and 
(OAU).  I  also  wish  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  quality  and  relevance  of  his  report  on 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization of African Unity. 

is  of  particular 
importance  for Africans  because,  since  1960,  the  year 
of  African  countries’  independence,  our  continent  has 
been  a  major  concern  of  the  international  community 
and  thus  holds  a  special  place  on  the  United  Nations 
agenda.  
This interest given to Africa stems certainly from 

the  continent’s  geopolitical  position,  but  also,  and 
above  all,  from  the  diversity  and  complexity  of  the 
political,  economic  and  social  problems  that  African 
States face. 

Thus,  you  will  understand,  Mr.  President,  the 
importance  that  African  countries,  joined  together  in 
the  framework  of  our  pan-African  organization,  attach 
to  the  consolidation,  deepening  and  expansion  of 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization of African Unity. 

This  multifaceted  cooperation  is  a  model  that 
today  goes  beyond  the  narrow  scope  of  institutional 
relations  between  two  organizations  and  embraces  the 
positive  synergy  of  the  activities  and  contributions  of 
other actors on the international scene. 

strives 
become 
multidimensional  in  order  to  better  tackle  all  African 
aspirations 
the 
promotion  of  the  rule  of  law,  the  promotion  of  human 
rights and a  suitable response  to  the  irresistible  march 
of  globalization,  which 
is  shaping  contemporary 
international relations in a new way. 
In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  gives  an 

exhaustive  overview  of  the  actions  undertaken  during 
the  past  year,  with  regard  to  both  the  actions  of  the 
Secretariat  itself  and  those  of  the  various  programmes 
and  bodies  of  the  two  organizations  in  the  framework 
of  their  cooperation.  In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to 
welcome  and  underscore  in  particular  the  decisive 
enthusiasm shown by both Secretaries-General in their 
cooperation  through  their  regular  meetings  outside  of 
OAU summits and General Assembly sessions, as well 
as  through  their  regular  meetings  regarding  crises 
affecting  Africa  in  order  to  better  coordinate  their 
actions in the areas of policy and security. 
to  peace,  stability,  development, 
cooperation 
This 
to 


15 

A/55/PV.53 

In 
We  should  also  welcome 
Despite  the  bold  reforms  carried  out  to  improve 

the  macroeconomic  situation  and 
to  democratize 
political  systems,  the  African  continent  is  still  shaken 
by  many  areas  of  tension.  For  example,  there  are  the 
crises in Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, Burundi, Angola and, Somalia and the conflict 
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea. 
those  various 
situations cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  OAU  in  the  area  of  conflict  prevention  and 
peacekeeping  has  been  decisive  in  that  it  has  made  it 
possible  to  set  up  technical  arrangements  to  facilitate 
the  implementation  of  ceasefire  agreements  and  to 
deploy  joint  civilian  and  military  missions,  thereby 
strengthening African capacities for conflict prevention 
and management. 
the  wholehearted 

support  the  United  Nations  provides  the  OAU  within 
the  framework  of  the  OAU  Mechanism  for  Conflict 
Prevention, Management and Resolution. In particular, 
we  appreciate  the  United  Nations  interest  in  the  OAU 
Peace  Fund,  whose  resources,  acquired  thanks  to  the 
generosity  of donor  countries,  have  helped  to improve 
the  capacity  for  conflict  prevention  and  peacekeeping 
in Africa. 
With regard to following up major African crises, 

my  delegation  notes  with 
the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  in  close 
cooperation  with  the  OAU  Secretary-General,  has 
appointed  personal  representatives  or  envoys  to  Sierra 
Leone, 
the  Congo, 
Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Angola  and  the 
Central African Republic. 
clearly 

encouraging,  and 
to 
the 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  and  the 
leadership  of  the  two  Secretaries-General.  But  this 
progress, as positive as it is, has not served to stem the 
dissatisfaction  felt  by  Africa  towards  an  international 
community  that  is  often  too  reluctant  to  manage 
serious  crises  that  break  out  in  Africa.  The  relative 
failure  of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Sierra  Leone 
and,  especially, 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  where  the  deployment  of  a 
United  Nations  mission  has  been  indefinitely  put  off, 
are  perfect  illustrations  of  how  the  United  Nations 
often  fails  in  its  duty  to  assist  Africa  in  the  way 
Africans 
the 
international community.  
the  Democratic  Republic  of 
are 
attributed 
the  Organization 
the  situation 
achievements 
should  be 
satisfaction 
expect  of 
various 
These 
that 
in 
and 
to 
for 
the 
and 
turn 
agenda 
economic 
Programme, 
their  efforts 
the  example  of 
It is in that context that Senegal congratulates the 

members  of 
the  Panel  on  United  Nations  Peace 
Operations.  Through  the  report  known  as  the  Brahimi 
report,  the  Panel’s relevant  recommendations  offer the 
United Nations new possibilities to reduce tensions and 
manage  conflicts  wisely  in  order  to  allow  countries 
ravaged  by  war 
towards 
development.  This  is  how  Senegal  sees  the  import  of 
the Brahimi report and its relevant recommendations. 

Indeed,  without  peace,  security  and  stability, 
development  becomes  empty  rhetoric.  But  without 
development,  peace  can  only  be  precarious.  This 
approach,  which  is  both  didactic  and  dialectic,  must 
henceforth  become  the  foundation  of  a  new  United 
Nations 
social 
development  of Africa. This  approach is  starting to be 
implemented  jointly  by  African  countries  and  the 
operational  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
following 
the  United  Nations 
the  United  Nations 
Development 
Children’s  Fund,  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
the  United  Nations  International 
and,  above  all, 
Development  Organization,  which, 
close 
cooperation  with  African  countries,  has  launched  a 
project called Alliance for Africa’s Industrialization. 
Other agencies of the United Nations, such as the 

World  Health  Organization  and 
the  Joint  United 
Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS,  are  also  applying 
themselves  to  the  fight  against  the  AIDS  pandemic, 
which  is  a  true  scourge  in  Africa.  We  must  also 
mention  the  assistance  of  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on behalf of 
the  7  million  refugees  and  displaced  persons  on  the 
continent through its programmes to assist such people 
and to help them return to their countries of origin. 

My  delegation  is  convinced  that  the  United 
Nations  can  do  more,  and  wants  to  do  better,  for 
Africa. That was the wish expressed by the participants 
in  the  Millennium  Summit  in  the  final  Declaration, 
which devoted an entire section to the specific needs of 
Africa, which must be harmoniously integrated into the 
world  economy.  We  hope  that  this  commitment  of  the 
international community will not be in vain, and that it 
will  soon  lead  to  concrete  action,  given  that Africa  is 
ready to undertake its share of responsibility. 

That  responsibility  is  in  evidence  in  the  historic 
decision taken by OAU heads of State and Government 
at Lomé last July to set up the African Economic Union 
in 
16 




A/55/PV.53
and 
from 
concrete 
response 
cooperation 
and  more  dynamic 
therefore  earnestly  appeals 
to forge their common destiny. Through that extremely 
significant political act, Africa is today more than ever 
ready  to  mobilize  all  its  resources  to  tackle  the  many 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  through  greater 
political, economic and social integration. 

It goes without saying that the fulfilment of such 
an  ambition  for  Africa  requires  time,  energy  and  true 
political  will  on  the  part  of  Africans.  It  also  requires 
a 
closer 
comprehensive, 
this 
Organization,  from  the  entire  United  Nations  system 
and  from  the  international  community  at  large.  My 
delegation 
to  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  support  the  draft 
resolution  to be submitted on  cooperation between  the 
United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. 
Mr. Darwish (Egypt)  (spoke in Arabic): I  wish  at 

the  outset  to  convey  our  thanks  to  the  Secretary-
General  for 
the  comprehensive  report  (A/55/498) 
before  the  Assembly  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of African  Unity 
(OAU). The report is of particular importance at a time 
when  increasing responsibilities  are  being  entrusted to 
the  OAU  and  when  it  is  necessary  to  strengthen 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  in  the 
diplomatic,  political,  military,  economic, 
social, 
development and other spheres. Such cooperation is to 
the  benefit  of  Africa  and  helps  enhance  the  structural 
and  institutional  capacities  of  the  OAU  —  which,  in 
Egypt’s view, constitutes the ultimate goal. 
I wish therefore to hail the ongoing efforts of the 

the 
secretariats  of 
Organization  of  African  Unity 
the 
mechanisms  for  cooperation  and  consultation  between 
the  two  organizations,  which  include  at  least  twice-
yearly meetings between the Secretaries-General of the 
United  Nations  and  of  the  OAU:  once  during  the 
Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
OAU, and once during the General Assembly session at 
New York. 

The report of the Secretary-General indicates that 
in  its  programme  of  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  for  2000-2002, 
the  OAU  secretariat  has 
highlighted  a  number  of  priority  issues  in  which 
current  programmes  need  to  be  enhanced  in  order  to 
reach the desired goals. These include: debt relief, debt 
cancellation 
flows; 
implementation  of  the  Treaty  Establishing  the African 
the  United  Nations  and  of 
to  strengthen 
increasing 
resource 
and 
in 
We  hope 
that  coming  years  will 
Economic  Community  —  the  Abuja  Treaty;  health 
issues  such  as  combating  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria; 
issues  of  democracy  such  as  good  governance  and 
respect for human rights; and enhancing the capacity of 
the Organization of African Unity to respond rapidly to 
crises and to engage in conflict management. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  Africa  faces  formidable 
challenges  on  all  those  issues  and  that  the  burden  of 
armed  conflicts  under  way  in  various  parts  of  the 
continent  is  growing  heavier.  The  delegation  of  Egypt 
looks  to  the  world  Organization  to  formulate  specific 
joint  programmes  to  attain  the  ambitious  goals  that 
have  been  identified  with  respect  to  each  of  those 
issues. It is our hope that all organs and agencies of the 
United  Nations  system  will  participate 
those 
programmes  and  endeavours  until  they  achieve  their 
desired goals. 

see  a 
strengthening of cooperation between the OAU and the 
United Nations in all those priority fields. We hope too 
that  they  will  see  further  efforts  to  improve  the 
institutional  capacity  of  the  Organization  of  African 
Unity  so  that  it  can  rely  on  its  own  resources  in 
meeting 
continent, 
specifically  the  settlement  and  management  of  armed 
conflicts. In that context, we call on the United Nations 
to  lend  particular  support  to the  activities of the  OAU 
Mechanism  for  Conflict  Prevention,  Management  and 
Resolution, by developing  its capacities in  the  spheres 
of  early  warning,  logistical  support  and  technical 
assistance,  training  of  civilian  and  military  personnel, 
and  encouraging  donor  countries 
to  contribute 
generously  to  the  various  trust  funds  set  up  by  the 
United  Nations  and  by  the  Organization  of  African 
Unity towards that noble objective. 

As  we  see  from  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General, over the past year the Organization of African 
Unity  has  made  commendable  efforts  in  taking  the 
initiative in settling armed conflicts in Africa. Africa’s 
political will has been reflected in positions taken on a 
number  of  issues:  in  West  Africa,  the  Sierra  Leone 
conflict; 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi; and in 
the  Horn  of  Africa,  the  settlement  of  the  conflict 
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  and  the  establishment  of 
Somalia’s first national Government since 1991. 

We  welcome  efforts  to  enhance  the  capacity  of 
the  Organization  of  African  Unity  to  maintain  peace 
in  Central  Africa, 
the  conflicts 
challenges 
facing 
the 
the 
in 


17 

A/55/PV.53 

to  crises 
and  security  in  Africa,  especially  through  support  for 
the  OAU  Centre  for  Conflict  Management,  located  in 
Addis Ababa. At the same time, we stress that Africa’s 
assumption of a greater role in this sphere must not be 
at the expense of the role played by the United Nations. 
Nor should it marginalize the United Nations, which is 
the  organization  with  sole  responsibility  for 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 

In  the  relationship  between  the  OAU  and  the 
United  Nations,  the  latter  should  not  rely  on  the 
former; the OAU should rely on the United Nations to 
settle  wars  and  disputes on the continent. In  our  view, 
the  United  Nations  response 
in  Africa 
indicates  that  the  Organization  has  actually  begun  to 
shoulder  its  responsibility  after  a  period  of  inaction 
during  which  we  saw  the  international  community 
grow lax in its reaction to international crises in Africa. 
The  United  Nations  took  the  initiative  in  settling  the 
dispute  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  and  set  up  the 
United  Nations  Mission  in  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  to 
maintain the peace following the 18 June 2000 signing 
at Algiers of an Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities. 
And  rather  than  withdrawing  from  Sierra  Leone  when 
crisis  erupted  in  that  friendly  country,  the  United 
Nations  bolstered  its  military  presence  and  intensified 
its efforts to put an end to the horrible war there; it has 
moreover begun to deal with the regional ramifications 
of the Sierra Leone crisis.  

It  is  our  hope  that  those  examples  reflect  a 
healthy,  positive  approach.  Here,  we  express  our  hope 
that  the  United  Nations  will  persist  in  its  efforts  and 
show  the  world  that  it  is  a  universal  international 
organization  that  addresses African  crises  on  an  equal 
footing with other crises, such as those of Kosovo and 
East Timor. 

I wish in conclusion to reaffirm our confidence in 
and  appreciation  for  the  Secretary-General’s  noble 
efforts  to  intensify  the  strong  relations  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of African  Unity 
in  all  spheres.  Here,  we  reiterate  the  readiness  of 
Egypt,  as  an  active  member  of  both  organizations,  to 
participate  fully  in  activities  to  help  attain the priority 
goals  that  have  been  identified  for  enhancing  our 
continent-wide organization and for enabling it to play 
its rightful role in the international community. 
Mr.  Mesdoua  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  First 

of all, I should like to say that my delegation associates 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
detailed 
Secretary-General 
for 
Just  one  week  ago, 
Representative  of  Togo  on  behalf  of  the  Organization 
of African Unity (OAU). 

the  General  Assembly 
considered  the  question  of  peace  and  development  in 
Africa  on  the  basis  of  the  conclusions  of  the  Working 
Group  set  up  to  monitor  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations contained in the report (A/52/871) of 
the  Secretary-General  of  April  1998.  Today,  Africa  is 
once  again  on  the  agenda  of  this  Assembly,  from  the 
perspective of cooperation between the continent-wide 
Organization of African Unity and the United Nations. 
In  this  connection,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank 
the 
and 
his 
comprehensive report on this question. 

Algeria  held  the  chairmanship  of  the  OAU  last 
year, and I should like to share with the Assembly what 
we  learned  from  that  experience  and  offer  a  few 
suggestions  that  we  believe  might  help to improve the 
substance  of  our  cooperation  and  its  effectiveness  in 
attaining the goals that have been set. 

Today, cooperation between the two organizations 
has moved beyond a strictly institutional framework; it 
is  now  part  of  a  new  context  characterized  by  a 
beneficial 
the  many 
challenges facing the African continent. Indeed, Africa 
is still affected by  numerous areas of  conflict,  poverty 
that affects more than one in three people, a heavy debt 
burden 
to  undertake 
economic development and, above all else, the terrible 
tragedy of the spread of the HIV/AIDS pandemic in the 
continent. 

It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  this  new 
awareness  on  the  part  of  the  international  community, 
and  its  commitment  to  help  Africa  face  the  many 
threats  and  dangers  facing  the  continent,  is  slow  in 
developing  and  in  manifesting  itself  in  a  consistent 
manner  in  real  deeds.  It  is  therefore  essential  for  the 
commitments  made  by  the  international  community 
finally to be translated into effective action.  

For  its  part, Africa  must  continue  to  shoulder  its 
responsibility  —  as,  indeed,  it  has  never  ceased  to  do 
in the past — in the main areas of conflict prevention, 
peacekeeping 
the 
establishment  of  democratic 
institutions  within 
countries  and  the  creation  of  conditions  propitious  to 
economic  recovery  and  development,  without  which 
economic and social progress cannot take place. 
international  awareness  of 
that 
jeopardizes  any  effort 
throughout 
the 
continent, 
18 




A/55/PV.53
importance 
attached  great 

During  its  chairmanship  of  the  OAU  last  year, 
Algeria spared no effort to coordinate African action at 
the continent-wide level, consolidate the structures and 
methods  used  by  the  OAU  and  provide  it  with  the 
means  and  resources  that  it  needed.  In  that  context, 
Algeria 
to  political 
cooperation  and  coordination  between  the  OAU  and 
the United Nations, whose competence, experience and 
expertise give it a major advantage. 

The United Nations was therefore involved in all 
OAU  efforts  to  resolve  various  African  conflicts. 
Algeria  would  like  to  pay  particular  tribute  to  the 
United  Nations  Secretary-General,  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  and  the  European  Union  for  their 
constant support for our efforts to  mediate the conflict 
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea;  we  regularly  kept  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  Security  Council  informed 
about developments in the peace process. 

My country’s efforts led to the conclusion, on 18 
June  2000  in  Algiers,  of  a  ceasefire  agreement  that 
opened  up  the  road  for  an  equitable  and  lasting 
political  settlement  to  the  fratricidal  conflict.  The 
resumption  of  direct  discussions  between  the  two 
countries  last  October  will  speed  up  the  settlement  of 
outstanding  issues.  In  order  to  consolidate  the  current 
peace  process, 
the 
provisions  of  Security  Council  resolution  1320  (2000) 
by  quickly  deploying  the  4,200  troops  as  part  of  the 
broadened  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in 
Ethiopia and Eritrea. 

The  contribution  of  the  universal  organization, 
that is the United Nations, working alongside the OAU 
and  other  regional  African  organizations,  to  resolving 
other conflicts in Africa has also been demonstrated in 
Sierra  Leone,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
and  Somalia.  A  real  partnership  is  now  under  way 
between  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  (ECOWAS)  and  the  United  Nations  in  Sierra 
Leone  through  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Sierra 
Leone  (UNAMSIL).  The  standing  mechanism  for 
consultation  and  cooperation  set  up  in  this  regard  has 
made  it  possible  to  better  control  the  situation  in  that 
country.  Likewise,  last  Friday  the  Security  Council 
expressed 
its  support  for  a  system  of  strategic 
cooperation 
the 
Organization,  as  well  as  troop-contributing  countries 
and the members of the Economic Community of West 
African  States,  and 
in 
speeding up the return to peace in Sierra Leone. 
involving  various  components  of 
this  approach  will  assist 
implement 
important 
to 
is 
it 
are 
in 
for 
We 
troops 
however,  by 
supported  by 
still  worried, 
finding  sufficient 
the  Security  Council 
the  United  Nations  and 

the 
reappearance of the spectre of indifference on the part 
of  the  developed  countries  with  regard  to  peace 
missions in Africa. The difficulties encountered by the 
United  Nations 
for 
UNAMSIL  —  to  take  just  one  example  —  following 
authorization  by 
the 
deployment  of  more  than  20,000,  are  a  real  cause  for 
concern. 

The  momentum  for  peace  that  emerged  recently 
in  Somalia,  following  the  initiative  of  Djibouti,  must 
be  given  greater  support  so  that  thanks  to  the  re-
establishment  of  a  national  authority, 
the  Somali 
people can finally regain peace and stability and begin 
to  rebuild  their  country,  devastated  by  more  than  a 
decade of civil war. 

Another  main  aspect  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  OAU  relates  to  economic  and 
social development. The majority of African States are 
engaged  in  economic  recovery  processes,  which  must 
be 
the 
international  community.  Progress  has  been  made  in 
some  countries,  but  the  overall  situation  of  African 
economies  is  still  of  overwhelming  concern,  and  the 
continent  continues  to  face  many  problems,  including 
debt, the drying up of resources and persistent poverty. 

Efforts  are  being  made  at  the  national  level,  yet, 
paradoxically,  official  development  assistance  is  still 
rich 
decreasing,  and 
their  gross 
countries 
domestic  product 
fulfilled. 
Furthermore,  as  the  Secretary-General  noted  in  his 
report  on  the  causes  of  conflict  in  Africa,  even  when 
aid is forthcoming, 70 per cent of it is redirected back 
to  the  rich  countries  through  the  hiring  of  consultants 
and other technical advisers. 

The main economic challenge facing Africa today 
is,  without  doubt,  the  external  debt,  which  has  been 
estimated  at  more  than  $350  billion.  This  is  a  heavy 
burden  and  represents  an  unprecedented  haemorrhage 
of its resources. At the extraordinary OAU summit held 
in  Surt 
in  1999,  Algerian  President  Abdelaziz 
Bouteflika  and  South  African  President  Thabo  Mbeki 
were  called  on  by  their  peers  to  defend  the  request  to 
the developed countries and  multilateral institutions to 
cancel African  debt.  While  it  is  true  that  progress  has 
been  made,  inasmuch  as  creditor  countries  are  more 
aware of the vital importance to Africa of this matter, it 
to  commit  0.7  per  cent  of 
the  commitment  made  by 
is 
far 
from  being 


19 

A/55/PV.53 

is  also  true  that  the  timid  initiatives  taken  in  the  past 
few  months  to  ease  the  debt  burden  of  some  African 
countries,  among  them  the  least  developed  countries, 
fall far short of what had been hoped for. 
Likewise, there has been a constant erosion in the 

resources  of 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  and  other  specialized  agencies  in  the 
United  Nations  system,  which  has  forced  these  bodies 
to  make  difficult  choices.  This  situation  must  be 
resolved  in  order  to  enable  them  to  play  their  role  in 
supporting efforts at recovery in Africa. 

Humanitarian  work  is  another  equally  important 
area  in  the  framework  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  OAU.  The  African  continent 
today is host to more than half of the approximately 20 
million refugees throughout the world, yet Africa does 
not receive the attention it should given its truly tragic 
situation,  nor  does  it  get  a  fair  share  of  the  resources 
allocated in the context of humanitarian assistance. My 
delegation  would  like  the  situation  to  be  remedied, 
through,  inter  alia,  the  implementation  of  the  plan  of 
action  for  African  refugees  that  emanated  from  the 
joint  OAU-United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees (UNHCR) meeting of March 2000. 

are  many 
multidimensional  areas  for  cooperation  between  the 
OAU  and  the  United  Nations.  They  deal,  inter  alia,
with  questions  as  varied  as  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes, institutional assistance, support for economic 
programmes,  assistance  to  refugees  and  the  combat 
against epidemics. 

Experience  has  shown  the  need  for,  and  the 
usefulness  of,  such  cooperation,  which,  despite  our 
common will to promote it, continues to feel the effects 
of the scarcity of resources. Only with assistance from 
the  United  Nations  will  it  be  able  to  implement  its 
overall  mission  and,  in  respect  to  the  issues  we  are 
dealing with today, to bring to a successful conclusion 
the many projects in which it is involved in the context 
of cooperation with the OAU. 

In  this  respect, Africa  has  genuine  hopes  for  the 
forthcoming special conferences of the United Nations 
on 
for 
development.  We  expect  from  these  conferences  and 
from our partners specific commitments and innovative 
proposals  that  will  lead  to  concrete  actions  to  help 
Africa. 
the  AIDS  pandemic  and  on 
financing 
As  we 
have 
seen, 
there 
in 

In  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  at  the  Millennium 
Summit,  world  leaders,  meeting  on  a  unique  and 
historic  occasion,  made  solemn  commitments 
to 
the  African 
support  peace  and  development 
continent  in  particular.  We  hope  that  the  Declaration 
adopted  on  that  occasion  will  herald  a  new  era  in  our 
collective  effort  to  take  up  the  many  challenges  and 
counter the many threats facing peace and development 
in  Africa.  The  United  Nations,  whose  central  mission 
was  recognized  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  must 
play a paramount role in this respect. 
Mr.  Satoh  (Japan):  As  I  stressed  at  last  year’s 

meeting,  the  importance  of  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and regional organizations, particularly 
in  addressing  the  issues  of  conflict  prevention  and 
economic development, can never be overstated. Japan 
therefore  supports  the  efforts  to  enhance  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
African  Unity  (OAU),  as  outlined  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report. 

The  OAU  has  long  been  engaged  in  activities  to 
advance the cause of peace and prosperity in Africa. Its 
efforts  were  instrumental  in  facilitating  the  peace 
agreements  on  the  conflicts  in  Rwanda,  Sierra  Leone, 
Burundi,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and, 
most  recently,  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea.  The 
cessation of hostilities between Ethiopia and Eritrea is 
indeed  encouraging, and I  wish to  commend  the  OAU 
for its diligent efforts to date. However, further efforts 
by  all  concerned  —  including  the  United  Nations 
Mission  for  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  led  by  our  former 
colleague,  Ambassador  Legwaila  —  are  required  in 
order 
two 
countries. 

The  OAU’s  comprehensive  framework  of  the 
Mechanism  for  Conflict  Prevention,  Management  and 
Resolution  in  Africa  is  important  testimony  to  the 
determination  on  the  part  of  African  countries  to 
advance  the  cause  of  peace  on  the  continent. Yet  it  is 
obvious  that  the  OAU  needs  greater  cooperation  and 
support  from  the  international  community.  United 
Nations  cooperation  with  the  OAU  is  particularly 
essential  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  comprehensive 
framework  functions  effectively.  The  support  of  other 
partners in the developed world is also indispensable. 

Japan,  for  its  part, is  prepared to  assist  the  OAU 
in  its  efforts  for  conflict  prevention,  management  and 
resolution.  It  has  already  extended  a  number  of 
to  attain  durable  peace  between 
the 
20 




A/55/PV.53
There 
recently, 
activities.  Most 
so-called  Tokyo 
is  another  dimension 
financial contributions to the OAU Peace Fund,  which 
have  been  utilized  for  various  conflict  prevention  and 
democratization 
Japan 
assisted  the  OAU  peacekeeping  mission  in  Ethiopia 
and  Eritrea,  particularly  in  establishing  the  OAU 
liaison offices in Addis Ababa and Asmara. We remain 
committed  to  supporting  the  OAU’s  efforts  in  pursuit 
of peace. 

in  which  Japan 
facilitates cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  OAU.  The 
International 
Conference on African Development (TICAD) process, 
which  Japan  has  been  promoting  since  1993, 
is 
contributing  greatly  to  cooperation  between  the  OAU 
and the United Nations system, particularly the United 
Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP).  The 
TICAD process focuses on sustainable development in 
Africa  as  well  as  on  conflict  prevention.  It  also 
supports 
the  OAU’s  Comprehensive  Framework. 
Moreover,  the  participation  of  several Asian  countries 
in the TICAD process is broadening the base of support 
for  African  development  and  promoting  cooperation 
between the OAU and the United Nations system. 
I want to remind the Assembly in this context that 

Foreign  Minister  Yohei  Kono  announced 
in  his 
statement to the General Assembly this September that 
Japan  had  decided  to  hold  a  ministerial  meeting  on 
African  development  in  fiscal  year  2001,  with  a  view 
to  making 
third  Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD  III).  We  hope  that  the  proposed  ministerial 
meeting  will  add  further  political  momentum  to  the 
TICAD  process  and  help  strengthen  cooperation 
between the OAU and the United Nations system. 

rightly 
underlined, Africa  will  require  special  attention  in  the 
coming  years  in  many  different  contexts,  including 
efforts  to  eradicate  poverty  and  debt,  prevent  conflict 
and address the issue of small arms, and combat AIDS 
and  other  diseases.  Against 
the 
responsibility of the OAU is greater than ever, as is the 
need  for  the  international  community,  and  the  United 
Nations 
support 
and 
cooperation to this valuable African organization. 

Japan,  for  its  part,  is  prepared  to  do  its  best  in 
order to support the OAU and African countries in their 
struggle with the difficult problems they face. 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
this  backdrop, 
in  particular, 
preparations 
extend 
the 
for 
As 
to 
to 
Tunisia 
attaches 
particular 
importance 
initiatives  related 
Mr.  Jerandi  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 

me at the outset to express to the Secretary-General, on 
behalf  of  the  Tunisian  delegation,  our  gratitude  and 
appreciation  for  his  valuable  report  on  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
African  Unity  (OAU),  and  for  his  efforts  to  promote 
this cooperation. 

Ever  since  its  inception,  the  OAU  has  reflected 
the  aspirations  of  African  peoples  and  countries  for  a 
united  continent.  It  has  played  a  crucial  role  in 
asserting  the  legitimate  political  aspirations  of  the 
continent  and  in  promoting  rapprochement,  solidarity 
and cooperation among African  peoples and  countries. 
It  has  served  as  an  ideal collective African  framework 
for action. 

to 
cooperation between  the  United  Nations  and the  OAU 
and  to  means  for  enhancing  this  cooperation.  We 
welcome the priority status, that Africa has acquired on 
the United Nations agenda, especially as a result of the 
many  programmes  and 
this 
continent  that  the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized 
agencies  have  established  and  of 
the  ongoing 
coordination  between  the  two  organizations  on  issues 
relating  to  the  continent,  especially  in  the  fields  of 
international  peace  and  security  and  economic  and 
social development. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  highlights 
many  of  the  areas  and  levels  of  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU.  While  we  welcome 
all the achievements that have been made, we call for a 
follow-up  and  for  a  continuation  of  these  efforts  in 
order  to  promote  cooperation  and  coordination,  since 
Africa  and 
face  many 
challenges that require greater commitment on the part 
of  the  international  community,  especially  by  the 
United Nations. 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  practice  of  regular 

that  both  Secretaries-General  have 
consultations 
followed.  We 
the 
consistently 
discussions  held  by  high  officials  from 
two 
organizations  in  certain  areas.  These  will  strengthen 
the cooperative ties between the organizations. 
The  African  continent  has  been  working  in  the 

context 
subregional 
organizations,  first, by relying on its own resources in 
order  to  address  its  own  problems,  and,  secondly,  by 
also  welcome 
the 
regional  organization 
the  OAU 
other 
and 
its 
of 


21 

A/55/PV.53 

the 
support  of 
the 
leaders, 
security  and 
led 
In 
recent  years 
importance 
to 
solidarity  and 
in  coordination  with 
relying  on 
international community. 

the  African  continent  has 
witnessed  many  acute  struggles  that  threatened  peace 
and 
to  difficult  humanitarian 
situations, with tragic economic and social dimensions. 
The  Security  Council,  as  the  highest  authority  in  the 
field  of  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security,  has  attached  great 
these 
struggles. The numerous meetings that the Council has 
devoted  to  addressing  these  issues  this  year  have 
provided  many  opportunities 
for  assessing  and 
organizing cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  OAU  in  the  field  of  peace  and  security  in  Africa 
and the means to support them. 

Africa has made many efforts to contribute to the 
settlement  of  conflicts  in  a  way  that  guarantees  peace 
and  security,  supports  stability  and  provides  for 
development.  However,  despite 
the  attempts  at 
conciliation  and  the  initiatives  undertaken  by  many 
African 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  OAU,  many  of  the  complex  conflicts 
have yet to be fully resolved. 

Africa  has  given  priority  to  the  issue  of  dispute 
settlement and to conflict prevention, management and 
resolution. The mechanism created by the OAU for this 
purpose has played a positive role in this field, despite 
limited resources. This  mechanism  reflects the resolve 
of  African  States  to  rely  on  their  own  resources  to 
solve the problems of the continent. At the same time, 
these  States  remain  keenly  interested  in  coordinating 
their efforts with the United Nations. 

In this context we would like to reaffirm Africa’s 
determination to shoulder its responsibilities. However, 
this  determination  should  not  relieve  the  international 
community 
their 
responsibilities. 

Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
OAU in the field of peace and security has resulted in 
many achievements in past years. These efforts should 
be  enhanced. We  call  upon  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Member States to increase their support for the OAU in 
order to strengthen its institutional capacities. 

In  recent  years  Africa  has  made  many  efforts  in 
the  field  of  development,  enhancing  the  principles  of 
dialogue, democracy and human rights, and supporting 
regional  cooperation  and  economic  integration  by 
the  United  Nations  of 
and 
institutions.  We  call 
implementing the Abuja Agreement,  which created the 
African  Economic  Community.  We  hope  our  partners 
will continue to provide their support for this objective. 

In  this  regard,  we  look  forward  to  a  prompt 
solution  to  the  debt  problem  and  to  more  support  for 
the  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty  and  disease,  open 
international  markets  to  African  products  and  attract 
greater  direct  foreign  investment.  We  would  like  to 
express our appreciation for the numerous initiatives to 
enhance  sustainable development  in Africa  undertaken 
by the United Nations, its specialized agencies and the 
Bretton  Woods 
for  greater 
coordination  for  the  success  of  these  initiatives.  My 
delegation  would  like  to  praise  the  positive  initiatives 
undertaken by many of our African partners in order to 
develop and increase cooperation and coordination. 

As  the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU  prepare  to 
move  to  the  next  phase  of  their  cooperation  and 
coordination,  we  hope  that,  after  a  review  of  past 
achievements,  cooperation  will  be  enhanced  and 
coordination  will  be  based  on  various  political, 
economic  and  social  elements  so  as 
to  serve 
international peace, security, stability and development 
in Africa,  enhance  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and 
advance its principles and purposes. 

Mr.  Shinkaiye  (Nigeria):  Nigeria  wishes  at  the 
outset to express its full support for the statement made 
by 
the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  We  also  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  detailed  report  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OAU. 
We  request  that  all  the  programmes  identified  in  the 
report be implemented. 

My  delegation  attaches  great  importance  to  this 
agenda  item  for  many  reasons,  which  we  need  not 
recount here. Suffice it to say that cooperation between 
the  United  Nations,  the  world’s  only  truly  universal 
organization,  and 
the  only  continental 
organization  that  binds  the  variegated  regions  and 
peoples  of Africa  together,  has  not  only  symbolic,  but 
also substantive significance for us in Africa. 

It  is  commonly  acknowledged  —  and  we  in 
Africa  are  the  first  to  admit  this  —  that  our  continent 
constitutes the weakest segment of the chain that links 
the  global  family  of  nations  and  peoples.  The  myriad 
problems  that  currently  afflict  the  continent  are  very 
well  known  and  have,  in  fact,  been  the  subject  of 
this  and  other 
intense  debate  and  discussion  at 
the  representative  of  Togo  on  behalf  of 
the  OAU, 
22 




A/55/PV.53
the  wider 
sessions.  Only  last  week,  this  Assembly  devoted  time 
to the discussion of how to tackle the continent’s many 
conflicts and promote sustainable development. 

Irrespective  of  the  nature,  sources  or  causes  of 
the  problems  and  challenges  facing Africa,  one  fact  is 
incontrovertible. Many of these problems, by their very 
nature,  cannot  be  resolved  successfully  by  African 
countries  acting  alone  or  even  acting  together.  They 
have to be resolved in cooperation with the continent’s 
development  partners  and 
international 
community.  Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Organization of African Unity should therefore, 
among other objectives, be aimed at realizing this goal. 
Besides,  this  cooperation  is  a  vivid  demonstration  of 
the principles  of international  solidarity  and  testimony 
to Africa’s shared humanity with the rest of the global 
community. 

Over  the  years,  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations,  begun  in  1965  and  based  primarily  on 
the  principle  of  mutual  respect,  has  grown  wider  and 
deeper  to  encompass  very  many  issues  and  concerns 
not  even  contemplated  at  the  beginning.  It  has  also 
grown  to  include  not  only  cooperation  between  the 
OAU  and  the  United  Nations  alone,  but  also  between 
the OAU and the United Nations specialized agencies. 
The Nigerian delegation welcomes this development. 

Nevertheless,  we urge that we do not rest on our 
oars,  as  the  African  situation  calls  for  not  only  an 
intensification of this cooperation, but, more important, 
a rigorous  review  of its content and  scope. At  no time 
has  this  cooperation  been  more  urgently  needed  than 
now,  given  the  worsening  situation  of  the  African 
continent,  which 
further 
marginalized. It is for this reason that we welcome the 
activities of  the  United  Nations  liaison office  with  the 
OAU,  which  has 
to  enhanced  cooperation, 
coordination  and  exchange  of  information  with  the 
OAU in a number of areas. 

It  is  the  view  of  the  Nigerian  delegation  that  a 
number  of  priority  areas  have  to  be  identified  if  the 
cooperative  activities  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  OAU  are  to  be  well  focused  and  well  targeted. 
Here, we have in mind such areas as capacity-building 
in  all  its  ramifications,  but  especially  in  the  areas  of 
conflict  resolution  and  post-conflict  peace-building, 
including 
the  question  of  refugees  and  displaced 
persons.  Other  areas  should  include  the  promotion  of 
good  governance, 
transparency  and  accountability; 
increasingly  being 
led 
is 
to 
the  OAU  Mechanism 
tuberculosis;  as  well  as 
poverty  eradication;  control  and  management  of  the 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  malaria  and  major  infectious 
diseases,  such  as 
issues 
to  economic  growth  and  development, 
pertaining 
especially  the  external  debt  crisis  which  the  continent 
currently  faces.  This  list  of  issues  is,  of  course,  not 
exhaustive, but only indicative. 

Africa’s capacity for dealing with these issues has 
to  be  enhanced  if  we  are  committed  to  arresting  the 
continent’s  downward  slide.  The  emergence  of  a  few 
pockets  of  progress  and  hope  on  the  continent,  while 
welcomed, is nowhere near a critical mass that can give 
the process of rejuvenation a  momentum of its own to 
become sustainable. 

In  further  fine-tuning  of  the  existing  cooperation 
between the two organizations, the Nigerian delegation 
would like to see greater assistance given by the United 
Nations 
for  Conflict 
Prevention,  Management  and  Resolution,  given  the 
ravages  caused  by  the  many  conflicts  that  have  put 
Africa’s  efforts  to  reverse  its  underdevelopment  at 
enormous risk. In this connection, we draw attention to 
the  resolutions  and  decisions  taken  by African  leaders 
at the Thirty-sixth Ordinary Session of the Assembly of 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  OAU,  which 
met  in  Lomé,  Togo,  from  10  to  12  July  2000,  and 
especially  the  Solemn  Declaration  on  the  Conference 
on Security, Stability, Development and Cooperation in 
Africa. We  hope  that  the  expected  assistance  from  the 
international community, including the United Nations, 
will  be  forthcoming  to  enable  full  implementation  of 
that Declaration. 

Allow me to refer to a few specific areas in which 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  has  led  to 
very  positive  developments.  I  have 
the 
collaborative  efforts  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  OAU  in  conflict  management  and  resolution.  This 
has  not  only  resulted  in  a  peace  agreement  between 
Ethiopia and Eritrea, but promises to provide a durable 
solution  to  this  sad  conflict  between  two  brother 
nations. Nigeria applauds the efforts deployed by both 
organizations  which  have  made  this  possible,  and  we 
urge 
that 
logical 
conclusion. 

The  Ethiopia-Eritrea  peace  process  is  a  clear 
indication  of  what benefits  the  world  can  derive  when 
our global Organization works closely with regional or 
continental organizations, such as the OAU, in dealing 
the  process  be  pursued 
in  mind 
to 
its 


23 

A/55/PV.53 

in 
the  Central  Organ  of 
with  a  serious  crisis.  Nigeria  therefore  fully  supports 
the  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
OAU  in  dealing  with  other  conflicts,  such  as  those  in 
Angola,  Burundi,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and Western Sahara. 

Nigeria,  however,  urges  the  United  Nations  to 
also involve the OAU more closely in its peace efforts 
in  Sierra  Leone.  We  recall  that  the  OAU,  like  the 
United  Nations,  fully  participated 
the  process 
leading  to  the  Lomé  Peace  Agreement,  and  both 
organizations  are  guarantors  of  the  Agreement.  We 
admit that the OAU itself was somewhat laid back after 
the  agreement  was  signed  and  does  not  have  the 
resources to play a more visible role. Nevertheless, we 
believe that the OAU can help, and the United Nations 
should work closely with the OAU Secretary General’s 
Special  Envoy  on  Sierra  Leone, Ambassador  Kingsley 
Mamabolo of South Africa. 

Finally,  on  the  subject  of  conflicts  in  Africa, 
Nigeria  appeals  to  the  United  Nations  to  take  a  new 
look  at  the  situation  in  Somalia,  that  unfortunate 
country  that  has  been  ravaged  by  conflict  for  so  long. 
As 
the  OAU  Conflict 
Management Mechanism recently urged, every support 
should  be  given 
the  recently  elected  Somali 
President  and  the  Transitional  National  Assembly  in 
order 
that  national  unity  and  central 
Government  are  restored  in  the  country.  The  process 
clearly  shows  that  the  Somali  people  want  peace,  and 
the world should not abandon them. Due tribute should 
be  paid  to  the  President  of  Djibouti  for  his  valiant 
effort  in  furtherance  of  this  noble  objective.  He  has 
helped  to  give  hope  to  the  people  of  Somalia  and 
deserves our commendation. 

Nigeria  welcomes  the  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  OAU  in  response  to  the 
General  Assembly’s  request  that  the  United  Nations 
and  its  specialized  agencies —  notably  the  United 
and  Cultural 
Nations 
Organization, 
the 
United  Nations  Children’s  Fund  and  others —  should 
take appropriate steps to complement, in a coordinated 
manner, the fight against HIV/AIDS. In this regard, we 
support the Economic Commission for Africa in Addis 
Ababa,  which  is  organizing  in  December  this  year  its 
second annual African Development Forum, the theme 
this  year  being  “AIDS:  The  Greatest  Leadership 
Challenge.”  The  OAU  is  involved  in  the  programme. 
We  appeal  to  the  United  Nations  to  reciprocate  by 
the  World  Health  Organization, 
Educational, 
to  ensure 
Scientific 
to 
to  all 
its 
leaders, 
they  can  be 
the  Governments 
joining  hands  with  the  OAU,  which  will  organize  in 
Abuja,  Nigeria,  some  time  next  year,  an  African 
summit  on  HIV/AIDS  and  other infectious diseases. It 
is our hope that, with such collaborative efforts, Africa 
will be in a position to halt the HIV/AIDS virus, which 
is currently ravaging the continent. 

The  Nigerian  delegation  would  like  to  conclude 
by  commending  the  Secretary-General  for  his  tireless 
efforts to keep African issues on the front burner of the 
United  Nations  agenda,  despite  the  critical  resource 
constraints that our Organization continues to face. The 
Governments  and  peoples  of Africa  are  truly  indebted 
to  him  and 
that  have 
demonstrated faith in Africa’s capacity to overcome its 
current  multifaceted  challenges. Although  the  primary 
responsibility  for  meeting  these  challenges  lies  with 
the  continent  and 
truly 
addressed  only  in  concert  with  Africa’s  development 
partners and the wider international community. 

Our  world  will  certainly  be  a  better  place  when 
Africa takes its rightful place as a respected member of 
the global family. We look forward to that day, and it is 
our belief that this is a realizable objective. The United 
Nations 
a 
responsibility  and  indeed  a  duty  to  support  Africa’s 
political, social and economic recovery, as  was rightly 
agreed by world leaders in the Millennium Declaration 
which they recently adopted. Let us all resolve to fully 
implement that Declaration. 
Mr.  Hønningstad  (Norway):  Allow  me  first  to 

welcome 
discuss 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of  African  Unity”.  The  mere  fact  that 
much  of  Africa  is  still  ravaged  by  serious  armed 
conflicts,  droughts  and  continued  underdevelopment 
underlines the great importance of strong and practical 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU).  Norway 
believes  that  such  cooperation  is  beneficial  to  both 
organizations  and  will  further  their  high  ambitions  to 
assist  conflict  prevention  and  resolution  and 
the 
economic  and  social  development  of 
the  African 
nations. 
Norway  has  called  for  strengthened  coordination 

and 
two 
increased 
organizations,  and  is  therefore  encouraged  by  the 
strong  commitment  of 
to 
enhancing  such  cooperation.  The  increased  practical 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  Secretary-General 
agencies  have 
cooperation 
opportunity 
between 
and 
its 
specialized 
this 
again 
to 
the 
24 




A/55/PV.53
to 
establish 
the  Mechanism 
implementation  of  cooperation  arrangements  over  the 
last few years constitutes a strong platform for an even 
closer relationship. Indeed, Norway  will push for such 
enhanced  cooperation  and  coordination  when  we  take 
our  seat  on  the  Security  Council.  The  increasing 
participation  of  the  OAU  in  the  United  Nations,  its 
organs and specialized agencies makes a very valuable 
contribution towards this aim. 

Much  has  happened  since  the  decision  by  the 
OAU  in  1993  to  relinquish  its  non-intervention  policy 
and 
for  Conflict 
Prevention,  Management  and  Resolution. The  OAU  is 
now  actively  engaged  in  trying  to  solve  all  ongoing 
conflicts  on  the  continent.  Although  much  remains  to 
be  done  to  have  a  fully  operational  OAU  Mechanism, 
assistance  from 
the  United  Nations  and  bilateral 
partners  of  the  OAU  has  strengthened  its  capacity. 
However, further efforts by the United Nations to assist 
the  OAU  in  enhancing  this  capacity  and  facilitating 
closer  cooperation  is  called  for.  Norway  will  continue 
to support the Mechanism, and calls for United Nations 
technical assistance and for staff exchange programmes 
to be put in place. 

The  effects  of  the  many  ongoing  conflicts  in 
Africa only exacerbate poverty and underdevelopment, 
the HIV/Aids pandemic, the high debt burden, drought 
and  hunger  on  the  African  continent.  The  coordinated 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
African Unity to resolve the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict 
is one encouraging example of close cooperation in the 
cause  of  peace.  Although  the  stakes  are  high,  the 
expectation  that  the  conflict  will  be  solved  should, 
hopefully, be  met. Through their combined efforts, the 
two  organizations  should  be  able  to  convince  the 
parties  of  the  benefits  of  peace  and  the  need  for 
cooperation. 

The  conflicts  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, Angola,  the  Sudan,  Sierra  Leone  and  Somalia 
are still unresolved and require the attention of a joint 
United Nations-OAU effort as  well as the constructive 
engagement  of  the  parties  to  the  conflicts  and  all 
Member  States  in  the  region.  The  United  Nations  and 
the OAU should take the lead in urging African leaders 
to become leaders for peace and development. Without 
the strong commitment of African leaders to peace, the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  OAU  will  only  be 
one of “damage control”. 
landmines.  Norway  urges 
to  cooperate  even  more  closely 
On  a  positive  note,  Norway  would 

to 
mention  the  close  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  OAU  in  the  areas  of  eradication  of 
small  arms  and 
the 
organizations 
to 
alleviate the burden of destruction caused by mines and 
small  arms  in  countries  on  the  African  continent. 
Norway takes this opportunity to point out the positive 
engagement  by  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African States (ECOWAS) in agreeing to a moratorium 
on  the  sale  of  and  trafficking  in  small  arms.  This 
should serve as an example to be followed by others. 

The OAU is currently undergoing a restructuring 
process to which a group of countries — the Friends of 
the  OAU  —  has  been  contributing.  When 
this 
restructuring process has been implemented the “new” 
OAU  will,  hopefully,  be  better  equipped  to  face  the 
challenges  of  the  new  millennium.  The  possibility  of 
further  developing  the  concept  of  the  Friends  of  the 
OAU  —  with  United  Nations  participation  —  should 
be  considered.  This  could  enhance  cooperation  of  all 
external  organizations  and  countries  with  the  OAU.  It 
would  also  alleviate  the  administrative  burden  on  the 
OAU  Secretariat.  This  would  allow  the  OAU  to 
develop  a  more  programmatic  approach 
its 
activities,  which  could  enhance  the  organization’s 
efficiency.  Norway  will  strongly  support  such  an 
initiative  and  encourage  the  United  Nations  to  work 
with the OAU to develop such an approach. 

Cooperation and coordination between the United 
Nations  and  the  OAU  is  especially  important  in 
preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and  peacekeeping 
operations.  However,  with  regard  to  regional  and 
subregional  efforts  to  achieve  stronger  economic  and 
political integration, the United Nations could also play 
a pivotal role in assisting the OAU and the subregional 
African  organizations  to  realize  this.  The  contribution 
of  subregional  efforts  towards  the  goal  of  an  African 
Economic  Community  should  be  encouraged.  Thus,  a 
stronger  United  Nations  supportive  role  for  economic 
integration  should  be  emphasized,  and  stronger  OAU 
involvement  in  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
(ECOSOC) should be fostered. 
to 

emphasize  that  the  United  Nations  should  play  a 
stronger role in coordinating development assistance to 
the  African  continent.  We  would  also  like  to  forge 
closer ties of cooperation with regional and subregional 
a 
organizations.  Such 
The  Norwegian  Government  would 
efforts, 
combined  with 
like 
to 
like 


25 

A/55/PV.53 

to  come 
for  his 
to 
strengthen 
therefore  urge 
in  Africa  and 
the  Secretary-General 
the  United  Nations  and 
My  delegation  notes  with 
continuation  of  bilateral  development  cooperation  and 
assistance  through  various  United  Nations  initiatives, 
show  our  strong  commitment  to African  development. 
We 
the  different  United  Nations 
agencies to intensify the coordination of their regional 
programmes 
their 
harmonization  with  African  regional  and  subregional 
programmes. 

Let  me  close  by  recalling  chapter  VII  of  the 
Millennium Declaration, “Meeting the special needs of 
Africa”. For the goals and aspirations of this chapter of 
the  Declaration 
true  and  be  speedily 
implemented,  we  will all depend on a new partnership 
with  Africa.  The  OAU  should  play  a  pivotal  role  in 
such a partnership. 
Mr.  Hussein  (Ethiopia): At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 

report  on 
thank 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization  of  African  Unity.  As  in  previous  years, 
the report provides a clear description of the activities 
undertaken  by  the  two  organizations in  the  framework 
of their ongoing cooperation. 
the 

increased cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  OAU,  as  set  out  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report. 
We  welcome  the continued  practice of  holding regular 
consultations  between 
the  secretariats  of  the  two 
organizations,  the  most  recent  example  being  the 
meeting  held  at  the  headquarters  of  the  Economic 
Commission  for Africa  in Addis Ababa,  on  10  and  11 
April  2000.  As  agreed  by  the  two  secretariats,  the 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  needs  to  be  further 
consolidated.  This  can  be  done  by  placing  greater 
emphasis  on  steps  that  will  enhance  the  institutional 
capacity of the OAU and the mobilization of resources 
for the implementation of the priorities and programme 
areas identified by the meeting. 

Regarding  the  mechanisms  for  enhancing  United 
Nations-OAU  cooperation,  the  establishment  of  the 
United Nations Liaison Office with the OAU definitely 
constitutes an important step. We note that the Liaison 
Office  has  been  entrusted  with  important  tasks  that 
need 
in  close  cooperation  and 
coordination with the OAU. 

My  delegation  attaches  particular  importance  to 
the  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  in  the 
maintenance of peace and security, in accordance  with 
the  United  Nations  and 
to  be  undertaken 
satisfaction 
to 
for  and  commitment 
Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
During the past year, the OAU has continued its efforts 
aimed  at  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts  in  the 
continent. 

My  country  fully  supports  these  efforts  of  the 
OAU,  and  has  on  various  occasions  made  its  own 
contributions  to  the  resolution  of  conflicts  in  different 
parts  of  Africa.  With  respect  to  the  crisis  between 
Ethiopia and Eritrea, Ethiopia has demonstrated its full 
respect 
the  OAU  by 
cooperating with its efforts to resolve the crisis. These 
efforts of the OAU, with the cooperation and assistance 
of  the  United  Nations  and  other  interested  parties,  led 
to  the  signing  of  the  Agreement  on  Cessation  of 
Hostilities  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  in Algiers  on 
18  June  2000.  The  Agreement  on  Cessation  of 
Hostilities  provides,  that  a  “Peacekeeping  Mission 
shall  be  deployed  by  the  United  Nations  under  the 
auspices  of  OAU”. (S/2000/627,  enclosure,  para.  2) It 
further  stipulates,  in  paragraph  4,  that  “The  size  and 
the  composition  of  the  Peacekeeping  Mission  shall  be 
adapted  to  the  mission  assigned  to  it  and  shall  be 
determined  by  the  Secretaries-General  of  the  United 
Nations  and  OAU,  with  the  acceptance  of  the  two 
Parties.” Furthermore, in accordance with paragraph 14 
of the Agreement of Cessation of Hostilities, the OAU 
and 
to 
guarantee  the  respect  for  this  commitment  undertaken 
by the parties in the Agreement. 

Against  this  backdrop,  the  Security  Council,  in 
paragraph  4  of  Security  Council  resolution  1320 
(2000),  establishing  the  United  Nations  Mission  in 
Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  requested  the  Secretary-General 
of 
the 
Organization of African Unity in the implementation of 
the Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities”.  

In  this  regard,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  continued  efforts, 
including  his  appointment  of  Ambassador  Mohamed 
Sahnoun  as  his  Special  Envoy  in  dealing  with  the 
conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. We welcome the 
Secretary-General’s intention to continue collaborating 
with the OAU in supporting the subsequent phase of its 
mediation  efforts 
the 
Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities. 

In  the  area  of  economic  and  social  development, 
Africa continues to face serious challenges. Despite the 
efforts  of  most  African  countries, 
the  economic 
the  United  Nations  “to  coordinate  with 
the  United  Nations  commit 
implementation  of 
themselves 
the 
in 
26 




A/55/PV.53
the  decline 
acknowledges 
the  Food 
In  spite  of 
in  mobilizing 
situation  in  the  continent  remains  precarious,  and 
economic  recovery  and  development  continue  to  be 
severely  hindered  by  multiple  factors. The  persistence 
of  conflicts,  debt  burden, 
in  official 
development  assistance,  the  net  outflow  of  resources 
and  the  question  of  access  to  world  markets,  to 
mention  just  a  few  factors,  are  paralysing  growth  and 
development in Africa. As these challenges continue to 
grow,  the  situation  in  the  continent,  including  the  role 
that the United Nations could play in cooperation with 
the OAU, needs a close and an objective evaluation. 
the  challenges  and  difficulties, 

especially 
international  support  for 
Africa,  the  United  Nations  has  remained  engaged 
through its various agencies in many vital areas related 
to African economic recovery and development. In this 
context,  my  delegation  also 
the 
important  role  of 
the  United  Nations  Economic 
Commission for Africa, which, in cooperation with the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  and 
the  African 
Development  Bank,  continues to play  a  crucial role in 
the  establishment  and  consolidation  of  the  African 
Economic  Community  and  the  subregional  economic 
communities,  which  will  serve  as  building  blocks  for 
the  Community.  Cooperation  over 
the  past  year 
between 
the  OAU  and  various  United  Nations 
agencies,  such  as  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  the  United  Nations  Children’s  Fund,  the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme,  the  World 
Food  Programme, 
and  Agriculture 
Organization, the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and  Development  and  others,  has  also  been  quite 
encouraging. 

With regard to issues related to social matters, we 
welcome  the  achievements  made  through  the  OAU’s 
cooperation  with,  among  others,  the  United  Nations 
Office  of 
for  Refugees 
(UNHCR),  the  International  Labour  Organization,  the 
World  Health  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization. The 
progress  that  the  OAU  and  UNHCR  have  made  with 
respect 
is 
particularly worth mentioning. Similarly, the important 
support  of  WHO  in  critical  areas  such  as  polio 
eradication,  malaria  prevention  and  control  and  the 
struggle  against  HIV/AIDS  in  Africa  needs  to  be 
further  enhanced.  In  this  respect,  we  welcome  the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations-OAU  task  force 
that  would  articulate  a  plan  of  action  in  the  fight 
the  welfare  of  refugees 
the  High  Commissioner 
to 
in  Africa 
the  role  of 
against  HIV/AIDS,  to  be  achieved,  we  hope,  in  the 
next two years. I would like to take this opportunity to 
appeal  to  United  Nations  agencies,  the  international 
community and donor countries to give  more attention 
to  Africa’s  struggle  against  the  HIV/AIDS  scourge, 
which is afflicting the continent to an alarming degree. 

Since its establishment in 1963, the Organization 
of  African  Unity  has  endeavoured  in  pursuit  of  the 
lofty  objectives  envisioned  by  the  founding  fathers  to 
meet  the  multifaceted  challenges  facing Africa.  In  the 
area  of  peace  and  security,  the  OAU’s  efforts  have 
culminated  in  the  setting  up  of  the  Mechanism  for 
Conflict  Prevention,  Management  and  Resolution  in 
Africa,  while  in  the  sphere  of  economic  development 
and  regional  economic  integration,  the  conclusion  of 
the Abuja Treaty  and  the  establishment  of  the African 
Economic  Community  mark  yet  other  milestone 
achievements. 

These  achievements  and  the  efforts  of  Africa  in 
general  could  be  sustained  and  further  enhanced  only 
in  a  favourable  international  environment  of  genuine 
partnership on the part of the rest of the world. In this 
regard, 
its 
cooperation with the OAU will remain indispensable in 
the years to come. 

Mr.  Urib  (Namibia):  Allow  me  first  of  all  to 
associate my delegation with the statement made by the 
representative of Togo on behalf of the Organization of 
African Unity (OAU). I would also like to express my 
delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  report  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  of  African  Unity.  The  report 
covers  a  wide  range  of  issues  which  are  important  to 
both  organizations.  Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  OAU  will  strengthen  the  capacity  of 
the  OAU  in  responding  to  the  increasing  needs  of  its 
member  States,  and  we  believe  in  this  way  it  will 
contribute  to  attainment  of  the  goals  of  the  United 
Nations. 
In this context, we welcome the ongoing contacts 

the  United  Nations 
consultations  between 
and 
Department  of  Political  Affairs  and 
the  OAU 
Permanent  Observer  Mission  in  New  York.  Similarly, 
cooperation  between  the  OAU  and  the  special  envoys 
of the Secretary-General of the United Nations provide 
an  important  and  direct  link,  especially  in  the  area  of 
conflict prevention and management.  
the  United  Nations  and 


27 

A/55/PV.53 

in 
of 
that 
of 
the 
early 
aimed 
ensure 
in  Africa 
implementation 

We  note  the  contribution  of  United  Nations 
experts  in  the  design  of  peace  agreements  in  Sierra 
Leone  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  to 
mention but  two  examples.  However, timely  action by 
the 
the  United  Nations  Security  Council 
implementation  of  peace  agreements 
is 
crucial and can either make or break those agreements. 
We also concur with the view of the Secretary-General 
that  continuous  provision  of  much-needed  support  for 
peacekeeping  activities  in Africa is  vital. The  Brahimi 
report  speaks  eloquently  to  these  issues,  and  we  must 
all 
the 
recommendations contained therein. 
In  that  connection,  we  reiterate  our  call  on  the 

international  community  —  especially 
the  donor 
countries  —  to  contribute  to  the  Trust  Fund  for 
Improving  Preparedness  for  Conflict  Prevention  and 
Peacekeeping  in Africa,  as  well  as  to  the  OAU  Peace 
Fund 
at  building  African  peacekeeping 
capacities.  The  need  for  additional  financial  resources 
to enhance cooperation cannot be overemphasized.  

The  humanitarian  needs  of African  refugees  and 
internally displaced persons also need concerted efforts 
by the international community. We have said it before, 
and  we  would 
the 
Organization and, indeed, the international community, 
cannot afford to give up on African refugees and other 
displaced  persons  in  various  parts  of  the  African 
continent.  The  provision  of  support  by  the  Office  for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian Affairs  to  the  OAU 
in developing its institutional capacity for humanitarian 
coordination 
early-warning 
information 
therefore  crucial,  and  must  be 
strengthened.  

We  must  do  everything  to  eliminate  the  problem 
of  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  in Africa 
and  the  world  at  large.  We  must  also  recognize  the 
disproportionately high price paid by countries hosting 
refugees. In the case of Africa, many of those countries 
are  among  the  least  developed  on  the  continent.  Thus 
the  problem  of  refugees  places  an  added  burden  on 
their  already  weak  economies.  We  call  for  increased 
support  to  those  countries.  We  also  recognize  the 
difficulties  faced  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Africa, 
and  call  on  the  international  community  to  respond 
positively and adequately to the appeals of UNHCR so 
as  to  enable  it  to  cater  to  the  needs  of  refugees  in 
Africa. 
to  reiterate  again, 
exchange 
like 
and 
is 
to 
In 
an 
that  context, 
Furthermore,  support 
important  phase  of 
to  assisting  African  countries 
trade  negotiations.  We  call  upon 

Notwithstanding the  current economic  and  social 
difficulties,  many  African  countries  are  making 
tremendous  efforts  to  achieve  sustained  economic 
growth  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  The 
establishment  of  the African  Economic  Community  is 
therefore 
the  African 
development  process  that  will  assist  in  consolidating 
the  efforts  of  African  countries  to  revive  and  develop 
African  economies. 
the  Second 
Industrial  Development  Decade  for Africa  can  make  a 
meaningful  contribution  through  the  full  and  effective 
implementation of the programme for the Decade.  

the  United  Nations 
Industrial Development Organization is also critical to 
enable that organization to carry out its programmes in 
Africa. In addition, the continued cooperation between 
the  OAU  and  the  secretariat  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference for Trade and Development is welcome, for 
in 
it  contributes 
multilateral 
the 
international  community  to  support  the  capacity  of 
African  countries  to  derive  optimal  benefits  from 
globalization and to deal  with the risks and challenges 
it  poses.  In  that  connection,  the  early  implementation 
of  the  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration  will 
certainly hasten the achievement of that objective. 

the  collaboration 
between  the  OAU  and  the  World  Bank,  as  well  as  the 
International  Monetary  Fund’s  technical  assistance  to 
OAU  member  States  to  strengthen  their  capacities  for 
macroeconomic  management.  We  thank  them  and  all 
our  development  partners  for  their  invaluable  support 
and contributions to African development. 

But  the  list  of  African  problems  is  indeed  very 
long.  In  addition  to  the  economic,  humanitarian  and 
security  problems  I  have  referred  to, Africa  must  deal 
with  the  decimating  onslaught  of  HIV/AIDS  and  the 
devastation  of  malaria,  among  other  health  hazards. 
The  continent  is  truly  going  through  its  darkest  hour. 
This  is  therefore  no  time  for  ordinary  solutions  to 
African  problems,  but  an  hour  for  extraordinary  and 
visionary  efforts  on  the  part  of  both  Africans  and  the 
international  community  alike.  What  Africa  needs  is 
nothing short of a Marshall Plan. 

We  believe  that  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  OAU  must  strive  to  achieve  that 
objective.  We  view  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the OAU as an important partnership with 
Furthermore,  we  welcome 
28 




A/55/PV.53
at 
“While 
expressing 
far-reaching  benefits.  At  the  OAU  summit  held  in 
Algeria  in  1999,  African  heads  of  State  adopted  a 
Declaration that, among other things, stated: 

satisfaction 

the 
various cooperation initiatives and approaches in 
favour  of  Africa,  we  reaffirm  our  readiness  and 
willingness  to  promote,  with  all  our  partners,  a 
genuine  partnership  devoid  of  any  selfish 
calculations  for  influence;  a  partnership  that 
respects  the  unity  of  the  continent  and  aims  at 
the development of Africa, rather than using it as 
a  mere  reservoir  of  raw  materials  and  a  market 
for  manufactured  goods;  a  partnership 
that 
enables Africa  to  achieve  its  integration,  ensure 
its development for the benefit of its peoples and 
occupy  its  rightful  place  on  the  international 
scene for the mutual and inclusive benefit of the 
international community as a whole.” (A/54/424, 
annex II) 

At this point I would like to paraphrase two of the 
key  themes  mentioned  by  the  Foreign  Minister  of 
Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on the occasion of the 
general  debate  this  year:  without  the  demonstration  of 
enlightened  self-interest  by  our  development  partners 
in embracing the idea of a Marshall Plan for Africa, all 
our efforts will not make the required drastic impact on 
the situation in Africa;  without a serious consideration 
of the proposition for compensation and reparations to 
Africa for injustices done in the past, justice will not be 
served and that chapter of our history will remain open. 
This  is  the  time  for  reconciliation  based  on  courage, 
solidarity  and  justice.  Namibia  trusts  that  cooperation 
between the OAU and the United Nations will continue 
to be premised upon, and promote, these virtues. 

In  accordance  with 
General Assembly resolution 2011 (XX), of 11 October 
1965,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the  Organization 
of African Unity to make a statement. 
Mr. Kebe (Organization of African Unity) (spoke 

in  French):  First  of  all,  on  behalf  of  the  Organization 
of African Unity (OAU), I would like to extend to the 
President  my  warmest  congratulations  on  his  election 
to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  would 
also  like  to  thank  everyone  who  spoke  before  me  to 
support  the  efforts  made  by  the  OAU  and  the  United 
Nations  to  establish  a  dynamic  cooperation  within  the 
framework  of  an  exemplary  and  mutually  beneficial 
partnership.  In  particular,  I  would  like  to  mention  the 
The  Acting  President: 
to  pursue 
following 
the 
their  endeavours 
representative  and  current  Chairman  of  the  OAU,  the 
Ambassador of Togo. 

My thanks, of course, go also to the Secretariat of 
the  United  Nations  for  its  tireless  efforts  to  raise 
cooperation  between  our  two  organizations  to  an  ever 
higher  level.  Last  year,  we  described  that  cooperation 
as exemplary; today I strongly reiterate the satisfaction 
of  the  OAU  with  that  cooperation,  and  the  great 
importance it attaches to it. 

I  want to express  my satisfaction at the return of 
Somalia  to  the  comity  of  nations  after  an  absence  of 
more  than  a  decade.  I  urge  all  States  members  of  our 
organizations  to  help  sustain  the  momentum  generated  by 
the  meeting  held  at Arta,  Djibouti.  Further,  I  urge  Somali 
leaders 
towards  national 
reconciliation and the rebuilding of State structures. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/55/498) 
describes  precisely  and  in  detail  the  achievements  of 
the United Nations and of the OAU over the past year. 
Twice-yearly  meetings  between  the  two  Secretaries-
General make it possible to define overall direction and 
to  reaffirm  the  principles  and  purposes  that  guide  our 
cooperation.  Consultations  held  periodically  at  New 
York  and  at  Addis  Ababa  and  joint  work  in  the  field 
have enabled our two teams to carry out the directives 
of  our  leadership  and  the  recommendations  set  out  in 
resolutions of the General Assembly. 
Let  me  observe  here  that  today’s  debate  takes 

place 
the 
Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
OAU, which was held at Lome last July. 

Before  that,  in  1999  at  Algiers  and  at  Sirte, 
Africa’s  heads  of  State  or  Government  took  important 
decisions  aimed  at  strengthening 
the  continent’s 
capacity  to  address  the  many  challenges  it  faces,  both 
at 
those 
decisions,  let  me  mention  Africa’s  firm  and  resolute 
decision  that  2000  should  be  a  year  of  peace  and 
stability in the continent. It was also decided to hasten 
the  process  of  integration  in  Africa  through  speedy 
implementation  of  the  Abuja  Treaty  Establishing  the 
African  Economic  Community.  Those  are  two  major 
issues  for  consideration  and  action;  they  are  also 
promising areas for cooperation between the OAU and 
the  United  Nations,  and  I  shall  therefore  make  some 
further comments on them. 
the  continent  and  world 
levels.  Among 
session  of 
thirty-sixth 


29 

A/55/PV.53 

sustainable 
development 

The decision that 2000 should be a year of peace 
and  stability  in  Africa  reflects  our  determination  to 
change  the  state  of  affairs  by  making  a  more  positive 
impact  on  the  future  of our countries  and our peoples. 
To  that  end,  we  must  turn  our  back  on  tension  and 
conflicts, with their resultant massive flows of refugees 
and displaced persons, and to open the way to an era of 
security  and  stability  in  which  all  of  our  human  and 
material  resources  can  finally  be  used  to  build  our 
States,  consolidate  democracy  and  ensure  economic 
and  social  development  for  our  countries  and  well-
being and improved lives for our peoples. 

Here I would refer to the preliminary work of the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  in  his  report 
on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
and 
peace 
in  Africa 
(A/52/871). 

At Algiers, our heads of State or Government, in 
the  course  of  an  extremely  honest  and  open  debate, 
addressed  head-on  the  concerns  of  Africa’s  partners 
about  democratization,  good  governance  and  respect 
for  human  rights.  The  resulting  decision  was  that 
leaders  who  had  seized  power  by  overthrowing  a 
democratically elected Government would no longer be 
accepted  in  the  Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government.  That 
the  seriousness  and 
determination of African leaders in that connection. 

At present, we must manage current conflicts and 
find lasting solutions for them. Then, we must spare no 
effort to prevent the outbreak of further conflicts. That 
constitutes  a  genuine  programme,  and  it  requires  ever 
closer  cooperation  with 
In 
connection  with  conflict  management,  the  OAU  and 
African  subregional  organizations  —  the  Economic 
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the 
Southern African Development Community (SADC) — 
have taken the initiative by bringing parties together at 
the negotiating table, which has led to the signature of 
peace agreements. 

requires 
financial and material resources beyond the capacity of 
those  organizations.  Hence  the  need  for  the  United 
Nations, and more specifically the Security Council, to 
step in promptly by dispatching peacekeeping forces or 
peace-building  missions.  But 
the  Council’s  slow 
procedures do not enable it to maintain the momentum 
of  peace  agreements  that  were  negotiated  under  very 
difficult  conditions  and  that  are  thus  rather  fragile.  It 
implementing  such  agreements 
the  United  Nations. 
indicates 
But 
a 
between 
distinction 
prevention 
has  been  necessary  in  mid-stream  to  devise  ad  hoc 
procedures  for  specific  situations,  such  as  those  of 
Somalia and of Rwanda. 

It  is  urgent  that  conflicts  be  prevented;  it  is 
always less costly to invest in prevention. That is  why 
we  call  for  greater  cooperation  in  this  sphere  between 
the  United  Nations  on  the  one  hand  and  the  OAU  and 
African  regional  organizations  on  the  other. The  OAU 
needs more support from the United Nations to develop 
an  early  warning  system  within the  OAU’s  Mechanism 
for  Conflict  Prevention,  Management  and  Resolution. 
Moreover, there is no denying that the United Nations has a 
greater  capacity  for  gathering  information  that  it  could 
share with the OAU. 

The  OAU  needs  to  work  in  close  cooperation 
with the United Nations on how to deal with regions or 
countries  when  everything  points  to  the  imminent 
outbreak  of  conflict.  It  is  sometimes  very  difficult  to 
draw 
and 
intervention. 

Then there is the social and humanitarian field; as 
a result of overt or latent conflicts in Africa, there is a 
growing  number  of  refugees,  displaced  persons  and 
repatriated persons. To this we  must add the effects of 
natural disasters such as floods, cyclones and droughts. 
This  calls  for  greater  cooperation  and  coordination 
between  our  two  organizations.  For  the  7 million 
African 
resources 
commensurate  with  the  scale  of  the  continent-wide 
disaster,  and  for  equal  treatment  vis-à-vis  refugees  in 
other continents. 
I  cannot  conclude  this  portion  of  my  statement 

without  mentioning 
the 
Conference  on  Security,  Stability,  Development  and 
Cooperation in Africa, held at Abuja in May 2000. This 
new process brings together, in an interdependent way, 
the  concepts  of  security,  stability,  development  and 
cooperation,  with  a  collective  approach  encompassing 
all  of Africa. This  is  a  thunderbolt  in  the African  sky; 
while there was not a great deal of media coverage, this 
event  can  in  many  respects  be  compared  with  the 
Helsinki process. 
The second important decision taken at the fourth 

OAU  Extraordinary  Summit,  held  at  Sirte,  and  then 
crystallized  at  Lome  in  July,  was  to  create  an African 
Union in conformity with the fundamental purposes of 
the  charter of the  OAU  and  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Treaty Establishing the African Economic Community; 
refugees,  we  are  asking 
important  meeting  of 
for 
the 
30 




A/55/PV.53
to  hasten  the  process  of  implementing  the  Treaty 
Establishing the African Economic Community; and to 
strengthen  and  consolidate 
the  regional  economic 
communities that are the pillars of the attainment of the 
objectives of the African Economic Community and of 
the anticipated Union. 

That  was  a  decision  of  fundamental  importance. 
It came at the end of a long process that began at Lagos 
in  1980,  that  continued  at  Abuja  in  1991  and  that 
culminated at Tripoli in 1999, then to be given concrete 
form  at  Lome  in  2000. If Africa  wants  to count in  the 
century  of  globalization  and  play  its  part  in  the 
management of world affairs, it must do so united, with 
its  constituent  parts  acting  in  solidarity,  and  on  the 
basis  of  true  integration.  That  is  the  great  challenge 
facing Africa on the eve of the third millennium — the 
road  that  it  must  take  if  it  is  to  achieve  economic  and 
social development.  

Africa  can  take  up  this  challenge  only  with  the 
help  and  support  of  the  international  community.  I 
should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
profound  gratitude  to  the  international  community  for 
the  support  provided  for  the  development  process  in 
Africa  through  initiatives  at  national,  subregional  and 
continent-wide levels. 

Despite  all  of  this  support,  poverty  is  still  the 
major  problem  in  many  countries  in  our  continent. 
When we speak of poverty in Africa, we are talking not 
about  mere  statistics  but  about real  problems  faced by 
the  poor  on  a  daily  basis.  Production  is  at  an  all-time 
low;  income  does  not  even  come  close  to  meeting  the 
basic  needs  of  people.  High  rates  of  inflation  and 
unemployment are widespread. Most, if not all, African 
Governments  have  undergone  structural  adjustment, 
taking  political  and  social 
far 
outweighed  the  tangible  economic  benefits  that  have 
resulted.  

is  also  handicapped  by  widespread 
pandemics,  such  as  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria. All  of  the 
concerted  efforts  on 
the 
international  community  are  being  thwarted  by  the 
devastating effects of these two major scourges that, if 
nothing is done, will wipe out all the progress made in 
economic and social development in the continent. The 
United Nations Secretary-General has already taken the 
initiative  to  lead  the  International  Partnership  against 
HIV/AIDS  in Africa,  and  we  congratulate  him  on  that 
initiative.  
the  part  of  Africa  and 
that  have 
risks 
Africa 
it  means 

At  this  time  of  globalization,  when  only  the 
strongest economies survive, Africa wants above all to 
be  self-reliant,  delving  into  its  resources  and  its 
imagination  to  come  up  with  initiatives  that  will  save 
it.  But  it  will  need  international  solidarity  if  it  is  to 
succeed  in  its  task.  Such  solidarity  should,  first of  all, 
be demonstrated in the case of the foreign debt, which 
was  assessed  at  about  $220  billion  in  1997.  Debt 
servicing  consumes  all  of  the  resources  that  would  go 
towards  development  plans  for  the  continent.  That  is 
why the OAU is calling on its partners to consider the 
best  means  of  simply  cancelling  the  entire  debt, 
thereby  making  available  significant  resources  for  the 
economic  recovery  of  the  continent.  We  appeal  to  the 
solidarity  of  our  partners  to  help  to  find  a  definitive 
solution  to  the  problem  and  call  for  an  increased 
number of new and additional resources to supplement 
direct  foreign  investment  and  make  African  countries 
more competitive. It is in our partners’ interests to deal 
with  an  Africa  whose  economy  has  recovered,  an 
Africa  that  is  strong,  stable  and  in  control  of  its  own 
destiny. 
The concept of the global village has never meant 

is 
so  much  as 
characterized  by  the  interrelationship  between  the 
means  of  communication  and  knowledge,  cultural 
crossover  and  economic  interdependence.  Distances 
are  shrinking,  differences  and  peculiarities  are  being 
reduced  and  people  are  being  brought  closer  together, 
thereby ushering in a new humanism — the humanism 
of  the  twenty-first  century.  Such  is  the  state  of  the 
world  today,  as  conveyed  by  the  Declaration  of  the 
Millennium  Summit  that  was  recently  held  here.  But 
that vision of the world seems to me to be far from the 
vision  of  most  people,  who  still  think  in  terms  of 
different  countries  and  continents.  They  should  rather 
be  thinking  about  a  global  village,  with  its  underlying 
foundation  and  value  of  solidarity. We  must  make this 
qualitative leap forward if in the future we are to avoid 
such  disasters  as  those  that  brought  bloodshed  to  the 
first  half  of  this  century  and  continuing  tension  to  the 
second half. 

The  United  Nations  and  the  OAU  now  fully 
understand  these  new  challenges  and  I  am  happy  to 
say,  here  today,  that  they  are  now  striving  to  make 
people and institutions ready to live the good life in the 
village of the twenty-first century. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  I  should  like  to 
today.  Globalization 


31 

A/55/PV.53 

inform members that a draft resolution under this item 
will be submitted at a later date. 

I  should  also  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
remaining  two  items  on  the  agenda  for  this  morning, 
namely,  agenda  item  23,  “Cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Caribbean  Community”,  and 


32 

 agenda  item  36,  “Bethlehem  2000”,  will  be  taken  up 
this afternoon promptly at 3 p.m. 

Before  adjourning  the  meeting,  I  would  like  to 
express  gratitude  to  our  interpreters  for  their  special 
effort today. 


The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m. 


