United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
4th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 6 September 2000, 3 p.m.
New York

A/55/PV.4
Official Records
Co-Chairperson:
Co-Chairperson:
Ms. Tarja Halonen  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mr. Sam Nujoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(President of the Republic of Finland)
(President of the Republic of Namibia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m.
Statement by the Co-Chairpersons
The  Co-Chairperson 
Before
proceeding  to  the  list  of  speakers,  I  will  read  the
statement  by  the  Co-Chairpersons  of  the  Millennium
Summit of the General Assembly, welcoming the Inter-
Korean Summit and the Follow-up Measures.
(Finland): 
the  Republic  of  Korea  and 
“The  Co-Chairpersons  of  the  Millennium
Summit  welcome  the  summit  meeting  held  in
Pyongyang  in  June  this  year  between  the  leaders
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea
and 
their  Joint
Declaration  as  a  major  breakthrough  in  bringing
peace,  stability  and  reunification  to  the  Korean
peninsula,  and  encourage  the  two  parties  to
advance  the  process  of  dialogue  so  that  it  may
eventually  lead  to  the  peaceful  reunification  of
the peninsula, while contributing to the peace and
security of the region and beyond.”
Addresses on the occasion of the Summit (continued)
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by Her Excellency Mrs. Vaira
Vike-Freiberga, President of the Republic of the Latvia.
President Vike-Freiberga (spoke in  French): At
the  dawning  of  the  third  millennium  this  Summit
inspires us to reflect on our future and on the role that
the  United  Nations  must  continue  to  play  to  improve
the  human  condition 
I
congratulate  Mr.  Kofi  Annan  on  the  numerous  and
highly  commendable  initiatives  that  he  has  introduced
and supported as Secretary-General.
the  world  over.  May 
I wish to turn immediately to the important fields
in which challenges remain to be met.
(spoke in English)
involving  as 
Globalization  presents  a  major  challenge  to  the
United  Nations, 
it  does,  almost  by
definition,  every  nation  on  this  planet.  The  continuing
spread  of  technological  and  other  improvements  is
providing  new  opportunities 
to  advance  human
societies  and  to  create  higher  living  standards  across
the  planet.  However,  in  many  countries,  poverty  and
want  show  little  sign  of  decreasing,  and  may  even  be
worsened  by  some  aspects  of  globalization.  Not
surprisingly,  this  has  created  widespread  disaffection
against the very process.
The United Nations, as a global and international
Organization, can play a major role in ensuring a more
equitable  distribution  of 
resources  generated
through  globalization.  It  can  draw  on  the  unique
strengths  of  its  universality  and  neutrality,  and  on  its
established,  on-the-ground  presence 
in  numerous
countries.
the 
These strengths allow the United Nations to make
objective  assessments  of 
in  each
particular country and to prescribe remedial courses of
the  difficulties 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-63242 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.4
action in partnership with the Governments concerned.
However,  the  plethora  of  United  Nations  bodies  with
differing  mandates  has  become  unwieldy,  difficult  to
manage 
the
configuration  of  the  United  Nations  presence  does  not
match the requirements of a particular country.
confusing. 
cases, 
some 
and 
In 
The  United  Nations  must therefore  strengthen  its
coordinating role and streamline its institutions. It must
focus on results and impact. It must develop assistance
programmes  without  competition,  overlap  or  waste.
The  United  Nations  must 
resource-
allocation  policies,  which, in  some  cases,  have  proven
most wasteful and ineffective. It is one thing to oppose
conditionality,  but  there  should  be  no  objections  to
stricter 
follow-up
requirements,  thus  ensuring  that  any  aid  received  is
well  and  truly  spent  on  the  purposes  it  had  been
destined for.
accountability 
reassess 
tighter 
and 
its 
The United Nations must also reassess its military
peacekeeping  operations,  not  all  of  which  have  been
successful. Recently, 500 United Nations soldiers were
captured  and  then  released  by  rebel  forces  in  Sierra
Leone.  In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts  have  not  attained
their  objectives.  In  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  in
Rwanda,  United  Nations peacekeepers  became  passive
witnesses  to  wide-scale  slaughter  and  atrocities  and,
just  this  morning  again,  we  heard  about  tragedies  in
East Timor.
There  is  little  purpose  in  passing  peacekeeping
resolutions  that  cannot  be  implemented.  Perhaps  we
should  prepare  for  worst-case  scenarios  and  arm  the
United  Nations  forces  for  more  muscular  peace
enforcement,  rather  than  send  in  lightly  armed  troops
who  cannot  intervene  in  serious  armed  conflict.  The
report of the United Nations Panel on Peace Operations
contains  constructive  recommendations  that  are  well
worth  considering.  This  is  one  major  issue  that  will
have to be addressed by the Security Council.
Regarding  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council
itself,  Latvia  agrees  that  such  reforms  are  urgently
needed  in  order  to  make  that  important  organ  better
reflect existing realities.
It is my pleasure to announce that, within Latvia’s
modest  possibilities,  my  country  has  donated  a
beautiful  and  fully  renovated  building  in  the  old  town
of  Riga,  the  capital  city,  for  the  use  of  the  United
Nations  organizations  in  Latvia.  As  a  donor  country,
2
Latvia is also increasing its contributions to the United
Nations  Development  Programme 
and
covering UNDP’s local office costs. In addition, Latvia
is  once  again  making  a  voluntary  contribution  to  the
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
(UNDP) 
the 
turn  of 
that,  at 
Latvia  believes 
the
millennium, the  United  Nations  Member  Governments
must  work  seriously  to  render  this  Organization  more
efficient  and  effective  in  the  common  fight  against
poverty, war, corruption, lawlessness and torture and in
the  promotion  of  human  rights.  We  must  concentrate
our efforts on transforming the United  Nations  into  an
efficient  problem-solving  and  development-oriented
Organization that people can truly trust and rely upon.
May it truly come to pass.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Natsagiyn Bagabandi, President of Mongolia.
(spoke 
President  Bagabandi
in  Mongolian;
English  text  furnished  by  the  delegation):  Mongolia
views this unprecedented gathering of world leaders as
an event of historic importance that offers us  a  unique
opportunity to reaffirm our faith in the United Nations
and to formulate our shared vision on how collectively
to  address  the  pressing  challenges,  both  existing  and
emerging.  The  United  Nations  has  consistently
manifested its undisputed authority in identifying ways
and  means  to  address  major  global  problems.  Yet,  the
need  to  reform  and  adapt  the  United  Nations  to  the
evolving international realities, with a view to ensuring
its  efficient  functioning  in  the  era  of  globalization,
appears to have been universally recognized.
Some  important  steps  to  this  end  have  already
been  taken.  However,  the  reform  process,  particularly
the  Security  Council  reform,  has  a  tendency  to  slow
down  and  there  is  therefore  an  apparent  need  to  take
appropriate  measures  to  accelerate  it.  Mongolia  is  in
favour  of  a  just  and  equitable  enlargement  of  the
Security  Council  by 
the  number  of
permanent  and  non-permanent  seats  and  ensuring
representation  of  developing  and  developed  countries
alike.  We  also 
the  democratization  of
international  relations  through  increased  openness  and
transparency  in  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  and
an  enhanced  role  of 
the  General  Assembly,  as
envisaged in the United Nations Charter.
increasing 
favour 
In carrying out its activities in the maintenance of
international  peace  and  security,  the  United  Nations
In 
this 
respect, 
should give priority to preventive diplomacy, especially
in  matters  pertaining  to  international  and  internal
disputes  and  conflicts. 
further
enhancement  of  the  relevant  international  mechanisms
appears 
the
universality  of  international  instruments  concerning
disarmament,  crime  prevention,  human  rights,  the
environment 
further
collaborative  efforts  and  a  strong  display  of  political
will by all the stakeholders.
to  be  crucial.  Furthermore,  ensuring 
and  other 
requires 
fields 
and 
the 
researchers 
As  the  Secretary-General  rightly  pinpoints  in  his
millennium report, the central challenge we face today
is to ensure that globalization becomes a positive force
for all the  world’s people. Today,  not  only  do  ideas of
language  of  politicians,
globality  pervade 
economists 
over;
globalization  as  a  reality  has  generated  a  host  of
multifaceted  challenges  beyond  the  reach  of  a  single
nation.  It  has  become  more  evident  that,  along  with
greater 
created
situations  of  heightened  vulnerability.  This  is  all  the
more  true  for  the  weak  and  poor  nations  and  leads  to
their further marginalization.
opportunities, 
globalization 
the  world 
has 
that,  with 
The  question  is  how  to  manage  the  inevitable
process  of  globalization  so  that  it  incorporates  the
human  dimension  in  its  seemingly  unruly 
trends.
Mongolia  believes 
impartiality  and
universal  legitimacy,  as  well  as  its  Charter-based
prevalence over  any  other  international agreement, the
United  Nations  is  uniquely  placed  to  provide  an
overarching  general  guidance 
the  process  of
globalization so that its benefits may be enjoyed by all,
especially the small States.
its 
to 
found 
themselves  handicapped 
No  matter  how  liberal  the  world  economy  is
becoming,  it  is  a  matter  of  fact  that  many  developing
countries  have 
in
seeking  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  global  liberalization.
Therefore, it is our considered view that countries in a
disadvantaged location,  facing  specific  difficulties  and
serious  constraints  in  their  development  efforts,  need
the  closer  attention  and  support  of  the  international
community.  Proceeding  from  this  premise,  Mongolia
has  circulated  as  an  official  document  of  the  United
Nations the memorandum of its Government on how to
enhance  the  role  of  the  Organization  in  promoting  the
security interests of small States. We  would appreciate
the inputs and support of the other Members regarding
our initiative.
A/55/PV.4
in 
the 
security 
identified 
threefold  freedom 
Mongolia  fully  shares  the  Secretary-General’s
call  upon  us,  the  Member  States,  to  spare  no  effort  to
make the United Nations a more effective instrument in
pursuing 
the
millennium report. The honourable mission of ensuring
human 
human-centred
development  should  remain  high  on  the  agenda  of  the
world  Organization.  In  recognition  of  the  crucial  role
of  education 
in  human  development,  Mongolia
reiterates its conviction of the need to launch a United
Nations literacy decade to marshal strong political will
and determination  towards  ensuring  lifelong  education
for all.
promoting 
and 
to  establish  a  health 
Mongolia  fully  supports  the  Secretary-General’s
proposal 
inter-network  with
10,000 on-line sites in developing countries to provide
access to up-to-date medical information and to ensure
reliable  and  fast  communications  in  disaster-stricken
areas.
Over  the  last  decade,  Mongolia  has  developed
democratic  institutions  in  the  political,  economic  and
social  spheres,  while  promoting  human  rights  and
fundamental freedoms and pursuing an open and multi-
pillared foreign policy.
The  new  Parliament 
and  Government  of
Mongolia,  which  were  formed  following  the  general
elections  held  last  July,  are  resolved  to  vigorously
pursue the programme of action designed to revive and
encourage  the  national  economy,  ensure  sustained
economic  growth,  upgrade  the  living  standards  of  the
people, and reduce poverty and unemployment in close
cooperation with the international community.
May  I  express  my  confidence  that  this  Summit
will yield a common strategy for the world community
to collectively work in the new century towards a safer,
more equitable and prosperous future.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Abdelaziz  Bouteflika,  President  of  the  People’s
Democratic Republic of Algeria.
Mr.  Bouteflika  (spoke  in  French):  Although  it
has become commonplace to talk about the astonishing
progress  made 
is
nevertheless true that the effects of that progress on our
daily lives and on our societies are not yet fully known.
Those  unknown  effects  can  lead  to  speculation  of  the
wildest  sort.  The  conquest  of  space  and  the  often
in  science  and 
technology, 
it 
3
A/55/PV.4
striking  advances  in  genetics  could  give  one  the
impression  that  man  now  has  unlimited  power  over
nature  and  the  universe.  However,  those  achievements
have  also  allowed  the  continued  existence  of  the  ills
that  beset  the  majority  of  mankind  and  for  which  we
have yet to find solutions.
Advances  in  communications  that  would  have
seemed  unimaginable  just  a  few  years  ago  have
certainly  shrunk  our  world.  But  have  those  advances
similarly  increased  the  feeling  of  solidarity  among
human beings and between peoples? We know that this
shrinking of our universe is leading inexorably towards
globalization,  from  which  none  of  us  will  be  able  to
escape. We also know that it foretells a real shake-up in
the  behaviour  and  structures  of  our  societies  and  the
international community as a whole.
Such  changes  are  worrisome  because  of  their
scope,  their  suddenness  and,  above  all,  because  they
seem to be independent of our own will. We must adapt
to  those  changes  or  be  condemned  to  remain  on  the
fringes of modern life, unable to ascertain the future or
to act on it. Will we be able to maintain a semblance of
free  will  in  this  mad  pursuit  into  which  we  are  being
dragged  by 
in  science  and
technology? Will we be able to make our own choices,
set our own priorities, and preserve the moral values on
which our civilizations have been built?
the  new  discoveries 
The  legitimate  fears  aroused  by  these  questions
are  even  more  acute  in  our  underdeveloped  countries,
where our economic, social and even cultural structures
are  more  vulnerable  to  these  assaults  by  progress  and
to  the  constraints  of  a  globalization  that  is  creeping
progressively  but  inevitably  into  our  daily  lives  and
that  daily  decreases  the  scope  of  our  freedom.  At  the
dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we  therefore  wonder
with the greatest concern about the place our countries
will occupy in tomorrow’s world, a world based on the
implacable 
the
inflexible  rules  of  the  market.  Will  we  still  be  able  to
make  our  voices  heard  in  the  debates  that  will  decide
our future, or will we lapse into some sort of disguised
servitude  in  which  we  will  once  again  become  the
objects — either consciously or not — of schemes that
will by and large exclude us?
law  of  power  and  governed  by 
The  idea  of  democracy  has  made  its  way  in  the
world and is beginning to permeate political life in our
countries.  Democratic  culture  is  spreading  throughout
social  classes  as 
level  of  our
intellectual 
the 
4
populations  increases.  Conversely,  international  life  is
increasingly moving away from democratic practices as
decision-making  power  is  being  concentrated  in  the
hands  of  the  great  Powers,  especially  in  those  of  the
developed countries.
But  here  again, 
things  are  changing.  Under
globalization, even political decisions are  governed  by
economic  considerations.  This  brings  into  play  the
financial  interests  of  multinational  corporations  and
highlights 
that  now  govern
traditional diplomacy. As has been said, old negotiators
no  longer  play  any  role  other  than  that  of  being  mere
baggage 
and
multinationals.
the  market 
high-flying 
handlers 
forces 
to 
banks 
promising, 
In  a  word,  the  world  is  becoming  de-humanized,
and that is the source of the anguish I referred to that is
felt  by  all  countries  of  the  South  and  which  for  us  is
characteristic  of  our  entry  into  the  third  millennium.
While  prosperity  is  increasing  in  rich  countries  and
becoming  more 
are
floundering  in  underdevelopment  that  we  absolutely
cannot overcome because of the weight of endless debt.
Will  we  one  day  be  able  to  free  ourselves  from  this
crushing subservience and finally be able to devote our
resources to our development and the well-being of our
populations? From now on we are bound to a system of
expanded,  unequal  and  mercilessly  marginalizing
competition.
countries 
our 
For  us, 
the  United  Nations 
We would like to convey here our feeling of deep
helplessness,  not  to  tarnish  the  excitement  we  share
with everyone else at seeing human beings extend their
power  and  domination  over  nature,  but  to  warn  about
the  price  that  will  have  to  be  paid  if  the  majority  of
mankind  were  to  be  marginalized  in  an  international
society based solely on the notion of material profit.
remains 
the
Organization best able to take note of our fears  and to
try  to  find  appropriate  answers.  The  Organization  has
survived  all  the  hazards  of  international  life.  No  one
can  call  into  question  the  undeniable  service  it  has
rendered  to  the  cause  of  peace  in  the  world.  It  will
certainly have to submit itself to renovation in order to
ensure  the  preservation  of  the  ideals  of  justice  and
peace  that  were  part  of  its  creation.  In  this  regard,  the
analyses and suggestions contained in the report of the
Secretary-General  seem  to  us  fully  relevant.  I  would
like to refer to just one of the observations contained in
the report.
It is clear that the game of international relations
that  used  to  be  played  exclusively  among  States
increasingly  involves  that  which  we  have  agreed  to
refer  to  as  civil  society  —  represented  by  non-
governmental  organizations  —  and  is  extending  to
increasingly  diverse  fields.  I  personally  think  that  the
role  of  non-governmental  organizations  must  be
acknowledged  and  that  it  is  in  everyone’s  interest  to
determine the status of non-governmental organizations
in international relations.
Our  concerns  are  numerous  and  pressing,  and
time is short. I simply wish to say that I hope that this
Summit  will  lead  to  an  awareness  of  our  nations’
difficulties  and  of  the  worries  of  our  peoples.  Faced
with  misery  and  endless  distress,  we  would  like  to
believe  in  the  advent  of  a  world  in  which  the  right  to
dignity  is  not  measured  in  dollars.  We  remain  deeply
convinced  that  dignity  is  an  essential,  absolute  and
definitive characteristic of the human condition.
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Alyaksandr Lukashenka, President of the Republic
of Belarus.
President  Lukashenka  (spoke  in  Russian):  The
Almighty  has  endowed  States  and  peoples,  just  like
individuals,  with  equal  rights 
to  freedom,  peace,
security  and  a  decent  life.  Yet  for  many  centuries  a
small  group  of  States  has  ruled  the  destinies  of  the
world,  regarding  other  nations  and  peoples  as  a  mass
with no rights.
The  great  achievement  of  the  United  Nations
system,  as  I  see  it,  is  that  the  division  of  peoples  into
subjects  and  objects  of  international  law  has  been
eliminated. Today every State, regardless of its size and
resources,  has  the  opportunity  to  participate  on  an
equal  basis  in  solving  the  topical  problems  facing  the
world community.
The  Belarusian  people  have  made  a  considerable
contribution  to  the  establishment  of  this  just  system.
And we cannot accept any attempts to dictate to us how
we should live and with whom we should be friends.
Having  sacrificed  the  lives  of  one  third  of  its
citizens  to  the  cause  of  victory  in  the  war  against
fascism,  Belarus  is  capable  of  determining  its  own
destiny.  Having  fully  experienced 
the  horrors  of
devastating  wars,  Belarus  cannot  be  indifferent  to  the
attempts  to  break  the  stability  of  the  emerging  world
A/55/PV.4
order,  to  disrupt  the  geopolitical  balance  in  the  world,
and bring back the times when States were divided into
first- and second-rate countries.
The  proposals  of  the  United  Nations  Secretary-
General Mr.  Annan,  which are  aimed at increasing the
Organization’s efficiency, evoke our profound interest.
In  implementing  these  proposals  it  is  important,
as we say, not to throw out the baby with the bathwater.
The aims and principles of the United Nations Charter
should  be  preserved.  Only  under  these  conditions  can
we  ensure 
the  Organization’s  activity  yields
practical  results  and  that  it  is  capable  of  effectively
responding to the global challenges of our time.
that 
I  think  everybody  will  agree  that  with  all  the
diversity  of  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations,  the  main
task of the Organization is to ensure international peace
and security.
For  the  time  being,  unfortunately,  the  United
Nations  is  not  fully  able  to  deal  with  the  task  of
preventing  aggression  and  armed  conflicts.  The  cases
where  military  force  was  used,  bypassing  the  United
Nations Security Council, have not resolved any issues,
but  have  only  aggravated  existing  problems.  Belarus
holds 
that  military  force  cannot  be  a
legitimate  instrument  of  foreign  policy  in  the  twenty-
first century.
the  view 
The intention to make the world a safer place was
the  main  motive  behind  our  decision  to  renounce  the
status of a nuclear State.
I do not understand those countries who speak so
insistently  about  the  threat  of  nuclear  proliferation,
sometimes  from  this  rostrum,  but  at  the  same  time  do
not  want  to  take  on  the  responsibility  of  making
Central and Eastern Europe free of nuclear weapons, as
proposed by Belarus on many occasions.
I  avail  myself  of  this  opportunity  to  draw  the
attention of the world leaders present here today to the
problem 
the
responsibility of large and small nations in that area.
environmental 
of 
protection 
and 
Many  in the  world  have  already  started  to  forget
the  greatest  man-made  disaster  of  the  past  century  —
the  Chernobyl  disaster  —  whose  main  victim  was
Belarus.  The  moral  duty  of  the  United  Nations  is  to
mobilize  world 
the
consequences  of  the  Chernobyl  and  other  ecological
disasters. Without awareness of our joint responsibility
for  dealing  with 
resources 
5
A/55/PV.4
for  preserving  the  common  human  environment,  all
discussions  of  a  fair  distribution  of  the  benefits  and
disadvantages of globalization will remain just shallow
talk.
Human  rights  and  democracy  are  the  central
issues of the Millennium Summit. I believe that nobody
in  this  hall  would  question  the  significance  of  these
values and high standards, which are set out in United
Nations documents.
The problem is that human rights and democracy
are  increasingly  often  being  used  by  some  States  as  a
pretext  for  punishing  objectionable  countries  and
nations.
Recently, efforts have  been made to  create  a  sort
of  “club  of  the  elect”,  which  excludes  the  majority  of
the world’s nations. This arrogant attempt to divide the
peoples  into  “teachers”  and  “pupils”  can  do  no  good
for  the  real  encouragement  of  democracy  and  human
rights.
In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention
to  the  necessity  for  a  more  deferential  attitude  to  the
unique  nature,  existing  way  of  life  and  historical
destiny of every nation.
For the time being, unfortunately, in international
relations  we  are  facing  more  frequent  attempts  of  the
bigger Powers to treat all alike and reject any national
and  regional  features  which  do  not  fall  into  the
customary framework of the “Western way of life”.
I doubt whether the overwhelming majority of the
United Nations would agree with such arrogance.
is 
in 
Belarus 
the  mainstream  of  democratic
development. But in promoting democracy we rely, and
shall  continue  to  rely,  on  our  own  way  of  life  and
national  spiritual  traditions  which  have  been  maturing
over centuries.
This is why we manage to combine development,
democracy and  stability. There  are  not  and  have  never
been  any  religious  or  ethnic  conflicts  in  our  country.
Our  borders  are  the  borders  of  peace  and  cooperation.
We  are  open  to  friendship  and  cooperation  with  all
those who respect our country and people.
Addressing  the  United  Nations  from  this  high
rostrum,  I  declare  that  in  the  new  millennium  my
country  shall  continue  to  be  your  reliable  partner  in
promoting  the  cause  of  peace  and  security  on  the
planet.
6
The  Co-Chairperson (Finland):  Before  giving
the  floor  to  the  next  speaker,  I  would  like  to  make  an
appeal.  Members  are  aware  that  there  are  still  several
speakers  remaining  on  the  list  of  speakers  for  this
meeting.  Since  we  must  exhaust  the  list  for  each
meeting,  I  should  like  to  appeal  to  the  participants  in
the Millennium Summit to respect as much as possible
the five-minute speaking time allotted to each speaker.
This would allow us to hear all the speakers on the list.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency  Mr.  Thomas  Klestil,  Federal  President  of
the Republic of Austria.
by 
President  Klestil:  This  assembly  of  world
leaders  is  a  unique  occasion  to  celebrate  and  reaffirm
our  unity  of  purpose  and  our  support  for  the  United
Nations.  Guided 
Secretary-General’s
Millennium Report, we are also called upon to explore
the longer-term necessities and options of development
in our community of nations. Arnold Toynbee’s theory
of  history  as  the  result  of  “challenges”  and 
the
respective  “responses”  offers  a  suitable  approach  for
analysing the United Nations.
the 
in  promoting  peace  and  security; 
Built on the ashes of the disastrous Second World
War, the Organization’s agenda and  mode of operation
have evolved in response to the issues of each decade.
It  is  amazing  how  the  world  Organization,  over  more
than  half  a  century,  has  been  able  to  provide  valuable
leadership 
in
successfully  supporting  the  decolonization  process;  in
promoting  and  protecting  a  global  system  of  human
rights  standards;  in  transforming  itself,  in  part,  into  a
broad-based  programme  of  development  cooperation;
in articulating and addressing the new global agenda as
it has evolved, dealing with population growth, human
rights,  social  development,  the  role  of  women  in  our
societies, 
sustainable
development  and  food  and  health,  all  issues  that  were
the  subjects  of  world  conferences  during  the  past
decade.
resources 
natural 
and 
This  Summit  also  offers  a  special  opportunity  to
thank  all  those  men  and  women  who  have  served  the
United Nations with great dedication and distinction —
especially those who have lost their lives in the defence
of high goals and ideals. A special tribute is due to the
Secretaries-General  of  the  Organization,  from  Trygve
Lie,  Dag  Hammarskjöld,  U  Thant,  Kurt  Waldheim,
Javier  Pérez  de  Cuéllar  and  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali  to
Kofi  Annan.  Coming  from  a  country  which  hosts  one
of  the  main  centres  of  the  United  Nations  and  its
specialized  agencies,  I  should  like  to  convey  my
profound appreciation for the  enthusiasm  and idealism
of  the  staff,  which  has  been  a  major  resource  for  the
development of the world Organization.
the  peoples”  and  not  “We 
One  of  the  most  significant  achievements  of  the
recent  past  has  been  the  increasing  democratization  of
global  affairs.  The  Secretary-General,  making  an
allusion  to  the  Charter,  rightly  entitled  his  report
(A/54/2000)  “We 
the
Governments”.  Over  the  past  30  years,  it  may  have
been  peoples  more  than  Governments  that  shaped  and
promoted the agenda of the United Nations. Especially
since  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Human
Environment,  held  in  1972  at  Stockholm,  we  have
benefited  from  a  dynamic  interrelationship  between
diplomatic  negotiations  on  the  one  hand  and  the
articulations of international civil society on  the other.
Today,  it  might  well  be  unthinkable  to  deal  with  any
global issue without the participation and contributions
of  civil  society.  The  way  we  address  today  issues  of
human rights, of the environment, of disaster relief and
development cooperation, of security and, in particular,
of  human  security, 
is
characterized  by  new  forms  of  dialogue,  participation
and  commitment  on  the  part  of  civil  society.  Neither
the  successful  completion  of  the  negotiations  on  the
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling,
Production  and  Transfer  of  Anti-Personnel  Mines  and
on Their Destruction nor the Rome process towards an
International Criminal Court would have been possible
without  the  truly  innovative  and  productive  response
on their part.
to  mention  only  a 
few, 
I should also like to welcome the recent initiative
by the Secretary-General to develop a new partnership
with the business community. To face the challenges of
globalization, a platform like the “Global Compact” —
which  emerged  from  the  discussion  at  the  World
Economic  Forum  in  Davos  —  can  certainly  make  a
valuable  contribution  to  addressing  global  issues  and
the broad societal responsibilities they entail.
Over  the  past  decades  the  United  Nations  has
shown impressive flexibility and an ability to carry out
institutional innovation. However, if we review the past
development 
and
organizations,  we  have  to  admit that  much of this  was
rather sectoral, ad hoc and always under the constraints
of  budgetary  limitations.  In  short,  I  believe  that  the
most important question put before us by the Secretary-
of  United  Nations 
organs 
A/55/PV.4
General  relates  to  the  institutional  development  of  the
United  Nations.  It  is  there  that  great  efforts  are
required and  that innovative responses  will  have  to  be
found  to  make  real  a  renewed  United  Nations  in  a
global  neighbourhood  of  peace  and  development  for
all.
than 
in 
intersectoral, 
interdisciplinary, 
Keeping  in  mind  the  complex  interrelationships
that  exist  today  among  the  manifold  dimensions  of
peace  and  security,  of  economic  and  human-centred
development  and  of  environmental  sustainability,  our
approach  to  the  institutional  challenge  will  have  to  be
more  comprehensive 
the  past.  The  new
challenges  in  dealing  with  the  global  agenda  require
new 
broad-based
institutional  responses.  This  implies  that  our  approach
to  the  challenge  of  renewing  the  United  Nations  must
not be limited to a specific function, to a specific organ
or  even  to  a  specific  organization.  The  time  has  come
to  understand  the  institutional  development  of  the
United  Nations  as  comprehending  the  entire  global
agenda,  the  entire  system  of  organizations,  and  all
types 
academic
community, civil society, parliamentary representatives
and business leaders.
actors:  Governments, 
of 
the 
The  millennium  is  a  good  moment  to  begin,  and
this  Summit  is  an  excellent  occasion  to  gather  the
necessary political will and momentum. No quick fixes
are  possible.  All  elements  in  our  global  society  must
participate  and  share  in  the  responsibility  for  our
common  future.  With  the  goal  of  implementing  the
fundamental  objectives  of 
the  Charter,  we  must
establish  the  institutions  appropriate  for  the  agenda  of
our time.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Majesty  Mswati  III,
Head of State of the Kingdom of Swaziland.
King Mswati III: I am delighted to represent the
Swazi  nation  at  this  historic  Millennium  Summit.  The
entire  membership  of  the  United  Nations  has  gathered
together  for  these  three  days  to  agree  on  how  our
Organization must adapt in order to assist its Members
to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  is  presenting  its
proposals  for  the  future  role  of  the  United  Nations  to
enable  the  Organization  to  support  us  more  efficiently
in our efforts to meet the development priorities of our
people.
7
A/55/PV.4
We  will  be  discussing  much-needed  changes  in
the  structure,  accountability  and  operations  of  the
Organization. But the Summit also provides the perfect
opportunity to address the issue of global relationships
and,  in  particular,  how  to  correct  the  imbalance  of
wealth and social standards between the North and the
South.  In  this  increasingly  interdependent  world,  it  is
more  important  than  ever  for  Member  States  to  work
together  in  unity  and  with  respect  for  one  another’s
individual viewpoints, regardless of size, influence and
economic strength.
We  hope  that  the  Summit  will  reconfirm  the
agreement  of  all  Members  that  concepts  such  as
globalization are intended as a way for all countries to
benefit evenly  from  the  new  world order, and  not as  a
means of continuing domination by the strong over the
weak.  And  we  would  expect 
the
developing  world  to  be  treated  seriously,  with  a
commitment  from  our  partners  to  support  our  priority
objectives  in  an  open  and  honest  manner,  while
respecting  national  wishes  and  beliefs,  and  without
conditions 
and
independence.
the  needs  of 
sovereignty 
undermine 
that 
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  has  three  major
concerns 
that  we  believe  require  United  Nations
leadership  in  the  twenty-first  century.  These  involve
the  acceptance  of  responsibility  by  the  Organization,
acceptance of a leading role in conflict prevention and
resolution;  in  resource  mobilization  for  development
priorities; and in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
From  an  African  perspective,  it  is  a  fact  that
conflicts and instability on our continent not only cause
immense  suffering  to  those  directly  involved,  but  can
also  have  a  negative  effect  on  the  rest  of  our  people.
We  therefore  fully  support  the  call  by  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  United  Nations  to  work  hand  in  hand
with regional groupings to prevent potential conflict by
addressing the root causes of problems.
In  the  global  effort  to  eradicate  poverty,  we
believe  the  United  Nations  must  take  a  much  stronger
position 
in  helping  developing  countries  mobilize
financial  resources  with  which  to  implement  their
priority  projects,  especially 
job  creation  and
essential infrastructure.
in 
And finally, with the terrible threat of HIV/AIDS
casting  its  shadow  over  the  start  of  this  new  century,
there is surely an urgent need for the United Nations to
take  the  lead  in  the  global  fight  against  this  powerful
8
in 
enemy  of  mankind.  Because  of  AIDS,  approximately
one  quarter  of  my  people  will  not  survive  beyond  the
next 10  years and this  is  a  fate they  share  with  all too
many  others 
the  developing  world.  We  must
acknowledge that AIDS is a far greater threat to global
stability  than  even  the  great  wars  of  the  last  century.
We have to act now to stop the spread of AIDS, before
its  devastating  effects  overtake  those  of  the  current
conflicts  on  which  we  concentrate  so  much  of  our
attention  and  resources.  Among  all  the  worthy  talk  of
United  Nations  restructuring,  let  this  message  on
HIV/AIDS  be  strong,  focused  and  resource-oriented.
This is truly a role that the United Nations must play in
this century, if it is to fulfil its mandate to the people it
serves.
The Kingdom of Swaziland places great faith and
hope in the success of this Summit. Our people deserve
the  fullest  commitment  of  all  Member  States 
to
recreate  an  Organization  that  lives  up  to  the  ideals  of
our founding Charter. We have the opportunity now to
set  the  United  Nations  on  the  right  course  for  the  rest
of the century. The Kingdom of Swaziland stands ready
to play its full part in the process.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Finland):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Andrés
Pastrana  Arango,  President  of 
the  Republic  of
Colombia.
President  Pastrana  Arango  (spoke  in  Spanish):
I  come  to  this  historic  Summit  today  not  only  as
President  of  my  country,  but  also  as  the  voice  of  500
million  inhabitants  of  this  planet  who  live  in  the  33
States  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  that  form
the  Rio  Group,  of  which  I  am  today  the  Secretary  pro
tempore.
In their name, I proclaim the following.
We aspire to be, above all, a region of peace.
We value the protection of human rights, in their
full  concept,  and  of  the  environment,  since  protecting
both is a way of defending man.
We 
reject 
all 
forms  of 
intolerance 
and
discrimination.
We exalt solidarity and cooperation as the values
that should guide us in the twenty-first century.
And we therefore declare that the United Nations
is the most important world Organization, and it is our
its  capacity.  We
duty  to  strengthen  and 
increase 
therefore  support  a  multilateralism  that  always  acts
within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations  as  the
prime  regulator  of  world  order,  and  we  consider
unacceptable any international action taken outside the
legal  framework  of  the  Organization’s  Charter  or  any
reform 
to 
the
Organization’s social agenda.
the  detriment  of 
that  would  be 
We  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  declare
that we are supporters of and committed to democracy
and  respect  for  human  rights  as  the  guiding  principles
of  the  new  international  order.  This  is  what  we,  the
Presidents  of  the  Rio  Group  countries,  asserted  in
Cartagena  when  we  signed  a  “Commitment 
to
Democracy”,  and  when  all  the  Presidents  of  South
America ratified it less than a week ago in Brasilia.
With the authority to which we are entitled as the
world’s  first  major  nuclear-weapon-free  region,  Latin
America  and  the  Caribbean  strives  to  create  a  world
free of the nuclear threat and of other weapons of mass
destruction.  We 
upcoming
international  conference  on  the  illicit  trade  in  small
arms  and  light  weapons,  and  we  condemn  the  use  of
excessively  cruel  and  inhumane  weapons,  especially
“home-made” weapons.
support 
also 
the 
Avoiding  war  is  a  priority  and  a  matter  of
urgency,  but  where  conflict  already  exists  we  must  at
least  observe  the  rules  of  international  humanitarian
law. Colombia firmly stands by its positions, and I am
proud to be able to say that today there is no one under
age serving in our armed forces.
crimes 
In order to secure a  firmer  future  for  generations
to come, we must also show courage and determination
in  facing  the  global  problem  of  unlawful  drugs  and
related 
the
trafficking  in  and  diversion  of  chemical  precursors;
contraband;  and  arms  dealing.  The  Rio  Group  is
convinced that this is a problem for all, and that it must
be  solved  by  all  in  a  global  effort  which  should  be
based on the principle of shared responsibility.
as  money-laundering’ 
such 
It  is  our  duty  to  foster  the  conditions  so  that  the
globalization  process  of  the  last  10  years  can  be
controlled,  humanized  and  made  equitable.  In  these
new circumstances, trade and finance cannot lose sight
of human beings and their needs. In Latin America and
the  Caribbean  there  are  more  than  200  million  poor
who  hope  to  share  the  benefits  of  progress,  and  we
cannot  leave  them  behind.  What  we  seek  is  growth
with social equity.
A/55/PV.4
For  this,  we  need  international  cooperation  to
finance  the  networks  of  social  protection  and  the
investment in human capital and the infrastructure. We
need to increase the flow of international trade and put
an  end  to  the  protectionist  measures  of  the  wealthier
and more developed countries.
In  sum,  we  need  a  new  architecture  for  the
international financial system which will help to secure
stability  and  provide  assistance  and  support 
for
countries  which  are  undergoing 
a  process  of
adjustment.
I  come  from  Colombia,  a  beautiful  country
inhabited  by  40  million  people  who  love  life  and
where,  unfortunately,  an  absurd  confrontation  persists,
fuelled  by  a  few  violent  persons  and  by  tainted  drug-
traffic money that affects and involves the entire world.
But  we  are  committed  to  the  quest  of  a  negotiated
peace. We are possessed by a desire to achieve greater
social justice for our most needy. We are determined to
combat  drug-trafficking  and  to  fight  for  human  rights.
We  have  been  living  in  democracy  for  over  180  years
and we shall continue to live in democracy. We are the
future. We are the promise. We are a land of hope and
friendship.  On  the  shoulders  of  our  heroes,  suffering
the  anguish  of  our  poor,  trusting  in  the  talents  of  our
people,  we  are,  in  the  words  of  our  Nobel  laureate
Gabriel  Garcia  Marquez,  striving  for  a  second  chance
on  the  earth,  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  we  shall
obtain it.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Gustavo  Noboa  Bejarano,  Constitutional  President
of the Republic of Ecuador.
President  Noboa  Bejarano  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Since  its  creation  the  United  Nations  has  been  a
universal  meeting  place  of  States  to  work  for  the
shared ideals and objectives of all peoples. Today it is
welcoming  the  largest  number  of  heads  of  State  and
Government  from  all  the  regions  of  the  world.  This
undoubtedly  constitutes  an  acknowledgement  of  the
full  validity  of  the  multilateral  system  of  relations
among  States  when,  in  the  globalized  world,  the
individual  action  of  Governments  yields 
the
collective treatment  of  global policy  and  strategies  for
effective  and  united  management  of 
international
affairs.
to 
The 
developing
independently  of  the  great  objectives  of  security,
globalization 
process 
is 
9
A/55/PV.4
economic stability and development. The debt problem
and  the  financial  market  crises  have  weakened  the
possibilities  of  economic  stability  and  development.
The causes of alarming levels of poverty and misery in
the majority of countries are increasingly found beyond
national  borders  and  a  nation’s  control, 
since
Governments  have  less  leeway  to  apply  policies  that
mitigate  unemployment  and  inequality,  heightened  by
external  circumstances  and  by  non-humanitarian
globalization.  Violence,  drug  trade,  terrorism  and  the
deterioration of the environment have all burst forth as
global  phenomena  that  threaten  all  humankind,  and
international measures have not yet been taken to offset
the effects of a system which for now is clearly one of
profit and fierce competition and is dehumanizing in its
very essence.
In  recent  years  we  have  been  witnesses  to  the
worsening  of  regional  conflicts.  Wars  have  left  deep
and lasting scars in different parts of the  world. Grave
violations  of  basic  human  rights  and  international
humanitarian  law  remain  in  evidence.  The  stockpiling
and unjustifiable development  of  nuclear  weapons  and
other  weapons  of  destruction  continue  as  a  constant
threat to humankind.
the  Organization 
The  successes  of  the  United  Nations  throughout
its  years  of  existence  place  great  expectations  on  its
performance  in  the  twenty-first  century.  Our  ability  to
strengthen 
to  new
challenges depends on the historic commitment that we
are  able  to  offer  today  to  the  Organization  and  to
collective  action  for  the  benefit  of  a  universal  project
of change, understanding and cooperation. Overturning
the  negative 
the  new
challenge of the United Nations.
trends  of  globalization 
respond 
to 
is 
to 
firmly  appeals 
Working  hard  for  the  overall  development  of  its
nation,  Ecuador 
international
cooperation  for  the  implementation  of  programmes
aimed at debt alleviation  and reduction  of the  external
debt for developing countries that  are  highly indebted.
Debt-servicing,  consuming  over  50  per  cent  of  the
national  budget  in  some  countries,  conspires  against
the  implementation  of  health,  education,  employment
and  environmental  programmes  and  programmes  for
the  well-being  of 
the
population.  Ecuador  urgently  calls  for  agreements  to
forgive  the  heavy  external  debt.  Moreover,  emphasis
must  also  be  placed  on  international  financing  for
development on a foreseeable and continued basis. We
the  poorest  segments  of 
10
must  also  ensure  effective  assistance  through  the
resources of international institutions.
With  regard  to  efforts  to  renew  the  United
Nations, Ecuador also attaches priority to the reform of
the Security Council in its composition and its working
methods. 
in  maintaining
international peace and security requires adaptations to
correct  imbalances  in  its  present  composition  so  as  to
improve  decision-making  mechanisms  and  to  give
greater transparency to its proceedings.
primary  mission 
Its 
for 
for 
and 
support 
relations 
the  multilateral 
I am pleased to reaffirm at this Summit Ecuador’s
system  of
firmest 
international 
universal
Organization,  the  United  Nations.  We  have  begun  a
new millennium and the hope of humankind to live in a
more  secure, just  and democratic  world,  depending  on
the  shared  action  of  all  countries,  which  puts  our
universal  political  will,  solidarity  and  commitment  to
the test.
this 
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Joaquim  Alberto  Chissano,  President  of 
the
Republic of Mozambique.
on 
for 
that  we 
the  world, 
this  will  allow 
in  Mozambique  received 
report 
President Chissano:  It  was  with  great  pride  and
the
satisfaction 
Secretary-General’s 
the  Millennium
Assembly  and  realized  that  it  touches  upon  the  most
pressing  challenges  faced  by  the  peoples  of  the  world
today.  These  include  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of
peace  within  and  among  nations  and  among  regions
throughout 
the
accomplishment of all other objectives such as poverty
eradication, development, human rights, promotion and
protection,  as  well  as  meeting 
the  challenges  of
globalization.  Developing  countries,  particularly  the
least  developed  ones,  are  facing  serious  difficulties  in
their  efforts  to  integrate  themselves  into  the  world
economy.  By 
the
globalization process has exposed the poor countries to
powerful  external  forces  and  has  driven  them  to
marginalization  and  exclusion.  This  results  in  serious
economic  asymmetries,  leading  to  a  widening  gap
between the rich North and the poor South, not only in
economic  terms,  but  also  in  terms  of  technology  and
knowledge, a trend leading to greater inequalities.
trade  and  finance, 
liberalizing 
The alarming figures on poverty in the Secretary-
General’s report are indeed embarrassing to us as world
leaders. Looking at the stage of development the world
has  reached  today,  with  some  societies  living  in
conditions  of  extreme  abundance,  the  prevalence  of
absolute poverty in the  world is  morally  unacceptable.
We have to reverse the current trend in the international
economic  system  and  create  one  which  brings  about
justice, equal opportunities and benefits for all peoples
in the world. If the scourge of poverty is not addressed,
it  can  shake  the  very  foundations  of  the  current
international  system.  We 
the
international  community  to  harness  and  manage  the
globalization  phenomenon  in  order  to  ensure  that  all
peoples of the world benefit from it.
therefore  call  upon 
External debt is a major obstacle to the economic
growth  and  sustainable  development  of  developing
countries.  While  we  welcome  the  Heavily  Indebted
Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  and  the  Cologne  initiatives,  as
well  as  other  mechanisms  for  debt  relief,  we  are
convinced  that  unconditional  debt  cancellation  could
enable  us  to  redirect  resources  to  poverty  eradication,
the improvement of social sectors and the rehabilitation
of  basic  infrastructures.  Debt  cancellation  needs  to  be
supplemented  by  better  access  to  world  markets,  the
provision  of  adequate  development  assistance,  and
foreign direct investments.
for 
the  development  and  security  of 
We consider the eradication of infectious diseases
such  as  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  HIV/AIDS  a  key
issue 
the
the  African
developing  countries,  especially  of 
countries.  In  my  country,  we  have  established  a
national committee that involves all stakeholders in the
implementation 
combat
HIV/AIDS.
programme 
the 
of 
to 
in 
particular 
information 
technology  —  are  essential 
The  advancement  of  knowledge,  science  and
and
technology  — 
communication 
for
economic growth and development. The lack of access
to  technology  widens  the  gap  between  developed  and
developing  countries. Therefore,  technology  should  be
made  available  to  developing  countries  at  affordable
prices,  with  adequate  human  capacity-building 
to
enable them to appropriate and further develop it to the
benefit of their peoples.
Our  desires  and  aspirations  can  be  realized  only
in a stable and peaceful environment. It is essential that
the  search  for  genuine
efforts  be 
disarmament, 
total  destruction  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  particularly  nuclear
weapons.  Illicit trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons
intensified 
including 
the 
in 
A/55/PV.4
should  be  prevented  through  concerted  international
efforts.
The role of the United Nations in the maintenance
security  must  be
to  be
of  peace 
strengthened.  The  Security  Council  has 
democratized.
international 
and 
to 
and 
countries 
individual 
in  which  many 
I  would  like  to  take  this  historic  opportunity  to
express  my  sincere  gratitude  and  that  of  the  people  of
Mozambique 
the
international  community  as  a  whole  for  the  response
and  support  provided  to  us  during  the  devastating
floods 
and
infrastructures destroyed. Although factors beyond our
control  have  conditioned  its  pace,  we  have  already
started  with  the  post-flood  reconstruction.  I  am  happy
to report that  most families  that  were displaced  by  the
floods  have  been  resettled  in  safe  areas.  We  thank  the
international  community  for  the  efforts  deployed  to
assist us in this phase of reconstruction.
lives  were 
lost 
Mozambique  has,  to  a  large  extent,  experienced
the  positive  impact  of  an  effective  and  coordinated
action  by  the  United  Nations  and  the  international
community  at  large,  in  times  both  of  peace  and  of
conflict. It is our earnest  hope that  the  United  Nations
will be reformed  as  soon  as  possible  and  strengthened
in  such  a  way  that  its  effectiveness  is  enhanced.  The
implementation  of  the  decisions  to  be  adopted  at  this
historic  Summit  requires  the  establishment  of  follow-
up mechanisms or reinforcement of the existing ones.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Nursultan  Nazarbaev, President  of  the  Republic  of
Kazakhstan.
President  Nazarbaev  (spoke  in  Russian):  It  is
quite  clear  that  the  new  millennium  not  only  is
bringing  us  global  changes  but  that  it  also  marks  a
watershed  in  the  existence  of  humankind.  There  is  no
question 
is  a  dominant  and
irreversible trend of our time. However, today it is also
unquestionable that globalization, which is shaping the
contours  of  the  new  world  order  and  is  clearly  a
manifestation  of  progress,  can  also  have  quite  a  few
negative implications for many, if not most, States.
that  globalization 
There are a  number  of  factors at play  here,  chief
among  them  being  the  stark  inequality  between  States
of  the  world  community.  This  is  reflected  even  in  the
words  we  use  on  a  daily  basis  to  express  the  varying
11
A/55/PV.4
degree of that inequality. Thus, we speak of “rich” and
“poor”  States, 
“economically
backward”  States,  nations  endowed  with  a  resource
potential and those that have already  exhausted  it,  and
so forth.
“developed” 
and 
Inequality  also  manifests  itself  in  the  pattern  of
resource  consumption.  Developed  countries,  known  to
account  for  20  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population,
consume 80 per cent of global resources. There is also
a  widely  known  forecast  to  the  effect  that,  given  the
current pace of development, the global economy over
the next few decades can provide employment for only
20 per cent of the world’s able-bodied population. And
this  is  only  one  of  the  global  challenges  of  the  new
millennium.
respect 
its  work 
its  activity, 
its  position  with 
In  this  context,  I  believe  that  both  the  United
Nations  and  national  Governments  must  make  mutual
commitments.  First,  each  country  should  clearly  and
responsibly  define 
to
globalization processes in order to envision and, as far
their  possible  negative
as  possible,  neutralize 
manifestations.  Secondly,  as  part  of 
to
modernize 
the  United  Nations  could
undertake  the  priority  task  of  developing  a  model  of
globalization that  would  integrate  to  the  fullest  degree
the interests of all marginalized countries. At the same
time, it should more adequately address the concerns of
most  peoples  in  the  developed  countries,  since  the
disparities  within 
inevitably
continue  to  grow.  This  model  should  also  incorporate
measures  to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  existing
security  systems  and  develop  new  ones  that  would
meet  the  demands  of  our  times.  It  is  no  secret  that,
despite  some  major  accomplishments, 
the  United
Nations  has  not  always  been  successful  in  addressing
the challenges of maintaining peace and security.
those  countries  will 
In 
this 
regard,  along  with  enhancing 
the
peacemaking potential of the  United  Nations,  first  and
foremost  of  the  Security  Council,  it  could  be  a  very
promising endeavour to utilize the potential of regional
security  systems  and  to  promote  cooperation  with
them. There is no doubt  that  such  arrangements  as the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
or  the  Conference  on  Interaction  and  Confidence-
building  Measures  in  Asia,  which  is  already  taking
concrete  shape,  or  the  Shanghai  Five,  could  in  many
cases function quite efficiently. The active involvement
of  regional  security  systems 
the  processes  of
maintaining  stability  and  security  could  also  help  take
in 
12
the edge off the problem of humanitarian intervention.
With  their  assistance  and  the  support  of  the  Security
Council,  many  conflicts  could  be  resolved  without
gross  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  sovereign
States.
A  pressing  need  to  develop  such  approaches  is
demonstrated,  among  other  things,  by  the  process
currently  under  way  in  Asia.  Afghanistan  has  become
one of the sore point spots of the world. More than 20
years  after  the  intervention  of  the  Soviet  troops,  the
long-suffering  people  of  this  country  continue  to
experience  all  the  horrors  of  war.  The  instability  and
poverty  in  this  country  have  turned  its  territory  into  a
breeding  ground  for  extremism  and 
international
terrorism,  spreading  not  only  in  Central  Asia  but
throughout  the  world.  Afghanistan  produces  up  to
3,000  tons  of  raw  opium  annually,  which  is  then
processed and shipped to Europe and the United States.
At their recent meeting in Bishkek, the leaders of
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, as
well  as  Russia,  discussed  this  problem  and  called  on
the  United  Nations  and  the  world  community  to
provide  their  countries  assistance  in  normalizing  this
situation.  We  believe  it  is  necessary  to  convene  a
special meeting of the Security Council devoted to the
situation  in  Afghanistan  and  Central  Asia  to  develop
practical measures to stabilize the situation.
The  threat  of  nuclear  proliferation  could  also  be
included on its agenda, since a strong confrontation has
developed  among  some  nuclear-weapons  States.  A
number  of  countries  of  the  region  are  at  the  threshold
of acquiring these weapons. After the disintegration of
the  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics,  Kazakhstan
inherited  a  huge  arsenal  of  nuclear  weapons.  Our
country  has  set a  precedent by  a  voluntary  renouncing
of this arsenal. That  is  why  today  we  again  call  on  all
nuclear-weapon  States  to  take  concrete  measures  to
eliminate nuclear arms.
As  an  improvement  of  the  activity  of  the  United
Nations in the era of globalization, we believe it would
be  advisable  to  promote  within  its  structure  such
institutions  which, on the  basis of a  global analysis  of
the  situation,  could  provide  early  warning  about
emerging  conflicts,  formulate  recommendations  for
early  intervention  and  prevent  military  solutions  to
conflicts  while  effectively  promoting  preventive
diplomacy.  Such 
an
could  become 
institutions 
irreplaceable  tool  for  addressing  social  and  economic
problems that are the source of instability.
In  late  1943,  at  the  Teheran  Conference,  where
the  question  of  the  future  world  order  was  first
discussed,  a  great  American,  President  of  the  United
States Franklin Roosevelt, addressed the participants in
the Conference with these words:
“We 
have 
customs 
differing 
and
philosophies  and  ways  of  life  ...  But  we  have
proved here in Teheran that the varying  ideals  of
our  nations  can  come  together  in  a  harmonious
whole,  moving  unitedly  for the  common  good  of
ourselves and of the world.”
I think that this statement is relevant for us too, as
we stand on the threshold of the twenty-first century, a
century of dramatic changes, a century of globalization
which,  we  all  hope,  will  bring  common  good  to
humanity as a whole.
The  world 
and
interdependent  place  where  global  partnership  should
become an overriding principle.
become 
global 
has 
a 
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Abdoulaye  Wade,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Senegal.
President  Wade  (spoke  in  French):  On  this
historic occasion where the United Nations community
is meeting to celebrate the advent of a new millennium
and to reflect  together  on  what  should  be  the  role  and
place  of the  Organization in  the twenty-first  century,  I
wish  to  bring  you  a  solemn  message  of  peace  and
friendship from the people of Senegal, and at the same
time to express, once again, our deep attachment to the
noble ideals enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
I  wish  above  all  to  pay  strong  tribute  to  the
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan, for the courage, competence and lucidity which
he  has  displayed  in  the  exercise  of  his  mandate.  The
report  he  submitted  to  us  provides  us  with  a  broad
range  of  ideas  and  relevant  proposals,  providing  a
consensus  view  of 
firmly
committed to the pillars of its Charter, and at the same
time,  better  equipped  and  adapted  to  the  changing
realities of the world.
the  United  Nations, 
For  my part, I  wish to take up  here  three aspects
of the problems faced by the United Nations. The first
A/55/PV.4
challenge is that of establishing global and sustainable
peace and security between nations, but also within the
nations themselves — security going hand in hand with
the  elimination  of  war,  violence,  hunger, 
thirst,
oppression, poverty and debt.
The Member States have a prime responsibility to
create  the  minimum  conditions  for  “a  world  free  of
fear”, according to the words of the Secretary-General.
Let us therefore agree to establish a world based on the
acceptance  of  the  universality  of  the  principles  of
democracy, the sovereign right of peoples to freely and
democratically choose their leaders, the renunciation of
violence  as  a  method  of  gaining  and  maintaining
power,  and 
the  promotion  and
protection  of  human  rights  throughout  the  world,
without any discrimination of gender, race or religion.
the  rule  of 
law, 
In 
this  regard,  I  am 
those
minorities,  somewhere  in  the  world,  whose  cultures
and rights  are  still  being  scorned,  including their  right
to live as free citizens.
thinking  of  all 
Decades  ago,  I  had  a  dream  that  Africa  would
cross into the twenty-first century free of all dictatorial
or  personal  power,  and  with  a  rich  mosaic  of  genuine
democracies,  differing  only  in  their  cultural  elements.
We  need  to  recognize,  however,  that  instances  of  real
change,  which  includes  changes  in  leadership  and
elections, can be counted on the fingers of one hand.
in 
The  second  aspect 
the  United  Nations
problems adds a complementary dimension to those of
peace  and  security,  and  this  is  social  and  economic
development  —  development  in  a  world  which  is
transforming on a global level. And here too, I wish, as
before,  to  mention  the  debt,  this  infernal  mechanism
which  developed  countries  have  locked  us  into.  Each
generation  works  to  pay  off  the  debts  incurred  by
previous generations, as well as debts of its own, debts
for  which  it  is  difficult  to  see  any  significant  trace  in
Africa.
The drama of the debt is not that it will neither be
paid  back  or  cancelled,  because  these  always  happen.
The debt is a recurring disease which will always come
back if the profound causes are not eradicated. It seems
something  like  an  indecency,  or  even  a  challenge  to
common reason, to consider debt development the only
possible choice for our countries.
13
A/55/PV.4
At the Lomé Summit, the Organization of African
Unity  (OAU)  decided  to  establish  the  African  Union
and to take up the question of debt relief for Africa.
of redistribution, the elimination of  waste alone  would
most  probably  eradicate  hunger  and 
the 
lack  of
humanity’s basic needs on most of the planet.
to  ask 
for  more 
The  world  has  to  cease  being  a  world  where
paternalist creditors are facing shivering, timid debtors,
who  only  dare 
time  or  debt
cancellation, whereas they are the victims of an unjust
system.  The  science  of  economics,  supported  by  a
profound  feeling  of  solidarity  and  interdependence,
should  lead  the  international  community  to  share  the
feeling 
John  Fitzgerald
Kennedy — “a free society which is unable to  help  its
poor  majority  will  not  be  able 
its  rich
minority”.
so  well  expressed  by 
to  save 
These  issues  are  reflected  in  the  decision  of  the
OAU  to  create  the  African  Union.  I  am  happy  to
announce that Senegal has ratified this agreement, and
was the second nation to do so.
The third and last element of response is linked to
reform  of  the  United  Nations,  that  the  Secretary-
General  presented  in  a  bold  programme  for  renewal.  I
feel that the one of the first demands of  reform  lies  in
increasing 
the  number  of  permanent  and  non-
permanent members of the Security Council, and in the
improvement of the working methods of the Council.
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
It is  in  all our  interests that the  Council  be  more
representative  of  the  international  community,  which
requires 
the
strengthening of the rule of the General  Assembly, the
rationalization of the work of the other organs, as well
as  the  simplification  of  the  institutional  mechanisms
and administrative procedures.
Beyond  the  symbolism  of  passing  from  one
century  to  another  and  from  one  millennium  to  the
next, we are today at the crossroads and have no other
choice but to embark on the path of hope,  which leads
through 
the  consolidation  of  multilateralism  and
universalism. As we meet here today, the daily realities
of  the  world  remind  us  yet  again  of  the  unfulfilled
nature  of  our  ambitious  mission  to  build  peace  and
promote development throughout our planet.
We  cannot  fail.  We  should  not  fail,  because
humanity  has  accumulated  an  unprecedented  stock  of
scientific 
and
technologies  able  to  produce  way  beyond  our  needs.
Good sense rejects the idea of poverty in a world where
global  wealth is  so abundant that, beyond  any  concept
knowledge, 
know-how 
technical 
14
In  the  face  of  what  borders  on 
intellectual
blindness, I wish to express my hope for the emergence
of  a  new  rationalism,  such  as  that  of  the  eighteenth
century. I  myself  will  seek membership  in  that  society
without borders, where absurdity will be abolished and
intelligence and the rule of reason, which are optimally
distributed  among  peoples,  will  be  promoted.  Just  as
we  speak  of  the  age  of  enlightenment,  we  might  also
refer  to  the  millennium  of  enlightenment.  In  the
meanwhile,  however,  may  the  Lord  help  and  guide  us
on our way.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kim
Dae-jung, President of the Republic of Korea.
President  Kim  (spoke  in  Korean;  interpretation
furnished by the  delegation):  It  is a  great privilege  for
me  to  have  this  opportunity  to  speak  in  this  honoured
Hall of peace.
The  new  millennium  is  beginning  with  a  miracle
on the Korean peninsula. Warm sunshine has  begun to
melt  the  wall  of  ice  that  has  stood  between  the  South
and  North  during  the  past  55  years  of  cold-war
division.  Members  must  have  seen  some  of 
the
televised  scenes of the  South-North  Korean  summit  in
June, as  well  as  of  the  separated  families  reuniting  on
15  August  for  the  first  time  in  all  those  years  of
national  division.  They  were  miraculous  and  were
brought about not only through the efforts of South and
North Korea, the principal parties, but also through the
steadfast  support  and  encouragement  of  the  United
Nations  and  the  leaders  of  the  world.  I  thank  them  all
wholeheartedly.
Furthermore,  I  am  greatly  encouraged  by  and
deeply grateful for the decision of the Co-Chairpersons
of our historic gathering to issue a statement in support
of  the  South-North  Joint  Declaration  that  the  inter-
Korean summit produced.
Upon my inauguration two and a half years ago, I
embarked upon my sunshine policy in pursuit of inter-
Korean  peace,  reconciliation  and  cooperation.  Since
then,  the  policy  has  won  the  support  of  the  United
Nations  and  all  countries  of  the  world.  In  the  summit
discussions,  I  and  my  North  Korean  counterpart
resolved  to  work  together  to  ensure  that  there  shall
never  be  another  war  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  We
agreed 
that  unification  neither  by  force  nor  by
absorption  is  acceptable,  as  both  would  only  lead  to
war.
We  agreed  that,  while  the  aspiration  towards
unification  through  self-determination  will  continue  to
guide  us,  our  efforts  for  now  must  focus  on  bringing
lasting  peace  to  the  Korean  peninsula  and  promoting
economic and sociocultural exchanges and cooperation
between the two sides. These efforts are already under
way in many areas.
Unification  is  the  ultimate  goal  of  the  Korean
people.  However,  unification  must  be  achieved
peacefully,  no  matter  how  long  it  takes.  Unification
must  be  a  success  for  both  sides.  This  was  the
agreement reached at the South-North Korean summit.
Through  exchanges  of  summit  visits  and  continued
ministerial talks,  we  will  do  all that  we  can  to  expand
inter-Korean exchanges and cooperation and to make a
peace  to  last  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  Such  advances
on  the  Korean  peninsula  will  greatly  contribute  to
peace in north-east Asia and the world.
As  long  as  we  have  the  United  Nations  leading
the  global  support  for  our  efforts  on  behalf  of  peace,
with  the  active  backing  of  all  the  leaders  here,  the
miracle  of  the  new  millennium  unfolding  on  the
Korean peninsula will become a great achievement for
history. In the most earnest terms, I ask representatives
for their abiding attention and support.
In  the  twentieth  century,  the  United  Nations
achieved  shining  advances  for  peace  and  human
welfare. Were it not for the United Nations, how much
more  would  humankind  have  suffered  from  wars,
calamities  and 
infringements  upon  human  rights.
Indeed, I harbour no doubt that the establishment of the
United  Nations  was  humanity’s  greatest  feat  of  the
twentieth century.
In the twenty-first century, however, there will be
many and even greater missions for the global body to
accomplish.  Numerous  challenges  await,  such  as  the
realization of world peace, assistance for the economic
growth  of  the  developing  countries,  the  promotion  of
rights, 
human 
the
combating 
preservation  of 
the  earth’s  environment.  These
missions must all be successfully accomplished.
terrorism, 
and 
I  appeal  to  all:  let  us  join  hands  to  make  the
twenty-first  century  the  most  peaceful  and  hopeful
A/55/PV.4
period  in  the  history  of  humankind.  Let  us  do  so  by
having  the  countries  of  the  world  rally  around  the
United  Nations.  I  assure  them  that  the  Republic  of
Korea  will  render  all  the  cooperation  it  can  as  the
United Nations carries out its noble roles.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alija
Izetbegovic, President of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
President  Izetbegovic:  First,  let  me  thank  the
United Nations for organizing this historical gathering.
We extend our congratulations to all those contributing.
We  fully  endorse  the  efforts  for  a  more  efficient
Organization  of 
that  would
successfully  promote  the  values  contained  in  the  draft
declaration of the Millennium Summit.
the  United  Nations 
Compared to  our  long  and rich  history, the dawn
of  the  new  millennium  closes  an  extremely  difficult
and  painful  decade  for  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  The
first  half  of  the  decade  was  marked  by  a  battle  for
independence  and  the  other  half  by  the  reconstruction
of  the  country  and  its  institutions  after  a  bloody  and
devastating  war.  The  country  and  the  peoples  have
survived, but at a terrible and unnecessary price.
The  future  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  depends
largely on three factors: first, the integration of Bosnia
and Herzegovina from within; secondly, the integration
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  as  a  whole  into  the  Euro-
Atlantic  institutions;  and,  thirdly,  on  further  regional
developments overall.
The integration from within is a painful and slow
process,  but  it  is  headed  in  the  right  direction.  I  am
happy  to  affirm  the  good  will  of  ordinary  people  to
reconcile and to move forward. The problems are in the
lack of commitment on the part of some politicians. As
a  consequence,  too  many  of  our  refugees  are  still
waiting to return to their homes and some remnants of
apartheid are still present.
signed 
the  Dayton/Paris  Peace
Agreement  to  establish  peace  have  always  understood
it  to  be  imperfect.  However,  we  also  believed  it  to  be
evolutionary and a process that would establish Bosnia
and Herzegovina as a democratic and open  member of
the  family  of  European  countries.  Our  integration  into
the  Euro-Atlantic  institutions  —  from  the  Council  of
Europe  to  the  Partnership  for  Peace  and  the  North
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  —  ensures  a
stable  future  for  our  overall  region  as  well.  That
We  who 
15
A/55/PV.4
process  of  integration  is  the  source  of  our  hopes.  It
enhances  this  necessary  evolution  and  encourages  the
vision of a common future for our peoples. However, in
the  alternative,  if  the  people  feel  that  they  are  not
welcome  as  full  partners  in  a  borderless  Europe,  the
demarcation lines in our region will become ever more
pronounced.
In  Dayton,  our  priority  was  to  stop  the  killing,
because  there  had  been  too  much  death.  We  believed
that an imperfect peace would be better than a just war
and 
integration  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  into  the  Euro-Atlantic  family  would  help
to  overcome  the  shortcomings  of  such  an  initially
unjust, as well as imperfect, peace.
the  natural 
that 
Finally,  the  future  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina
also depends on regional developments, and vice versa.
Most recent  developments in  Croatia  have  shown  how
quickly  things  can  change  in  a  positive  direction.  We
would  like  to  see  similar  positive  events  with  our
neighbour  to  the  east.  In  Montenegro  democracy  and
the recognition  of  past  mistakes  go  hand  in  hand.  The
relationship  between  our  two  countries  reflects  new
feelings of goodwill and mutual interests.
We in Bosnia and Herzegovina are very proud to
contribute  an  integrated  police  force  from  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina to the international peacekeeping effort in
East Timor. Here I join others in expressing our dismay
at the deaths of United Nations personnel in Timor.
Allow  me  to  conclude  this  short  statement  on  a
more  personal  note.  My  function  in  the  presidency  of
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  ends  this  October,  after  10
years of service. I would like to take this opportunity to
express  my  gratitude  to  all  sincere  friends  of  Bosnia
and Herzegovina  who  were with  us in the  time  of  war
and  in  the  time  of  peace,  and  who  have  always
supported the just  cause of Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  I
assure the Assembly of the readiness of  my country to
contribute to the common well-being in order to build a
better  and  more 
just  world.  As  a  crossroads  of
civilizations,  cultures  and 
religions  —  Orthodox
Christianity, Catholicism, Judaism and Islam — we can
contribute  much  to  a  new  dialogue  and  culture  of
peace.  Our  example  teaches  what  should  and  should
not  be  done.  It  is  both  a  positive  and  negative  lesson
for future generations.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
16
Mr. Francisco Guillermo Flores Pérez, President of the
Republic of El Salvador.
President  Flores  Pérez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I
thank  the  United  Nations,  through  the  Secretary-
General,  for the  proposal at the  beginning  of  this  year
that  the  agenda  for  this  Summit  should  be  that  of
tackling  the  world’s  problems.  I  have  discussed  that
proposal with my Latin American colleagues at various
forums, and extend deserved recognition to Mr. Annan
for it.
I  find  in  the  proposal  an  appeal  to  the  more
developed  nations  regarding  the  very  acute  poverty  in
which  many  nations  and  a  large  part  of  the  world’s
population live. If that appeal means a call to solidarity
as  part  of  a  concept  of  a  global  conscience  that
understands  that  the  problems  of  others  are  also  our
own, then I completely support it. But if it is based on
the premise that poor nations exist through the fault of
rich  nations,  then  I  cannot  agree  with  it.  When  the
attitude of a poor nation towards the world is to blame
developed  countries  for  its  poverty,  then  there  is  a
transfer of responsibility that in the end closes off any
possibility  for  that  nation  to  emerge  from  its  poverty.
The only possible way for a poor nation to move ahead
is  to  assume  full  responsibility  for  confronting  its
poverty.
We  in  El  Salvador  are  living  in  a  time  of
profound transformation because of a successful peace
process  and  a  reorientation  of  our  country.  The
triumphs  have  been  ours,  as  we  were  the  ones  who
made peace. But the problems are also ours, as we were
the ones who made war. The only way in which we can
overcome  our  problems  is  by  accepting  them  in  full.
The  same  applies  to  the  individual  who  blames  his
Government  for  his  present  living  conditions,  while
forgetting his personal responsibilities. By transferring
to  others  the  responsibility  that  is  ours  we  block  any
possibility for change.
We  Salvadorans  are  the  architects  of  our  own
destiny. Ours are the triumphs and ours are the failures.
In our experience, assigning blame in the end promotes
an  assistance  mentality  whose  most  pernicious
expression  is  the  temptation  of  many  aid  programmes
to  carry  out  social  engineering  experiments  within  a
reality  that  they  do  not  understand  at  all.  We  are
therefore  not  asking  the  world  to  solve  our  problems.
What we are asking for is an opportunity to participate
on equal terms in development processes.
The 
policies 
of 
openness 
promoted 
by
industrialized  countries  and  international  agencies  are
valid  as  long  as  they  mean  openness  for  everyone.  If
industrialized  countries  view  less  developed  countries
only as consumer markets and close their own markets
to our own capacity to produce, they create a distortion
that  will  in  the  end  affect  all  nations.  Salvadoran
farmers use all the products produced by industrialized
countries. 
the
industrialized world to tell them that they cannot sell in
the  countries  of  the  industrialized  world  the  fruits,
vegetables and cereals they produce through their own
labour.
intolerable 
absolutely 
It 
is 
for 
There  is  no  better  opportunity  than  this  historic
gathering to correct that distortion. All that is needed is
our  determination  to  raise  relations  between  countries
to  the  level  of  dignity  required  for  a  shared  future.
Openness is the only sustainable link between us, as it
is  only  on  the  basis  of  our  production  that  we  can
generate  the  resources  to  combat  poverty.  I  therefore
view that commitment and opportunity with the utmost
optimism.
today 
living 
the  Renaissance, 
If  inhabitants  of  Europe  had  been  told  that  they
were 
living  during 
they  would
probably have answered in a perplexed manner that the
only  thing  they  were  living  was  the  daily  shared
problems  of their  existence at  the time. It  may  be  that
we  ourselves  are 
through  another
Renaissance, one characterized by a burst of creativity
in almost all areas of human knowledge. If so, it would
be  an  enormous  waste  if  we,  the  leaders  of  the  world,
were to apply our energies to grim, apocalyptic visions
regarding 
the  threats  that  will  confront  mankind.
Maybe the most productive way of employing our time
would be to dedicate ourselves to effectively managing
the  world’s  current  potential 
in  an  active  and
responsible  spirit  of  optimism,  understanding 
that
today we have tools to move our countries forward that
we never had before.
Progress is knowledge and decision — and this is
denied to no one.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Hipólito  Mejía  Domínguez, 
Constitutional
President of the Dominican Republic.
President Mejía Domínguez (spoke in Spanish):
The  proposal  to  convene  this  Summit  could  not  have
been  better  timed  or  more  auspicious,  in  that  it  offers
A/55/PV.4
an opportunity for the community of nations to engage
in  a  fruitful  process  of  reflection  on  how  to  meet  the
challenges and needs of the new millennium.
century  means 
Deliberating on the role of the United Nations  in
the 
the
twenty-first 
expectations  which  Governments  must  try  to  fulfil  at
the  international  level,  in  a  world  that  is  calling
increasingly  for  the  practice  of  certain  values  in  order
to promote effective solidarity among all the peoples of
the earth.
defining 
We  Heads  of  Government  should  all  thank  the
Secretary-General of the United Nations for organizing
this  meeting  and  giving  us 
to
deliberate  on  the  issues  covered  extensively  in  the
report  which  he  has  presented  to  this  Millennium
Summit.
this  opportunity 
Only  a  few  days  ago,  on  16  August,  I  had  the
honour to be inaugurated as Constitutional President of
the Dominican Republic. I have come to this high-level
meeting, therefore, to very briefly describe some of the
hopes and aspirations of the Dominican people.
Dignity  of  the  human  person,  equality  between
men  and  women,  social  progress  to  improve  living
conditions,  poverty  eradication,  a  life  of  peace  and
hope  without  fear  —  these,  briefly,  are  the  aspirations
and  hopes  of  the  Dominican  people  and  the  general
framework  within  which  the  Dominican  Government
expresses  its  willingness  and  its  determination  to
ensure that, in our country, the process of globalization
of  all  humankind’s  cultural  manifestations 
that
this  new  millennium  will  have  a
characterizes 
genuinely human face.
While  immersing  ourselves  in  globalization  and
the  market  economy,  we  will  never  relinquish  the
demands of equity and social justice that flow from our
hopes and aspirations.
If  much-vaunted  macroeconomic  equilibrium  is
to be truly beneficial and equitable, then what we need
are effective State institutions, transparent management
of  public  affairs,  respect  for  human  rights,  universal
participation in decision-making on issues of universal
concern  and 
the  creation  of  a  sound  physical
infrastructure.
Only  when  we  are  able  to  design  policies  aimed
at achieving those goals will we be in a proper position
to 
the  global  economy  on
competitive, equal terms. This,  I repeat, is the  attitude
join  and  operate 
in 
17
A/55/PV.4
My  presence  at 
which defines the  aspirations and  hopes of  the  present
Government of the Dominican Republic.
this  Summit 
is  proof  and
confirmation of my country’s faith in this Organization,
of  which  the  Dominican  Republic  has  been  a  member
since  1945.  The  Secretary-General’s  report,  which
seeks  to  define  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
twenty-first  century, 
is  guided  by  an  obvious
commitment to reform and democracy. That is because,
while  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations  have,  over  time,  proved  to  be  valid  and,  on
many occasions, effective, it must be admitted that the
power structures created for it in 1945 cannot meet the
demands  of 
that  have
evolved  from  the  globalization  process.  Now,  more
than  ever,  this  Organization  must  serve  to  strike  the
right balance among all the States of the earth.
international  relations 
the 
Moreover, the necessary reform of the Charter of
the  United  Nations  must  ensure  that  the  globalization
process  benefits  everyone, 
transforming
solidarity  into  a  norm  of  international  conduct  that
helps  to  uphold  the  general  interest  of  the  whole  of
humankind.
thereby 
that 
We  are 
surely  all  agreed 
the  main
responsibility  for  upholding  the  general  interest  and
seeking  to  ensure  the  happiness  of  our  peoples  rests
primarily with us and with the Governments which  we
lead,  but  it  is  not  denying  that  responsibility  to  point
out that often, both in the past and nowadays, our own
guilt has been compounded by the guilty complicity of
certain international interests.
On the basis  of  these  considerations,  I  shall  now
refer to the situation currently faced by the Republic of
Haiti  and  the  Dominican  Republic.  We  have  often
described the relationship between our two countries as
a  marriage  with  no  possibility  of  divorce.  We  realize
that  it  is  basically  Haiti’s  economic  situation  that  is
causing the daily influx of illegal immigrants from that
country  to  ours,  but  the  international  community  must
also realize that the Dominican Republic does not have
the  capacity  to  shoulder  the  social  burden  represented
by  the  presence  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  our
Haitian neighbours in our territory.
Our  Government is doing its  utmost  to  deal  with
this  situation  in  a  spirit  of  understanding  and  absolute
respect  for  human  rights.  Any  incidents  that  may  be
occurring  in  the  border  area  are  not  part  of  a  State
18
policy, and I can assure you that we have taken steps to
deal with any troublesome situation.
to  undertake 
The  Government  of  the  Dominican  Republic  is
fully  prepared 
jointly  with  Haiti
development  plans  that  will  help  to  raise  the  standard
of living of the residents of both countries.
The  Dominican  Republic  will 
an
immigration  law  that  is  based  on  rational  principles,
applicable  to  all  aliens  without  distinction 
living
legally  or  illegally  in  its  territory.  However,  it  cannot
solve on its own a problem that concerns all of us and
which  only  a  collective  decision  and  collective
participation  can  help  to  solve  definitively.  I  therefore
appeal  to  the  United  Nations  and  my  fellow  Heads  of
State 
to  assume  our  collective  responsibility  for
tackling this serious situation.
have 
As I said earlier, the time has come for solidarity,
and it is we Governments that must vow that the United
Nations,  faced  with  the  process  of  globalization,  will
be  the  guarantor  of  the  healthy  material  and  spiritual
development of all peoples and that the United Nations
will  be  an 
judge  against  violence,
insecurity,  prejudice  and  environmental  degradation.
Only thus, sharing the same hopes and aspirations, will
we have peace.
implacable 
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul
Kagame, President of the Rwandese Republic.
President Kagame: With regard  to  the  character
of  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century,  we
share  the  general  view  that  this  noble  institution  is  in
need of renewal and reform to enable it to enjoy wider
legitimacy. In  carrying  out that task,  equal  weight  and
urgency  should  be  given  to  reforming  other  principal
institutions,  including  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.
The  United  Nations  system  and  those  institutions  are
now  faced  with  a  far  more  complex  social,  economic
and political environment than existed when they were
founded more than 50 years ago.
In  Rwanda’s  view,  however,  it  is  the  issue  of
threats to peace that requires the most urgent attention.
It is apparent that we are less threatened by world wars
but  are  confronted  by  regional  and  localized  conflicts
and  tensions.  We  need  therefore  to  pose  a  question  in
that  regard.  Why  have  preventive  and  peacekeeping
efforts been less than successful over the past  decade?
Many  reasons  have  been  put  forward,  including,  for
example,  lack  of  political  will,  ill-defined  mandates,
lack of means, and so on.
to 
Those reasons may all be valid, but I want to add
one  more  factor.  That  is,  each  conflict  is  unique  in  its
history  and  in  its  sociology,  something  that  does  not
often receive the attention it deserves. Nothing short of
objective understanding of each  conflict  and its  nature
can  contribute 
its  management  and  eventual
resolution.  If  the  case  of  Rwanda  may  be  cited,  an
additional shortcoming is the inability or unwillingness
to 
situations.
International  agencies  seem  more  effective  in  reacting
to  humanitarian  crises,  but  are  wholly  inadequate  in
assisting  affected  countries 
the  aftermath  of
conflicts.  Yet,  equally  difficult  challenges  lie  in  the
post-crisis  phases,  particularly  in  terms  of  economic
and 
to  permit
sustainable  development  and  thus  to  prevent  further
cycles of violence.
reconstruction  processes 
post-conflict 
countries 
social 
assist 
in 
in 
Permit  me  now  to  make  a  few  remarks  on  the
the  United  Nations  and  my
relationship  between 
country.  Until 
independence,  Rwanda  was
its 
administered  as  a  United  Nations  trusteeship.  The
United Nations has since, to a  greater  or lesser  extent,
been  associated  with  major  political  events  in  my
country.  As  has  been  widely  observed,  the  1994
genocide  in  Rwanda  must  go  down  as  one  of  the
darkest  hours  in  the  more  than  50-year  history  of  the
United  Nations.  It  was  in  the  aftermath  of  that  event
that the International Tribunal for Rwanda was created,
and we support it in its commendable undertakings. Let
me  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  commissioning  a  report
on  what  happened  in  Rwanda  in  1994.  I  congratulate
the  committee  that  undertook  that  assignment,  led  by
the  former  Prime  Minister  of  Sweden,  Mr.  Ingvar
Carlsson.  Submitted  to  the  Security  Council,  and
discussed  by  the  Council  on  14  April  2000,  that
painstaking report (S/1999/1257, annex), which speaks
for  itself,  is  clear  in  identifying  responsibilities  and
ways  and  means  of  assisting  Rwanda 
its
reconstruction 
this
opportunity  also  to  pay  tribute  to  the  Organization  of
African Unity (OAU) Panel of Eminent Persons, under
the  leadership  of  President  Masire,  which  arrived  at
conclusions similar to those of the Carlsson report.
programmes.  Let  me 
take 
in 
The  people  of  Rwanda  have,  since  1994,  sought
their  society  under  most  difficult  and
to  rebuild 
challenging  conditions.  My  Government  is  doing  its
A/55/PV.4
best  to  address  these.  But  the  task  is  not  an  easy  one.
We have made progress, thanks to the Rwandan people
and  to  our  partnership  with  bilateral  and  multilateral
international  agencies.  Both  the  Carlson  and  OAU
reports  have 
respective
institutions ways to make this partnership effective. We
look 
those
recommendations;  Rwanda  will  continue  to  play  its
part.
implementation  of 
recommended 
forward 
their 
the 
to 
to 
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear an address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Fidel
Castro Ruz, President of the Council of State and of the
Government of the Republic of Cuba.
President Castro (spoke in Spanish): Chaos rules
in  our  world,  both  within  borders  and  beyond  them.
Arbitrary  laws  are  proffered  as  divine  norms  that  will
bring the peace, order, well-being and security that our
planet so badly needs: that is what they would have us
all believe. Three dozen developed and wealthy nations
that  monopolize  economic,  technological  and  political
power have joined us here to offer us more of the same
recipes  that  have  succeeded  only  in  making  us  ever
poorer, more exploited, and more dependent.
There  is  no  discussion  whatsoever  of  a  radical
reform  of  this  worn-out  institution  —  born  more  than
half  a  century  ago  when  there  were  but  a  few
independent  countries  —  to  transform  it  into  a  body
that  truly  represents  the  interests  of  all  the  peoples  of
the  world,  an  institution  in  which  no  one  would  have
the frustrating and anti-democratic right of veto, and to
undertake  a  healthy  process  of  expanding 
the
membership of the  Security Council  and  enhancing its
representativeness as an executive body subordinate to
the  General  Assembly,  which  is  the  organ  that  should
take the decisions on such crucial issues as intervention
and  the  use  of  force.  It  must  be  firmly  stated  that  the
principle  of  sovereignty  cannot  be  sacrificed  to  an
exploitative  and  unfair  order  in  which  a  hegemonic
super-Power,  backed  by  its  own  might,  seeks  to  have
its say on everything. That, Cuba will never accept.
The  poverty  and  underdevelopment  prevailing  in
the vast majority of nations as well as the inequality in
the  distribution  of  wealth  and  knowledge  in  the  world
are  basically  at  the  source  of  the  present  conflicts.  It
cannot 
current
underdevelopment and poverty are the consequences of
the conquest, the colonization, the enslavement and the
plundering  of  most  countries  of  the  planet  by  the
overlooked 
that 
the 
be 
19
A/55/PV.4
colonial  Powers,  of  the  emergence  of  imperialism  and
of the bloody wars to divide up the world in new ways.
Today, it is the aggressor countries’ moral obligation to
compensate  our  nations  for  the  damages  they  caused
throughout centuries.
Humanity should be aware of what we have been
so far and what  we cannot continue to be. Our species
has  now  enough  accumulated  knowledge,  ethical
values and scientific resources to  move towards a new
historical era of true justice and humanism.
Nothing  in  the  existing  economic  and  political
order  serves  the  interests  of  humankind.  Thus  this
order  is  unsustainable  and must  be  changed.  Suffice  it
to  say  that  the  world  has  already  more  than  6  billion
inhabitants, 80 per cent of whom live in poverty. Ages-
old  diseases  of  the  third  world  —  diseases  such  as
malaria, tuberculosis and others equally lethal — have
not  been  eradicated,  while  new  epidemics  like  AIDS
threaten to exterminate the population of entire nations.
Meanwhile, wealthy countries keep devoting enormous
amounts  of  money  to  military  expenses  and  to  buy
luxury  items,  and  a  voracious  plague  of  speculators
exchange currencies, stocks and other real or fictitious
values for trillions of dollars every day.
Nature 
is  being  devastated.  The  climate 
is
changing  under  our  own  eyes,  and  drinking  water  is
increasingly contaminated or scarce. The seas, a source
of  human  sustenance,  are  being  depleted,  and  crucial
non-renewable  resources  are  being  wasted  on  luxury
and vanities.
Everyone  understands  that  the  United  Nations
basic  role  in  the  new  century  now  upon  us  is  to  save
the  world  not  only 
from
underdevelopment,  hunger,  diseases,  poverty  and  the
destruction  of  the  natural  resources  indispensable  to
human  life.  And  the  United  Nations  must  do  this
promptly — before it is too late.
from  war  but  also 
The dream of having truly fair and sensible norms
to  guide  human  destiny  seems  impossible  to  many.
However,  we  are  convinced  that  the  struggle  for  the
impossible  should  be  the  motto  of  this  institution  that
brings us together today.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Namibia):  I  thank  the
the
the  Council  of  State  and  of 
President  of 
Government of the Republic of Cuba.
20
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency  El  Hadj  Omar  Bongo,  President  of  the
Gabonese Republic.
to 
the 
into 
like, 
therefore, 
launch  headlong 
President Bongo (spoke in French): At this time
when  the  nations  of  the  world  that  we  represent  here
are  preparing 
third
millennium, it  is  appropriate  to  reflect  together  on  the
future role the United Nations will play in meeting our
new challenges.
I  would 
to  welcome  and
congratulate  both  of  you  —  eminent  individuals  —
who  have  been  chosen  to  co-chair,  in  the  spirit  of
solidarity  and  complementarity,  this  historic  Summit.
Allow  me  also  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General
for  the  relevant  proposals  that  he  has  brought  to  our
attention.  They  well  serve  to  remind  us  of  the  large
problems facing the world today. I am thinking here of
the  armed  conflicts,  AIDS  and  poverty 
that  are
seriously  threatening  the  stability  and  development  of
our nations — in Africa in particular.
The  conflicts  that  Africa  is  experiencing  have
gone  on  for  so  many  years  that  we  can  talk  about  a
permanent  state  of  war.  These  conflicts  disrupt  our
social,  family,  cultural  and  environmental  balance.
They  destabilize  our  economies,  compromise  our
development,  hamper  our  freedoms  and  give  rise  to
true humanitarian disasters.
In  Africa  humanitarian  action  is  only  in  its
infancy.  We  need  to  develop  it  with  the  ongoing
support  of  the  United  Nations  institutions  and  of  the
Member  States,  as  well  as  with  the  support  of  the
international-level 
organizations
which are already providing us valuable assistance.
non-governmental 
Another  problem  that  is  threatening  the  stability
of  the  continent  is  AIDS,  which  is  attacking  our
workforce  and  the  very  structure  of  our  societies.  The
fight  against  AIDS  requires  more  intense  international
cooperation  to  adapt  the  prevention,  treatment  and
scientific  research  programmes  to  the  urgency  and
breadth of  the task.  Here I would just like  to  make  an
urgent appeal to facilitate access to care.
I  feel  convinced  that  our  efforts  to  build  a  more
peaceful and prosperous world will be successful if we
continue 
logic  of
development.  It  is,  moreover,  in  this  spirit  that  the
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  attaches  as
much  importance  to  economic,  social  and  cultural
in  a  global 
integrate 
them 
to 
rights  as  it  does  to  civil  and  political  freedoms.  It  is
thus  of  the  greatest  importance  that  the  international
community take the concerns of the vulnerable strata of
our societies into greater consideration.
Another  challenge  that  we  need  to  meet 
is
developing  and  providing  access  to  science  and  new
technologies.  Here  too,  Africa,  more  than  any  other
region of the world, will need special support.
The reform of our Organization fully falls  within
the current global context whose chief characteristic on
the economic level is globalization. It also falls into the
political  framework  through  the  march  of  values  and
democratic practice on all continents.
In our desire to give new dynamism to the United
Nations, this democracy, representative of the majority
and  respectful  of  the  minorities,  must  inspire  our
thinking.  It  is  why  I  would  not  wish  to  conclude  my
statement  without  mentioning  here  Security  Council
reform. Indeed, 14 October 1977, at this very rostrum,
as  the  then  President  of  the  Organization  of  African
Unity, 
permanent
representation  on  the  Security  Council.  I  call  for  the
realization  of  this  proposal,  and  I  was  very  pleased  to
hear my brother, President Wade, speaking along these
lines.
that  Africa 
asked 
have 
I 
I  conclude  my  statement  on  this  note,  convinced
that  as  a  result  of  this  Summit,  our  Organization  will
emerge  strengthened  and  more  effective  and  that  new
and  stronger  solidarity  will  be  born  among  States  and
the peoples.
The  Acting  Co-Chairperson  (Namibia):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency
Mr.  Glafcos  Clerides,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Cyprus.
President  Clerides  (Cyprus):  The  Millennium
Assembly,  which 
rightly  has  gathered  here  an
unprecedented  number  of  heads  of  State  and
Government,  is  indeed  a  truly  historic  event.  It  is  a
significant effort to mobilize the forces of international
cooperation  at  the  highest  possible  level,  an  effort
which  we sincerely hope  will give  a  strong  impetus  to
the  desire  of  humankind  to  construct  a  more  just  and
secure  world 
survival,
development  and  prosperity  of  the  peoples  of  our
planet.
that  will  guarantee 
the 
Allow me to express  my congratulations to those
who  initially  conceived  the  idea  of  the  Millennium
A/55/PV.4
Assembly, and to thank particularly His Excellency the
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan,  for  his  thought-provoking  report  entitled  “We
the  peoples”.  We  look  forward  to  an  action-oriented
final  document  of  this  important  meeting,  which  will
provide  the  blueprint  for  our  common  efforts  in
addressing the challenges that lie ahead.
We  recognize  that  despite  the  many  positive
developments  that  have  occurred  on  many  fronts,
ruthless  conflicts,  poverty  and  inequality  are  still
commonplace  in  the  world.  The  spread  of  endemic
diseases should be a major call for mobilization for all
of  us.  The  principles  of  justice  and  international  law
should  prevail  when  conflicts  arise.  Respect  of  human
dignity  and  rights  should  be 
indiscriminate  and
unquestionable, while fundamental freedoms should be
firmly embedded in all societies.
Globalization  has  accelerated  the  proliferation  of
global  transactions,  the  increase  in  productivity,  trade,
technological  advances  and  foreign  investment.  It  has,
however, created new challenges such as  the  widening
of the gap between rich and poor, including the digital
divide,  the  expansion  of  criminal  networks  and  the
illicit  trafficking  in  narcotics  and  arms  around  the
world.
The  benefits  of  globalization  need  to  be  equally
distributed around the world. The gap between rich and
poor  needs  to  be  bridged  before  it  widens  even  more.
The  greatest  possible  emphasis  should  be  given  to  the
needs of those less privileged, who are daily faced with
the  spectre  of  hunger,  disease  and 
lack  of
opportunities.  This  is  clearly  in  the  interest  of  an
increasingly  interdependent  world.  It  should  not  be
forgotten that inequalities inexorably lead to conflicts.
The  heavy  burden  of  external  debt  is  a  major
cause  of  concern  for  many  countries.  Imaginative
policies of debt relief is a necessary component of any
effort to secure poverty eradication.
the 
The second part of the twentieth century has seen
an international effort to protect human rights. Progress
has  been  registered.  However,  we  have  a  long  way  to
go  in  order  to  fulfil  this  lofty  goal.  Despite  the  recent
economic  growth  and  social  progress,  hundreds  of
millions of people still live in poverty and misery. The
natural  resources  of  the  planet  are  rapidly  being
depleted  while 
continually
degraded.  Many  countries lack  access  to  safe  drinking
water and basic sanitation. Unemployment and income
environment 
the 
is 
21
A/55/PV.4
inequality  contribute  to  the  deterioration  of  the  fabric
of many nations.
In  particular,  we  should  focus  our  efforts  on
securing  the  rights  and  setting  the  ground  for  greater
advancement of less fortunate groups of our citizens. In
this  context,  further  efforts  should  be  initiated  in  the
areas  of  gender  equality  and  children’s 
rights,
particularly  of  those  children  who  so  often  pay  a
disproportionately  high  price 
in  areas  of  armed
conflict.  We  should  institute  effective  policies  in  the
pursuit  of  youth  employment,  as  well  as  policies  for
disabled people who constitute one sixth of our planet’s
citizenry  and  who  should  have  the  opportunity  to
become  fully  engaged 
the
development of our societies.
in,  and  contribute 
to, 
We deeply feel the pain and agony of the families
of  missing  persons  all  over  the  world  and  in  my  own
country,  who are  waiting to be informed  of the  fate of
their  missing  loved  ones  in  a  convincing  manner.
Solutions 
or
considerations cannot give answers to this problem, the
very  existence  of  which  constitutes  an  affront  to  the
conscience 
spirit,
commitment and action by those  who are in a position
to give an answer to the relatives are what is needed.
humanity.  Humanitarian 
expediencies 
political 
of 
based 
on 
From  this  forum,  I  wish  to  add  my  voice  and
strongly  appeal  to  all  concerned  to  cooperate  in  the
struggle  to  end  the  agony  and  uncertainty  of  the
relatives of each and every missing person.
The  proliferation  of  armed  conflict  calls  for  our
immediate  attention.  The  ravages  of  war  are  nowhere
more  evident  than  in  Africa,  where  the  continuous
outbreak  of  conflicts  stands  as  a  major  obstacle  to
progress. Our Assembly should  send  a  strong  message
regarding  the  need  for  a  sustained  policy  of  conflict
prevention, 
and
international cooperation.
peace-building, 
reconciliation 
While  one  often  sees  a  tendency  to  pursue  a
“pragmatic”  approach  for  the  settlement  of  disputes,
nevertheless  it  is  our  firm  belief  that  the  United
Nations  should  always  act  based  on 
the  solid
foundation of the principles of its Charter. This kind of
approach will gain the confidence of its Members with
regard  to  its  objectivity  and  fairness  and  will  lead  to
permanent solutions.
The  Organization  should  always  be  a  beacon  of
hope  for  small  States that look to it  for justice  and  by
22
concrete  actions  should  alleviate 
that
political  expediency,  so  often  associated  with  the
exercise  of  power  politics,  will  not  prevail  over
international law.
their  fears 
Security  Council  resolutions  must  be  respected
and implemented to safeguard international legality, so
that the concept of collective  security  will  sink  deeply
into our  collective consciousness and  find  its  practical
application  in  full  respect  for  the  principles  of  the
United Nations Charter.
There is no  more flagrant example of this  failure
in  implementing  resolutions  adopted  by  the  General
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  than  the  case  of
Cyprus,  where  numerous  resolutions  have  remained
unimplemented  for  over  a  quarter  of  a  century.  This
failure  constitutes  nothing  less  than  an  affront  to  the
international  community  and  a  glaring  example  of  the
prevalence of impunity.
I  will  participate 
We are now engaged in yet another effort to solve
the  Cyprus  problem. 
the
forthcoming negotiation, as always, with good will and
determination  to  find  a  just  and  viable  solution  within
the  parameters  established  by  the  United  Nations
resolutions,  a  solution  that  will  meet  the  interests  of,
and  restore  and  safeguard,  the  human  rights  of  all
Cypriots, without discrimination.
in 
The  framework  for  the  construction  of  a  better
world  is  this  very  Organization  of  which  we  are  all
Members. Our guiding principles for the attainment  of
this  goal  are  those  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations
Charter.  We  have  the  tools  to  proceed.  What  we
absolutely need, however, is the political  will  to  move
forward.
Let  us  hope  that  this  Millennium  Assembly  will
strengthen  our  determination  to  work  together  in  a
spirit of solidarity in order to achieve the much desired
goals  of  peaceful  coexistence  and  prosperity  in  our
common home, planet Earth.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Antonio  Guterres,  Prime  Minister 
the
Portuguese Republic.
of 
Mr.  Guterres  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese;
English text provided by the delegation): Globalization
is a reality; it is not an option. But there is a choice, a
choice  between  allowing 
in  an
unregulated manner, leading to social exclusion and an
to  develop 
it 
increase  of  injustices  at  the  global  level,  or,  on  the
other hand, placing it under control so that its potential
will be at the service of all.
The  turn  of  a  millennium  is  usually  a  time  of
visions  of  great  Utopias. The  great  Utopia of our time
would  be  a  world  in  peace,  with  full  respect  for  the
rights  of  human  beings,  with  international  relations
based  on  justice  and  fairness,  without  hunger  and
without  poverty,  and  with  a  sustainable  symbiosis
between  humanity  and  nature.  It  would  be  a  world
politically structured, multipolar and balanced.
Unfortunately,  this  is  not  our  universe,  and  even
to draw a picture of this Utopia seems naive.
In the face of the impossibility of great Utopias, it
is important, nevertheless, to mobilize the international
community  to  build  many  small  Utopias  to  enact
possible  reforms  of  the  architecture  of  international
relations  towards  greater  justice  among  individuals,
peoples  and  generations.  To  regulate  the  globalization
of  economies  and  markets,  improve  world  governance
and  re-establish  the  primacy  of  political  ethics  over
interests: 
the
international community at the turn of the millennium.
An  international  agenda  must  be  taken  up  —  an
the  core  objectives  of 
these  are 
agenda of concrete reforms. I shall talk about six.
it 
into 
the  great  regulator  of 
The first is reform  of the Bretton  Woods  system,
turning 
the  global
economic  and  financial  system,  giving  it  more  means
to 
intervene  and  a  more  humanized  perspective
combining  the  guarantee  of  financial  solidity  and  the
principles of good governance with a new emphasis on
the  social  needs of peoples, resolving  once  and  for  all
the debt problem of the poorest countries.
The  second  reform  is  to  create  codes  of  conduct
and  effective  forms  of  supervision  of  financial  flows,
helping them to become more stable and predictable.
Thirdly,  we  should  bring  into  the  World  Trade
and
(WTO),  with 
social 
care, 
Organization 
environmental questions.
The  fourth  reform  is  to  mobilize  the  energies  of
societies and institutions to combat infectious diseases,
such as AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, and to prevent
“info-exclusion”, 
that
threatens the new knowledge-based economy.
to  convert 
firm
commitments,  at  the  global  level,  the  directions  being
the  so-called  digital  divide, 
reform 
fifth 
The 
is 
to 
A/55/PV.4
progressively  defined 
environment and sustainable development.
in  world 
forums  on 
the
Sixthly,  we  should  perfect  international  law  and
the  means  for  its  implementation  in  order  to  protect,
ever more effectively, the sovereignty of the individual
and  to  frame  properly 
the  right  of  humanitarian
intervention.  No  aggressor  should  be  able  to  count  on
the  complacency  of  the  international  community,  nor
on  the  cynical  invocation  of  the  inviolability  of  its
borders.
In the implementation of this agenda, due to their
dimension  and  legitimacy,  the  United  Nations  and  its
agencies have a fundamental role to play.
The preparatory report to this Summit tells us that
today  humanity  is  united  as  much  by  the  desire  for
peace  as  by  the  tragedy  of  war;  as  much  by  the
spectacle  of  the  most  opulent  wealth  as  by  the  most
abject  poverty;  as  much  by  the  most  creative  freedom
of expression as by the most brutal repression of belief;
as much by the Internet as by HIV/AIDS.
The  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies
can  and  should  function  as  the  principal  catalyst  for
international initiatives on the  promotion  of  peace  and
human  rights,  but  also  of  health,  education, 
the
protection  of  the  environment,  and  equity  in  the
international circulation and distribution of  wealth and
of access to information.
The  reform  and  strengthening  of  the  United
Nations  itself  is,  therefore,  a  key  matter  for  our
collective  future.  It  should  include,  in  my  view,  a
profound  effort  to  rationalize  structures  and  means,
reorganization  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council
the  creation  of  an  Economic  Security
itself  and 
Council,  as  a  catalyst 
sustainable
development  and  employment  in  the  world  economy.
All  must  take  their  responsibility  seriously  in  funding
the  United  Nations.  There  must  be  an  end  to  the
hypocrisy  of  asking  the  United  Nations  to  do  what  it
does  not  have  the  means  to  achieve.  It  is  important  to
demand  efficiency  of 
the
resources  necessary  for  it  to  act  must  also  be  made
available.
the  Organization,  but 
fairness, 
for 
The  decisive  importance  of  the  United  Nations
has  a  living  and  eloquent  symbol  in  East  Timor.  The
victory  of  the Timorese cause  constitutes a  triumph  of
the rule of law over force and of international solidarity
over  realpolitik  and  indifference.  At  the  same  time,
23
A/55/PV.4
East  Timor  is  the  place  where,  with  success  expected,
one  of 
the  most  ambitious  and  comprehensive
operations in the history of the United Nations is being
carried  out.  It  is  a  good  example  of  the  importance  of
improving  the  mechanisms  for  the  activities  of  the
United Nations.
the  support  of  my  Government  for 
Here  I  would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to
express 
the
conclusions  of  the  recently  published  Brahimi  Panel
report  (A/55/305)  on  peace  operations  and  to  express
the hope that there will be a constructive debate on the
implementation of its recommendations.
As  the  Secretary-General  states  in  his  report,  the
values  on  which  the  twenty-first  century  should  be
based  are  freedom,  solidarity,  tolerance,  non-violence,
respect  for  the  environment  and  natural  resources  and
shared 
the
international  community,  which  we  represent  here
today,  cannot  move  forward  to  a  future  of  dignity  and
prosperity for each and every one of its members.
responsibility.  Without 
those  values, 
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her  Excellency  Sheikh
Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of
Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bengali;
English text furnished by the delegation): The full text
of my address has been circulated. Now I would like to
read out only the highlights from it.
In  a  short  span  of  human  history,  the  world  has
changed  beyond  imagination.  As  we  embark  on  our
journey  into  the  new  millennium,  hope  and  aspiration
should steer us in overcoming the challenges. Our great
leader,  the  Father  of  the  Nation,  Bangabandhu  Sheikh
Mujibur  Rahman, 
led  Bangladesh’s  1971  war  of
liberation.  He  wanted 
to  establish  a  happy  and
prosperous  Golden  Bengal,  free  from  poverty,  hunger,
exploitation and deprivation. He made a historic speech
at  the  United  Nations  in  September  1974  in  which  he
emphasized  the  need  for  peace,  development,  justice
and equality — the same challenges that we face today.
Almost  a  year  after  he  made that  speech,  he  was
assassinated,  on  15  August  1975,  along  with  most  of
the  members  of  my  family.  My  sister  and  I  were  the
only survivors, as  we  were abroad. The killers and the
conspirators had taken away fundamental human rights
and  destroyed  democratic  values.  Their  evil  designs
have,  however,  failed  due  to  the  commitment  of  our
24
people to democracy. The killers have been tried under
the laws of our land, found guilty and sentenced. Some,
however, have managed to get refuge in foreign lands.
We firmly believe that the convicted  murderers  should
be returned to our land to face justice.
I  would like to commend Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  for  his  millennium  report,  “We  the  peoples”.
His  proposals  in  the  four  broad  areas  of  poverty
eradication,  prevention  of  conflicts,  environmental
regeneration  and  renewal  of 
the  United  Nations
challenge  world  leaders  to  generate  a  new  form  of
international cooperation.
At  the  dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we
should work unitedly to establish a just, fair, equitable
and democratic global system. We need democracy for
development and its equitable sharing. We should work
together  so  that  we  can  benefit  from  the  process  of
globalization.
Peace 
is 
a  prerequisite 
for  development.
Bangladesh considers peace a fundamental human right
to be attained, sustained, promoted and carried forward
all the time. A threat to peace anywhere in the world is
a  threat  to  peace  everywhere.  Thus,  we  call  for  the
enthusiastic  promotion  of 
culture  of  peace
worldwide.
a 
Ending  discrimination  and  protecting  the  weak
and  the  vulnerable  are  key  to  achieving  justice  and
equality.  We  have  put  special  emphasis  on  women,
children and the weaker sectors of society.
We  have  taken  innovative  approaches  towards
poverty eradication, putting the  people at centre  stage.
The  success  of  microcredit  programmes  has  been
phenomenal in Bangladesh, along with advances in the
specific  areas  of  primary  education,  health  care,
population programmes and women’s empowerment.
We  are  happy  that  the  United  Nations  is  looking
afresh at the peace operations it undertakes. As a major
troop-  contributing  country  over  the  years  and  as  an
elected  member  of  the  Security  Council,  Bangladesh
intends  to  take  a  proactive  role  in  making  peace
operations more effective.
The  security  and  welfare  of  people  are  the  core
concern  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  undertake
sustained and concerted efforts to free our people from
poverty,  hunger, 
and  disease.  While
microcredit  and  other  poverty  alleviation  programmes
illiteracy 
have  been  successful,  much  needs  to  be  done  to
eradicate poverty.
seriously engaged in finding a solution to the Palestine
issue, Kashmir cries for justice even after 52 years.
A/55/PV.4
There has been an outbreak of a  malarial-type of
disease  called  dengu  in  Bangladesh  and  other  parts  of
our  region.  Many  have  been  exposed 
to  arsenic
poisoning. Deadly diseases such as AIDS are spreading
at  an  alarming  pace.  These  maladies,  which  have
regional and  global dimensions,  have  to  be  confronted
globally.
Let  us  all  contribute  to  a  strong  and  effective
United Nations that can respond to the concerns of all.
We  hope  that  the  Millennium  Summit  will  generate
new  momentum  for  the  United  Nations,  so  that  this
Organization  will be able  to  provide  enhanced  support
for  our  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty,  empower  people,
attain  population  control,  establish  participatory
democracy,  preserve 
realize  a
nuclear-weapon-free  world  and  promote  a  culture  of
peace.
the  environment, 
May  Bangladesh  live  forever.  May  the  United
Nations live forever.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia): The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Pervez
Musharraf, Chief Executive of the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan.
Mr.  Musharraf  (Pakistan):  We  are  passing
through  momentous  times  in  the  history  of  mankind.
Just as every dawn inspires fresh hope and a new moon
is  an  occasion  for  prayer  and  a  new  year  for
resolutions,  so  also  the  turn  of  the  new  millennium
kindles  hope  for  the  future  among  humanity.  For  the
first  time  in  history,  vistas  are  in  sight  for  sufficiency
and freedom from want.
brought 
about 
In  the  last  century,  the  blossoming  of  human
global
ingenuity 
transformation.  However, 
remarkable
achievement  was  the  formation  of  the  United  Nations
to uphold the ideals of justice, peace and prosperity.
a  massive 
the  most 
This body has resolved  many  major disputes  and
conflicts.  In  recent  years,  United  Nations  intervention
halted massive human tragedies in Bosnia and Kosovo.
Wherever  there  has  been  a  departure  from  the  United
Nations  Charter  and  defiance  of  United  Nations
decisions, disputes have only festered, often leading to
conflict.  Of  these,  Kashmir  and  Palestine  are  the  two
prime  examples,  but  with  a  difference.  Whereas  the
international  community  and  this  world  body  are
economic 
the  global 
through 
Pakistan  is  located  in  the  world’s  most  volatile
region,  where  one  fifth  of  humanity  lives  in  a  state  of
trend 
economic  deprivation.  While 
is
towards 
progress 
regional
cooperation,  South  Asia  is  embroiled  in  conflict.  Why
this  tragedy?  Only  because  the  people  of  Kashmir
remain  deprived  of  justice.  The  consequence  of  this
injustice has been four wars. The region stands heavily
militarized, even nuclearized. This situation is certainly
not  of  Pakistan’s  making.  We  have  been  obliged  to
respond  to  the  compulsions  of  our  security  and  have
merely acted in self-defence.
Kashmir,  the  root  cause  of  tension,  has  to  be
resolved.  Ten  million  people  of  the  State  cannot  be
denied  their  fundamental  right  to  self-determination.
The  savage  brutalities  and  killing  of 70,000  people  by
700,000 troops have only hardened their resolve. They
seek the honouring of the pledges made to them by the
United  Nations.  If  the  people  of  East  Timor  could  be
given  their  freedom,  why  not  the  people  of  Kashmir?
When one party to a dispute is intransigent in rejecting
the  use  of  peaceful  means,  the  Security  Council  is
empowered to act. The problem lies not in the Charter,
but  in the  lack of  political  will.  Until  we  produce  that
will, all talk of crisis prevention and dispute resolution
will ring hollow.
Pakistan stands for peace  and is  prepared  to  take
bold  initiatives  to  change  the  status  quo  through  a
dialogue  with  India  at  any  level,  at  any  time  and
anywhere. Let me confirm at this world forum that  we
desire  a  no-war  pact;  we  are  ready  for  a  mutual
reduction of forces; and we also seek a South Asia free
from all nuclear  weapons. Pakistan  shall  not  be  drawn
into an arms race, nuclear or conventional, irrespective
of provocation.
Pakistan 
international
concern  for  democracy.  Our  founding  father, 
the
Quaid-e-Azam,  envisioned  Pakistan  as  a  modern
Islamic  State  committed 
to  democracy  based  on
equality,  freedom  and  social  justice.  The  people  of
Pakistan  have  never  lost  faith  in  democracy,  but
autocracy  in  the  garb  of  democracy  led  to  dishonest
governance  and  the  collapse  of  institutions.  We  stand
sincerely  committed  to  rebuilding  and  strengthening
the institutions of state to give the country genuine and
durable democracy.
remains  conscious  of 
25
A/55/PV.4
long 
laws 
A  particularly  dark  aspect  of 
the  misrule
damaging  democracy  in  Pakistan  has  been  corruption.
lectures  on
Paradoxically,  we  have  heard 
democracy  from  countries  which  have 
that
actually  encourage  corruption  by  giving  ready  asylum
to  plunderers  and  facilities  for  the  concealment  of
illicit  wealth  in  secret  accounts  in  their  banks.  Such
transfers will not make them much richer, but the poor
will  certainly  become  much  poorer.  Corruption  is  a
transnational 
concerted
international action. The United Nations should call for
the  banning  of  the  transfers  of  ill-gotten  wealth  and
demand  cooperation  in  tracing  and  repatriating  such
funds.
crime 
calls 
that 
for 
The best assurance for the consolidation of global
peace lies in the economic development and prosperity
of  all  regions  and  all  peoples.  Economic  progress  in
one region supports and complements prosperity in the
other.  The  process  of  globalization  and 
trade
raised  hopes,  but  has  caused
liberalization  had 
disappointment.  Global  trade  regimes  make  the  rich
North richer and the poor South poorer. This imbalance
will  further  crush  the  developing  countries  under  the
increased  burden  of  debt.  The  North,  may  I  caution,
cannot  remain  unaffected  and  will  eventually  get
sucked  into  this  vortex.  The  developing  world  needs
the  understanding  and  cooperation  of  creditor  States
and 
dig
themselves out from under this huge mountain of debt.
Pakistan will continue to work with other nations
for a more effective and just United Nations, capable of
rising above narrow interests to serve the greater cause
of  humanity.  May  the  new  millennium  bring  justice,
peace and prosperity to all nations of the world.
international 
institutions 
financial 
to 
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Wim
Kok,  Prime  Minister  of 
the
Netherlands.
the  Kingdom  of 
Mr.  Kok  (Netherlands):  First  of  all,  I  join  the
Secretary-General  and  others 
in  expressing  our
profound condolences to the families and colleagues of
the  eight  workers  killed  today  in  West  Timor.  It  is
exactly  one  year  ago  today  that  the  Security  Council
desperately 
the  Indonesian
Government  to  act  against  the  militias  that  were
wreaking havoc in East Timor. It is tragic to note that,
one  year  later,  the  same  militias  are  still  committing
atrocities, this time in West Timor.
to  prevail  upon 
tried 
26
I want to add my voice to the voices of those who
have  already  paid  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General’s
visionary  and  action-oriented  report  on  the  role  of  the
United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century.  We,  the
Member States, are crucial to any success or failure of
the  United  Nations.  Together  we  must  determine  what
we  want from the Organization, and each of us should
be willing to invest politically and financially to enable
the Organization to do what we want it to do. Not only
do  we  need  agreement  on  the  core  functions  of  the
United  Nations,  but  such  agreement  also  requires  a
realistic assessment of its ability to perform them.
Reforms are well under way, but we can and must
do more. At this Summit we must renew our efforts to
bring  prosperity,  social  justice  and  full  recognition  of
human  rights  to  all  citizens  of  the  world.  Progress  is
needed  on  the  issue  of  Security  Council  enlargement
and  reform.  Progress  is  also  needed  to  put  the  United
Nations on a sound financial footing again.
Global  governance  needs  to  be  strengthened  to
keep  pace  with  the  major  challenges  presented  by
globalization.  The  United  Nations 
other
multilateral organizations and their member States have
a pivotal task to perform if we are ever to tackle global
concerns  such  as  the  spread  of  infectious  diseases,
including HIV/AIDS.
and 
Closing  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor  is  a  task
that  cannot  be  left  to  the  market  or  to  individual
countries.  Globalization  should  go  hand  in  hand  with
solidarity and security for all. The Secretary-General is
right when he urges us to focus on measures to achieve
freedom  from  want  and  freedom  from  fear.  The
persistence  of  extreme  poverty 
to
humanity.
is  an  affront 
The  second  World  Water  Forum,  held  in  The
Hague in March this year, agreed on realistic targets for
achieving  major  improvements  in  the  availability  of
safe  drinking  water  and  basic  sanitation  by  2015.  The
Netherlands  will  continue  its  efforts  to  help  achieve
these targets, as well as the development targets agreed
at the major United Nations conferences, by supporting
United  Nations  organizations  that  function  well;  by
urging  multilateral 
introduce
performance  measurements; 
the
formation  of  network  alliances  to  ensure  thematic  and
sectoral  coordination  at  the  global  level;  and,  last  but
not 
financial
contributions.
least,  by  continuing 
organizations 
promoting 
to  make 
by 
its 
to 
Equally  important  is  freedom  from  fear.  The
United Nations should be in a position to respond to a
crisis in its  early  stages.  Improving  the  Organization’s
peacekeeping capabilities is essential. The international
rule of law needs to be strengthened. The International
Court  of  Justice,  the  Yugoslavia  Tribunal  and  the
Organization 
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons —  all  located  in  The  Hague  —  contribute  to
that goal. In the near future they  will be joined by the
International Criminal Court. The Netherlands has also
offered to be host country for  the  Organization  for the
Prohibition of Biological Weapons.
for 
Our  endeavours  to  achieve  freedom  from  want
and  freedom  from  fear  for  all  should  be  guided  and
further inspired by the ideas in the Secretary-General’s
report, which draw on the United Nations Charter.
re-emphasize 
requires 
that
Finally, 
ensuring  a 
the
combined  efforts of all  its Member  States. The  United
Nations is not somebody else; the United Nations is us.
The  General  Assembly 
sound
contributions  and  sustained  efforts  by  the  Kingdom  of
the Netherlands.
I  would 
strong  United  Nations 
count  on 
can 
like 
to 
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by Her Excellency The Right
Honourable  Helen  Clark,  Prime  Minister  of  New
Zealand.
at 
its 
this  Summit 
Ms. Clark (New Zealand): New Zealand is proud
to 
reaffirm 
long-standing
commitment  to  the  principles  and  work  of  the  United
Nations. We have been a committed Member since the
very  beginning  of 
the  Organization.  Our  Prime
Minister  at  that  time,  The  Right  Honourable  Peter
Fraser,  played  a  significant  role  in  framing  the  United
Nations Charter. The Charter has stood the test of time
as  a  framework  for  the  conduct  of  relations  between
States and for the promotion of universal human rights
and fundamental freedoms.
in 
New Zealand places great importance on the rule
of  law  and  on  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  We
have  participated  actively 
the  development  of
international  law.  This  year  we  have  responded  to  the
Secretary-General’s  request  to  Member  States  to  sign
or ratify as many of the 25 core treaties as possible. We
have also undertaken a full review of the extent of our
participation in the international legal framework, with
a view to becoming party to more treaties.
A/55/PV.4
As a first step in that process, at this Summit  we
are  carrying  out  seven  fresh  treaty  actions,  including
signature or ratification of, or accession to, 5 of the 25
core  treaties.  This  week,  New  Zealand  is  ratifying  the
Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court;
acceding to the Convention to Combat Desertification;
signing  and  ratifying  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the
Convention  on 
the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Discrimination  against  Women;  signing 
two
Optional Protocols to the  Convention on the  Rights  of
the  Child,  protocols  on  the  involvement  of  children  in
armed  conflict  and  on  the  sale  of  children,  child
prostitution  and  child  pornography;  and  signing  the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the
Financing of Terrorism.
the 
We  are  also  announcing  our  intention  to  become
party  to  the  Kyoto  Protocol  to  the  United  Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change by the time
of  Rio  +  10,  in  mid-2002,  and  to  the  International
Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings.
By these actions we hope to demonstrate how seriously
our  small  country  takes  the  treaty-making  process  and
international law.
New Zealand’s key preoccupations in the work of
the  United  Nations  in  the  coming  years  will  be  on
issues  of  disarmament  and  security,  human  rights,  the
environment and development. Our passion for nuclear
disarmament  is  well  known.  In  the  1980s  we  declared
ourselves  nuclear-free  because  of  our  belief  in  the
immorality  of  nuclear  weapons  and  because  we  knew
that nuclear war would be a catastrophe for our planet.
We  have  also  dedicated  ourselves  to  the  hard,  slow,
painstaking  work  of  advancing  disarmament  at  the
multilateral  level.  Years  of  working  with  others  for  a
comprehensive  test-ban  treaty  paid  off.  Now  our  goal,
working  with  our  partners 
the  “new  agenda”
grouping,  is  nothing  less  than  the  total  elimination  of
nuclear weapons.
in 
The  peacekeeping  work  of  the  United  Nations  is
also  a  priority  for  New  Zealand.  My  Government
deplores the murders yesterday of United Nations relief
workers in a  West Timor refugee  camp.  I  am  gratified
that  New  Zealand  peacekeepers  were  able  to  evacuate
many others to safety. I join other leaders in calling on
Indonesia to act now to end this violence, and I endorse
the  Security  Council’s  call  for  those  responsible  to  be
brought  to  justice.  New  Zealand  also  welcomes  the
report (A/55/305) of the Panel on United Nations Peace
27
A/55/PV.4
Operations, and looks forward to a strengthened United
Nations peacekeeping capacity.
On  human  rights,  New  Zealand  will  seek  in
particular  to  protect  and  promote  further  the  rights  of
women  and  of  indigenous  people.  I  also  believe  that
the United Nations itself can play an even greater  role
in  the  promotion  of  women  to  leadership  roles  within
its own Organization.
On  the  environment,  meeting  our  commitments
under the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change is a major
challenge  for  New  Zealand,  but  it  is  one  we  are
determined  to  meet.  The  consequences  of  unchecked
climate  change  are  particularly  severe  for  our  South
Pacific neighbours.
On  development,  the  priority  surely  for 
the
twenty-first  century  must  be  the  needs  of  Africa.  In
Africa,  conflicts  have  disrupted  too  many  nations.
Crisis  and  poverty  together  have  held  back  economic
development.  On top  of that,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic
has taken a heavy toll on human life.
The problems confronting Africa are a litmus test
for  the  effectiveness  and  political  will  of  the  United
Nations, 
its  member  countries  and  of  African
governments, as the “We the peoples” report implies. A
better  combination  of  programmes  for  debt  relief,
access to world markets for Africa’s products, practical
assistance  for  economic  development  and  HIV/AIDS
prevention,  and  good  governance  can  make 
the
difference for Africa.
Thank  you  for  the  opportunity  to  set  out  my
country’s  priorities  for  working  through  the  United
Nations  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first
century.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  José
María  Aznar,  President  of  the  Government  of  the
Kingdom of Spain.
Mr. Aznar (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): How  will
history  rate  the  performance  of  the  United  Nations?  It
seems  most  fitting  at  this  time  to  pose  this  and  many
other  questions:  Has  the  United  Nations  effectively
preserved humankind from the scourge of war? Has the
influenced
United  Nations  clearly  and  positively 
the
economic  development  around 
Organization  able 
the
challenges of globalization?
the  world?  Is 
to  manage  appropriately 
28
In  the  light  of  these  questions,  let  me  remind
some of the reckless critics of the Organization that we
are the United Nations, and we, the Member States and
their  Governments,  are  the  ones  who  influence  its
performance. So it behoves us to decide what we want
the Organization to be  in  the  coming  century:  whether
we want a useful tool for meeting our objectives, or we
want a very hollow forum.
The choice is ours to make. Now, as back in June
1945, we need a sincere consensus on the fundamental
role of the United Nations in our time.
The  original  goal  of  the  United  Nations  was  to
preserve  the  world  from  the  scourge  of  war  and
remains  so  to  this  day.  The  Security  Council  is  the
cornerstone  of  a  system,  which  strives  to  maintain
international  peace  and  security.  It  is  therefore  a
priority  to  achieve  Council  reform  through  a  broad-
based  consensus,  avoiding  dissension  among  Member
States that would adversely erode its legitimacy.
Other  aspects  of  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  its  working  methods  and  the  power  of  veto,
should be dealt with in a most rigorous manner because
although  the  central  role  of  the  Council  within  the
United  Nations 
question,
humankind’s  ethical  conscience  has  greatly  evolved
over time  so  that the  international community  will  not
sit  idle  in  the  presence  of  mass-scale  atrocities  and
human rights violations wherever they may occur.
beyond 
system 
is 
The principle of state sovereignty is the mainstay
of  the  international  community  and  no  one  intends  to
question  this  fact.  By  the  same  token,  that  very
principle  may  not  be  used  as  a  shield  behind  which
those  encouraging  and  abetting  massive  atrocities  find
cover.  In  our  days,  armed  conflicts  take  their  heaviest
toll  among  civilian  populations,  namely  women  and
children.  We  must 
therefore  seek  and  define  an
understanding of those situations in which international
reaction  may  not  be  thwarted  by  the  exercise  of  the
power of veto.
Any  progress  achieved  by  mankind  during  this
violent  twentieth  century  is  owing  to  the  fact  that  —
even  at  a  staggering  high  cost  —  the  notion  has
prevailed that human  dignity  is  deemed  more  valuable
than the sanctity of the state.
Other  than  maintaining  international  peace  and
security, the  United  Nations  has  set  out  to  achieve  the
goal  of  economic  development  for  all.  If  we  are  to
build  a  more  just  and  equitable  world  we  must
overcome  poverty.  The  recent  upsurge  of  economic
growth  and  technological  progress  give  us  the  best
chance  ever 
It  would  be
unforgivable if we do not gather the means to do it.
to  achieve  our  goal. 
We  heartily  support  the  objectives  set  out  to  this
in 
the
the  Secretary-General’s 
report 
for 
end 
Millennium Summit.
Let me in particular underline our commitment to
achieving  the  goal  set  forth  in  the  World  Summit  for
Social  Development  of  directing  20  per  cent  of  our
development  aid  to  basic  sectors  such  as  education,
health care, housing and employment policies.
These  are  the  tools  that  help  primarily  those  in
need and lift them up from poverty. Specifically, equal
opportunity  in  education  worldwide  may  open  new
doors for new and  more confident generations. We are
fully  aware  of  the  valuable  role  played  by  different
social  and  civic  endeavours, 
in  particular  non-
governmental 
implementing
in 
organizations, 
cooperation projects.
The last challenge before the United Nations, and
the most current one, is related to the amazing process
of  global  integration  driven  by  the  new  technologies.
Endless  possibilities  are  at  hand  for  building  a  more
independent  and  evolved  world.  The  United  Nations
should 
of
globalization  to  prevent  the  weakest  among  us  from
being left behind.
the  many 
enhance 
positive 
sides 
Globalization  certainly  creates  new  challenges,
among  which  the  need  to  protect  and  preserve  the
environment  for  future  generations,  the  fight  against
organized  international  crime,  the  establishment  of  an
international criminal justice system, and also finding a
cure for globally spread diseases.
Spain  will  vigorously  support  all  efforts  to  find
consensus solutions to all these problems and to uphold
the  relevant  agreements.  Specifically,  ratification  by
my  country  of 
the  Rome  Treaty  establishing  an
International Criminal Court is very near, and  we trust
that it will be implemented promptly.
The  manifold  addresses  during  this  Summit  are
laying down the challenges facing our  Organization in
the  coming  years.  The  Secretary-General’s  report  no
doubt  stands  as  a  suitable  and  revealing  proposal  for
analysis of the future. Thus, let us all be convinced and
therefore  provide  the  means  to  make  the  United
A/55/PV.4
Nations  in  the  new  century  the  indispensable  and
useful tool to secure a better world for us all.
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Guy
Verhofstadt, Prime Minister of Belgium.
Mr.  Verhofstadt  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):
Allow  me  first  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the
report  he  presented  for  this  historic  meeting.  It  is  an
excellent  report,  and  the  report  that  we  needed.  Not
only  does  it  describe  the  major  challenges,  but  above
all it also sets out clear and precise objectives. Belgium
fully supports it. My country commits itself here and in
other international institutions of which it is a member
to  support  all  actions  that  can  help  attain  those
objectives.
like 
I  would 
to  discuss 
the  major
challenges  that  figure  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General:  the  peacekeeping  role  of  the  United  Nations,
and the worldwide scourge of HIV/AIDS.
two  of 
Turning  first  to  the  Organization’s  peacekeeping
missions,  such  missions  have  been  on  the  increase  for
more than 40 years now. This, indeed, has become the
Organization’s natural vocation. The net result of these
operations has, unfortunately, not been positive — and
I  am  speaking  with  circumspection.  In  many  cases,
these  operations  have  been  true  debacles.  The  darkest
pages  were  written  in  Rwanda,  where  genocide  was
committed  before 
indifferent  eyes  of  us  all,
including  my  country.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  men,
women  and  children  were  slaughtered.  Ten  Belgian
“blue  helmets”  lost  their 
lives  in  that  operation.
Belgium has sought to learn the lessons of that tragedy.
I note with satisfaction that many of those lessons have
a  place  in  the  report  of  the  Panel  on  United  Nations
Peace  Operations  chaired  by  Mr. Brahimi.  Moreover,
those  lessons  are  in  line  with  the  observations  and
conclusions  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  on
this matter.
the 
I  wish  in  particular  to  highlight  the  need  to
guarantee  that  the  quality  and  quantity  of  the  troops
and equipment provided will be sufficient, on the basis
of  the  most  pessimistic  scenario;  to  formulate  clear,
credible  and  flexible  mandates  that  can  quickly  be
adapted  to  the  situation  on  the  ground;  to  involve
the  formulation  of
troop-contributing  countries 
mandates; 
proper 
preparation,
information and training to troops in peace operations;
to improve resources for organization, information and
provide 
the 
in 
to 
29
A/55/PV.4
But 
to 
the 
like 
that 
point 
those 
took  place 
planning;  and  to  make  the  chain  of  command  and  the
relationship  between  the  theatre  of  operations  and  the
Secretariat less bureaucratic.
however  much 
these
recommendations may be, even the full implementation
of  the  Brahimi  report  would  not  be  enough  to  prevent
tragedies 
in  Rwanda,
Srebrenica  and  Somalia.  We  would  still  be  faced  with
applying  the  recommendations,  as  well  as  with  the
difficulty  of  recruiting  troops  and  with  their  late
deployment  on  the  ground.  We  must  therefore  go
further  in  our  thinking.  I  believe  that  we  need  a  new
concept  of  peacekeeping.  That  means 
forming
standing, 
regional  peace-operation
capabilities.  These,  which  should  be  of  brigade  size,
would be set up by the States of a region and would be
materially  and  financially  supported  by  the  United
Nations.  As  members  know,  the  European  Union  is
creating  a rapid reaction  force  that  will  be  operational
in 2003. In a way, the new concept would be an attempt
to  make  that  initiative  a  general  one  by  establishing  a
rapid  reaction  force  in  each  region  of  the  world.  This
certainly  would  not  imply  the  disengagement  of  the
Western  countries;  to  the  contrary,  in  addition  to
forming their own rapid reaction forces, those countries
would  help  financing  the  equipping  and  training  of
such  regional  capabilities  —  obviously,  under  the
control and responsibility of the United Nations.
ready-to-deploy 
is 
by 
poverty, 
exacerbated 
The  tragedy  of  AIDS  has  grown  alarmingly:  36
million  human  beings  have  been  afflicted,  some  two
thirds  of  them  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  As  in  all  of
history’s  major  epidemics,  the  uncontrolled  spread  of
AIDS 
ignorance,
dogmatism, social exclusion and non-recognition of the
rights of women — and, it must be said, by the refusal
of  some  leaders  to  face  the  facts.  The  goals  and  time-
frames  set  out  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General
must  be  met  at  any  cost.  Let  us  be  clear:  the  only
possibility  for  meeting  those  goals  and  time-frames  is
for  the  rich  countries  substantially  to  increase  the
resources  allocated  for  prevention,  for  the  distribution
of medicines and for the development of a vaccine.
With 
respect 
to  basic 
to  access 
treatment,
Belgium  has  decided,  in  close  cooperation  with  the
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS
(UNAIDS),  to  provide  four  African  countries  with  an
assortment  of  medicines  worth  250  million  Belgian
francs. Direct distribution to patients, which will begin
this  year,  will  take  place  through  existing  primary
30
health-care  structures.  Clearly,  these  basic  medicines
must  reach  the  poorest  of  the  ill.  In  the  same  spirit,
Belgium  has  decided  to  increase  its  budget  for  AIDS
research by 150 million Belgian francs.
I  conclude  by  firmly  endorsing  the  Secretary-
General’s  appeal  to  Member  States  to  reform  the
Security  Council  without  delay.  This  has  been  under
discussion for seven years now, and I think it is time to
conclude. To that end, it is urgent to give  up  positions
that are too conservative or that are utterly unrealistic:
those,  for  example,  that  defend  the  status  quo  on  the
one hand, and, on the other, those that  would open the
Council  to  new  categories  of  membership  to  the  point
where it would nearly resemble the General Assembly.
As  members  know,  Belgium  is  coordinator  of  a  group
of  Member  States  that  has  made  realistic,  practical
proposals  that  would  expand  the  Council  by  five
permanent members and five non-permanent members,
with  equitable  geographical  distribution.  Belgium
would clearly be open to proposals along those lines.
Mr.  Maciel
The Co-Chairperson (Namibia):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Marco
Antonio  de  Oliveira  Maciel,  Vice-President  of  the
Federative Republic of Brazil.
(Brazil) 
in  Portuguese;
interpretation  furnished  by  the  delegation):  Let  me
begin by expressing our strongest condemnation of the
attack by Timorese militias on the Office of the United
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)
office at  Atambua, West Timor.  Our deepest  sympathy
and  condolences  go  to  the  bereaved  families,  and  we
express our sincere wish that those injured may recover
speedily.
(spoke 
It  gives  me  great  satisfaction  to  convey  to  this
historic  Summit  the  greetings  of  the  President  of
Brazil,  Fernando  Henrique  Cardoso,  and  of  the  entire
Brazilian  nation.  I  am  confident  that  the  President  of
Finland, Tarja  Halonen,  and President  Sam  Nujoma  of
Namibia, 
the  Millennium
Summit, will provide inspired and firm guidance as we
conduct  our  deliberations.  I  also  salute  Secretary-
General Kofi  Annan,  whose experience and breadth of
vision  of  world  affairs  have  been  crucial  to  the
strengthening of the United Nations.
the  Co-Chairpersons  of 
The  Millennium  Summit  offers  a  propitious
opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  collective  commitment  to
international  peace  and  security,  the  observance  of
human  rights,  respect  for  international  law,  protection
of the  environment, the  eradication  of poverty  and  the
well-being  of  all.  These  are  goals  that  can  only  be
achieved 
in 
the  wake  of  economic  and  social
development.
The  United  Nations  has  a  key  role  to  play  in
achieving  these  objectives.  There  is  no  alternative  to
the path laid out by the Organization if we are to foster
the  ideals  of  liberty,  equality,  solidarity  and  tolerance
among  peoples.  The  United  Nations  has  increasingly
become  an 
in  our  collective
endeavours  to  overcome  the  challenges  of  the  modern
world.
indispensable 
tool 
The establishment of the United Nations is one of
the  great  legacies  of  the  twentieth  century.  The  time
has  come  to  revitalize  it,  to  ensure  that  it  mirrors  the
contemporary  state  of  global  affairs  and  the  trend
towards  greater  democracy  in  international  relations.
We  must reform  the  Security  Council  to  make  it  more
representative,  effective  and  legitimate.  No  longer  can
we  tolerate  anachronistic  decision-making  structures
that  are  not  only  selective,  but  fail  to  reflect  the
dynamics of worldwide transformations of the last few
decades.
It  is  imperative  to  prevent  the  creation  of  an
environment  conducive  to  unilateral  actions  falling
outside  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations  Charter
and  international  law.  It  is  also  imperative  to  renew
within  the  United  Nations  the  debate  on  the  critical
issue of economic, social and cultural development.
Brazil  shares  the  view  of  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  that  extreme  poverty  is  an  affront  to  humanity.
Poverty eradication, access to education, the supply of
basic  health  services  and  sustainable  development
require  a  concerted  effort  on  the  part  of  the  entire
international  community.  Globalization  should  be  a
means  for  creating  a  world  of  greater  solidarity  and,
therefore, a world that is less asymmetrical. We appeal
to  the  developed  countries  to  move  ahead  with  debt-
reduction  initiatives  benefiting  the  poorest  countries.
Such  measures  will  undoubtedly  help  to  bring  on
stream 
the
requirements  of  the  needy,  in  particular  by  widening
the access of poor children to basic schooling.
educational  programmes  geared 
to 
By  the  same  token,  the  United  Nations  cannot
remain  aloof  in  view  of  the  need  to  ensure  access  to
science and technology and to ensure that this access is
more democratic, so as to enable all the peoples of the
world  to  share  in  the  information  age.  The  United
A/55/PV.4
Nations must assist in efforts to remove restrictions on
developing  countries  playing  a  more  active  role  in  the
world economy.
As  we  the  leaders  from  all  parts  of  the  world
gather  to  reaffirm  our  collective  commitments,  let  us
bear  in  mind  the  significant  efforts  being  made  to
enhance  coordination  at  the  regional  level.  In  this
respect,  allow  me  to  refer  to  the  holding  last  week  —
for the first time in our  history  —  of  a  meeting  of the
Presidents  of  all  the  countries  in  South  America.  The
success  of  this  “Meeting  of  the  Presidents  of  South
America”, held in Brasilia, reinforces the prospects for
the  consolidation  of  a  regional  zone  of  prosperity,
where  our  countries  will  be  able  to  address  common
challenges  and  opportunities.  I  am  convinced  that  the
outcome  of  the  gathering  in  Brasilia  constitutes  a
meaningful  contribution,  from  our  perspective,  to  the
dynamics  of  regional  integration,  which  is  crucial  in
these times of globalization.
Mr. Gurirab (Namibia) took the chair.
The Brasilia Meeting highlighted priorities of the
region.  Our  commitment  to  democracy  was  enhanced.
We  underscored  our  conviction  that  the  improvement
of  infrastructure  geared  to  regional  integration,  the
strengthening  of  our  trade  ties,  closer  technical  and
scientific  cooperation,  and 
the  fight  against  drug
trafficking  and  related  crimes  are  decisive  measures
which will foster comprehensive regional development.
Finally, as a reaffirmation of the peaceful aspirations of
the  countries  of  the  region,  we  agreed  to  establish  a
South American zone of peace.
We  are  convinced  that  the  Millennium  Summit
will be a watershed in our endeavours to build a better
world.  If  we  are  to  achieve  this  goal  as  we  enter  the
twenty-first  century,  it  is  essential  that  we  bring  new
vigour and strength to the United Nations.
The  Acting  Co-Chairperson  (Namibia): The
Assembly will now hear an address by Her Excellency
The  Honourable  Billie  Miller,  Member  of  Parliament,
Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados.
Mrs. Miller (Barbados): In the 34 years since our
independence  we  have  striven  for  nothing  less  than  to
define our identity out of the crucible of a history that
encompasses  the  darkest  episode  in  human  relations.
We  in  Barbados  and  the  Caribbean  are,  in  truth,  the
people of this millennium. We did not exist in the first
31
A/55/PV.4
millennium. Those who inhabited our islands then were
extinguished  by  the  desolation  of  early  colonialism.
Their  lives  remain  a  mystery  to  us,  decipherable  only
through a few pieces of stone and remnants of folklore.
The present people of the Caribbean are the new people
of the New World.
African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries. In our
own  hemisphere  we  have  become  an  integral  part  of
the  Summit  of  the  Americas  process.  And,  of  course,
the 
interdependence  between  our
countries 
the  Caribbean  Community  needs  no
in 
amplification.
fraternity  and 
We 
the  cusp  of 
identify  ourselves  at 
two
millenniums  as  a  sovereign  nation  whose  level  of
prosperity, education and well-being have been attained
at  high  cost.  We  have  not  come  to  this  point  in  our
development  easily  or  by  chance,  supported  in  every
aspect  by  preferences  and  special  dispensations,  as
some  would  have  you  believe.  We  come  to  this  place
and time through endeavour and sacrifice.
Our  expectation  when  we  became  a  Member  of
this Organization was that we would become part of an
assemblage  that  would  protect  our  territorial  integrity,
support  our  sovereignty  and  assist  us  in  our  quest  to
realize the full potential of our citizens. Membership in
the  United  Nations, 
largest  of
experiments  in  multilateralism,  was  both  practical  and
symbolic for us.
the  original  and 
inherently  positive.  We  understand 
Barbados  has  a  perspective  on  multilateralism
that 
it  as
is 
interdependence  in  the  management  and  sustainable
development of our planet and our peoples. We know it
as  offering  the  opportunity  for  collaborative  decision-
making based on shared information, and we believe in
its precepts of mutual respect and mutual benefit.
It  would  seem,  however,  that  these  tenets  are  no
longer held to be sacred by all of us. Debate continues
on  the  worthiness  of  multilateralism  as  a  natural
evolutionary  development  in  the  relationship  between
countries.  The  United  Nations  is  at  the  heart  of  this
argument. There is no denying  that  faith  in  the  United
Nations  to  deliver on its  myriad  mandates  is  too  often
in doubt. Lack of trust in the system has led to apathy
among the majority. This has given rise to a disquieting
tendency  to  flout  the  moral  authority  of  the  United
Nations, 
and
development,  and  undermine 
its  credibility  and
effectiveness  as  global  arbiter  and  guardian  of  human
progress.
endanger 
agents 
its 
for 
peace 
The  experience  of  Barbados  with  multilateralism
has  been  diverse  and  pervasive.  We  are  inheritors  of
membership  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Nations.  Our
relations  with  Africa  and 
the  Pacific  have  been
conducted  largely  within  the  unique  forum  of  the
32
In  the  midst  of  all  our  positive  perceptions,
however, there is growing anxiety and unease. We have
noticed a tendency by the large and mighty members of
the  world  community  to  exploit  the  very  laudable
precepts  of  the  United  Nations  to  maintain  an  unjust
status quo or to impose unpalatable conditionalities on
peaceful coexistence.
for 
to  direct  our 
to  grow.  The  efforts  of 
Economic  Cooperation 
tax  regimes  and 
The list of issues that are undermining Barbados’
position  in  that  hard-won  niche  we  have  carved  for
ourselves  continues 
the
and
Organisation 
Development 
that
organization’s  blacklisting  of  the  offshore  financial
centres of small economies is a case in point. So too is
the  severe  pressure  within  the  Free  Trade  Area  of  the
Americas  for  liberalization  of  financial  markets,  as  is
the refusal of those culpable to accept responsibility for
massive  environmental  degradation  and  to  put  real
resources in place to redress that damage.
True equity and true reciprocity need an equitable
balancing of every aspect of multilateral transaction.
Barbados  came  to  the  United  Nations  with  clean
hands  and  a  clear  conscience.  We  had  no  differences
with  our  neighbours  that  were  reconcilable  only  by
war.  We  had  no  designs  on  our  neighbours’  territory
and no ambitions to dictate to others the way in which
they  should,  within  the  parameters  of  the  United
Nations  Charter,  manage  their  affairs  and  determine
their destinies. We remain a small, peace-loving nation,
guided  on  our  course  by  the  lodestar  of  democratic
principles,  parliamentary  governance  and  respect  for
the human rights of our citizens. Our ambition remains
to  safeguard  and  build  on  what  we  have  so  far  earned
and to have, in the global scheme of things, more than
just a vote.
We  wish  for  the  United  Nations  to  assume
responsibility for integrating into the world multilateral
system  the  small  States  of  this  planet,  which  expect
and, indeed,  have a  right  to  be  an  active  and  effective
part  of  the  processes  of  global  governance.  To  fail  to
act  now  would  deny  us  a  future  of  prosperity  and
fulfilled  human  potential.  We  are  not  expected  to
complete  this  task,  but  neither  are  we  at  liberty  to
abstain from it.
The  Acting  Co-Chairperson  (Namibia):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency
Mr. Tuiloma Neroni Slade, Chairman of the delegation
of Samoa.
Mr.  Slade  (Samoa):  By  brave  experiment  five
decades  and  more  ago,  we  sought  a  better  world:  a
hoped-for  new  order  premised  on  peace,  justice  and
well-being for all.
That  today  we  are  able  to  meet  as  a  vastly
transformed,  near-universal  United  Nations  bears
testimony  to  vision  and  endeavour.  This  Summit  is  an
occasion 
that
endeavour.
the  spirit  of 
rededication 
for 
to 
the  Charter 
But  developments  of  the  past  half  century  have
not  yielded  full  dividends  for  all  nations,  nor  for  all
peoples.  The  promises  of 
remain
unfulfilled.  All  over  the  world,  core  values  and  the
human  condition  are  under  assault,  constantly,
shamefully.  Far  too  many  are  in  torment  because  of
hunger and disease. We remain a world that needs to be
far  better.  This  Summit  must 
therefore  be  a
recommitment to human values.
It is also an occasion to renew commitment to the
purposes of the Organization. Samoa does so as a small
country  and  with  abiding  faith  in  the  principles  of  the
Charter.  The  principles  are  sound.  They  are  as  true
today  as  at  the  inception,  and  they  provide  for  an
expanding  future.  What  needs  to  be  established  is  the
political determination for applying the principles.
The  Organization  remains  uniquely  suited  to  the
pursuit  of  human  values  and  objectives  and 
the
coordination  of  global  activities.  But,  of  course,  it
needs to change and to adapt.
The  Security  Council, in particular,  must  be  able
to  respond  to  the  requirements  of  a  fundamentally
different  international  setting.  It  needs  to  be  reformed
comprehensively  to  meet  contemporary  demands  and
the conditions of the world today.
The membership of the Security Council must be
enlarged to reflect the realities of the present time and
to enhance its representative role and effectiveness.
We believe very deeply in the sustaining power of
international  law  in  support  of  the  principles  of  the
is  an  essential  and
Charter.  The  United  Nations 
A/55/PV.4
cohesive  force  in  the  elaboration  of  international  law
and  rules  for  international  cooperation  which  now
regulate a phenomenal range of human activity.
Samoa  gives  its  fullest  endorsement  to  the  most
timely  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  call
for  universal  participation  in  the  multilateral  treaty
framework, especially in connection with those treaties
that  are  representative  of  the  key  objectives  of  the
Organization.
for 
country 
The  desire  of  my 
effective
disarmament  and  the  total  elimination  of  weapons  of
mass  destruction 
is  well  known.  Such  weapons
represent  the  great  paradox  of  our  time:  while  nations
desire peace, and talk of peace, far more of the national
wealth  goes  towards  the  development  and  acquisition
of  ever  more  sophisticated  and  ever  more  destructive
weapons of mass destruction.
Nuclear  weapons,  in  particular, reach  beyond the
paradox  to  impose  a  global  curse.  Their  continuing
existence  poses  the  gravest  of  threats  to  international
security and to global human survival. Samoa gives the
fullest  support  to  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  for
convening a  major international  conference  to  identify
ways of eliminating nuclear dangers.
Samoa believes most strongly in the need for and
the  purposes  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  and
will continue to play its part in the development of the
Court. Humanity needs more than ever a fair, effective
and  independent  instrument  of  international  criminal
justice.
For the safeguarding of human rights, all nations,
working  together,  need  to  persist  with  efforts 
to
promote  tolerance  and  understanding.  The  fact  is  that
we  are  all  of  one  human  family.  Our  diversity  of  race
and culture should pose no threat.  Rather, it  should be
seen  as  the  fountainhead,  offering  vast  potential  for
mutual 
freedoms.
Freedom  is  the  natural  beat  of  every  human  heart;
democracy  the  measure  of  its  expression.  We  need  to
ensure  unquestioned  acceptance  of  the  dignity  and
equality of all and full respect for their human rights.
fundamental 
enrichment 
and 
Poverty must be made a high-priority millennium
challenge.  Too  many  are  at  risk.  Some  are  as  poor
today  as  they  were  20  years  ago.  This  is  an  appalling
fact,  especially  at  a  time  when  economies  and  income
levels  are  at 
in  many  other
countries.
their  highest  peaks 
33
A/55/PV.4
Poverty  is  first  and  foremost  a  problem  of
development.  In  addressing  it  we  need  to  address  the
interlinking  crises  of  public  health,  agricultural
productivity, 
and
demographic  stresses.  It  is  impossible  to  develop  a
nation  without  a  healthy  and 
trained  population.
Disease and malnutrition will compound despair.
environmental 
degradation 
The  global  environment  is  under  severe  stress.
Human  activity  is  very  largely  the  cause.  Serious
natural disasters  have  become  more  the  norm  than  the
exception.  The  consequences  for  a  small  vulnerable
country  like  my  own  have  a  direct  impact  on  life-
support systems and the well-being of communities and
the  national  economy.  The  effects  are  destructive,  and
they are lasting.
For  Samoa  and  other  small  island  States,  no
phenomenon  is  more  threatening  in  its  consequences
and risks than climate change.
Small  island  States  are  doing  what  they  can  to
contribute 
change
negotiations and to efforts to combat  this problem  and
to design response  mechanisms. We played our part in
international 
climate 
the 
to 
negotiating  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  which  is  an  important
first  step,  and  we  are  committed  to  bringing  it  into
effect as quickly as is possible.
The  sustainable  development  of  small  island
developing  States  was  the  focus  of  the  twenty-second
special session of the General Assembly, last year. It is
a matter of obvious priority for Samoa and the Alliance
of Small Island States.
The 
twenty-second  special  session  produced
specific and very practical measures for addressing the
special needs and vulnerabilities of small island States
aimed  at  enhancing  capacities  for  national  self-
assurance 
self-sufficiency.  This
objective,  we  believe,  has  an  important  and  enduring
message  for  other  developing  countries.  We  urge  the
international community to give these  matters  full and
timely attention.
economic 
and 
With  its  legacy  and  lessons  of  the  old  century,
and the infinite promise of the new millennium, Samoa
believes very deeply that the future is very much on the
side of the United Nations.
The meeting rose at 7.25 p.m.
34
