United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
41st plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 October 2000, 10 a.m.
New York

A/55/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 10. a.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/55/521)
The President: If there is no proposal under rule
66 of the rules of the procedure, I shall take it that the
General  Assembly decides  not  to  discuss  the  report  of
the Fifth Committee that is before the Assembly today.
It was so decided.
The  President:  Statements  will  therefore  be
limited to explanations of vote.
The  positions  of  delegations 
the
recommendation  of  the  Fifth  Committee  have  been
made  clear  in  the  Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the
relevant official records.
regarding 
May  I  remind  Members  that,  under  paragraph  7
of decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that
(cid:147)When 
the 
resolution 
same  draft 
is
considered  in  a  Main  Committee  and  in  plenary
meeting,  a  delegation  should,  as  far  as  possible,
explain  its  vote  only  once,  i.e.,  either  in  the
Committee  or  in  plenary  meeting  unless  that
delegation(cid:146)s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is  different
from its vote in the Committee.(cid:148)
May I remind delegations that, also in accordance
with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  explanations
of vote are limited to 10 minutes.
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 
the
recommendations  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Fifth
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that
we are going to proceed to take a decision in the same
manner as was done in the Fifth Committee.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  the
draft  resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee
in paragraph 7 of its report.
The  Committee  adopted 
the  draft  resolution
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes
to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 55/5).
The  President:  We  have  thus  concluded  this
stage of our consideration of agenda item 122.
Agenda item 16 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and
other elections
(c) Election of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees
Note by the Secretary-General (A/55/519)
The  President:  By  its  resolution  52/104  of
12 December  1997,  the  General  Assembly  decided  to
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-71161 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.41
the  Office  of 
continue 
the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  for  a  further
period  of 
to
31 December 2003.
from  1  January  1999 
five  years, 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Three years
later, in 1954, the Office was awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize.  Thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  having  given  me
the opportunity to recall this.
By its decision 53/305 of 29 September 1998, the
General  Assembly,  on  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-
General contained in document A/53/389, extended the
term of office of Mrs. Sadako Ogata as United Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  for  a  period  of  two
years,  beginning  on  1  January  1999  and  ending  on
31 December 2000.
Mr. Yachi (Japan): On behalf of the Government
of  Japan,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Lubbers  on
his  election  as  next  year(cid:146)s  United  Nations  High
Commissioner 
renowned
leadership,  we  are  confident  that  he  is  going  to  make
an excellent leader of the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
for  Refugees.  With  his 
for  Refugees, 
In  conformity  with  the  procedure  established  by
paragraph 13 of the statute of the Office of the United
Nations  High  Commissioner 
the
Secretary-General  proposes  to  the  General  Assembly
that  it  elect  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  of  the  Netherlands  as
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for a
period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2001 and
ending on 31 December 2003.
that 
the  General  Assembly
approves the proposal contained in document A/55/519
and  declares  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  of  the  Netherlands
elected  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for
Refugees  for  a  period  of  three  years,  beginning  on
1 January 2001 and ending on 31 December 2003?
May  I  consider 
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  the
Assembly,  to  congratulate  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  of  the
Netherlands on his election.
Mr.  van  Walsum  (Netherlands):  I  would  like  to
express my deep appreciation to the Secretary-General
for  having  nominated  a  national  of  my  country  to  the
office  of  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for
Refugees  and 
the  Member  States  for  having
endorsed  that  nomination.  I  am  sure  that  Mr.  Lubbers
will  prove  himself  a  worthy  successor,  not  only  to
Mrs. Ogata but also to all of her predecessors who have
together  lent  the  office  of  the  High  Commissioner  its
pre-eminence in the United Nations family.
to 
The  Netherlands  has  always  been  deeply
committed  to  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Refugees, and it seems only fair that
we  are  asked  to  supply  the  person  of  the  High
Commissioner  with  a  certain  regularity.  It  is  exactly
half a century ago, effective as of 1 January 1951, that
another  national  of  the  Netherlands,  Gerrit  Jan  van
Heuven  Goedhart,  was  elected  the  first-ever  United
2
like 
also 
to 
the  election  of 
congratulate 
the
We  would 
Netherlands  on 
its  former  Prime
Minister  to  be  the  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees.
As  we  all  know,  the  Netherlands  is  one  of  the  major
donor  countries  to  UNHCR.  With  all  this  in  mind,  we
want  to  congratulate  both  the  Government  and  the
people of the Netherlands on this election.
I  am  sure  that  Mr.  Lubbers  is  going  to  make  an
able  successor 
through  her
devotion  and  excellent  leadership  has  been  has  doing
an excellent job in tackling the refugee issues.
to  Mrs.  Ogata,  who 
The President: This concludes our consideration
of sub- item (c) of agenda item 16.
Agenda item 13
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice
(A/55/4)
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  General
Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the  International
Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The  President:  At  the  Millennium  Summit  the
heads of State and Government stated:
(cid:147)We  resolve ... to  strengthen  respect  for  the  rule
of  law  in  international  as  in  national  affairs  and,
in  particular,  to  ensure  compliance  by  Member
States  with  the  decisions  of  the  International
Court  of  Justice,  in  compliance  with  the  Charter
of the United Nations, in cases to  which they are
parties.(cid:148)  (resolution 55/2,  Millennium  Declaration,
para. 9)
As the President of the General  Assembly I have
emphasized that it is now for the Member States to take
action and implement the outcome of the Summit. The
International  Court  of  Justice  has  a  prominent  role  in
strengthening 
legal  order  and
contributing to the peaceful settlement of disputes.
international 
the 
The report before us demonstrates that States are
increasingly  willing  to  submit  disputes  for  the  Court(cid:146)s
consideration and that there is a growing move towards
judicial  settlement  of  international  disputes.  Another
positive  development  worth  mentioning 
the
increased  knowledge  and  recognition  of  the  Court(cid:146)s
work  and  reasoning.  This  development 
is  largely
thanks  to  the  new  information  technology,  including
through  the  Web  site  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice.
is 
But  much  still  remains  done.  States  could,  for
instance,  make  wider  use  of  the  optional  clause  in  the
Court(cid:146)s Statute. I hope that more States will place their
trust  in  the  Court  by  unilaterally  recognizing  its
jurisdiction as binding.
to 
the  report, 
Further,  the  report(cid:146)s  account  of  the  financial
situation of the Court makes it very clear that the Court
needs  more  resources  to  enable  it  to  cope  with  its
increased  workload.  According 
the
current  budget  of  just  over  $10  million  per  year  is
lower that the 1946 budget, while the Court(cid:146)s activities
have  increased  a  great  deal  since  then.  Many  have
expressed valid concerns that the limited resources may
impede  the  Court  in  performing  its  functions  as  the
principal judicial organ of the United Nations. It would
be  consistent  if  the  expansion  of  the  scope  of  the
Court(cid:146)s  activities (cid:151) which  has  been  demanded  for  so
long (cid:151) were now matched by adequate funding.
of 
the 
several 
establishment 
The International Court of Justice is not the only
international  tribunal  now  at  work.  Recent  years  have
witnessed 
new
international courts of law. Some, like the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, may deal with matters
that  can  also  fall  within  the  jurisdiction  of  this  Court.
Others,  like  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  for  the  former
Yugoslavia  and  Rwanda,  as  well  as 
future
International Criminal Court,  may  deal  with  cases that
cannot  be  brought  before  the  International  Court  of
Justice. All these courts contribute to the strengthening
of the rule of law.
the 
Recent  developments  in  international  political
relations have facilitated recognition of the jurisdiction
A/55/PV.41
of international courts. The world has turned from mere
coexistence  to  cooperation.  One  of  the  ways  in  which
this is reflected is in the  willingness on the part of the
States  to  take  their  disputes  to  the  International  Court
of Justice. There is a growing consensus that it is in the
interest  of  all  parties  to  have  their  disputes  resolved
through a binding third-party settlement.
of 
rule  of 
has
significantly 
in
international  relations  and  contributed  to  respect  for
law  and  to  international  peace  and  security.  It  is  well
recognized that the influence of the Court also extends
beyond  its  formal  limits,  thanks  to  the  prestige  and
authority that the Court enjoys in the eyes of the world.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  deserves  the
International  Court 
the 
strengthened 
Justice 
The 
law 
full support of all the Members of the United Nations.
I now call on Mr. Gilbert Guillaume, President of
the International Court of Justice.
Mr.  Guillaume  (International  Court  of  Justice)
(spoke in French): It is an honour for me to address the
General  Assembly 
its
examination of the report of the International Court of
Justice for the period 1 August 1999 to 31 July 2000.
the  occasion  of 
today  on 
Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for  the
precious words of encouragement that you lavished on
me  during  your  introduction  of this  agenda item.  I  am
particularly  pleased  to  take  the  floor  during  your
presidency.  Your  political  experience,  your  talents  as
mediator  and  your  feeling  for  consensus  will  be
valuable assets for the Assembly.
Over the last decades Finland has displayed great
wisdom  in  circumstances  that  have  been  delicate  at
times.  Recently  we  witnessed  further  evidence  of  this
in  The  Hague,  when  in  1992,  in  accordance  with  our
expressed desire, Finland came to a friendly settlement
of its dispute with Denmark over the construction of a
bridge  over  the  Great  Belt.  It  is  now  the  turn  of  the
General Assembly, after the Court, to enjoy the benefit
of this wisdom.
My  predecessors  at  this  rostrum (cid:151) particularly
the  most  recent  of  them,  Presidents  Bedjaoui  and
Schwebel (cid:151) have  offered  an  annual  review  of  the
Court(cid:146)s  activities  and  of  the  progress  achieved  and
problems  encountered  in  international  justice.  This
firmly  established  tradition  is  to  be  commended  and  I
am  most  honoured  to  speak  to  the  Assembly  in  my
turn.
3
A/55/PV.41
I  will  not  impose  on  the  Assembly  a  further
reading of the written report before it. This year, for the
first time, the report is preceded by a summary, which I
hope  the  Assembly  will  find  useful.  I  will  point  out,
however,  that  the  Court  worked  at  a  sustained  pace
over the past year.
and  Namibia 
by  Botswana 
First,  in  a  Judgment  of  13  December  1999,  it
ruled in a dispute that had been submitted to it in May
1996 
concerning
Kasikili/Sedudu Island. It found that the island belongs
to  Botswana,  but  stated  that,  in  the  two  channels
around  Kasikili/Sedudu  Island,  the  nationals  of,  and
vessels  flying  the  flags  of,  the  Republic  of  Botswana
and the Republic of Namibia shall enjoy equal national
treatment.
Next,  in  a  Judgment  of  June  21  2000,  the  Court
found  that  it  had  no  jurisdiction  to  entertain  the
Application  filed  in  September  1999  by  the  Islamic
Republic  of  Pakistan  against  India  as  a  result  of  the
destruction  of  a  Pakistani  aircraft.  The  Court  did,
however, remind the parties of their obligation to settle
their  disputes  by  peaceful  means  in  accordance  with
Article 33 of the Charter.
Acting  on  a  request  by  the  Democratic  Republic
of the Congo for the indication of provisional measures
against  Uganda,  on  1  July  2000  the  Court  indicated
various  measures  to  be  taken  by  the  two  parties,
especially in the area of Kisangani.
The  Court  also  made  10  Orders  and  heard  five
weeks of oral arguments in the case between Qatar and
Bahrain.  It  has  at  last  begun  its  deliberations  in  that
case.
It  has  also  set  a  date  in  November  this  year  for
hearings  in  the  LaGrand  case  between  Germany  and
the United States and on a request for the indication of
provisional  measures  made  by 
the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo against Belgium.
Thus,  the  Court  has  been  able  to  consider  or
begin its consideration of all cases that have been ready
for hearing. Unfortunately, the coming months promise
to  be  more  difficult.  While  10  cases  appeared  on  the
Court(cid:146)s  List  in  1994  and  12  in  1998,  we  saw  an
increase to 25 in late 1999, a new record in the annals
of international justice. Twenty-four of these remain on
the docket today.
These  cases  cover  a  very  wide  range.  Four  of
them  concern  land  or  maritime  boundary  disputes
4
between  neighbouring  States.  They  involve  Qatar  and
Bahrain,  Cameroon  and  Nigeria, 
Indonesia  and
Malaysia,  and  Nicaragua  and  Honduras.  This  is  a
classic  but  complex  kind  of  dispute  which  calls  for
detailed  consideration  of  numerous  geographical  and
historical  factors  and  requires  a  solution  to  sensitive
problems.  It  is  also,  however,  the  kind  of  dispute  in
which  the  Court  has  played  and  continues  to  play  an
important  role  and  makes  an  eminent  contribution  to
maintaining international peace and security.
Another classic form of dispute involves cases in
which  a  State  complains  before  the  Court  of  the
manner  in  which  one  of  its  nationals  has  been  treated
by another State. Three cases  in  this  category  are  now
on  our  List (cid:151) one  between  Germany  and  the  United
States,  another  between  Guinea  and  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  a  third,  filed  last  week,
between  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and
Belgium.
The  case  concerning  the  Gabčikovo-Nagymaros
Project  between  Hungary  and  Slovakia  involves  a
dispute over a river of a kind that is also familiar to the
Court.  The  Court  rendered  a  Judgment  in  principle  in
that  case  in  1997  and  the  parties  are  now  working  to
agree on the modalities for its implementation.
Other  cases  relate  to  events  that  have  also  been
the  subject  of  discussion  or  decisions  of  the  General
Assembly  or  the  Security  Council.  The  Libyan  Arab
Jamahiriya  has  brought  cases  before 
the  Court
concerning  disputes  between  it  and  the  United  States
and the United Kingdom relating to the explosion of an
American  civil  aircraft  over  Lockerbie,  Scotland.  The
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  brought  proceedings
before  the  Court  concerning  the  destruction  of  oil
platforms  by  the  United  States  in  1987  and  1988.  By
two  separate  Applications,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina
and Croatia have sought rulings against Yugoslavia for
violating  the  1948  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide.  Yugoslavia
itself  is  proceeding  against  10  States  members  of  the
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization,  challenging  the
legality  of  their  actions  in  Kosovo.  Two  of  these
Applications were dismissed in limine litis on the basis
of  a  manifest  lack  of  jurisdiction.  Eight  remain  to  be
considered.  Finally,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo has claimed before the Court that it has been the
victim  of  armed  aggression  by  Burundi,  Uganda  and
Rwanda.
the  world.  Ten  of 
As  we  can  see,  these  disputes  come  from  all
corners  of 
them  are  between
European  States,  concerning  the  Balkan  situation  for
the most part. One relates to Latin America and two to
Asia.  Six  are  intercontinental  in  nature  and  five  relate
solely  to  African  States.  The  Court  is  particularly
pleased  to  note  that  African  States  are  turning  ever
more frequently to it.
have 
been 
factors 
advanced: 
Much attention has been given to the reasons  for
the  International  Court(cid:146)s  renewed  vitality.  Various
technical 
the
establishment  of  Chambers  of  the  Court;  improved
procedures;  creation  by  the  United  Nations  Secretary-
General  of  a  fund  to  provide  assistance  in  the  judicial
settlement of disputes; the greater confidence of States,
inspired  by  the  Court(cid:146)s  development  of  jurisprudence.
Each  of  these  factors  has  played  a  role,  but  I  believe
that  the  essential  reason  is  to  be  found  elsewhere.
History  shows  that  judicial  settlement  is  more  easily
accepted  and  is  even  in  greater  demand  when  the
international arena is calmer. Conversely, in periods of
heightened  tension,  States  are  less  inclined  to  have
recourse 
courts.  The  Permanent  Court  of
International  Justice  heard  many  cases  during  the
1920s,  but  its  courtroom  fell  silent  in  the  1930s.  The
International Court of Justice also  saw  limited activity
in the 1970s; it is being called upon  more often and is
more active today than ever before.
to 
Aware  of  this  development  and  anxious  to  adapt
to it, the Court has for several years been taking those
measures  within its power  to  respond  to  this  situation.
First,  it  set  up  a  committee  to  rationalize  the  work  of
the  Registry.  The  committee  recommended  various
measures  that  have  been  progressively  implemented.
The Court has also taken giant steps in modernizing its
working  and  communication  methods  through  the  use
of  new 
the
launching of a highly successful web site, to which you
referred, Mr. President, with an average of nearly 2,000
visits a day and sometimes 20,000 on peak days.
technologies, 
information 
including 
The  Court  has  also  sought  increased  cooperation
from  the  parties  in  the  functioning  of  justice.  In
particular,  it  has  informed  them  of  its  desire  to  see  a
decrease in the number of memorials exchanged, in the
size  of  annexes  to  the  memorials  and  in  the  length  of
pleadings. The Court(cid:146)s comments have had the desired
effect in some new cases. In the case between Germany
and  the  United  States,  the  Court  was  glad  to  see  the
number of  written  memorials  limited  to  one  document
A/55/PV.41
from  each party  and the oral  arguments limited  to  one
week.  In  other  cases,  however,  the  case  files  remain
disturbingly  voluminous.  The  documentation  in  the
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  v.  Yugoslavia  case  is  several
thousand pages long, and one of the parties has sought
to  call  hundreds  of  witnesses. 
the
proliferation  of  preliminary  objections,  counter-claims
and requests for the indication of provisional measures
has encumbered many cases.
In  addition, 
In  1997  the  Court  adopted  various  decisions
concerning  its  own  deliberations  on  which  President
Schwebel  reported  to  the  Assembly  at  that  time.  The
Court  has  pursued  this  course.  While  the  judges
normally  prepare  written  notes  setting  out 
their
opinions  before  all  deliberations,  this  procedure  has
been abandoned on an experimental basis, not only for
the  consideration  of  urgent  requests  for  provisional
measures,  but  also  in  cases  concerning  the  Court(cid:146)s
jurisdiction  or  the  admissibility  of  applications.  On
several 
the
consideration  of  several  cases  at  the  same  time.  For
example,  last  June,  when  Bahrain  and  Qatar  were
presenting 
the  Court  was
deliberating  on  the  case  between  India  and  Pakistan
and the provisional measures sought by the Democratic
Republic of the Congo.
their  oral  arguments, 
the  Court 
occasions 
begun 
has 
These steps will not, however, be enough to cope
the  situation 
in  coming  years.  The  Court(cid:146)s
with 
financial and human resources  are  no longer  sufficient
for it to carry out its task properly. If it does not receive
the  necessary  resources,  it  will  find  itself  obliged,
beginning  in  2001,  to  delay  passing  judgement  in  a
number  of  cases  that  will  be  ready  for  decision.  From
2002 those delays  may  well last  several  years in  some
cases. This is not acceptable. Justice delayed is justice
denied. Moreover, such long delays will erode not only
the  Court(cid:146)s  function  of  resolving  disputes,  but  also  its
very  role  in  preventing  and  resolving  international
crises  and,  to  be  frank,  in  maintaining  peace  and
security.
the 
The  Court 
is  well  aware  of 
financial
difficulties  of  the  United  Nations.  It  has  taken  them
into account in the past in limiting its requests, and it is
sincerely  grateful  to  the  Assembly  for  granting  it  four
additional  posts 
in
litigation will, however, require much greater increases
in staff. Unlike other United Nations organs, the Court
cannot  adapt  its  programmes  to  its  resources;  the
in  1999.  The  current  growth 
5
A/55/PV.41
resources  must  be  adjusted  to  meet  the  legitimate
expectations of the States that turn to it.
The  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and
Budgetary  Questions  was  aware  of  this  in  1999,  for  it
commended  the  Court  (cid:147)for  action  taken  to  address
increasing  workload 
the  context  of  budgetary
stringency(cid:148) (A/54/7, para. III.2) and recommended
in 
(cid:147)that  the  resource  implications  of  [a  dramatic
increase  in  the  number  of  cases]  be  reviewed  in
order  to  ensure  that  the  ability  of  the  Court  to
discharge  its  mandate  is  not  adversely  affected.(cid:148)
(ibid., para. III.3)
The  General  Assembly  itself  noted  with  concern
when the Court(cid:146)s most recent budget was adopted
(cid:147)that the resources proposed for the International
Court  of  Justice  are  not  proportionate  with  the
workload  envisaged,  and  requests  the  Secretary-
General  to  propose  adequate  resources ... in  the
context  of  the  proposed  programme  budget  for
the  biennium  2002-2003,  commensurate  with  its
increased  workload  and  the  large  backlog  of
(resolution
volumes  of  Court  documents(cid:148). 
54/249, para. 89)
The  Court(cid:146)s  annual  budget  is  now  slightly  over
$10  million (cid:151) less 
the
Organization(cid:146)s  budget,  which  is  a  lower  percentage
than  in  1946. The  budget of the International Tribunal
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  is  nearly  $100 million  for
2000,  or  roughly  10  times  the  Court(cid:146)s  budget.  The
Tribunal(cid:146)s  Registry  has  nearly  800  staff,  while  the
Court(cid:146)s  has  only  61.  Admittedly,  the  tasks  of  two
judicatures  are  not  wholly  comparable.  But  those
figures  make  it  clear  that  States  can  support  the  work
of  international  courts  when  they  have  the  will  to  do
so.
per cent 
than 
1 
of 
To  meet 
its  needs, 
the  Court  will  request
supplementary  credits  and  a  budget  increase  of  the
order  of  $3 million  per  year  for  the  next  biennium,
2002-2003.  Its  budget  would  thus  increase  to  slightly
more  than  $26 million  for  the  two  years,  and  its  staff
would  be  increased  by  38,  which  would  mean  a
Registry that still did not amount to 100 people.
Having to deal with case files some of which run
to  5,000  or  7,000  pages  and  to  conduct  the  lengthy
hearings  that  are  sometimes  unavoidable,  the  judges
cannot  deliberate  on  more  than  two  or  three  cases  a
year  without  appropriate  assistance.  Most  national
6
international  courts: 
supreme  courts  provide  law  clerks  to  assist  the  judges
by,  inter  alia,  conducting  the  necessary  research  on
case  law  and  scholarly  literature.  The  same  is  true  in
most 
the  European  Court  of
Justice,  where  each  judge  is  assisted  by  three  clerks;
the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights,  for  which  the
creation  of  law  clerk  positions  is  provided  for  in
Protocol No. 11 to the Convention for the Protection of
Human  Rights  and  Fundamental  Freedoms;  and  the
International  Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia,
where  each  judge  has  a  clerk.  The  same  solution  is
needed for the International Court of Justice.
The  Registry  will  be  unable  to  perform  its  work
without a significant increase in its staff. The Language
Department  has  only  six  posts  (including  that  of  the
head  of  department).  The  Finance  Division  has  only
two  professional-grade  posts,  as  does  the  Department
of  Press  and  Information  Services.  Several  heads  of
department  do  not  have  secretaries  and  some  judges
must  share  a  secretary.  Although  the  President  does
have  a  secretary,  he  does  not  enjoy  any  other
administrative or legal assistance.
It  is  therefore  a  real  cry  of  alarm  that  I  am
obliged  to  place  before  the  Assembly  today.  In  many
countries,  the  judiciary  presides  in  sumptuous  historic
palaces,  but  at  times  lacks  the  financial  resources
necessary for it to perform its function. That is the case
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  It  is  for  the
Assembly  to  decide  whether  the  Court,  the  principal
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  is  to  die  a  slow
death  or  whether 
the  Assembly  will  give  it  the
wherewithal to live.
I  do  not  however  wish  to  stop  here  in  this
examination of international courts of law.
There  is  a  problem  that  my  predecessors  have
also  pointed  out  and  I  would  like  briefly  to  bring  to
your 
for
international  law  and  for  the  international  community
by the proliferation of international courts.
the  problem 
attention 
today: 
raised 
This phenomenon is in part a response to changes
in international relations. It reflects  greater  confidence
in justice and makes it possible for international law to
develop in ever more varied spheres.
It  does  however  bring  with  it  problems  which  I
will address in more detail before the Sixth Committee.
First,  it  leads  to  cases  of  overlapping  jurisdiction,
opening the  way  for  applicant  States  to  seek  out those
courts that they believe, rightly or wrongly, to be more
amenable  to  their  arguments.  This  forum  shopping,  as
it  is  usually  called,  may  indeed  stimulate  the  judicial
imagination,  but 
it  can  also  generate  unwanted
confusion.  Above  all,  it  can  distort  the  operation  of
justice, which, in my view, should not be made subject
to the law of the marketplace.
Overlapping jurisdiction also exacerbates the risk
of  conflicting  judgements,  as  a  given  issue  may  be
submitted to two courts at the same time and they may
hand  down  contradictory  judgements.  National  legal
systems  have  long  had  to  confront  these  problems.
They have resolved them, for the most part, by creating
courts  of  appeal  or  review.  In 
the
international system is very deficient.
this  regard, 
for 
the 
former  Yugoslavia 
Finally,  the  proliferation  of  international  courts
gives rise to a serious risk of conflicting jurisprudence,
as  the  same  rule  of  law  might  be  given  different
interpretations in different  cases. This  is  a  particularly
high  risk,  as  we  are  dealing  with  specialized  courts,
which  are  inclined  to  favour  their  own  disciplines.
Several examples of this may already be cited. Thus, in
ruling on the merits of the Tadic case, the International
Tribunal 
recently
disregarded  case-law  formulated  by  the  International
Court  of Justice in  the dispute between  Nicaragua  and
the United States. The Court had found that the United
States could not be held responsible for acts committed
by the contras in Nicaragua unless it had had (cid:147)effective
control(cid:148) over them. After criticizing the view taken by
the  Court,  the  Tribunal  adopted  a  less  strict  standard
for  Yugoslavia(cid:146)s  actions  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina
and replaced the notion of (cid:147)effective(cid:148) control with that
of  (cid:147)overall  control(cid:148),  thereby  broadening  the  range  of
circumstances in which a State(cid:146)s responsibility may be
engaged on account of its actions on foreign territory.
Regardless  of  what  one  might  think  of  this
solution,  the  contradiction  thus  created  gives  clear
evidence  of 
the  cohesiveness  of
international law raised by the proliferation of courts.
risks 
the 
to 
What  can  be  done  to  ensure  that  this  situation
does  not  give  rise  to  serious  uncertainty  as  to  the
content  of  the  law  in  the  minds  of  players  on  the
international  stage  and  does  not  ultimately  restrict  the
role of law in inter-State relations?
An  initial  comment  on  this  point  would  appear
necessary. Before creating a new court, an international
legislative  body  should,  I  think,  ask  itself  whether  the
A/55/PV.41
functions  it  intends  to  entrust  to  the  judge  could  not
properly be fulfilled by an existing court.
Judges  themselves  must  realize  the  danger  of
fragmentation  in  the  law,  and  even  conflicts  of  case-
law,  born  of  the  proliferation  of  courts.  A  dialogue
among  judicial  bodies  is  crucial.  The  International
Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the
United Nations, stands ready to apply itself to this end
if it receives the necessary resources.
Relying  exclusively  on  the  wisdom  of  judges
might  not  be  enough  however.  The  relationships
between  international  courts  should,  in  my  view,  be
better structured.
With this in  mind, it has at times  been  suggested
that  the  Court  should  serve  as  a  court  of  appeal  or
review  for  judgements  rendered  by  all  other  courts.
This  would  undoubtedly  be  an  ideal  solution  but  it
would  require  a  strong  political  will  on  the  part  of
States and I am not certain that such a will exists.
Another  mechanism  was  referred  to  last  year  by
my predecessor, in this very Assembly, and I think it is
appropriate to come back to it today. In order to reduce
the risk of differing interpretations of international law,
would  it  not  be  appropriate  to  encourage  the  various
courts to seek advisory opinions in some cases from the
International  Court  of  Justice  by  way  of  the  Security
Council or the General Assembly?
This  procedure  could  be  adopted  even  for  those
international  courts  that  are  not  organs  of  the  United
Nations, such as the International Tribunal for the Law
of the Sea and the future International Criminal Court.
The  Council  of  the  League  of  Nations  made  requests
for  advisory  opinions  on  behalf  of  other  international
organizations and it is difficult to see why the General
Assembly  could  not  do  the  same.  Perhaps  it  could,  by
means  of  an  appropriate  resolution,  urge  not  only  the
courts  it  has  established  but  also  those  outside  the
United Nations system, to turn to the Court through the
General Assembly.
The  international  community  needs  judges.  It
needs  judges  who  have  at  their  disposal  the  resources
necessary  to  perform  their  functions.  It  needs  judges
acting in the service of the law.
I assure the Assembly that the International Court
of  Justice  will  continue  in  this  spirit  to  perform  those
duties  which  are  currently  assigned  to  it  and  it  stands
ready to fulfil such others as  may be entrusted to it. It
7
A/55/PV.41
is  counting  on  the  Assembly(cid:146)s  assistance  to  achieve
those ends.
Mr.  Yachi  (Japan):  It  is  a  great  pleasure  and
honour  for  me  to  address  the  Assembly,  on  behalf  of
the Government of Japan, under your presidency, Sir.
My delegation would like to take this opportunity
to congratulate Judge Gilbert Guillaume on his election
as  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in
February  this  year.  We  are  confident  that  under  his
excellent  leadership  the  Court  will  effectively  tackle
the  difficult  cases  brought  before  it.  My  delegation
would  also  like  to  express  its  appreciation  to  Judge
Stephen  Schwebel,  former  President  of  the  Court,  for
his valuable contributions.
We  have 
just  heard  President  Guillaume(cid:146)s
excellent, detailed report on the current situation of the
International  Court  of  Justice.  As  President  Schwebel
said  in  his  report  last  year,  the  Court  has  firmly
established its status as the world(cid:146)s most senior judicial
body.  It  is  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United
Nations,  having  a  long  history,  the  broadest  material
jurisdiction  and 
jurisdictional
jurisprudence. It is noteworthy that Their Majesties the
Emperor  and  Empress  of  Japan,  as  a  demonstration  of
the high esteem in which they hold the Court, visited it
on the occasion of their official visit to the Netherlands
in  May  this  year.  We  are  grateful  for  the  warm
welcome the Court extended to Their Majesties and the
kind acknowledgement of their visit in its report.
the  most 
refined 
The importance of the rule of law in international
society cannot be overstated. Indeed, as we witness the
regrettable increase in the number of regional conflicts
that  have  broken  out  since  the  end  of  the  cold  war,
Japan  believes  the rule  of  law  will  become  even  more
important  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The  goal  of
establishing  and  maintaining 
the  primacy  of  an
integrated body of international law is essential. Under
the  current  situation,  in  which  world  realities  are
changing  at  an  increasing  speed,  the  role  of  the
International Court of Justice as  a credible  mechanism
for  promoting  international  peace  and  security  is
becoming  ever  more  important.  It  is  incumbent  upon
Member States to make the utmost efforts to cooperate
in contributing towards the effective functioning of the
Court.
Talk  without  appropriate  action  is  meaningless.
Governments  should  act  according  to  their  avowed
principles. The importance of strengthening the role of
8
the International Court of Justice has been stressed for
many  years.  Back  in  1974,  the  General  Assembly
adopted a resolution concerning a review of the Court(cid:146)s
role, recognizing the desirability of States studying the
possibility  of  accepting  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of
the International Court of Justice. The resolution draws
the  attention  of  States  to  the  advantage  of  inserting  in
treaties  clauses  providing  for 
the  submission  of
disputes to the International Court of Justice and to the
possibility  of  making  use  of  the  chambers.  It  also
recommends  the  utilization of  the  advisory  opinion  by
United Nations organs.
In  1989,  on  the  initiative  of  then  Secretary-
General  Javier  PØrez  de  CuØllar, 
the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s Trust Fund to Assist States in the Settlement
of  Disputes  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice
was  created.  In  1992  then  Secretary-General  Boutros
Boutros-Ghali  pointed  out  in  his  (cid:147)Agenda  for  Peace(cid:148)
the  increased  importance  of  the  role  of  the  Court  as  a
means of settling international disputes. He encouraged
Member States to accept the general jurisdiction of the
Court, without reservation, before the end of the United
Nations  Decade  of  International  Law  in  the  year  2000
to utilize the chambers jurisdiction, and to support and
promote  utilization  of  the  Trust  Fund.  Since  1993
enhancement  of  the  role  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice  has  been  mentioned  in  the  resolution  on  the
report  of  the  Special  Committee  on  the  Charter  of  the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of
the  Organization.  Last  year  the  General  Assembly
adopted  a  resolution  specifically  on  the  issue  of
strengthening  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  But
how much have we actually achieved?
the  development  of 
My  delegation  believes 
that  fostering  peace
through  the  adjudicated  settlement  of  international
disputes  and 
the  body  of
international  law  has  become  an  irrefutable  universal
value.  That  Japan  is  dedicated  to  the  principle  of  the
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  is  reflected  in  the  fact
that  it  is  among  the  States  which  accepted  the  Court(cid:146)s
compulsory jurisdiction by the deposit of a declaration
to that effect, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article
36 of the Statute of the International Court of Justice.
As  a  country  resolutely  devoted  to  peace  and
firmly dedicated to respect for international law, Japan
has been supportive of the various appeals made by the
Court or other bodies that promote the dissemination of
international  law.  For  instance,  since  as  early  as  1970
Japan has continuously made financial contributions to
the  Hague  Academy  of  International  Law  for  its
traditional  programme  of  summer  courses  and  general
activities.  Also  Japanese  scholars  have  lectured  at  the
Academy.
After  the  International  Court  of  Justice  was
created,  Judge  Tanaka  was  the  first  Japanese  to  serve
on it. Currently, Judge Oda is serving on the Court; his
third term will end in February 2003.
A/55/PV.41
to  date  amounts 
In  the  belief  that  disputes  should  be  resolved
through  litigation  rather  than  by  fighting,  Japan  has
been  making  annual  contributions  since  1991  to  the
Trust  Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of
Disputes through the International Court of Justice. Its
total  contribution 
to  $228,000.
Incidentally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  make  its  legitimate  request  to  the
Secretariat  of  the  United  Nations  to  provide  annual
reports  on  the  activities  of  the  Fund  to  the  General
Assembly.  My  delegation  has  no  doubt 
the
countries  that  have  received  assistance  through  the
Fund are grateful for it and that the Fund is being used
effectively.  The  Government  of  Japan  wishes 
to
continue making annual contributions to the Fund as a
way  of  promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.
At the same time, however, it must remain accountable
to the Japanese taxpayers. That is why my delegation is
requesting 
the  General
Assembly  with  annual  reports  on  the  activities  of  the
Fund and its financial status, as stipulated in paragraph
15 of the Terms of Reference, Guidelines and Rules of
the  Fund.  Only  if  transparency  is  maintained  in  the
Fund(cid:146)s  operations  will  the  Government  be  able  to
continue to support its worthy activities.
the  Secretariat 
to  provide 
that 
Justice, 
last  year 
Moreover, 
in  response 
to  an  appeal  of 
the
International  Court  of 
Japan
contributed  $40,000  to  the  establishment  of  a  Court
museum.  My  delegation  sincerely  hopes 
the
museum  will  help  to  enhance  the  Court(cid:146)s  illustrious
history  in  serving  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes
since the first Peace Conference of 1899, as well as the
work  and  achievements  of 
the
Permanent Court of International Justice.
its  predecessor, 
that 
Japan(cid:146)s commitment to the Court is also reflected
in  the  highly  qualified  personnel  it  provides  to  the
Court.  As  noted  by  President  Guillaume 
in  his
welcoming speech at the time of Their Majesties(cid:146) visit,
Japan(cid:146)s 
to  world
jurisprudence  through  its  lawyers  and  legal  scholars
dates  back  to  the  creation  of  the  Permanent  Court  of
International  Justice.  During 
the  Permanent  Court
period,  three  eminent  Japanese  lawyers  served  as
judges.
long  history  of  contribution 
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  Japan,  I  should
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  announce  that  it  has
decided  to  present  a  new  candidate  for  election  to  the
Court  in  the  year  2002. It is doing  so  with  the  sincere
desire  to  continue  to  contribute  to  the  International
Court  of  Justice,  whose  noble  mission  will  be  all  the
more  important  in  the  new  millennium.  In  concluding
my  remarks,  I  wish  to  reaffirm,  on  behalf  of  my
delegation  and  of  the  Government  of  Japan,  the  great
importance  we  attach  to  the  invaluable  work  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  judicial
organ of the United Nations.
Mr.  Niehaus  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Allow me at the outset to thank the International Court
of  Justice  for  the  report  before  us  as  well  as  the
introductory  statement  made  by  the  President  of  the
Court,  Judge  Gilbert  Guillaume.  I  should  like  also  to
congratulate, 
through  you,  Mr.  President,  Judge
Thomas Buergenthal on his recent election to this high
Court.
of 
depth 
technical 
My  country  knows  of  and  appreciates  Judge
Buergenthal(cid:146)s 
knowledge,
experience  and  ability.  We  have  had  the  honour  of
receiving him on numerous occasions in Costa Rica in
his  capacity  as  a  member  and  President  of  the  Inter-
American  Court  of  Human  Rights,  which  has  its
headquarters in San JosØ.
The  judicial  resolution  of  disputes  has  become  a
key  element  in  the  promotion  of  peaceful  relations
between  States.  We  all  know  of  cases  in  which
differing  interpretations  of  the  law  or  of  facts  have,
when politicized, become threats to international peace
and  security.  Territorial  disputes  in  particular  can  lead
to military escalation. For this reason, the International
Court  of  Justice  plays  a  fundamental  role  in  reducing
military  tensions  and  in  resolving  once  and  for  all  the
differences between States.
In  this  context,  my  delegation  welcomes  the
contribution  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice
makes  to  global  stability.  The  Court,  as  the  principal
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  also  plays  a
central 
the  progressive  development  of
contemporary international law. Its jurisprudence, both
in disputes and in advisory opinions, provides not only
role 
in 
9
A/55/PV.41
a legal determination for the parties in conflict but also
clarification  to  other  States  with  regard  to  obscure  or
controversial areas of the law.
have 
We  recall  and  welcome  the  numerous  cases  in
which  the  Court  has  adopted  progressive  positions
consolidated 
which 
the
development  of 
legal  order.  We
believe  in  this  respect  that  the  Court  must  continue
resolutely  to  play  its  role  as  the  authorized  interpreter
of the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations.
promoted 
the 
international 
and 
My  delegation  is  also  aware  of  the  practical
difficulties  experienced  by  the  Court  in  recent  years,
due to the increase in the number of cases and requests
for  advisory  opinions.  As  we  have  indicated  on  other
occasions,  we  believe  that  the  increase  in  the  number
of cases is a positive sign of the will of States to abide
by  the  principles  of  law  in  the  conduct  of  their
international relations. For this reason,  we believe that
greater recourse to the Court should be encouraged.
It  is  vital  that  the  Court  be  provided  with
sufficient  resources  and  staff  to  deal  with  the  fresh
obligations  associated  with the  increase  in  the  number
of  cases.  My  delegation  favours  an  increase  in  the
staffing  levels  of  the  Court,  including  more  library,
computer  and  secretarial  staff,  in  additional  to  a
professional  technical  legal  assistance  team  to  the
judges and to the presidency.
Nevertheless, we firmly believe that, in parallel to
the  increase  in  its  budget,  the  Court  must  continue  its
efforts  to  improve  its  practices  and  working  methods.
In  this  respect,  we  appreciate  the  decisions  taken  and
recommendations 
also
encourage its members to continue to consider ways of
improving its methods of work.
adopted,  but  we  would 
Allow  me  to  thank  the  Court  for  the  excellent
manner  in  which  it  disseminates  its  work  through  the
Internet.  This  service  is  invaluable  for  developing
countries,  which  sometimes  have  difficulty  obtaining
access to the most recent case law.
Finally,  I  should 
full
confidence and steadfast support of Costa Rica  for  the
excellent work of the International Court of Justice.
to  reiterate 
like 
the 
Ms. Lee (Singapore): My delegation and I would
like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  His  Honour  Judge
Gilbert  Guillaume  for  his  detailed  and  lucid  report  on
the  work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the
period 1  August 1999 to 31 July 2000. We  would  also
10
like to congratulate him on his election as President of
this  eminent  body.  We  are  confident  that  under  the
enlightened  leadership  of  Judge  Guillaume,  the  Court
and  the  distinguished  jurists  who  constitute  its  Bench
will continue to carry out its mandate under the Charter
of the United Nations in a just and efficient manner.
As the Court is the principal judicial organ of the
United  Nations,  the  critical  role  which  it  plays  in  our
present  world  order  cannot  be  understated.  It  is  the
brief  of  the  Court  to  settle  disputes  between  States  in
accordance with international law and to give advisory
opinions on questions referred to it by duly authorized
international  organs  and  agencies.  The  Court 
is
therefore  the  primary  organ  for  the  development  and
application  of  international  law.  The  judgements  and
decisions  of  the  Court  are  authoritative  interpretations
of 
to  an
international  dispute.  These  enable  parties  to  resolve
such 
armed
confrontation.  In  this  sense,  the  International  Court  of
Justice is  also  a primary  forum  for  the preservation  of
world peace.
rights  and  obligations  of  parties 
disputes  without 
need 
the 
the 
for 
Singapore 
the  work  of 
fully  supports 
the
International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  interpreter  and
enforcer  of  international  law.  As  a  small  country,  we
attach tremendous importance to the work of the Court.
This  is  because  international  law  ensures  that  all
actions of States are governed by the same legal rules.
Under the law, all States are equal, entitled to the same
rights and subject to the same obligations, regardless of
size,  economic  wealth  or  military  power.  International
law  also  ensures that  States are  held to  high  standards
of  conduct  in  their  relationships  with  other  States.
like  Singapore,
Therefore, 
international 
the
maintenance of our sovereignty.
the  main  avenue 
small 
is 
countries 
law 
for 
for 
The International Court of Justice(cid:146)s clientele now
includes  189  States.  Not  surprisingly,  in  recent  times,
we have  seen  a  steady  increase in the  workload  of  the
Court.  As  of the  beginning of  this  year,  there  were  24
cases pending before the Court. This number may seem
small when compared to the docket of domestic courts.
However, it  must be noted that every one of these is a
dispute  between  States.  These  disputes  cover  almost
the  entire  breadth  of  international  law.  They  include
disputes  over  maritime  and 
the
legality of the use of force, the arrest and detention of a
foreign citizen and even the execution of a person with
are
dual 
nationality.  Disputes 
land  boundaries, 
between  States 
essentially  different  from  disputes  between  persons.
The  extent  of  the  resources  of  the  contending  States
that  are  mobilized  for  such  disputes  is  much  greater.
The  consequences  of  a  decision  are  also  much  more
profound  for  the  disputing  States  and,  often,  for  the
international community, too.
The  increase  in  the  workload  of  the  Court  is
therefore a reflection of  the increasing confidence  that
the  international  community  as  a  whole  has  in  the
Court. This can only  mean  that  States  are increasingly
mindful of the rules of international law. They prefer to
resolve  their  differences  in  accordance  with  the  law,
rather  than  through  the  use  of  coercive  power.  This
development can only be a welcome one.
the  Court.  The  budget  of 
The  increasing  workload  of  the  Court,  however,
has  not  been  matched  by  a  corresponding  increase  in
the  resources  of 
the
International Court of Justice is relatively modest when
compared  with the budget of  United  Nations agencies.
The  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia,
for  example,  has  a  budget  almost  10  times  that  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice.  Yet  its  workload,  as
evidenced by the number of cases filed, is a fraction of
that of the International Court of Justice. This is not to
say  that  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former
Yugoslavia is over-funded. Instead, what is clear is that
the International Court of Justice is under-funded.
Despite  its  modest  funding  and,  therefore,  its
limited  resources, the  Court  has  been  able  to  schedule
hearings  and  issue  orders  in  a  very  efficient  manner.
We  should  all  commend  the  International  Court  of
Justice for the expeditious manner in which it has been
able to address the matters before it. Its current record
shows  that  there  is  now  no  basis  for  criticizing  the
Court for delays in dealing with cases.
This  state  of  affairs  will  not  be  able  to  continue,
however, if, as appears to be the case, more States turn
to the Court for assistance on a wider range of matters.
If  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  to  satisfy  the
expectations  which  States  have  placed  upon  it,  the
level  of  funding  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice
must  be  substantially  increased.  It  is  therefore  crucial
that  we  take  the  necessary  steps  to  ensure  that  the
Court is adequately provided for.
Paragraph  345  of  the  report  (A/55/4)  before  us
today  quoted  from  the  statement  of  the  then  President
of 
this
Assembly last year. He stated:
the  Court,  Judge  Stephen  Schwebel, 
to 
A/55/PV.41
in 
the 
creates 
apportionment 
(cid:147)The financial resources of the Court cannot
be  divorced  from  those  of  the  Organization  that
provides them. The financial fabric of the United
Nations must be repaired, most fundamentally by
renewed performance of the  treaty  obligations  of
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  pay  their
this  General
assessments,  as  determined  by 
Assembly 
the  exercise  of 
the  authority
deliberately  and  expressly  entrusted  to  it  by  the
terms  of  the  Charter.  The  binding  character  of
those  assessments  was  affirmed  by  the  Court  in
1962, when it held that the exercise of the power
of 
obligation,
specifically  stated  in  Article  17,  paragraph  2  of
the  Charter,  of  each  Member  to  bear  that  part  of
the  expenses  which  is  apportioned  to  it  by  the
General Assembly. Failure to meet that obligation
not only has the gravest effects on the life of the
Organization,  but  transgresses  the  principles  of
free consent, good faith and pacta sunt servanda,
which  are  at  the  heart  of  international  law  and
relations.(cid:148) (A/54/PV.39, pp. 4-5)
It  is  therefore  hard  to  explain  the  situation  when
the  richest  Member  of  the  Organization  is  unable  to
pay  its  dues,  in  full,  on  time  and  without  conditions.
We  have  pointed  out  before  that  the  heart  of  the
problem is political,  not  financial. In  his  book  entitled
Judging The World Court, Thomas Franck wrote:
the 
to  world  peace, 
(cid:147)The  World  Court  is  not  the  perfect  instrument
for  an  imperfect  world,  but  it  is  in  the  national
interest  of  the  United  States  to  encourage,  rather
than destroy, the only court with global reach(cid:148).
In  today(cid:146)s  world,  where  there  are  so  many
challenges 
importance  of
compliance  with  international  law  becomes  that  much
more  significant.  Without  international  law,  there  will
be  anarchy in the  relationships  between  States.  Might,
not  right,  will prevail.  We, the  members  of  the  United
Nations,  therefore  have  a  special  responsibility  to
ensure  the  continued  respect  and  observance  of  the
rules  of  international  law.  One  clear  way  in  which  we
can  do  this  is  by  showing,  in  concrete  terms,  our
support  for  the  main  organ  for  the  development  and
enforcement  of  international  law,  the  International
Court of Justice.
Mr.  Vaiko  (India):  I  thank  the  President  of  the
Judge  Gilbert
for  his  detailed  and  comprehensive
International  Court 
Guillaume, 
Justice, 
of 
11
A/55/PV.41
introduction of  the report  of  the  Court  as  contained  in
document  A/55/4. We  would like to extend to  him  our
heartfelt  congratulations  and 
felicitations  on  his
election  as  President,  and  wish  him  every  success
during his time in office.
The  United  Nations  was  established  to  save
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war.  The
founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations  sought  to
achieve  this  objective  through  the  twin  approach  of
prohibiting  the  use  of  force,  in  accordance  with
Article 2,  paragraph  4,  of 
the  Charter,  and  by
promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international
disputes  under  Article  33  of  the  Charter.  As  a  central
element  to  the  promotion  of  international  peaceful
settlement,  and  in  a  departure  from  the  model  of  the
League of Nations, the United Nations Charter, through
its  Article  92,  established  the  International  Court  of
Justice  as  its  principal  judicial  organ.  Furthermore,  in
the case of disputes under consideration by  the  United
Nations  Security  Council,  Article  36,  paragraph  3
directs  the  Security  Council  to  recommend  the  parties
to refer  all  legal  disputes  to  the  International  Court  of
Justice.  Finally,  Article  92  of  the  Charter  makes  the
Statute of the International Court of Justice an integral
part of the Charter.
The  above  clearly  indicates  the  respect  and  the
central  role  assigned  to  the  International  Court  of
Justice within the United Nations Charter system. This
is  a  status  unique  to  the  ICJ  and  not  enjoyed  by  any
other tribunal established since 1945.
regional  and 
The  recent  period  has  seen  the  creation  of  a
international
number  of  specialized 
courts.  The  political  process  connected  with 
the
establishment  of  special  international  judicial  bodies
has  been,  on  occasion,  perceived  as  diminishing  the
role of the ICJ in the field of the international peaceful
settlement of  disputes.  Moreover, it  may  be  noted  that
legitimate  questions  have  been  raised  about  the  legal
basis  of  the  establishment  by  the  Security  Council  of
the  aforementioned  ad  hoc 
international  criminal
tribunals 
the  former
Yugoslavia and Rwanda.
instituted  with  reference 
to 
However,  even  after  all  these  developments,  the
International  Court  of  Justice  still  remains  the  only
judicial  body  with  legitimacy  derived  directly  under
the Charter, enjoying general jurisdiction, and available
to  all  States  of  the international  community  in  matters
relating  to  all  aspects  of  international  law.  All  other
12
international  judicial  institutions,  established  as  they
are with competence over specified fields, are confined
to  their  limited  areas  of  jurisdiction  and  lack  general
jurisdiction of a universal nature.
Its 
judgements 
We  could  not  agree  more  with  the  statement  of
the  then  President  of  the  ICJ,  Judge  Schwebel,  in  his
address  to  the  fifty-third  General  Assembly,  that  the
World Court is the father of the family of international
judicial bodies created in the past decade. Over the last
50  years,  the  Court  has  dealt  with  a  variety  of  legal
issues. 
disputes
concerning  sovereignty  over 
islands,  navigational
rights of States, nationality, asylum, expropriation, law
of  the  sea,  land  and  maritime  boundaries,  enunciation
of the principle of good faith, equity and legitimacy of
use of force. The issues presently before it are equally
wide-ranging,  and  its  judgements  have  played  an
important  role  in  the  progressive  development  and
codification of international law.
covered 
have 
Notwithstanding  the  caution  it  has  exhibited  and
the sensibility it has shown to the political realities and
sentiments of States, the Court has asserted its judicial
functions  and  has  consistently  rejected  arguments  to
deny  it  jurisdiction  on  the  ground  that  grave  political
considerations  were  involved  in  a  case  in  which  it
otherwise  found  proper  jurisdiction  for  itself.  The
Court  has  thereby  clearly  emphasized  the  role  of
international  law  in  regulating  inter-State  relations,
which are necessarily political.
in 
the 
also 
system  but 
The  phenomenal  explosion  of  the  Court(cid:146)s  docket
during  the  1990s  stands  as  testimony  to  the  Court(cid:146)s
high  standing  and  authority,  not  only  in  the  United
Nations 
international
community. It also indicates the increased relevance of
and respect for due process of law  exhibited  by  States
and is an affirmation of faith in the Court. Whereas in
the early 1970s it was called (cid:147)the court without a case(cid:148),
it  is  now  faced  with  the  problem  of  plenty  and  finds
itself  in  a  position  of  being  unable,  within  its  existing
resources,  to  respond  effectively  and  in  time  to  the
demands made on it by its increasing workload.
to  rationalize 
use 
As  emphasized  in  its  report,  even  after  taking
its
various  measures 
information
Registry,  making 
technology, 
its  working  methods  and
securing  greater  collaboration  from  the  Parties  to
reduce  the  time  taken  for  individual  cases,  the  Court
will be unable to cope with the increase in its workload
the  work  of 
improving 
greater 
of 
a 
in 
increase 
taken  at 
significant 
the  Millennium  Summit 
without 
its  budget.
Accordingly,  the  decision  of  the  Heads  of  State  and
Government 
to
strengthen the International Court of Justice in order to
ensure  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  in  international
affairs must be implemented urgently by providing the
Court with adequate resources to enable it to carry out
its  designated  functions  as  the  principal  judicial  organ
of the United Nations.
(spoke 
(Guatemala) 
Mr.  Lavalle-Valdés
in
Spanish):  We  feel  that,  on  the  one  hand,  the  existence
of a judicial system, even in rudimentary form, capable
of dealing with the relations between its members, is a
necessary  condition  that  allows  a  group  of  human
beings or  bodies to  consider  themselves  a  community;
on  the  other  hand,  a  legal  system  hardly  deserves  the
name  if  it  does  not  have  a  permanent  mechanism  for
solving  controversies  between  the  members  of  the
community. For these reasons, we feel that, although it
is  hard  to  believe  that  the  man  in  the  street  could  be
aware  of 
the
importance  of  the  creation  in  1922  of  the  Permanent
Court  of  International  Justice,  a  judicial  body  which
preceded the International Court of Justice. In fact, the
ICJ  is  actually  a  continuation,  rather  than  a  successor,
of the former Court.
to  exaggerate 
is  difficult 
this, 
it 
perhaps 
situations, 
international 
If we disregard the profound differences between
two 
the
the 
fundamental  difference  between  these  two  institutions
is rather extrinsic than intrinsic. This difference lies in
the fact that the relationship between the current Court
and  the  world  organization  in  charge  of  maintaining
peace  and  international  security (cid:151) in  other  words,  the
United Nations (cid:151) is a much narrower relationship than
the one that linked the venerable Permanent Court with
the  corresponding  body  of  the  time (cid:151) in  other  words,
the League of Nations.
The  former  Permanent  Court,  although  it  had
close  links  to  the  League  of  Nations,  constitutionally
speaking,  was  a  separate  body.  However,  the  current
Court  is  an  integral  part  of  the  United  Nations.  In
effect,  the  two  institutions  were  created  by  the  same
instrument (cid:151) in other words, the Charter of the United
Nations (cid:151) which  expressly  includes  the  Court  among
the Organization(cid:146)s main bodies.
While  feeling  that  the  relationships  between  the
Court  and  the  United  Nations  are  praiseworthy  on  all
counts,  we  also  feel  that  the  closer  the  links  are
A/55/PV.41
between our Organization and the Court, the better will
be  the  efficiency  and  the  authority  of  the  Court.  More
States  will then be encouraged  to  come  before  it. This
is  why  we  are  pleased  to  see  that  in  1968 (cid:151) the  year,
by  the  way,  that  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Guatemala  presided  over  the  General  Assembly (cid:151) the
Court, on the basis of paragraph 2 of  Article 15 of the
Charter, reinforced its links with the United Nations by
initiating  the  practice  of  presenting  a  report  on  its
activities annually to this Assembly.
the  Court  made  as  part  of 
We,  likewise,  are  happy  to  see  that,  for  some
years  now,  the  information  in  the  reports,  which  had
seemed  a  bit  dry (cid:151) owing  to  its  formal  and  technical
nature (cid:151) has  been  augmented  by  a 
stimulating
subjective element that helps us to take a deeper look at
the Court. I am referring  to  the oral  statement that  the
President  of 
the
consideration  of 
institution,  a
statement  in  which  he  discussed  his  ideas  and  his
vision  about  some  of  the  most  general  aspects  of  the
Court,  the  principles  underlying  its  work,  the  way  in
which States can derive the maximum benefit from the
functions  that  the  Court  is  able  to  carry  out  and  the
many  ways  that  the  Court  can  contribute  to  the
achievement  of  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations.  He
also  discussed, 
the  Court
unfortunately faces.
the  report  on 
the  problems 
that 
that 
Thus,  I  would  like  to  thank  President  Guillaume
wholeheartedly  for  having  followed  the  practice (cid:151) or
rather,  the  tradition (cid:151) established  by  his  predecessors
of  putting  aside  the  pressing  tasks  of  his  primary
functions to come to this Assembly to share with us his
ideas about those aspects of the Court and its work that
in  his  opinion  are  most  deserving  of  attention.  In  this
way, the report of the institution is brought to life, and
the  President(cid:146)s  presence  increases  interest  in  the  work
of the Court.
In order to get a clear idea of what is in the report
one  need  only  look  at  the  table  of  contents.  From  it
alone  can  be  seen  the  great  variety  and  importance  of
the issues and subjects dealt with by the Court (cid:151) both
with  regard  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and  security  and  to  promoting  friendly  cooperation
between  States  and  the  development  of  international
law. At present these issues and subjects include many
delicate issues pertaining to the law of the sea and the
environment,  the  fight  against  international  terrorism,
the responsibility of States, sovereignty over territories,
diplomatic protection, consular law, the use of force by
13
A/55/PV.41
States, the application of laws relating to genocide, the
scope  of 
jurisdiction  of  States  and
diplomatic immunity and privileges.
the  criminal 
As  regards  the  litigants  and  actual  cases  of  the
Court, it is notable that the litigants come from almost
all the continents and geographical areas  of  the  world.
This  includes  the  countries  of  our  subregion,  Central
America,  whose  legal  issues  the  Court  has  resolved
successfully on several occasions. It is also noteworthy
that  the  litigants  before  the  Court  include  and  have
almost  always 
just  as  many  developed
countries as States from the third world.
included 
facing 
financial  difficulties 
Given  the  great  importance  of  the  functions  and
activities of the Court to the successful achievement of
the  main  goals  of  the  United  Nations,  my  country  is
greatly  concerned  that  the  Court  for  some  years  has
been 
that  could  be
considered  alarming.  We  feel  that  this  is  absolutely
unacceptable,  and  we  have  no  doubt  that  any  cost-
benefit  analysis  of  the  activities  of  the  Court  would
show  that  it  is  very  difficult,  if  not  impossible,  to  use
the  funds  available  for  international  purposes  in  any
better way than by paying for the work of the Court. In
other  words,  we  believe  that  a  comparison  of  what  it
costs to fund absolutely adequately and sufficiently the
work  of  the  Court  with  the  great  importance  of  what
the  Court  does,  the  scales  would  tip  heavily  to  the
positive side.
Finally,  we  would like to thank  the  Court  for  the
additions that it has made this year to its report, which
provides  us  with  general  information  distinct  from  the
information  on  its  specific,  legal  activities,  is  much
broader  than  the  previous  reports,  and  is  of  great
interest to us.
Mr. Mbanefo (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation
wishes to congratulate Judge Gilbert  Guillaume  on  his
election on 7 February 2000 by the International Court
of  Justice  to  be  the  President  of  the  Court.  We  also
congratulate  Judge  Shi  Jiuyong  and  Mr.  Philippe
Couvreur  on  their  elections  as  Vice-President  and
Registrar  respectively  of  the  eminent  World  Court  at
The Hague.
We  commend  the  President  of  the  Court  for  his
lucid  introduction  of  the  report  of  the  Court,  which  is
contained in document A/55/4.
The  Nigerian 
great
importance to the International  Court  of Justice,  given
delegation 
attaches 
14
its  pivotal  role  in  the  settlement  of  international
disputes.  As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United
Nations,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  the  only
international court of a universal character with general
jurisdiction.  States,  in  exercise  of  their  sovereignty,
willingly and voluntarily submit disputes to the  Court.
It  is  encouraging  to  note  that  62  out  of  189  States
parties to the Statute of the Court have subscribed to its
compulsory 
the
Statute.
jurisdiction,  under  Article  36  of 
Nigeria,  as  one  of  the  countries  that  has  made
declarations recognizing the compulsory jurisdiction of
the  Court,  as  contemplated  under  Article  36,
paragraphs  2  and  5,  of  the  Statute,  urges  Member
States  of  the  United  Nations  that  have  not  done  so  to
recognize the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. It is
our  belief  that  recognition  of  the  Court(cid:146)s  compulsory
jurisdiction by all Members of the United Nations that
are  ipso  facto  parties  to  the  Statute  of  the  Court  will
not only reduce tension, but will also encourage States
to settle their differences by peaceful means.
The International Court of Justice has contributed
immensely  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and  security  through  the  settlement  of  international
disputes.  There  has  been  a  substantial  increase  in  the
number  of  cases  before  the  Court.  More  and  more
States  now  have  recourse 
the
settlement  of  their  disputes.  Over  the  past  year,  the
number  of  cases  submitted  to  the  Court  has  continued
to rise.
the  Court  for 
to 
Such an increased workload arises primarily from
the confidence that Member States repose in the Court.
Such  confidence  in  turn  is  anchored  in  the  Court(cid:146)s
authority, 
impartiality,  effectiveness  and
independence.
integrity, 
It is our view that for the Court to  cope  with  the
increasing  workload,  and  at  the  same  time  to  sustain
the  sterling  qualities  for  which  it  is  known,  more
resources must be allocated to it.
Paragraph 20 of the report for the year 1999-2000
amplifies  the  inextricable  link  between  performance
and increased resources. The paragraph
(cid:147)welcomes the increased confidence which States
have shown in the Court(cid:146)s ability to resolve their
disputes. However, it will be unable to respond to
that  confidence  without  a  minimum  of 
the
resources  which  it  currently  lacks,  and  which  it
will seek in the coming year.(cid:148)
The  Nigerian  delegation 
the
allocation of more resources to the Court to enable it to
discharge its statutory function creditably.
therefore 
supports 
The  Nigerian  delegation  welcomes  the  progress
already  made  in  streamlining  the  working  methods  of
the  Court(cid:146)s  Registry.  However,  one  area,  in  our  view,
that  requires  urgent  consideration  is  the  review  of  the
official  languages  of  the  Court.  The  Court(cid:146)s  official
languages are English and French. As has already been
observed  by  Judge  Schwebel,  the  immediate  past
President  of  the  Court,  the  International  Court  of
Justice 
its  clientele.  States
submitting  cases  to  the  Court  are  drawn  from  Europe,
America,  Africa,  Asia,  the  Middle  East  and  Australia.
The  Court  itself  is  universal  in  its  composition,  being
made up of 15 Judges, each from a different region of
the  world,  reflecting  the  principal  legal  systems  in
practice globally. It is therefore unhelpful, for purposes
of universalism, to restrict the official languages of the
Court to only English and French.
is  universal 
today 
in 
reflect 
should 
It  is  the  view  of  my  delegation  that  the  official
languages  of  the  Court,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of
the  official
the  United  Nations, 
languages  of  our  Organization.  Though 
this  may
require additional financial resources, we believe that it
is a  course  worth pursuing, as it  will  enable  the  Court
to  spread  its  gospel  of  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes
in  many  more  languages.  We 
the
President  of  the  Court  to  take  this  into  consideration
when  submitting  its  requests  for  increased  financial
resources to the General Assembly.
therefore  urge 
The 
International  Court  of 
Justice  enjoys
immense prestige and trust. Such prestige and trust are
further  confirmed  by  the  official  visits  to  the  Court
during the period under review by some notable  world
leaders,  including  President  Jacques  Chirac  of  France,
the Emperor and Empress of Japan and the President of
Mongolia,  Mr.  Bagabandi.  More  visits  by  other  world
leaders,  we  believe,  would  be 
source  of
encouragement to the Court.
a 
In conclusion, the Court has proved to be a useful
tool  for  the  development  of  international  law.  It  has
more  than  justified  the  perception  that  a  world  court
can fundamentally foster peace through the adjudicated
settlement 
the
development of the body of international  law.  Nigeria,
international 
disputes 
and 
of 
A/55/PV.41
as  a  peace-loving  nation,  will  continue  to  support  the
ideals  inherent  in  the  establishment  of  the  Court
54 years ago.
Mr.  Shami  (Pakistan):  I  would  like  to  begin  by
congratulating Judge Gilbert Guillaume on his election
as President of  the International  Court of Justice  early
this year. I would also like to thank him for presenting
to the General Assembly the annual report of the Court.
Pakistan attaches great importance to the work of
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  which 
the
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The
Court,  which  was  established  54  years  ago  to  uphold
the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law,  has
played an indispensable role in helping Member States
in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  their  disputes.  Over  the
years,  the  Court  has  emerged  as  the  institution  par
excellence  in  the  field  of  international  law  and  has
gained due respect for its role not only in the peaceful
settlement  of  international  disputes,  but  also  for  the
valuable  contribution  it  has  made  to  the  development
of 
its  Judgments  and
Advisory Opinions.
international 
through 
law 
is 
This is clearly evident from the increased number
of cases that  are before  the  Court  today.  While,  in  the
1970s, the Court had only one or two cases, the number
of cases before it this year stands at more than 20. This
testifies  to  the  prestige  of  the  Court  and  to  the
contribution  that  it  can  make  to  the  promotion  of
international peace and security.
and 
under 
under 
period 
bilateral 
territorial  disputes 
review.  One  was 
This  year,  the  Court  dealt  with  cases  of  diverse
to  state
natures,  ranging  from 
obligations 
international
agreements. The Court delivered two Judgments during
the 
the
Kasikili/Sedudu  Island  case  between  Botswana  and
Namibia;  the  second  was  on  the  aerial  incident  of  10
August  1999  between  India  and  Pakistan.  In  the  latter
case,  the  Court  ruled  that  it  had  no  jurisdiction  to
entertain  an  Application  submitted  by  my  country  in
September  1999  regarding  the  shooting-down  of  an
unarmed  Pakistani  naval  aircraft  by  India  inside  our
airspace.
in 
The International  Court of Justice(cid:146)s decision  was
not based on the substance of Pakistan(cid:146)s complaint, but
on India(cid:146)s reservation, which excludes from the Court(cid:146)s
jurisdiction disputes with the Government of any State
that is or has been a member of the Commonwealth of
Nations.  The  Judgment  of  the  Court  notes  specifically
15
A/55/PV.41
importantly, 
the  Court(cid:146)s 
jurisdiction  and 
that  there  is  a  fundamental  distinction  between  the
acceptance  of 
the
compatibility  of  particular  acts  with  international  law
and that States remain in all  cases responsible  for acts
attributable  to  them  that  violate  the  rights  of  other
States,  whether  or  not  they  accept  the  jurisdiction  of
the  Court.  Most 
the  Judgment  also
emphasizes  that  the  Court(cid:146)s  lack  of  jurisdiction  does
not  relieve  States  of  their  obligations  to  settle  their
disputes  by  peaceful  means.  In 
the
Judgment  refers  to  Article  33  of  the  United  Nations
Charter. This fact has also been reflected in the annual
report of the Court, which is before the Assembly, and
was  reiterated  by  the  President  of  the  Court,  Judge
Guillaume,  in  his  introduction  of 
this
morning.
this  context, 
the  report 
relieve  States  of 
While  fully  agreeing  with  the  Court  that  its  lack
of 
jurisdiction  does  not 
their
obligation  to  settle  their  disputes  by  peaceful  means,
Pakistan remains committed to the  peaceful  settlement
of  all  outstanding  disputes  with  all  its  neighbours,
including recourse to the International Court of Justice.
We have noted  with satisfaction the efforts being
made  by  the  Court  to  improve  its  smooth  functioning.
However,  the  problems  being  faced  by  the  Court
because  of  the  increased  number  of  cases  need  to  be
addressed  urgently  and  with  the  seriousness  that  they
deserve.  The  increase  in  the  workload  of  the  Court
requires  a  proportionate  increase  in  its  annual  budget.
For  some  unknown  reason,  the  percentage  of  the
annual budget of the Court vis-(cid:224)-vis the overall budget
of  the  United  Nations  has  remained  static,  despite  a
substantial increase in its workload. In fact, the current
annual budget of the Court, which is about $10 million,
represents,  in  terms  of  the  overall  United  Nations
budget, a percentage which is lower than that of 1946.
Compared  with  the  annual  budget  of  the  International
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  for  the  year  2000,
which is about $100 million, the amount of $10 million
does  not  seem  appropriate,  given  the  importance  and
stature  of  that  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United
Nations.
therefore 
fully  supports 
My  delegation 
the
Court(cid:146)s  request  for  an  increase  in  the  allocation  of
adequate 
the
competent bodies of the United Nations to consider the
question  of  increasing  resources  of  the  Court  on  a
priority basis.
resources  and  calls  upon 
financial 
16
Mr.  Valdez  Carrillo  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
May I first congratulate Judge Gilbert Guillaume on his
election  as  President  of  the  Court  in  February  of  this
year. I  would  also like,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  to
congratulate  Judge  Shi  Jiuyong  as  Vice-President  and
the other members of the Court elected for this period.
For  the  delegation  of  Peru,  the  annual  report  of
the  International  Court  of  Justice 
is  particularly
important  and  arouses  great  expectations,  because  the
progressive  development  of  international  law  would
simply  be  limited  to  the  academic  field  and  the
objectives of harmony and peace would remain merely
theoretical if the Court(cid:146)s norms could not be practically
applied to the solution of real situations that could pose
dangers to international peace and security.
The creation of the International Court of Justice
began to be  promoted through early  efforts  to  create a
community  of  nations.  The  fall  of  the  League  of
Nations  and  the  corresponding  Permanent  Court  of
International  Justice,  far  from  creating  disillusionment
in  the  viability  of  the  undertaking,  led  to  the  more
energetic  promotion  of  the  project  for  an  international
court  whose  statute  would  have  the  same  hierarchical
status  as  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Thus,  as
stated  in  Article  92  of  the  Charter,  the  International
Court  of  Justice  is  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the
United Nations.
its 
of
jurisprudence,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  has
made  an  invaluable  contribution,  both  by  settling
disputes  and by issuing  advisory  opinions,  not  only  in
preserving peace but also in the enunciation of law and
in the  modelling  of desirable  and acceptable  standards
of 
international
community.
creation,  with 
international 
its  wealth 
conduct 
Since 
the 
for 
Likewise,  in  the  past  few  years  the  Court  has
been  an  important  tool  of  consultation  for  students,
lawyers,  judges  and  the  general  public  through  the
creation  of  a  Web  page  on  the  Internet,  which  has
closed  the  gap  that  may  have  existed  between  public
users  and  the  institutions  for  the  administration  of
international 
the
inauguration in May 1999 of the Museum of the Court,
represents an important advance in the dissemination of
information on international  law  beyond  its  traditional
audience to the public at large. I am sure this  makes a
positive  contribution  to  the  creation  of  a  universal
awareness  of  the  importance  of  this  discipline  and  to
justice.  This 
linked 
tool, 
to 
reinforcing the idea that this is a significant element of
relationships between States.
1998  signed  a  comprehensive  agreement  on 
erstwhile border dispute with Ecuador.
its
A/55/PV.41
Despite  these  achievements,  the  Court  is  facing
two  main  difficulties,  one  theoretical  and  the  other
practical. The first is that the Court cannot apply more
law  than  it  has.  The  well-known  Article  38  of  its
Statute mentions legal sources that are still developing,
and  whose  concepts  and  consequences  have  not  yet
been  defined  in  all  cases.  On  the  other  hand,  the
process of globalization and the technological advances
that  are  being  made,  in  the  absence  of  more  resolute
about 
political  will, 
new
bring 
international  situations 
that  are  not  yet  clearly
regulated.
challenging 
For  this  reason,  we  cannot  separate  the  efforts
aimed at the  strengthening  and  horizontal  enlargement
of the Court(cid:146)s jurisdiction from the efforts aimed at the
progressive  development  and 
implementation  of
international  law.  We  will  have  an  International  Court
of  Justice  that  is  stronger  and  more  universal  to  the
extent that  we also have international law that is  more
institutionalized and more solid.
The  second  difficulty  that  the  Court  faces  is  a
practical and logistical one. Even though we are happy
to  see  an  increase  in  the  number  of  cases  coming
before  the  Court,  we  are  aware  of  the  budgetary
difficulties that this situation brings with it, particularly
since  during  the  upcoming  period  there  will  probably
be  an  increased  need  for  resources,  since  in  certain
cases  the  bulk  of  the  proceedings  is  to  begin  soon.
Thus,  it  is  important  for  the  Organization  to  pay
particular  attention 
the  provision  of  adequate
financial resources.
to 
It  is  relevant  to  point  out  that  the  International
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, even  with a  much
more  limited  jurisdiction,  has  a  budget  approximately
10  times  as  large  as  that  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice,  which  has a  universal  mission. The delegation
of  Peru  considers  that  in  keeping  with  the  statutory
importance  of  the  Court,  and  given  its  legal  and
political  importance  in  the  maintenance  of  friendly
relations  between  countries,  we  cannot  skimp  on  the
budget  that  we  apportion  to  the  Court  for  the  proper
accomplishment of its important tasks.
Throughout  its  history,  Peru  has  demonstrated  a
close attachment to international law and to the search
for  peaceful  solutions  in  its  international  relations.  It
went before the Court on one occasion and in  October
Peru  will  continue  its  efforts  to  ensure  that  the
International  Court  of  Justice  continues  to  achieve  its
goals  of  peace  and  rule  of  law,  and  encourages  all
States  that  have  differences  to  go  before  the  Court  in
order  to  find  peaceful  solutions  within  the  framework
of international law.
Mr.  Mangoaela
(Lesotho):  My  delegation
welcomes  the  opportunity  to  address  the  General
Assembly  on  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice.  Permit  me  at  the  outset  to  express  our  thanks
and  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  Court,  Judge
Gilbert  Guillaume,  for  his  introduction  of  the  report
and  for  his pertinent  comments.  We commend  him  for
his  dedicated  stewardship  of  the  Court  and  for  the
Court(cid:146)s impressive achievements over the period under
review.  This  will  no  doubt  further  enhance 
the
international  community(cid:146)s  confidence  in  that  unique
organ of international law.
international 
legal  problems  as 
Lesotho remains  convinced that  no other  judicial
organ  in  the  world  can  have  the  same  capacity  for
dealing  with 
the
International Court of Justice. As a component not only
of  the  machinery  of  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes
created  by  the  Charter  but  also  of  the  general  system
for the maintenance of international peace and security,
the  Court  continues  to  offer  States  a  wide  range  of
opportunities 
in
international relations by, among other things, deciding
(cid:147)in accordance  with  international law  such  disputes  as
are submitted to it(cid:148).
for  promoting 
rule  of 
the 
law 
Because  of  its  achievements  in  finding  just  and
equitable  solutions  to  legal  conflicts  between  States,
the  Court  continues  to  enjoy  universal  support  and
respect;  hence,  a  noticeable  increase  in  the  number  of
cases  being  referred  to  it.  This  has  no  doubt  also
contributed  to  much  of  the  progress  in  the  political,
social and economic arena we have witnessed in recent
years.
to 
The  promotion  of  and  commitment 
the
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  in  accordance  with  the
United Nations Charter remains one of the cornerstones
of  Lesotho(cid:146)s  foreign  policy  goals.  Like  many  other
small and vulnerable States, Lesotho is dependent more
on  the  law  than  on  power  in  settling  disputes,  in
defending  its  sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial
the
integrity  and 
in  protecting 
its  policies 
in 
17
A/55/PV.41
social  and  humanitarian 
international field. We remain keenly aware of the role
that  international  law  plays  in  the  search  for  solutions
to  the  problems  of  an  interdependent  world  in  which
economic, 
issues  have
assumed  paramount  importance.  We  recognize  the
important  role  of  the  Court  as  a  tool  for  the  peaceful
settlement  of  disputes 
to
strengthening  the  Court  in  order  to  ensure  justice  and
the rule of  law  in  international affairs, as  called  for in
the Millennium Declaration.
committed 
and 
are 
The challenge for the international  community at
the  dawn  of  the  new  century  is  how  to  strengthen  the
international legal  order  and  promote  effective  respect
for  the  legal  norms  that  govern  the  international
community. In  this regard,  universal acceptance of  the
Court(cid:146)s  compulsory 
the  best
indicator of progress towards meeting these challenges.
We  note  that  to  date  less  than  50  per  cent  of  the
Members of the United Nations have made declarations
recognizing  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,
as envisaged under Article 36 of its Statute.
jurisdiction  remains 
It is thus a pleasure for me today to announce that
on 
the  occasion  of 
the  Millennium  Summit,  on
6 September  2000,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Lesotho
deposited  with  the  Secretary-General  an  unconditional
declaration  by  which  the  Government  of  the  Kingdom
of  Lesotho  recognizes  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of
the  Court  in  accordance  with  Article  36,  paragraph  2,
of the Statute of the Court. It is Lesotho(cid:146)s hope that its
unconditional  acceptance  of  the  Court(cid:146)s  jurisdiction,
which is  yet  another  sign  of  the  increasing  confidence
in 
the  Court(cid:146)s
pre-eminent role not only as an interpreter of the legal
obligations of States  and  in the  settlement of  disputes,
but  also  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security. It is our hope, too, that many more States will
soon join the increasing number of countries that have
recognized the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
the  Court,  will 
further  enhance 
Last  year(cid:146)s  annual  review  of  the  Court  showed
that  as  of  July  1999  it  was  seized  of  18  cases,  which
was then far more than it had ever had within any given
12-month  period.  As  rightly  predicted,  this  year  we
have  seen  yet  another  increase,  bringing  the  total
number of cases before the Court to 23 as of July. It is
our  understanding  that  one  more  case  has  since  been
added 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Belgium.  The
current trend is thus towards an increase, rather than a
the  Court(cid:146)s  docket: 
that  between 
to 
18
decrease,  in  the  Court(cid:146)s  caseload,  and  this  trend  can
only be expected to continue.
Another  significant  development  with  regard  to
the  Court(cid:146)s  activities  is  that,  unlike  in  the  past,  when
the  jurisdiction  phases  of  cases  occupied  most  of  its
time, the Court is now being frequently called upon to
deal  directly  with  a  diversity  of  complex  substantive
issues  of  international  law  from  all  regions  of  the
world.  Given  the  complexity  of  most  cases  and  the
resource constraints faced by the Court, it is gratifying
to  note  that  during  the  period  under  review  the  Court
finalized  the  Botswana  and  Namibia  case  concerning
the  Kasikili/Sedudu  Island,  as  well  as  issuing  various
orders concerning a number of other cases.
There can, however, be no doubt that, in  spite  of
the Court(cid:146)s best efforts, it will not be possible for it to
handle  the  ever-increasing  workload  and  to  be  an
effective  and  efficient  judicial  means  for  the  peaceful
settlement  of  disputes  unless  it  is  given  adequate
resources. It should indeed be a source of great concern
for  this  Assembly  that  the  15  judges  of  the  highest
Court  in  the  world  have to  share  and  rely  on  six  legal
professionals  to  carry  out  research  on  complicated
questions  of  international  law  and  to  prepare  studies
and notes for the judges and the Registrar. It is equally
disturbing  that  all  the  translation  and  interpretation  of
the  Court  is  handled  by  only  six  professionals.  These
two examples, which are only the tip of the iceberg of
the  Court(cid:146)s  difficulties,  are  a  clear  indication  of  the
practical difficulties faced by the Court in carrying out
its  functions.  This  lamentable  state  of  affairs  for  the
Court  should  not  be  allowed  to  continue.  Lesotho
therefore  reiterates  the  call  for  an  increase  in  the
Court(cid:146)s  resources  to  enable  it  to  fully  and  effectively
respond 
the
international community. Strengthening the Court is the
only  way  in  which  we  can  realize  the  dream  of  the
domination of law in relations among people.
the  ever-increasing  demands  of 
to 
In  conclusion,  we  commend  the  Court  for  its
outreach  programmes.  Lack  of  awareness  about  the
Court and its activities is no doubt part of the problem
that needs to be addressed. Ensuring that there is better
public  education  and  understanding  of  the  Court,
particularly among policy  makers and decision  makers
in  government,  remains 
important.  We  can  only
encourage the  Court to  continue  its  endeavours  in  this
regard. We hope that the Court(cid:146)s schedule will allow it
to visit Lesotho in the near future and look forward  to
welcoming  the  President  and  other  members  of  the
Court.
to  extend  our 
Mr. Al-Nasser (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): It is my
pleasure  once  again 
thanks  and
appreciation  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for  presiding  over
this  meeting  to  consider  agenda  item  13,  entitled
(cid:147)Report of the International Court of Justice(cid:148). It is also
our  pleasure 
to
Mr. Gilbert  Guillaume,  President  of  the  International
Court  of  Justice, 
report
containing ample explanation and demonstration of the
judicial work undertaken by the Court recently.
to  extend  our  congratulations 
for  his  comprehensive 
A/55/PV.41
This  new  millennium  provides  us  with  a
convenient  opportunity  to  emphasize  once  again  the
United  Nations  purposes  and  principles,  particularly
the principles of justice and the rule of law in the field
of international relations.
To resort to the International Court of Justice is a
legitimate  course  whenever  a  situation  may  endanger
international  peace  and  security  and,  in  keeping  with
Article  33  of  the  Charter,  it  also  constitutes  civilized
behaviour  that  encourages  respect  for  the  Charter,
enhancing  the  role  of  the  Organization  in  settling
disputes in a just and peaceful manner.
and 
law  and 
Over  the  last  54  years,  particularly  the  last
decade, the International Court of Justice has been able
to gain the  confidence  of the international  community,
thanks  to  the  vast  experience  and  impartiality  of  its
judges.  Their  knowledge 
experience  have
effectively  contributed  to  the  gradual  development  of
international 
legal
questions in a  way that  will certainly be very  valuable
in  maintaining  world  peace  and 
security.  The
international community  has  also  noted  the  qualitative
and  quantitative  developments  of 
in
addressing  disputes  brought  to  its  attention,  disputes
that  are  no 
types  of
differences  that  normally  arise  between  States but  that
have become very varied.
to  addressing  several 
longer  confined 
the  Court 
to  certain 
All this  emphasizes  the  privileged  status  enjoyed
by the International Court of Justice in the eyes of the
Member States as the main judicial organ of the United
Nations and the ideal channel for settling international
disputes.  The  Court  reaches  its  decisions  in  a  manner
consistent with the interests of justice and according to
the  rules  established  by  statutes  providing  for  full
participation  of  all  members  in  its  deliberations  on  an
equal  footing.  The  Court  reaches  its  decisions  in  its
plenary,  demonstrating  the  care  with  which  it  deals
with its responsibilities.
that 
There 
is  no  doubt 
rulings.  Consequently, 
the  only  obstacle
threatening  the  future  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice  is  non-compliance  by  States  with  its  final
decisions  and 
the
international  community(cid:146)s  duty  to  provide  for  the
future  of  the  Court  not  only  by  enhancing  its  human
and  financial  resources,  in  order  to  keep  up  with  the
steady  increase  in  the  number  of  cases  brought  before
it, but also by emphasizing the commitment of States to
respect its decisions.
it 
is 
to 
simply 
is  also 
resorting 
following 
the  stage 
The  settlement  of  international  disputes  is  not
completed  by 
international
adjudication  or  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice.
There 
the  Court(cid:146)s
decisions (cid:151) which  are  binding  between  the  parties,
final  and  without  appeal,  under  Articles  59  and  60  of
the  Statute  of  the  Court (cid:151) where  the  obligations
provided  for  in  Article  94  of  the  United  Nations
Charter,  which  clearly  affirm  and  stress  that  each
Member State of the United Nations shall comply with
the decision of the Court in any case to which they are
a party, apply.
Non-compliance  with  the  decisions  of  the  Court,
per  se,  constitutes  a  threat  to  international  peace  and
security.  It  is  also  a  clear  violation  of  the  United
Nations  Charter,  as  well  as  the  rules  and  norms  of
international law.
Mr. Soares (Brazil): Brazil welcomes the Report
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  It  offers  a
comprehensive picture of the Court(cid:146)s achievements,  as
well as the full dimensions of the challenges ahead.
Last  year  we  completed  the  United  Nations
Decade  of  International  Law  and  we  celebrated  the
centennial of the First International Peace  Conference.
The underlying goal of those events was to promote the
rule  of  law  by  fostering  recourse  to  the  peaceful
settlement of disputes between States.
There can be  no  better  expression  of our  success
in  this  task  than  the  growing  number  of  cases  on  the
Court(cid:146)s docket. This confirms the universal nature and
scope  of  the  Court.  Not only are  there  far  more  cases,
but they come from all regions of the  world and cover
both 
the
interpretation  of  international  agreements.  There  are
traditional 
boundary 
disputes 
and 
19
A/55/PV.41
different  reasons  for  this  increased  recourse  to  the
Court.
enhance our common commitment to a culture of peace
and tolerance, cooperation and devotion to justice.
On  the  one  hand,  efforts  to  improve  its  working
procedures are now bearing fruit. Proceedings are more
expeditious and therefore decisions are handed down in
a  shorter  time.  It  is  especially  praiseworthy  that  these
rationalizing and streamlining measures adopted by the
Court  have  allowed  it  to  operate  and  increase  its
workload  with  maximum  efficiency.  Brazil  therefore
concurs 
is
adequately funded.
that  we  must  ensure 
the  Court 
that 
On 
the  other  hand,  a  growing  number  of
multilateral conventions now include reference clauses
to  the  Court  for  the  adjudication  of  disputes.  Equally
important,  the  Court(cid:146)s  advisory  role  has  become  more
widely  recognized.  In  fact,  it  is  available  to  offer
advisory  opinions  to  all  other  organs  of  the  United
Nations and to specialized agencies. Its jurisdiction has
in  practice  been  enlarged  and  its  decisions  enjoy
broader application.
such 
as 
the 
have 
brought 
increase 
interdependence, 
This  is  even  more  significant,  given  the  recent
proliferation of specialized tribunals and courts that are
responsible for enforcing the profusion of international
agreements.  Factors 
in
international regulations  and  the  growing  regional  and
global 
different
international legislation into consideration and conflict.
One answer to concerns over the consequences of
this  multiplication  of 
involve
investing  the  Court  with  a  clearer  advisory  role.  It
might be the case that even bodies  that are  not part of
the United Nations  system (cid:151) such  as the International
Tribunal  for 
the  future
International Criminal Court could request such advice.
Thus,  by  retaining  its  central  role  as  a  universal
jurisdiction, 
the
fundamental unity and coherence of international law.
the  Court  may  help  preserve 
jurisdictions  must 
the  Law  of 
the  Sea  or 
These  are  some  indications  of  an  increased  role
for  the  Court  in  international  affairs  as  we  enter  the
next  century.  As  a  reflection  of  this  newly  discovered
confidence,  the  Court  finds  itself  at  the  centre  of
discussions  about  how  to  improve  the  ability  of  the
international  system  to  foster  stability.  The  Court,  as
the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, must
increasingly  play  a  crucial  role  in  ensuring  that  the
to  be  a  unique  and
United  Nations  continues 
indispensable  universal 
instrument.  By  bringing
together  diverse  legal  traditions,  the  Court(cid:146)s  decisions
20
Brazil has always been a firm believer in the rule
of  law  and  of  judicial  recourse  for  the  settlement  of
disputes.  My  country  will  continue  to  offer  our  full
cooperation  to  the  Court.  We  are  convinced  of  its
central  role  in  developing  a  body  of  international  law
and practice.
the  report  of 
May I conclude by expressing our appreciation to
Judge  Gilbert  Guillaume  for  his  excellent  presentation
of 
the  Court.  We  support  all  his
endeavours  to  strengthen  the  Court  as  the  principal
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  May  I  express
Brazil(cid:146)s  appreciation  for  the  contribution  of  Professor
Jose Francisco Rezek to the work of the Court.
Mr.  Tello  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We
would like, once again, to express our thanks to Judge
Gilbert Guillaume, President of the International Court
of Justice, for having presented his report on the recent
work of the  highest judicial body  of  our  Organization.
We are happy to echo views asserting the usefulness of
this  discussion  aimed  at 
links  of
cooperation  between  two  of  the  main  bodies  of  the
United Nations.
tightening 
the 
to 
the  Court  for 
The  report  on  the  activities  of  the  International
Court  of  Justice  shows  that  the  volume  of  cases
submitted 
its  consideration  has
increased significantly over recent years. Although this
is  a  positive  fact,  because  it  illustrates  the  confidence
that States have in the Court and that they are accessing
judicial  means  for  the  settlement  of  disputes,  it  has
nevertheless led to a situation in which it is impossible
to process cases effectively unless there is a substantial
increase in the funding given to its work.
But this is not a new problem. The Court has for
some  time  been  drawing  States(cid:146)  attention  to  the
difficulties  it  is  experiencing  owing  to  a  lack  of
resources.  This  has  been  noted  by 
the  Special
Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on
the  Strengthening  of  the  Role  of  the  Organization,  as
well  as  by  the  Sixth  Committee.  Resolution  54/108,
adopted 
initiative  of  Mexico,
demonstrates  that  we,  the  Members  of  the  United
Nations, are receptive to our Court(cid:146)s requests.
last  year  at 
the 
Bearing  in  mind  that  this  year  we  will  be
adopting  the  budget  of  the  Organization  for  the  2001-
2002  biennium,  we  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to
move from simply recognizing the problem to adopting
specific measures to resolve it. As it has been doing in
recent  years,  Mexico  will  continue,  in  the  relevant
bodies, strongly to support and push for an increase in
the funds allocated to the Court, and to ensure that the
budget  we  adopt  corresponds  to  its  actual  needs.  We
hope that other countries will do the same.
Finally,  in  connection  with  the  efficient  use  of
resources,  we  encourage  the  Court  to  continue  its
ongoing review of its procedures and to adopt, as it has
been  doing,  all  possible  measures  to  expedite  the
hearing  of  cases.  For  their  part,  the  States  having
recourse to the Court should cooperate in this task.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the debate on this item. May I take it that it
is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its
consideration of agenda item 13?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 31 (continued)
Elimination of coercive economic measures as a
means of political and economic compulsion
Draft resolution (A/55/L.9/Rev.1)
The Acting President: Members will recall that,
at  its  37th  plenary  meeting  on  19  October  2000,  the
General  Assembly  held  a  debate  on  this  item.  In
connection  with  this  item,  the  General  Assembly  has
before 
issued  as  document
A/55/L.9/Rev.1.
it  a  draft  resolution 
I give the floor to the representative of the Libyan
resolution
introduce  draft 
Jamahiriya 
to 
Arab 
A/55/L.9/Rev.1.
Mr.  Dorda  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in
Arabic): I will be brief. I wish to express our gratitude
to the Assembly for agreeing last week to postpone the
vote on the draft resolution until today. This additional
time  has  enabled  us  to  consult  with  various  members
and take their concerns into account.
We  have  engaged  in  a  dialogue  with  these
members,  and  my  delegation  was  very  flexible  with
each  and  every  one.  All  of  their  preoccupations  and
concerns  were 
taken  on  board,  and  we  have
accommodated  their  views  as  well  as  their  reasonable
and  objective  amendments  and  proposals.  Because  of
this  flexibility,  the  language  of  the  draft  reflects  the
A/55/PV.41
views  of  the  entire  international  community,  not  just
those of part of it, however large that part may be.
This  is  directed  against  no  one.  I  can  assure  the
Assembly that the draft before it serves the interests of
the Government of the United States of America before
everyone  else(cid:146)s.  How  can  we  say  this?  Indeed,  the
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  can,  as
soon  as  this  draft  resolution  is  adopted,  submit  this
document and other similar documents to its legislative
authority and explain to it that it has inflicted economic
and political  damage on the United  States  and  thereby
put  the  United  States  Government  in  an  embarrassing
political, legal and ideological situation.
their  companies  and 
raw  materials,  operate 
As concerns the political aspect, the United States
Government  can  say  that  its  legislative  authority  has
embarrassed  it  before  its  own  allies  and  friends,
because  this  type  of  legislation  has  targeted  their
interests, 
their  corporations,
which,  as  we  all  know,  manage  the  economy  in  allied
and other countries. They are the ones who work in the
mines  and  produce 
the
machinery  and  factories,  thus  creating  employment
opportunities  and  eradicating  unemployment.  They
export  those  commodities.  They  operate  means  of
transport.  They  run  the  whole  economic  system.  The
United  States 
authority  has  harmed
American  allies  and  friends,  putting  the  Governments
of  friendly  countries  in  difficult  situations  vis-(cid:224)-vis
their  parliaments,  their  political  parties,  their  trade
unions, 
their
industrial and agricultural sectors.
their  chambers  of  commerce,  and 
legislative 
In  addition,  if  the  United  States  maintains  this
attitude by adopting this type of legislation, no one will
trust  it  or  cooperate  with  it  or  even  continue  their
economic alliances with it. If it imposes an embargo on
one, boycotts another and blockades a third, then  bans
cooperation  between  others,  then,  as  the  saying  goes,
he who bites you reminds you that you have teeth too.
Indeed,  if  one  has  teeth,  one  can  bite  back.  If  the
United  States  imposes  embargoes  and  sanctions  on
others,  they  will  start  doing  the  same  to  it  and  will
close  their  markets  to  American  commodities  and
goods.  Secondly,  they  will  ban  American  companies
from  operating  in  their  territories.  Thirdly,  they  will
ban 
import  of  American  commodities,  even
strategic  ones.  That  would  be  the  natural  response  to
such an action. They will start adopting such measures
at  the  individual  level,  then  bilaterally,  and  eventually
the 
21
A/55/PV.41
on a collective basis. Will that serve the interests of the
American economy?
Similarly,  the  American  Government  will  take
this  and  similar  documents  to  its  legislative  authority
and  say:  You  have  embarrassed  us 
legally  and
ideologically. The legal embarrassment arises from the
fact  that  a  legislative  authority,  acting  on  behalf  of  its
people  and  within  its  own  political  boundaries,  has
enacted  legislation  that  is  applied  extraterritorially.
Such  legislation  does  not  have  legitimacy  nor  does  it
conform  to  the  principles  of  international  law,  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  international
instruments. Such legislation lacks legitimacy.
The  ideological  embarrassment  lies  in  the  fact
that Americans tell the world that America is the leader
of the free  world, that communism and socialism have
failed  and  that  the  capitalist  system  is  the  only
successful system. The capitalist system is based on the
principle  of  laissez-faire  and  on  allowing  people  to
work.  By  enacting  such  legislation,  the  American
Government  is  not  letting  people  work  and  is  not
following the principles of laissez-faire. How can they
convince the world to move towards what they call the
market  economy?  Are  these  the  rules  of  the  market
economy?  Is  this  capitalism?  Is  it  laissez-faire?  It  is,
indeed, ideological embarrassment.
We  do  not  want  to  speak  the  language  of  biting
and  biting  back.  God  has  honoured  human  beings  by
giving  them  brains  and  language,  and  they  should  be
able to find solutions to  their problems by  using those
two  divine  qualities  that  differentiate  them  from  all
other  creatures.  Let  us  use  language  and  our  mental
capacities  to  engage  in  dialogue  and  to  talk  to  each
other  so  that  we  can  find  the  right  solutions  to  our
problems.
Through  dialogue,  persuasion,  discussion  and
give  and take,  rather  than  taking  the  side  of  one  party
at the expense of the other, we can become truly united
nations (cid:151) united not in oppression and injustice, but in
right and in justice, promoting good and rejecting evil.
Only then will we become a truly human, international
community.
The draft resolution before the Assembly is in the
interests of each of us. It does not target any individual
State,  and  we  do  not  believe  that  any  delegation  is
justified in abstaining or objecting to it. We have taken
into  account  the  concerns  of  all  delegations,  and  have
this  draft
consulted  widely.  It 
is  our  hope 
that 
22
resolution  will  be  supported  by  all  Member  States,
because  it  is  their  draft  resolution  and  it  is  in  their
interest. It was not introduced in the interests of Libya.
The Acting President:  We shall  now  proceed  to
consider draft resolution A/55/L.9/Rev.1. Before giving
the  floor to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  before  the
voting,  may  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of
vote  are limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made by
delegations from their seats.
its  position  before 
Mr.  Hong  Je  Ryong
(Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic  of  Korea):  My  delegation  is  taking  the  floor
to  explain 
the  vote  on  draft
resolution  A/55/L.9/Rev.1,  submitted  under  agenda
item  31,  entitled  (cid:147)Elimination  of  coercive  economic
measures  as  a  means  of  political  and  economic
compulsion(cid:148).
The  Government  of  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic  of  Korea  has  consistently  opposed 
the
imposition of unilateral sanctions on a sovereign State.
Imposing  sanctions  on  other  countries  in  pursuit  of
economic interests or for political purposes constitutes
a  violation  of  the  principles  of  respect  for  sovereign
equality  and  the  right  to  self-determination  embodied
in  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  relevant  United
Nations  resolutions.  It  also  runs  counter 
the
promotion  of  friendly  relations  and  the  strengthening
of  international  cooperation  among  Member  States.
Article  32  of  the  Charter  of  Economic  Rights  and
Duties of States, adopted by the General Assembly at is
twenty-ninth session, states that
to 
(cid:147)No  State  may  use  or  encourage  the  use  of
economic, political or any other type of measures
to coerce another State in order to obtain  from  it
the subordination of the exercise of  its  sovereign
rights.(cid:148) (resolution 3281 (XXIX))
Resolution  53/10  also  recognizes  the  right  of
every  State  to  choose  its  own  political,  economic  and
social  system,  suitable  for  its  specific  conditions.  In
this  context,  we  consider 
the  present  draft
resolution  reflects  the  demands  of  the  international
community  for  the  elimination  of  all  sanctions  and
therefore we will vote in favour.
that 
Mr.  Lenain  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have
the honour to take the floor on behalf of the European
Union.  The  Central  and  Eastern  European  countries
associated  with  the  European  Union (cid:151) Bulgaria,  the
Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,
Poland,  Romania,  Slovakia  and  Slovenia (cid:151) and  the
associated countries, Cyprus, Malta and  Norway,  align
themselves with this statement.
something of a trend in this House (cid:151) and at the blatant
failure  to  consult  or  even  inform  other  delegations
about what was going on.
A/55/PV.41
The  European  Union  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity to emphasize its categorical rejection of all
attempts  to  apply  national  laws  on  an  extraterritorial
basis against the nationals or businesses of third States,
which  is  contrary  to  international  law.  The  European
Union  has  always  rejected  such  attempts  aimed  at
compelling  other  countries  to  abide  by  economic
measures adopted on a unilateral basis.
In  this  context,  we  should  mention  legislation
adopted  by  States  that  provides  for  the  application  of
legal  sanctions  against  companies  and  individuals  that
do  not  fall  within  their  national  jurisdiction,  some
provisions  of  which  are  designed 
to  prevent  the
companies  of  third  States  from  dealing  with  certain
countries or investing in them.
Measures  of 
that  kind  violate 
the  general
principles of international law and of the sovereignty of
independent  States.  The  European  Union  is  firmly
opposed, both on legal grounds and in principle, to the
enforcement of secondary  boycotts  and  unilateral laws
with  extraterritorial  effects  against  the  nationals  or
enterprises  of  third  States.  We  stress  that  we  reserve
our  right  to  react  as  we  deem  fit  to  such  measures,
which  are  contrary  to  international  law,  and  we  shall
continue to do so.
The  European  Union  makes  a  clear  and
indisputable  distinction  between  unilateral  measures
with  extraterritorial  effects  on  the  one  hand  and  other
kinds  of  economic  coercive  measures  that  are  legal
under  international  law,  whether  these  are  adopted  by
the Security Council under Article 41 of the Charter or
by  States  or  groups  of  States,  on  the  other.  The
European  Union  is  pleased  that  this  year(cid:146)s  draft
resolution clearly reflects that distinction, and will thus
vote in its favour.
Mr.  Powles  (New  Zealand):  This  is  a  draft
resolution  which,  in  its  latest  form  (A/55/L.9/Rev.1),
my  Government  might  very  likely  have  wished  to
support.  But  we  have  only  seen  this  latest  version  of
the  draft  resolution  this  morning.  Apparently,  it  has
been  the  subject  of  negotiations  between  its  sponsor
and  the  European  Union,  but  none  of  the  participants
have  seen  fit  to  keep  other  delegations  informed.  My
delegation  will  therefore  abstain  in  protest  at  the
procedure 
is  becoming
followed (cid:151) which, 
sadly, 
that 
between 
unilateral 
about  which  we  have 
Mr.  Smith  (Australia):  When  this  item  was
considered  in  the  General  Assembly  two  years  ago,
Australia  abstained  in  the  vote  on  the  draft  resolution
it  did  not  adequately
because  of  concern 
differentiate 
extraterritorial
measures, 
long-standing
concerns, and  sanctions  promulgated  and  implemented
with the full authority of the Security Council. We note
that  the  revised  draft  resolution  (A/55/L.9/Rev.1)  that
is  being  presented  for  action  this  morning  includes  a
number  of 
those
concerns. The draft resolution  is, overall,  a  significant
improvement  over  the  text  adopted  at  the  fifty-third
session.
important  changes 
that  address 
Regrettably,  however,  my  delegation, 
like  a
number of  others,  saw  this  revised  draft  resolution  for
the  first  time  this  morning.  We  were  not  consulted
during  the  course  of  revising  the  draft  text;  nor  were
we informed in a timely fashion of the outcome of the
consultations that took place. Australia is not a member
of  a  large  political  bloc  and  arrives  at  its  position  on
draft 
careful
assessment  of  the  texts  under  discussion.  Regrettably,
we have been denied that opportunity this morning as a
result  of  procedural  failures and, in particular, the  late
circulation of the revised text.
independently, 
resolutions 
after 
In  those  circumstances,  my  delegation  has  no
option  but  to  abstain  in  the  vote  that  is  about  to  take
place.
Mr.  Hynes  (Canada):  The  delegation  of  Canada
would  like  to  associate  itself  with  the  concerns  that
have  been  expressed  by  the  representatives  of  New
Zealand and of Australia regarding the process that has
proceeded  the  Assembly(cid:146)s  action  on  draft  resolution
A/55/L.9/Rev.1  today.  The  representative  of  Libya
referred  to  dialogue  and  consultations  undertaken  on
this  matter  in  recent  days  with  a  number  of  other
delegations.  Canada  was  not  among  the  delegations
with  which  such  discussions  were  held,  and  only  this
morning did  we  see  for  the  first  time  the  substantially
altered text on which we are now being called upon to
take action.
In  the  circumstances,  we  have  no  alternative  but
to  abstain  in  the  vote  on  this  draft  resolution.  I  would
add only, quite aside from considerations of substance,
23
A/55/PV.41
it 
cannot 
said (cid:151) as 
seriously  be 
that  in  the  circumstances  it  can  scarcely  be  said (cid:151)
indeed, 
the
representative  of  Libya  has  suggested,  that  the  text
before  us  reflects  the  views  of  the  entire  international
community.  We  hope  that,  if  and  when  it  is  ever
proposed  that  the  Assembly  consider  this  important
subject again in the future, a more serious effort will be
made to achieve that goal.
Mr. Al-Humaimidi  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In
conformity  with  Article  19  of 
the  Charter,  my
delegation  is  being  denied  the  right  to  vote.  This  is
because my country has been unable to pay its assessed
contributions  to  the  United  Nations  owing  to  the
economic  sanctions  imposed  on  it.  My  delegation  has
done  everything  possible  to  find  a  way  to  pay  its
dues (cid:151) either  through  the  oil  for  food  programme  or
with the financial  assets  that  are  now  frozen.  We  have
knocked  on  many  doors,  including  the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s.  We  have  communicated  with  the  Security
Council on this  matter.  But  regrettably,  all  our  serious
attempts,  which  were  motivated  by  great  goodwill,
have been rejected by the United States of America.
Having  said  that,  let  me  add  that,  were  my
delegation  in  a  position  to  participate  in  the  vote,  it
would 
resolution
A/55/L.9/Rev.1.
favour 
draft 
vote 
in 
of 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft
resolution  A/55/L.9/Rev.1,  entitled  (cid:147)Elimination  of
unilateral  extraterritorial  coercive  economic  measures
as a means of political and economic compulsion(cid:148).
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,
Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan,
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  Cape  Verde,
Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa
Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,
Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic 
of  Korea,
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Denmark,
Djibouti,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,
Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Germany,
24
Luxembourg, 
Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana,
Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,
Iran,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People(cid:146)s
Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,
Liechtenstein, 
Madagascar,
Malaysia,  Mali,  Malta,  Mexico,  Monaco,
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  Nigeria,  Norway,
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,
Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint
Lucia,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome  and
Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,
South  Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,
Swaziland,  Sweden,  Syria,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,
The  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,
Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,
Ukraine, United Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Venezuela,  Viet  Nam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Israel, United States of America.
Abstaining:
Albania, Australia, Canada, Dominican Republic,
Kyrgyzstan,  Nauru,  New  Zealand,  Republic  of
Korea, Tonga, Uruguay.
Draft resolution A/55/L.9/Rev.1 was adopted by
136 votes to 2, with 10 abstentions
(resolution 55/6).
[Subsequently,  the  delegations  of  Lithuania  and
Suriname  informed  the  Secretariat  that  they  had
intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: I  shall  now  call on  those
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  explanation  of
vote on the resolution just adopted.
May  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of
vote  are limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Akopian  (Armenia):  My  delegation  has  just
voted in favour of the resolution under the agenda item
entitled (cid:147)Elimination of coercive economic measures as
a  means  of  political  and  economic  compulsion(cid:148).
Armenia condemns the continued practice of unilateral
coercive  economic  measures,  particularly  in  the  South
Caucasus.  Such  measures  are  absolutely  incompatible
with  the  principles  of  international  law,  including  the
principles of the multilateral trading system.
The  difficulties  of  developing  and  transitional
countries  are  heavily  exacerbated by the  imposition  of
such embargoes, as in the case of landlocked Armenia,
which has remained under blockade since the first day
of the restoration of our independence.  Yet  we  believe
that  an  overall  condemnation  of  unilateral  economic
compulsion  will  also  have  a  positive  impact  on  the
complicated situation in our region.
adopted 
today 
concerns 
Mr.  Kitagawa 
(Japan): Unlike 
last  year(cid:146)s
resolution,  which  my  Government  had  difficulty
it  contained  an  element  of
accepting  because 
eliminating  multilateral  economic  measures, 
the
resolution 
solely 
the
application  of  unilateral  extraterritorial  coercive
economic  measures,  which  are  contrary  to  recognized
principles  of  international  law.  My  Government  has
been  opposed  to  the  implementation  of  unilateral
extraterritorial coercive economic measures that are not
permitted  under  international  law  and  shares  the  view
expressed 
resolution.  Thus,  having
considered 
the  utmost  care,  my
delegation  decided  to  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft
resolution.
in 
the  matter  with 
the  draft 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  those
delegations,  particularly  the  Libyan  and  the  European
Union  delegations,  for 
to  prepare  a
resolution that Japan could support.
their  efforts 
A/55/PV.41
Mr.  Valdez  Carrillo  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
My  delegation  voted  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution
on  the  understanding  that  it  is  in  keeping  with  the
powers  established  in  the  Charter  with  regard  to  the
multilateral  application  of  economic  measures,  as  in
Article  41.  It 
this
resolution  does  not  refer  in  any  way  to  measures
authorized by the competent bodies of the Organization
that are applied in accordance with the principles of the
Charter.
is  Peru(cid:146)s  understanding 
that 
Mr.  Alemán  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My
delegation  voted  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution
because of  the  purely legal reasons  and  considerations
expressed 
the  Secretary-General
contained in document A/55/300.
the  report  of 
in 
Mr.  Paolillo  (Uruguay)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):
Uruguay abstained in the  vote on this  draft resolution.
Unfortunately,  between  the  time  that  we  had  received
the  revised  text  and  the  vote,  there  was  not  enough
time  for  us  to  study  the  consequences  of  the  revisions
that had been introduced or to consult with our capital.
The  Uruguay  delegation  hopes  that  this  practice
of presenting revisions to draft resolutions in this hasty
and unforeseen way will not be repeated in the future.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in explanation of vote after the vote.
May I  take it that it is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly
to conclude its consideration of agenda item 31?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
25
