United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
20th plenary meeting
Monday, 18 September 2000, at 10 a.m.
New York

A/55/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency
The Honourable John Briceño, Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister  of  Natural  Resources  and  the  Environment  of
Belize.
Mr.  Briceño  (Belize):  On  behalf  of  the  Belize
delegation, I extend my congratulations to you, Sir, on your
election  to  the  presidency.  Your  vast  experience  in
international  affairs  will  greatly  aid  in  our  deliberations
during  this  fifth-fifth  session  of  the  Assembly.  We  are
enriched  by  the  presence  of  our  newest  Member,  the
Republic  of  Tuvalu;  we  welcome  Tuvalu  to  our  United
Nations  family  with  the  assurance  of  Belize's  cooperation
and support.
The  recently  concluded  Summit,  which  produced  a
progressive and far-reaching resolution, has set the pace for
our  deliberations  during  this  general  debate.  Although  the
goals  are  ambitious,  their  achievement  is  crucial  to  the
future  of  the  United  Nations.  In  his  brief  address  to  the
Summit, my Prime Minister stated:
“we are called to a new appointment with history: to
bring  democracy  to  global  governance,  to  share  a
better and more productive future where all can live
in dignity and peace.” (A/55/PV.3)
Together with the goals put forward in the Declaration, this
sets before us an agenda for our way forward.
In  moving  forward,  we  must  begin  by  rededicating
ourselves  to  upholding  the  fundamental  principles  of  our
Charter, principles which seek freedom from fear and want
in a world where discrimination and hate are eradicated and
the  right  of  all  people  to  live  peaceful,  quality  lives  is
realized.
These  ideas  are  as  relevant  today  as  they  were  55
years ago. Despite the many advances we have made, many
of us continue to allow our differences to lead to conflict,
which  results  in  overwhelming  suffering  and  hinders
human development. We must avoid these costly conflicts,
for without peace we cannot grow.
At its inception, this institution recognized that peace
and  the  elimination  of  war  were  essential  to  human
development.  Although  we  seem  to  have  reduced  the
likelihood of another global conflagration, we continue, at
the  regional  and  local  levels,  to  allow  our  differences  to
divide  us,  resulting  in  overwhelming  suffering,  which
further hinders progress and development.
As a global institution, we must actively work to end
all  conflict.  Our  peacekeeping  efforts  must  therefore  be
proactive  and  efficient.  Our  forces  must  protect  innocent
women and children; provide refuge to those  who  seek to
promote principles of democracy; and rise up against rogue
individuals  and  organizations  that  threaten  to  undermine
democratic  Governments.  To  achieve  this,  let  us  first
commit ourselves to reinforcing the preventive capacity of
the United Nations peacekeeping forces.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-64674 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.20
Belize 
regards  peacekeeping  operations  as  an
important component of the United Nations. We agree that
for our forces to be effective, they must be  well equipped
and capable of defending themselves. We continue to meet
the financial commitments assigned to Belize based on the
principle  of  capacity  to  pay.  We  welcome  the  recent
Brahimi 
takes  a
comprehensive  look  at  our  peacekeeping  efforts.  My
delegation supports the recommendations it advances.
is  progressive  and 
report,  which 
Belize  adheres  to  the  principle  of  the  peaceful
resolution of conflicts, and in this spirit continues to work
with  Guatemala  to  arrive  at  a  negotiated  and  peaceful
resolution  of  our  differences.  Belize  will  comply  with  the
recently  agreed 
the
Organization of American States.
framework  established 
through 
For some time now, this institution has engaged in a
conversation  on  development  for  the  future  and,  more
specifically,  on  globalization.  For  developing  countries,
globalization, as it exists today, poses serious concerns that
seem to fall on the deaf ears of those who continue to push
us  along  what  is  obviously  a  destructive  path.  While  we
welcome  the  promises  of  this  new  economic  order,  we
continue to fear globalization in its current form, for what
we have seen so far is neither responsible nor sustainable. It
is not sustainable because those who lead the way seek only
the advancement of their personal interests.
lead 
The proponents  of  globalization  advised  that  market
liberalization  would 
to  prosperity.  We  were
encouraged  to  transform  our  economies  and  create  more
effective  and  efficient  government.  We  have  tried,  and
continue to try, to do so. However, our call for assistance
with  this  transformation  has  not  always  been  heard.
However, much of what has been asked of most of us, we
have done. The fact that today in Central America and the
Caribbean  every  nation  is  legislated  by  a  democratically
elected Government and that we have opened our borders,
markets  and 
to  others,  demonstrates  our
commitment to transparency and effective governance.
lifestyles 
In Belize, we have done our part to ensure equitable
development. We enjoy a vibrant and  working democracy
where  85  per  cent  of  our  voting  population  exercise  their
franchise to vote; we have an open economy where all are
encouraged to participate; and we have formed partnerships
with  civil  society  to  address  social  needs  and  protect  our
precious  environment.  We  have  been  responsible,  yet  all
we  see  of  globalization  is  the  threat  of  the  elimination  of
our  current  economic  sustenance.  If  this  is  the  legacy  of
globalization,  then  those  of  us  who  have  suffered  at  the
2
hands of this new order  must ask if globalization today is
responsible, if it is good. We continue to believe that it can
be.
(spoke in Spanish)
institutions  and 
In the current economic order, small economies such
as  ours  can  aspire  to  a  productive  future  only  if  the
architects  of  this  new  modality  provide  us  with  the
necessary  assistance.  Developed  countries  must  commit
themselves  to  a  process  of  globalization  that  is  not  only
free,  but  fair.  Just  as  they  request  the  opening  up  of  our
markets,  such 
the  administrators  of
globalization  must  be  more  open,  democratic  and
representative. Thus, just as we work with civil society to
help  us  to  deal  with  our  political  and  social  needs,  they
must work together with the international civil agencies so
that the needs of the poorest can be provided for. We will
never  achieve  the  objective  of  just  world  if  poverty
continues to affect our people. The eradication of poverty is
our moral duty.
(spoke in English)
We  agree  that  true  sustainable  development  cannot
occur  without  the  protection  and  preservation  of  our
environment. This must be a path that combines the efforts
of  all  nations.  We  in  Belize  understand  that  we  have  a
global responsibility to protect our natural resources. That
is why we are signatories to the Framework Convention on
Climate Change and are in the process of signing the Kyoto
Protocol.  However,  our  efforts  can  be  effective  only  if
others are equally committed. We encourage our developed
partners to continue to honour the commitments they made
in Rio to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a
timely manner. Currently, over 40 per cent of Belizean land
is  under  protected  status,  our  precious  coral  reefs  are
closely  monitored  and  our  tropical  rain  forests  carefully
managed.  Together  with 
non-governmental
organizations, we are seeking an adequate balance between
the protection of our natural resources and the fulfilment of
the  development  needs  of  our  people,  while  agreeing  that
our  environmental  protectionism  must  work  in  harmony
with our developmental needs.
local 
Much has been accomplished over the past year. On
social  issues,  we  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  the
development of women during the Beijing + 5 conference.
The  Copenhagen  +  5  conference  addressed  the  need  for
greater social development and, together with our partners
in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Belize actively
participated in the Review Conference of the Parties to the
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons
(NPT). Belize continues to push for an end to the shipping
of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea.
These successes, however, should not distract us from
the suffering and injustices still being endured by millions
of people. In Africa the situation  in  Angola,  Sierra  Leone
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  concerns  us.
The spread of the HIV/AIDS virus is alarming; we must do
what is necessary to assist those afflicted.
We  are  troubled  by  the  situation  in  Timor.  The
recent  events,  which  resulted  in  the  death  of  United
Nations  peacekeeping  personnel,  were  tragic.  We  also
learned of the death of another United Nations official
in  Guinea.  We  condemn  these  acts,  and  join  with  the
Secretary-General in expressing our condolences to the
families of those  who gave their  lives  for the  cause of
peace.
Belize joins others in  support of the  Middle  East
peace  process.  We  continue to  support  the  right  of  the
Palestinian  people  to  self-determination.  Likewise,  we
call  upon  this  Organization  to  recognize  the  desire  of
the  23  million  people  of  the  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan for the opportunity to contribute and participate
in the work of this Organization and other international
bodies.
The  Millennium  Declaration,  adopted  by  our
heads  of  State  and  Government,  reminds  us  of  our
responsibility to protect those fundamental values such
as  freedom,  equality,  solidarity,  tolerance,  respect  for
nature  and  responsibility.  It  calls  for  collective  action
to be undertaken by developed and developing  nations
to advance the cause of peace, protect our children and
preserve  the  planet  for  future  generations.  These  are
goals  that  can  be  achieved  through  greater  inclusion
and genuine concern for each other. We must find new
ways  of  thinking  to  help  us  reform  these  institutions,
which create inequality and therefore divide us. Let us
commit  ourselves  to  reducing  redundancy,  eliminating
waste  and  refining  our  responsiveness  to  Member
needs, but let us do it quickly.
The  United  Nations  is  our  truest  form  of  global
representation.  It  possesses  the  capacity  to  elicit  the
best from all of us. Together, our ability to accomplish
these  ideals  set  out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  is
possible. Let us rededicate ourselves to its fulfilment.
The President: I call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs  of  Ethiopia,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Seyoum
Mesfin.
A/55/PV.20
to  extend  warm  congratulations 
Mr.  Mesfin  (Ethiopia):  Allow  me,  from  the
outset, 
to  you,
Mr. President,  on  your  election  to  preside  over  the
fifty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  would
like  also 
to  your
predecessor,  Minister  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  for  the  able
manner with which he discharged his responsibilities as
President  of  the  fifty-fourth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
to  express  our  appreciation 
I wish also to take this opportunity to express our
sincere appreciation to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, for all the efforts he has been  making  to  make
the United Nations equally relevant to all of us. I wish,
in particular, to congratulate him on the success of the
Millennium  Summit,  which  we  are  hopeful  will  be  a
landmark 
enhanced
cooperation among nations.
for  more  meaningful 
and 
We  have  indeed  been  encouraged  by  the  well-
deserved  emphasis  that  was  given  to  Africa  and  to
Africa’s  predicament  at  the  Millennium  Summit.  It  is
our  hope  that  the  Summit  may  have  helped  create
greater  determination  for cooperation  with  the  peoples
of  Africa  so  that  Africa  may  make  real  progress  in
addressing  the  challenges  of  development,  peace  and
stability.
The  problems  of  Africa  are  defined  by  two  very
closely 
related  challenges.  Africa’s  development
continues  to  be  arrested  by  problems  of  insecurity,
instability  and  lack  of  peace.  On  the  other  hand,  it
appears  unrealistic  to  expect  durable  peace  in  Africa
without hope in the future that could be brought about
only by visible indications of possibilities for progress.
In  both  areas,  Africa  has  not  had  the  necessary
support  commensurate  with  the  complexity  of  the
challenges it has faced. It might be necessary to hasten
to  add  here  that  indeed  Africa  itself  might  not  always
have  taken  advantage  of  available  opportunities  for
making  progress,  and  that  we  might  sometimes  have
squandered  real  opportunities  for  breaking  out  of  the
vicious cycle of poverty and lack of peace and stability.
While this may be partly true, the significance of
the  missed  chances  that  Africa  has  allowed  to  pass
should not be exaggerated. It is  far  from  the truth that
Africa  has  enjoyed  sustained,  resolute  and  all-out
support, either in the area of economic development or
in the sphere of peace and security. On the other hand,
it  is  precisely  this  type  of  cooperation  that  is  required
by many in Africa to be able to embark on sustainable
3
A/55/PV.20
economic  development  and  growth.  But  whether  with
respect to debt relief, or to declining terms of trade, or
to  all  aspects  of  the  challenges  of  and  obstacles  to
development,  the  types  of  cooperation  made  available
to  our  countries  have  always  been  limited  as  well  as
entangled with all kinds of conditions which have been
far from helpful.
the  world  and 
Like  all  regions  of 
like  all
countries,  Africa and  African  nations  should  and  must
assume  primary  responsibility  for  what  happens  in
Africa  in  general  and  in  individual  African  countries.
But at one time or another in their history, most regions
of the world and most countries have had occasions to
rely  on  international  solidarity  and  cooperation  as  a
catalyst  for  creating  conditions  for  development  and
stability.
But Africa’s fate has been different. For whatever
reason,  it  has  been  easier  to  lose  hope  with  respect  to
Africa  than  to  give  the  continent  the  benefit  of  the
doubt;  this,  even  when  little  has  been  done  to  help
Africa  address  the  real  challenges  it  is  facing  in  a
variety of areas.
in 
This 
is  not  only 
the  area  of  economic
development. We have seen the same thing taking place
with respect  to  the  need  for  Africa  to  promote  respect
for  the  rule  of  law  and  to  create  conditions  for  peace
and stability. Africa is also being marginalized in terms
of  the  universal  applicability  of  the  principles  of
international  law.  It  is  our  hope  that  Africa  will  be
judged by the same standard in this regard. Otherwise,
there can be little chance for peace and stability in our
continent.
We  say 
international 
this  from  experience.  There 
is  no
effective  substitute,  if  opportunities  are  to  be  created
for  the  peaceful  resolution  of  situations  of  crisis  in
Africa and  for  a  quick and  an  appropriate response  by
the 
of
international law. Peace can never be promoted through
appeasement  of  aggression  or  by  creating 
the
impression that, depending on circumstances, on where
they take place and to whom they happen, some acts of
aggression can be tolerated.
community 
violations 
to 
We in Ethiopia have, only a week ago, celebrated
our  New  Year.  We  have  entered  the  year  1993  with
confidence that it will be a year of peace and progress.
Our  people  have  made  the  commitment  to  resume  the
task  of  economic  development  with  full  force,  a  task
4
which  was  rudely  interrupted  two  years  ago  when  our
country became a victim of aggression.
to 
forward  both 
the  deployment  of 
It is also in this spirit that we are proceeding with
full  commitment  to  put  behind  us  the  crisis  we  have
had  with  Eritrea.  Even  before  the  deployment  of
peacekeepers,  contrary  to  experience  in  other  places,
the cessation of hostilities has held for months now. We
look 
the
to  a  speedy  conclusion  of  a
peacekeepers  and 
comprehensive  settlement.  All 
to
contribute  to  this  effort  should  rest  assured  that  what
they  should  expect  from  Ethiopia,  its  people  and  their
Government, 
fullest  cooperation.  For  us,
agreements  concluded  are  made  to  be  respected,  not
violated.  In  any  case,  what  our  people  wish  to  be
identified  with,  fully  and  with  no  ambiguity, 
is
peacemaking,  not  war-making.  We  hope  that  we  will
have  the  opportunity  to  work  for  peace  and  for
economic growth and development.
those  prepared 
the 
is 
There  are  few  who  need  the  blessings  of  peace
more than the people of Ethiopia and of our subregion.
As  much  as  our  people  refuse  to  see  aggression
rewarded  at  their  expense,  they  have,  on  the  other
hand,  never  been  wanting 
full
commitment  to  peace  and  legality.  Our  people  will
never jettison this noble tradition.
in  demonstrating 
Ethiopia  also  takes  its  responsibility  for  peace
and  stability  in  our  subregion  very  seriously  and  in
Africa  as  a  whole.  In  this  regard,  we  have  been
enormously  encouraged  by  the  developments  with
respect  to  the  peace  initiative  on  Somalia  under  the
auspices of President Ismail Omar Guelleh of Djibouti.
It  is  Ethiopia’s  hope  that  what  has  already  been
achieved  in  Djibouti  will  be  built  upon  and  that  the
momentum  for  peace  and  national  reconciliation  will
be  maintained. We are convinced  that if  the remaining
problems are handled with realism, wisdom and mutual
accommodation, there is little doubt that the  people of
Somalia will very soon be able to put behind them the
10-year  nightmare  they  have  faced.  I  would  like,
therefore,  to  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  all
concerned  to  make  this  newly  created  opportunity  for
peace in Somalia, and for the restoration of the Somali
State,  irreversible.  The  process  should  not  be  allowed
to  be  held  hostage  by  those  who  may  not  be  prepared
for national reconciliation. Nor should it be endangered
by  a  failure  to  be  sufficiently  accommodating  and
sufficiently  patient.  This  is  what  the  international
community should encourage.
is  focused  on  seeking 
The  opportunity  now  created  in  Somalia  should
not be allowed to slip away. This could easily happen if
all  attention 
international
legitimacy  rather  than  internal  national  reconciliation.
It  would  indeed  be  a  tragedy  and  a  recipe  for  further
bloodshed  in  Somalia  if  efforts  are  not  made  to  build
on  the  peace  and  stability  that  have  already  been
achieved  by  some  regions  and  parts  of  Somalia.  The
issue  of  Somaliland,  for 
instance,  requires  great
sensitivity  and  a  sense  of  enormous  responsibility.
Whatever has been achieved in Djibouti is going to be
tested  by  how  well  the  peace  and  stability  that  some
parts of Somalia have achieved is preserved.
For Ethiopia, and for Somalia’s neighbours, these
are critical  issues.  The  formal  stand  we  will  be  taking
with  respect  to  the  evolving  situation  in  Somalia  will
depend on how these issues are addressed by those who
now have the chance to affect the destiny of the people
of  Somalia.  While  we  wish  them  well  and  promise
them our full cooperation, we also ask them to use this
historic  opportunity  with  a  full  sense  of  responsibility
and wisdom.
for 
and 
peace 
possible 
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  also  state  that
Ethiopia, along with its Inter-Government Authority on
Development (IGAD) partners,  will continue  to  do  the
maximum 
national
reconciliation in the Sudan. It has always been our firm
conviction that the Declaration of Principles provides a
just and realistic basis for reaching a settlement on the
crisis  in  southern  Sudan.  It  is  also  our  view  that  a
broader national reconciliation in the Sudan can easily
be  achieved  on  the  basis  of  democratic  principles  and
mutual  accommodation.  Ethiopia  will  continue  to  be
committed  to  peace  in  the  Sudan  on  this  basis  and  to
cooperate  with  all  those  who  have  the  goodwill  to
contribute to peace in our subregion.
Let  me  reiterate:  Ethiopia  will  do  the  maximum
possible  for  peace  and  durable  stability  in  Africa  as  a
whole,  with  the  full  knowledge  that  without  peace  we
in  Africa  will  have  little  chance  to  ensure  a  better
future for our peoples.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  say  a  few
words on how vital it is that the reform of the Security
Council  be  completed  as  speedily  as  possible.  The
reform  of  the  Council  is  critical  for  the  credibility  of
the United Nations and for its increased legitimacy. As
A/55/PV.20
matters stand now, it is only too obvious that not many
believe  that  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  is
conducted with sufficient transparency. In fact, there is
a growing conviction that the Council is being less and
less representative and more and more distant from the
sentiments of the majority.
This  situation,  we  believe,  needs  to  be  rectified.
This  can  be  done  in  two  ways.  First,  by  ensuring  that
there  is  equitable  representation  of  all  regions  of  the
world  on  the  Council.  Secondly,  it  is  also  important
that the work of the Council be made more open and its
decision-making  more  transparent.  The  interests  of
peace and security  will be better  served  if the  Council
is  more  transparent  and  more  open  to  the  views  of
others,  most particularly  to the  views  of  those  directly
affected by its decisions.
It is our earnest hope that the United Nations will
be  more relevant to all in the twenty-first  century,  and
in equal measure, than it has been in the past 55 years.
This  is  not  an  unrealistic  objective,  but  it  requires  the
commitment of all, big and small.
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the  Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Russian  Federation,  His
Excellency Mr. Igor Ivanov.
(spoke 
Mr.  Ivanov  (Russian  Federation) 
in
Russian):  The  Millennium  Summit  has  given  all  of  us
the  priority  task  of  establishing  a  new  and  equitable
world order — an order which would meet the interests
international
of  all  and  every  member  of 
the
community  and  ensure  adequate  solutions 
problems  with  which 
is
confronting us.
to 
twenty-first  century 
the 
the 
I  am  convinced  that  in  this  era  of  globalization
and  enormous  scientific  and  technological  progress,
humankind  can  and  should  have  a  comprehensive  and
forward-looking  strategy.  While  in  the  past  century
human  civilization’s  main  task  was  that  of  survival,
today  we  are  confronted  with  significantly  more
difficult  problems  which  are  much  more  varied  in
terms of their scope and orientation.
The  strategy  of  survival  must  give  way  to  a
strategy  of  sustainable  development  aimed  at  ensuring
the  prosperity  of  humankind.  It  must  be  based  on  the
recognition  of 
international
security, the use of modern scientific and technological
achievements for the benefit of the entire international
indivisibility  of 
the 
5
A/55/PV.20
community,  and  a  gradual  closing  of  the  development
gap between the various States.
These  ambitious  goals  can  be  achieved  only
through the preservation and strengthening of strategic
stability in its very broadest sense.
Strategic  stability  means  further  progress  in  the
disarmament process, reliable prevention of the spread
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Today  nuclear
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  are  no  longer  the
subject  of  exclusive  interaction  between  Russia,  the
United  States  and  other  nuclear  Powers.  What  is
needed  is  the  effective  involvement  of  multilateral
United  Nations  mechanisms  and  the  entire  world
community in those processes.
in 
the 
in  disarmament 
The outcome of the Millennium Summit provides
additional opportunities for the achievement of a major
breakthrough 
twenty-first
century. This will require consistent joint efforts aimed
at  strict  compliance  with 
the  agreements  already
concluded;  a  step-by-step  reduction  and  eventual
elimination  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  under
effective  international  control,  and  the  limitation  of
other  types  of  armaments;  and  prevention  of  the  arms
race in new spheres.
The  time  has  come  to  give  a  new  impetus  to  the
work  of  the  Conference  on  Disarmament,  which  has
proved  in  practice  the  effectiveness  of  multilateral
diplomacy  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations.
Russia advocates the resumption of substantive work at
that forum on major issues on the disarmament agenda.
The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) provides an indispensable international
legal  basis  for  nuclear  disarmament.  This  has  once
again  been  reaffirmed  in  full  by  the  2000  Review
Conference.  Russia  will  work 
the
decisions  of  the  Millennium  Assembly  promote  the
practical  implementation  of  the  agreements  reached
during that Conference. It is precisely for that purpose
that  the  President  of  the  Russian  Federation,  Vladimir
Putin, put forward an initiative on the development and
implementation, under the auspices of the International
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  of  an  international
project  designed  to  phase  out  the  use  of  enriched
uranium  and  pure  plutonium  in  the  civilian  nuclear
energy sector.
to  ensure 
that 
We are satisfied to note the increasing number of
States acceding to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty
6
(CTBT). Its speedy entry into force is in the interests of
the entire international community. Having ratified the
Treaty,  we  call  on  those  that  have  yet  not  done  so  to
follow suit.
We  expect  that  the  United  States  will  follow
Russia  in  completing  ratification  of  the  Treaty  on  the
Further  Reduction 
and  Limitation  of  Strategic
Offensive  Arms  (START  II),  which  will  help  make  it
operational.  We  are  ready  to  actively  continue  the
process  of  nuclear  disarmament  and  to  move  towards
the  conclusion  of  a  START  III  Treaty  with  an  even
lower threshold of nuclear warheads — down to 1,500
units.  But  this  will  be  feasible  only  if  the  1972  Anti-
Ballistic  Missile  (ABM)  Treaty  remains  intact.  It  is
universally  acknowledged 
this  major  Treaty
concerns the vital security interests of the international
community  as  a  whole.  Its  preservation  is  a  key
element  of  global  stability  and  a  strong  barrier  to  the
arms  race  in  regard  to  nuclear  weapons,  missiles  and
other weapons of mass destruction.
that 
Russia  will  be  introducing  a  draft  resolution  in
support  of  the  ABM  Treaty.  We  hope  that,  as  was  the
case last year, our initiative will receive broad support
within the United Nations.
A peaceful earth needs a peaceful outer space. At
the  Millennium  Summit 
the  President  of  Russia
proposed the convening in Moscow of an international
conference  on  the  prevention  of  the  weaponization  of
outer  space, to take  place  in  the  spring  of  2001,  when
the  fortieth  anniversary  of  the  first  manned  flight  to
outer space is to be commemorated.  We  hope  that  this
proposal will be actively supported.
Strategic  stability  means  reliable  safeguarding  of
international  information  security  and  counteracting
the use of scientific and technological achievements for
purposes incompatible  with universal progress  and  the
maintenance of international peace. Aware of the great
importance  of  resolving  these  most  urgent  issues,
Russia  will  introduce  for consideration by the  General
Assembly a draft resolution entitled  “Developments in
the field of informatization and telecommunications  in
the context of international information security”.
Strategic  stability  also  means  enhancing  peace
and security on all continents, settling existing regional
conflicts  and  preventing  new  ones  and  cutting  off
external  support  for  them.  Millions  of  people  must  be
spared the death and suffering caused by local crises.
How can this goal be achieved? It is only through
the  joint  efforts  of  all  States  collectively  responsible
for  the  world’s  destiny.  Experience  has  shown  that
unilateral  enforcement  actions  cannot  guarantee  a
lasting and fair settlement of crisis situations.
these 
principles 
The  notions  of  sovereignty  and  the  territorial
integrity  of  States  are  still  very  much  alive.  Disregard
for 
intervention
circumventing 
Security  Council,  whatever
humanitarian pretexts may be used, undermine the very
foundations  of  the  world  order  and  pave  the  way  for
arbitrariness in international affairs.
and  military 
the 
The  prevention  and  settlement  of  crises  should
become  a  key  element  of  international  security  in  the
twenty-first 
collective
determination  and  goodwill,  even  the  most  complex
and  major  problems  lend  themselves  to  a  political
resolution.
century.  When 
there 
is 
All  of 
this  calls 
improvement  of 
the
peacekeeping  potential  of  our  Organization.  People  in
“hotbeds” of the planet — from Africa and Lebanon to
East Timor — rightly associate with the United Nations
“Blue  Helmets”  their  hopes  for  an  end  to  bloody
complex
conflicts 
reconciliation  processes.  They  expect 
rapid  and
effective steps from us.
beginning  of 
and 
the 
for 
for 
to  engage 
We  hope  that  the  Millennium  Assembly  will
provide  us  with  an  opportunity 
in  a
comprehensive analysis of the  work of United  Nations
peacekeeping mechanisms and outline ways to increase
their  efficiency.  Such  is  the  objective  of  the  report
(A/55/305)  prepared  under  the  aegis  of  the  Secretary-
General  by  the  Brahimi  Panel.  It  is  important  to
considerably  enhance  the  United  Nations  capacity  for
the  prompt  deployment  of  peacekeeping  operations.
This  can  be  done  through  the  early  completion  of  the
system of standby arrangements. Peacekeeping units of
the United Nations Secretariat need to be strengthened,
with  provision  for  professional  planning,  control  and
command of operations.
Russia  consistently  advocates  the  expansion  of
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
structures in the field of peacekeeping. Chapter VIII of
the  United  Nations  Charter  remains  the  basis  for  such
interaction.  Any  regional  or  “coalition”  operation
should  be  conducted  under  conditions  of  transparency
and  of  reporting 
the  United  Nations  Security
enforcement
Council,  whereas 
operations  with 
to 
A/55/PV.20
elements  should  be  carried  out  only  with 
authorization of the Security Council.
the
The  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS)
is  a  major  regional  partner  of  the  United  Nations  in
peacekeeping.  In  many  respects,  it  was  the  close
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  CIS
that  made  it  possible  to  successfully  resolve  the
conflict 
interaction  will
undoubtedly  intensify  along  with  the  development  of
the  CIS  anti-crisis  potential.  At  the  same  time,  for  a
stable  peace  to  prevail  in  the  conflict-affected  regions
in  the  CIS  area  the  volume  of  international  economic
and  humanitarian aid  for  their  rehabilitation  should  be
increased.
in  Tajikistan. 
Such 
is 
to 
importance 
evidenced  by 
Russia  attaches  primary 
the
expansion  of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and  regional  and  subregional  mechanisms  in  Africa  to
provide  for  more  effective  crisis  response  on  the
continent.  This 
the  Russian
participation in peacekeeping operations in a number of
African countries.
entire 
experience  of  United  Nations
peacekeeping  activities  in  recent  years  clearly  shows
the  priority  of  political  and  diplomatic  methods  of
conflict  settlement.  It  is  precisely  these  methods  that
make  it  possible  to  minimize  the  suffering  of  the
civilian population and to find ways to a stable peace.
The 
the 
and 
alia, 
Strategic 
aggressive 
separatism 
stability  means 
stability.  Today, 
security  and
tranquillity of  civil  society  and  of  the  individual.  This
task  can  be  accomplished  only  through  the  combined
efforts  of  the  international  community  to  counter
contemporary  threats  and  challenges.  These  include,
inter 
religious
extremism, illicit arms trafficking and organized crime.
Such an abhorrent  manifestation  of  extremism  as
international terrorism  poses  a direct threat  to  security
and 
stripe
sometimes  act  in  a  more  organized  fashion  than  does
the world community confronting them. We expect that
the  United  Nations  will  step  up  its  mobilization  of
international  capacities  to  counteract  terrorism.  Such
cooperation  must  be  based  on  the  clear  principles  set
forth  in  the  Security  Council  resolution  1269  (1999):
no  support  whatsoever,  no  safe  havens  for  terrorists,
the  inevitability  of  punishment  for  every  terrorist  act.
As  to  those  who  violate  these  principles  the  Security
Council  must  be  ready  to  take  measures  against  them
provided for in the United Nations Charter.
terrorists  of  every 
7
A/55/PV.20
Russia  intends  to  ratify  the  Convention  for  the
Suppression  of  Terrorist  Financing  elaborated  under
United  Nations  auspices.  There  is  an  urgent  need  to
complete work on the convention for the suppression of
acts  of  nuclear 
that  work  on  a
comprehensive  anti-terrorism  convention  should  be
stepped up.
terrorism,  and 
Terrorism 
is  often  closely 
linked  with  drug
trafficking  and  organized  crime.  We  welcome  the
completion  of  the  development  of  an  international
convention  against  organized  crime.  Russia  intends  to
sign  it  in  the  nearest  future.  We  also  support  the
proposal on drafting an international convention on the
fight against corruption.
Strategic stability means promoting human rights
and  freedoms  everywhere.  This  area  is  an  important
component  of  the  United  Nations  activities  aimed  at
establishing  a  new  world  order  based  on  international
law.
Russia  contributes  significantly  to  strengthening
the universal legal regime. Our country  has  signed the
Statute of the International Criminal Court.
Speaking  of  pooling  the  efforts  of  States  to
resolve  the  twofold  task  of  maintaining  international
security and ensuring human security, human rights and
freedoms, we should constantly bear in mind that in the
twentieth  century  the  rule  of  the  ideology  of  racial
hatred cost mankind scores of millions of human lives.
Unfortunately, today, 55 years after the great victory it
is  still  premature  to  speak  of  total  eradication  of  the
bacillus of national superiority.
their  citizenship  and 
We  cannot  accept  a  situation  in  which  people  do
not  have  the  right  to  use  their  mother  tongue,  are
deprived  of 
jobs  on  ethnic
grounds,  when  fighters  against  fascism  are  put  behind
the
bars  while  former  fascists  find  favour  with 
authorities.  The  Organization 
for  Security 
and
Cooperation in  Europe,  the Council of  Europe and  the
United Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights
should firmly respond to all such manifestations.
in  history  as 
Strategic  stability  must  be  based  on  a  solid
material  foundation.  The  twenty-first  century  will  go
down 
the  century  of  mankind’s
breakthrough 
level  of
development only if  we  manage to preserve  peace and
international  security  and  at  the  same  time  impart
necessary  dynamism  and  depth  to  the  process  of
a  qualitatively  new 
to 
8
economic  and  technological  equalization  between  the
enormous  number  of  developing  countries  and  the
comparatively  small  group  of  leading  countries.  This
goal cannot be achieved overnight. This will require —
under  the  unifying  and  guiding  hand  of  the  United
Nations — a  mechanism  for  collective  democratic
management  of  the  international  monetary,  trade  and
economic  systems.  They  must  become  more  rational
and 
targeted  against  poverty  and
underdevelopment.
fair  and  be 
It  is 
important 
to  make  the  most  of 
those
opportunities  which  have  been  opened  up  by  the  new
technological revolution in order to initiate the process
of  bridging  the  gap  in  the  levels  of  development.
Information  and  communications  technologies  whose
potential  for  speeding  up  global  development  is  only
comparable  to  the  invention  of  written  language  can
serve  as  a  driving  force  of  that  process.  A  chance  has
emerged  to  skip  over  several  traditional  stages  of
development 
introduction  of  global
computer 
technologies.
Mankind, equipped with this powerful instrument, will
obtain  a  real  opportunity  to  begin  creating  conditions
for  a  decent  life  and  the  all-around  development  of
human beings everywhere on earth.
literacy  and 
information 
through 
the 
Strategic  stability  means  the  preservation  of  a
clean  and  healthy  environment  for  the  present  and
future  generations.  The  United  Nations  has  done  a
great  deal  to  mobilize  international  efforts  in  that
important  field.  The  “Rio+10”  Forum,  to  be  held  in
2002,  will  provide  an  opportunity  not  only  to  sum  up
the  results  of  those  activities  but  also  to  outline  a
future-oriented follow-up programme.
Russia  supports  the  expansion  of  international
cooperation  within  the  United  Nations  framework  in
the 
combating
desertification, as well as of forest preservation.
biodiversity, 
climate, 
areas 
of 
The recent increase over the last few years in the
number  of  natural  and  man-made  disasters  and  the
consequent growth of the scope of human and material
losses have made disaster management one of the most
formidable  global  challenges  facing  mankind.  While
intensifying  the  United  Nations  efforts  to  promote
international cooperation in this field, special attention
must  be  paid  to  the  use  of  state-of-the-art  specialized
technologies for disaster management and to the search
for innovative mechanisms for their use in the interests
of the entire international community.
The  United  Nations —  a  unique  universal  forum
in every respect, which has demonstrated in practice its
central role in managing international affairs — should
become  a  guarantor  of  such  comprehensive  strategic
stability. Russia welcomes the consensus reached at the
Millennium  Summit  on  consolidating 
the  United
Nations as the axis of the present world order. The time
has come for concrete collective measures to transform
the Organization into a sort of operational headquarters
for  coordinating  activities  aimed  at  ensuring  a  new
strategic 
the  principles  of
multilateralism,  equality  and  solidarity  in  resolving
global problems.
stability  based  on 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  once
again  that  the  Russian  Federation,  for  its  part,  is  open
to  the  closest  interaction  with  all  members  of  the
international  community  in  order  to  make  strategic
stability a cornerstone of the world order in the twenty-
first  century  and 
its  reliable
guarantor.
the  United  Nations 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Shlomo  Ben-Ami,  Acting  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Israel.
forced 
Mr.  Ben-Ami  (Israel):  I  stand  here  today  as
Israel’s  messenger  of  peace.  The  establishment  of  the
State  of  Israel  was  the  fulfilment  of  the  dream  of  a
people 
into  exile  2,000  years  ago.  The
destruction  of  the  Second  Temple  and  the  dissolution
of Jewish  statehood  were  the result  of  our  failure  as  a
nation to assume the proper political course, to opt for
accommodation  with  reality  instead  of  engaging  in
messianic  hallucinations.  Our  punishment  was  very
severe  indeed,  but  maybe  it  can  serve  as  a  lesson  to
those nations and leaders  who today  may  be  tragically
led  to  believe  that  the  dangerous  inertia  of  romantic
mythology  and  unrealistic  dreams  is  preferable  to  the
banality of a wise and prudent political course.
Most  revolts  are  uprisings  against  a  system.
Zionism  was  a  revolt  against  destiny.  It 
this
expression  of  our  re-encounter  with  the  world  of
political 
the
restoration  of  Jewish  statehood  in  1948.  Tragically,
however,  historical  and  geopolitical  circumstances
have  put  us  in  a  prolonged,  bitter  conflict  with  the
Palestinian people.
that  eventually 
realities 
led  us 
to 
is 
It was thanks to the leadership of Prime Minister
Rabin  and  Chairman  Arafat  that,  seven  years  ago,
Palestinians and Israelis were put on a track leading to
A/55/PV.20
peace and reconciliation. We have been engaged in the
past seven years, but more intensely in the last year, in
a major effort, unprecedented in both scope and depth,
to  resolve  this  100-year-old  conflict.  This  negotiating
process,  and  it  alone,  should  be  the  foundation  of  a
peace agreement.
At 
like 
this  point,  I  would 
to  address  my
colleagues  from  the  Arab  and  Muslim  world.  I  hope
that  my  words  will  convince  them  of  the  Israeli
Government’s 
a
comprehensive  peace  based  on  respect,  dignity  and
fairness,  which  will  end  the  Middle  East  conflict  and
best serve the vital interests of the entire region.
intentions 
achieve 
sincere 
to 
The  Jewish  people  have  no  quarrel  with  Islam.
On  the  contrary,  we  have  the  deepest  respect  for  that
great  Islamic  civilization  under  whose  wings  Jewish
history —  from  Al-Andalus  to  Turkey,  from  Egypt  to
Iraq, from the Jewish quarters of Tangier to Aleppo in
Syria —  has  known  some  of  its  finest  hours  and  most
glorious  cultural  achievements.  But  even  at  the  height
of  the  “Golden  Age”,  in  the  midst  of  the  delights  and
wonders of Muslim Spain, our people never abandoned
their dream of and yearning for Jerusalem, as expressed
in the words of the poet Yehuda Halevi more than 800
years ago:
“My heart is in the East, and I am in the furthest
reaches of the West. To thee my soul yearns from
the depth of the West.”
We are a small nation decimated by holocaust and
dispersion,  but  our  heritage  is  rich.  It  was  from  our
eternal  capital,  Jerusalem —  which,  according  to  a
Muslim source,
“in  the  days  of  the  people  of  Israel,  was  an  area
larger than Cairo and Baghdad” —
that  the  message  of  monotheism  was  projected  to
humanity.  The  Jewish  holy  sites  and  shrines 
in
Jerusalem  are  the  very  heart  of  the  Jewish  faith,
identity  and  history.  For  the  past  2,000  years,  Jews
have  turned  towards  Temple  Mount  in  prayer  three
times a day.
“If  I  forget  thee,  O  Jerusalem,  let  my  right  hand
forget  its  cunning.  Let  my  tongue  cleave  to  the
roof of my mouth if I do not recall thee”,
they pledged in joy and in sorrow.
For  the  past  30  years,  Israel  has  consistently
demonstrated  its  commitment  to  freedom  of  religion
9
A/55/PV.20
in  Jerusalem.  Heads  of 
and  worship 
the  various
religious  denominations  in  Jerusalem  will  attest  to  the
fact  that  the  city  has  never  been  so  open  to  all
believers. During the last  month of Ramadan, a record
number, unheard of in the annals of Islam in Jerusalem,
of  more  than  400,000  Muslim  worshippers  attended
Friday prayers at the Al-Aqsa Mosque.
I  note  this  as  an  example  of  the  deep  respect
which Israel has for Islam and its followers. Just as we
do not question the sincerity of the sentiments of others
towards  their  holy  sites  in  Jerusalem,  we  expect  that
others will not question the Jewish people’s deep, awe-
inspired  attachment  to  Jerusalem  and  its  holy  sites,
from which we will never again be parted.
Politicians  need  not  distort  God’s  intentions  for
the  sake  of  negotiations.  How  refreshing  it  is  that  a
great  number  of  Muslim  scholars  should  attest  to  the
fact  that,  as  the  Supreme  Court  Judge  Mujir  el-din  al-
Hanbali wrote in his History of Jerusalem and Hebron,
“David reigned for 40 years and before he died he
passed  the  monarchy  on  to  his  son  Solomon  and
told  him  to  build  the  beit  al-miqdas —   the
Temple”.
The  expression  beit  al-miqdas —  that  is,  the  House  of
the  Temple —  became  in  many  Muslim  sources  a
synonym of the word “Jerusalem”.
for 
the 
their 
inherent 
their  redemption —  made 
It  is  a  travesty  of  historical  truth  to  present  the
Palestinian  refugee  problem  as  the  result  of  mass
expulsion. There is no denying, however, that once the
Jews —  who  for  thousands  of  years  waited  with
humility 
re-
encounter  with  history  as  a sovereign  nation, they  had
to  assume 
immorality  of  war.  The
suffering  of  the  civilian  population  will  always  be  a
burden  on  the  conscience  of  any  nation  at  war.  The
Arab-Israeli  conflict  has  no  monopoly  on  this  maxim.
Clearly,  the  Palestinian  refugees  were  victims  of  the
Arab-Israeli  conflict.  Israel,  however,  can  assume
neither  political  nor  moral  responsibility  for 
this
tragedy  that  was  the  direct  result  of  the  all-out
onslaught  against  reborn  Israel  —  an  onslaught
launched  by  the  Arab  armies  in  1948.  The  Palestinian
refugee problem  was born  as  the land  was  bisected  by
the  sword  —  not  by  design,  Jewish  or  Arab.  The
problem  was largely the inevitable by-product of  Arab
and Jewish fears and the protracted bitter fighting.
10
in  order 
We  believe  that,  once  established,  it  is  the
Palestinian State that should provide for the vindication
of  the  Palestinian  claim  for  the  right  of  return.  The
notion  is  preposterous  that  a  nation  should  create  a
State  only 
in  a
neighbouring  State.  Israel,  however,  has  expressed  its
willingness  to  actively  participate  in  any  international
effort  and  fund  aimed  at  providing 
the  financial
foundations  for  the  resolution  of  the  refugee  problem.
Out  of  humanitarian  considerations,  Israel  may  also
accept a small and limited number of refugees within a
scheme of family reunification.
its  exiles 
to  gather 
Let  there  be  no  doubt.  The  peace  process  is  not
the objective, we need not sanctify the process. Peace,
not  the  process,  is  the  objective.  Peace  is  not  about
more conventions, summits and resolutions; it is about
the  future  of  our  children,  and  about  the  seemingly
unattractive  banalities  of  building  the  mechanisms  of
cohabitation.
To 
the  Palestinians  we  say:  we  need 
to
disentangle  ourselves  from  this  seemingly  insoluble
conundrum. We know that unless your and our wounds
are  healed,  peace  —  not  only  the  political  peace  but
also that of the mind and the conscience — will not be
complete. Yet, at the same time we realize that the total
satisfaction  of  our  respective  dreams  or  presumed
rights  will  lead  us  to  perdition.  Hence  it  is  incumbent
on  us to  devise  realistic  ways  to  heal  without  opening
new  wounds,  to  dignify  our  existence  as  free  peoples
without  putting  into  jeopardy  the  collective  existence
of each  other. Peace  is  not  about twisting  each other’s
arms; it is about defining a common interest. I believe
that  such  an  ideal  compromise  is  not  impossible  to
achieve,  while  banishing  the  sword  from  this  land  of
God.
Peace  has  not  materialized  in  full  yet,  but  I
believe that we are moving in the right direction. In the
past  year  the  Government  of  Prime  Minister  Ehud
Barak  has  made  bold,  courageous  and  unprecedented
moves 
towards  peace.  At  Camp  David  we  have
contemplated  ideas  and  explored  concepts  relating  to
the  most  sensitive  and  supposedly  intractable  issues.
Our  sense  is  that  breakthrough  is  possible,  just  as
failure may lead to breakdown. We have turned the sea
that  separated  us  into  a  river.  But,  do  we  have  the
courage and the determination to cross it?
I  know  I  may  not  sound 
too  objective  by
vouching  for  Prime  Minister  Barak.  But,  I  have  come
here  with  the  power  of  conviction  that  no  Prime
Minister  before  him  —  and 
illusions  be
harboured, no Prime Minister after him — will touch as
he has the outer limits of his options as an Israeli and a
Jew.
let  no 
Union  rising  to  the  task,  and  we  commend  the  role  of
the  French  Presidency  and  that  of  other  key  European
Governments.  Peace  needs 
the
international  community  and  it  will  need  that  support
to cement peace once it is achieved.
advice  of 
the 
A/55/PV.20
is 
the  great 
leader  of 
I  do  not  underestimate  the  dilemmas  facing
Chairman  Arafat.  He 
the
Palestinian people, and I know that the  decision  is  not
easy for him either. But this is the destiny of leaders: to
always  be  prophets  without  honour.  They  should  not
expect the applause of their constituencies, what really
matters  is  the  judgement  of  future  generations.  I  call
upon our Palestinian partners to realize that history has
brought  us  to  a  moment  of  truth  and  decision  from
which  we  are  not  allowed  to  escape  empty-handed
without  inflicting  severe  punishments  on  our  own
peoples.
Israel  aspires  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  peace
in the region and  help  move  it  into  the  future.  Twenty
one  years  ago  we  signed  a  cornerstone  peace  treaty
with Egypt, followed by a peace treaty with Jordan and
an  incipient  but  promising  process  of  normalization
with  the  Maghreb  and  Gulf  States.  Eighteen  years  of
Israeli  military  presence 
in  Lebanon  have  been
in  close
terminated  by 
cooperation  with 
thanks
especially  to  the  efforts  and  dedication  of  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan.  We  have  also  delved  into  the
possibilities of reaching peace with Syria. We hope that
talks  with  Syria  will  resume  as  soon  as  possible  and
that a fair and equitable agreement can be achieved.
the  United  Nations,  and 
the  Barak  Government, 
Israel is determined to pursue peace and take  the
calculated  risks  attached  to  it.  But  Israel  will  not
compromise  —  not  now  and  not  ever  —  on  those
security  and  national  interests  that  we  deem  vital.
While  building  our  peace  with  the  Palestinians  we
cannot ignore security concerns inherent in the fact that
peace  with  the  Palestinians  is  not  our  last  peace.  We
still have a dispute pending with Syria, and we are still
exposed to the most serious regional threats emanating
from revolutionary powers in the area.
Peace  requires  the  active  involvement  of  the
international  community.  The  critical  role  played  by
the  United  States,  and  especially 
relentless
dedication  and  unequivocal  commitment  of  President
Bill  Clinton,  has  been  massive  and  constructive.  Once
again 
the
indispensable  nation.  We  have  also  seen  the  European
the  United  States  has  proven 
to  be 
the 
We expect also to work closely with the Egyptian
Government  for  the  cause  of  regional  peace.  I  believe
that it is also important that Russia and the Arab world
express  their  opinions  that  now  is  the  time  to  make
historical  decisions.  Time  is  an  elusive  and  perishable
commodity. We are all running out of it.
We  are  open  to  developing  wide  spaces  of
cooperation with our Palestinian neighbours and indeed
with  all the  countries  of  the Middle  East,  with  dignity
and  mutuality.  But,  we  do  not  intend  to  impose  our
experience on anybody, nor is it our intention to assert
our economic or technological presence amidst those of
our neighbours who do not want it. The leaders and the
elites  throughout  the  Middle  East  do  not  need  our
advice to know what are the real challenges ahead of us
all:  modernizing  the  economy  and  combating  disease,
hunger, poverty and illiteracy. Indeed, small islands of
excellence notwithstanding, the Middle East is in grave
danger of being on the wrong side of the digital divide.
In his inaugural speech in 1961, the late President
Kennedy  invited  his  generation  to  join  him  in  a
struggle:
“Now the trumpet summons us again  —  not  as  a
call to bear arms, though arms  we  need;  not  as  a
call  to  battle,  though  embattled  we  are  —  but  a
to  bear 
call 
twilight
struggle, ... a 
common
enemies  of  man:  tyranny,  poverty,  disease  and
war itself.”
Nothing  will  make us  happier than joining  hands
with our Arab neighbours with dignity and mutuality in
this most noble of struggles.
the  burden  of  a 
struggle  against 
long 
the 
The  Middle  East  is  not  tranquil  yet.  It  is  still
replete  with  armed  conflicts,  political  hostilities  and
animosities.  Israel  believes  that  regional  arrangements
are  crucial  for  arms  control.  A  step-by-step  approach,
commensurate  with  progress  towards  comprehensive
peace, is the right approach.
We are concerned by the expanding stockpiles of
conventional  weapons  in  the  region,  as  well  as  by
attempts made by Iran and Iraq to acquire and develop
11
A/55/PV.20
non-conventional  weapons,  and  by  an 
missile threat.
increasing
Israel  attaches  great  importance  to  the  eventual
establishment  of  a  zone  free  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction  in  the  region.  In  order  to  reach  that  goal,
direct  negotiations  between  all  States  of  the  region
must be held.
Last  year  saw  a  turnaround  in  Israel’s  relations
with the United Nations. After years of anomaly, Israel
was temporarily admitted to the Western European and
Other  Group  (WEOG)  in  New  York.  We  hope  that
Israel’s 
in
international  organizations  based  outside  New  York
will soon be secured.
the  Western  Group 
admission 
to 
The  United  Nations,  and  indeed  most  of  its
Member States, played a  major role in demanding that
Iran treat fairly the 13 Jews falsely accused, convicted
and sentenced for ludicrous charges of espionage. It is
in  such instances that the international  community  has
the  opportunity  to  express  its  discontent  and  exert
pressure  on  countries 
the  norms  of
behaviour.
that  break 
reflect 
faithfully 
On  the  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  is  our  opinion  that  the  Security  Council
should 
the  present  geopolitical
picture, a  picture that  has  changed  beyond  recognition
since  the  last  enlargement  of  the  Council  in  1965.  We
subscribe to the view that the right of  veto —  a  safety
net  against  the  possible  arbitrariness  of  the  General
Assembly —  should  remain  in  the  hands  of  a  limited
number of States.
Allow  me  a  final  reflection  on 
Palestinian dilemma.
the  Israeli-
The 
realistic 
responses 
conditions. 
Palestinians 
The  tragedy  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict
stemmed  from  discrepant  historical  rhythms.  The
history  of  our  modern  national  movement  has  been
to  objective
characterized  by 
historical 
have
consistently  fought  for  the  solutions  of  yesterday —
those they had rejected a generation or two earlier. This
persistent attempt to turn back the clock of history lies
at  the  root  of  many  of  the  misfortunes  that  have
befallen the peoples of the region. Now it is time for all
of  us  to  overcome  dire  memories  and  look  forward.
Neither  the  physical  nor  the  rhetorical  war  of  images
will bring us any closer to peace and reconciliation. No
one has a monopoly on the mythology of suffering and
12
atrocities. In this tragic dispute  we have all committed
acts  of  violence  that  we  ought  not  to  be  proud  of.  To
the Palestinians we say, we are excited by the prospects
to  overcome  the  troubled  history  of  our  relations  in
order  to  shape  our  dreams  of  peace.  Let  us  then  join
hands  in  asking  the  world,  which  has  been  watching,
perplexed at, and sometimes even fuelling our wars, to
mobilize  its  resources  for  the  benefit  of  our  peoples.
And, let us be full partners in this international effort to
lay  down  the  foundations  of  the  Middle  East  of  the
future.  The  creative  energies  of  our  peoples  should  at
long last be put to work in the service of peace, for as
the  wisest  of  kings,  King  Solomon,  the  builder  of  the
Temple  in  Jerusalem,  wrote  thousands  of  years  ago,
there is:
“A  time  for  slaying  and  a  time  for  healing  ...  a
time  for  war  and  a  time  for  peace”.  (The  Holy
Bible, Ecclesiastes 3:3-8)
The President: I call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Pakistan, His Excellency Mr. Abdul Sattar.
Mr. Sattar (Pakistan): Mr. President, it gives  me
great  pleasure  to  join  preceding  speakers  in  offering
you  the  Pakistan  delegation’s  warm  felicitations  on
your  election.  We  pledge  to  you  our  wholehearted
cooperation in  your  efforts dedicated  to  the  success  of
this  historic 
the  General
Assembly.
session  of 
fifty-fifth 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the
leadership  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan.
His  commitment  and  dynamism  have  reinforced  the
rightful  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  addressing  the
challenges of our times.
The millennial transition is unique in the lives of
those fortunate to witness it. We are fortunate, too, that
we  start  this  session  in  the  glow  of  the  Millennium
Summit.  We  shall  be  inspired  in  our  work  by  the
ringing  commitment  of  our  leaders  to  values  and
principles fundamental to the maintenance of peace and
security;  by  the  resolve  of  our  leaders  to  free  peoples
from  the  scourge  of  war,  on  the  one  hand,  and  to  free
humanity  from  dehumanizing  poverty,  on  the  other.
the  environment,
Their  determination 
promote 
good
governance,  and  to  meet  the  special  needs  of  Africa,
will be our guide and mandate in our deliberations.
to  protect 
democracy 
human 
rights, 
and 
It  will  be  our  duty  at  this  and  future  sessions  of
the  General  Assembly,  to  translate  the  Millennium
Declaration  into  action.  This  is  no  doubt  a  difficult
challenge.  But  it  is  a  challenge  we  must  meet.  Only
thus can we contribute to the building of a future better
than the past.
To all these ends  — at once necessary as  well as
noble — our  leaders  pledged  to  spare  no  efforts  to
make the United Nations a more effective instrument of
international cooperation.
What  is  needed,  if  I  may  borrow  an  apt  phrase
from  the  Secretary  General’s  report,  is  a  stronger
commitment  to  action —  action  to  achieve  peace,  and
action to achieve development.
Each  of  our  States  can  and  must  take  action  on
both  fronts.  But  individual  efforts  cannot  achieve
optimum  results.  All  of  us  need 
to  work  with
dedication  and  a  strong  sense  of  commitment  in  a
cooperative  and  harmonious  environment  to  promote
the twin objectives for a better future.
The  Millennium  Declaration  emphasizes 
the
determination  of  world  leaders  to  save  peoples  from
the scourge of war. Also the Secretary General’s report
highlights peace and security as:
“a  central  objective  of  the  United  Nations  at  the
dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century,  as  it  was  when
the Organization was founded over half a century
ago”. (A/55/1, para. 29)
The  problem  is  how  to  prevent  war  and  achieve
peace.  The  solution  is  not  difficult  to  find.  What  is
needed is a stronger commitment to action. Given that
commitment, crises and conflicts can be prevented and
peace can be achieved. Peace not merely possible; it is
realizable  through  a  civilized  approach  to  conflict
resolution  based  on  justice  and  international  law  and
the  principles  of  the  Charter,  the  United  Nations  can
ensure effective remedial action to  maintain peace and
security.
the 
relief  as 
and  Kosovo.  With 
People  watched  with 
the  world
community  joined  together  to  prevent  genocide  in
Bosnia 
commendable
cooperation  of  the  Government  of  Indonesia  and  the
imaginative  contribution  of  the  Secretary-General,  we
approached  the  situation  in  East  Timor  in  a  similar
way.  The  imaginative  and  diligent  efforts  of  the
Personal  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General,  Ambassador
Jamsheed  Marker,  to  promote  the  settlement  in  East
Timor are a matter of pride for the people of Pakistan.
These are all examples of how the United Nations and
A/55/PV.20
the  international  community  can  and  should  act  to
address  conflicts  by  implementing  its  principles  and
decisions.
In  the  Middle  East,  too,  the  peace  process  has
made  steady,  if  agonizingly  slow,  progress.  For  the
gains so far made, tribute is due to the idealistic efforts
of  the  peacemakers  and  the  realistic  approach  of  the
Palestinian  and  Israeli  leaders.  The  residual  issues  are
difficult and delicate, involving as they do principles of
law and equity on the one hand, and deep emotions on
the other.  Yet  we ardently  hope  that  the  peace  process
will  succeed  soon.  Final  settlement  of  the  Palestinian
question  will  be  a  crowning  achievement  and  a
momentous contribution to peace in the Middle East.
(1977)  are 
international 
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338
imbued  with  an
(1973)  and  425 
irreplaceable 
Their
sanctity. 
implementation involves the prestige and credibility of
the  United  Nations.  An  end  to  occupation  and  the
reversion  of  holy  Jerusalem  to  Palestinian  sovereignty
will  ensure  reconciliation  and  durable  peace  in  the
Middle East.
The  Kashmir  question,  involving  the  life  and
future  of  the  people  of  the  State,  has  been  the  root
cause  of  tensions  in  South  Asia  since  1947.  Its
settlement  is  an  indispensable  condition  for  peace  and
stability.  The  ten  million  people  of  that  State  will  not
be  denied  their  right  to  freedom.  They  seek  nothing
more than the fulfilment of the commitments contained
in  the  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council.  Their  right
to decide their own future cannot lapse. The passage of
53  years  has  only  compounded  the  tragedy  of  the
Kashmiri  people  and  prolonged  their  travail.  The  long
delay has only heightened the terrible dangers inherent
in the festering dispute.
to 
Parties 
the  All 
According 
Freedom
Conference,  72,000  Kashmiris  have  been  killed  since
1989. Thousands more have been tortured and maimed
or  have  disappeared.  The  massive  human  rights
violations in Kashmir, and the repression and brutality
perpetrated  on  the  Kashmiri  people  by  occupation
forces, are a grave crime of State terrorism.
In a desperate attempt to undermine and suppress
the  Kashmiri  Freedom  Movement,  the  perpetrators  of
repression  and  violence  against  the  Kashmiri  people
have tried to portray the freedom struggle as terrorism.
Such  propaganda  did  not  carry  credibility  in  the  past
and it cannot do so now. It is familiar to all those who
13
A/55/PV.20
have  won  freedom  after  protracted  struggles  against
colonialism and foreign occupation.
Pakistan  has  consistently  vowed 
to  seek  a
peaceful settlement of the Kashmir  dispute. Two  years
ago,  the  Security  Council  once  again  emphasized  the
need to resolve the dispute, which has been the source
of tension and conflict in the region. The provisions of
Article  33  of  the  Charter  place  an  obligation  on
Member  States  to  settle  disputes  through  recourse  to
negotiation, inquiry, conciliation, mediation, arbitration
or adjudication.  Each  and every  one of these  means  is
acceptable  to  Pakistan.  Faced  with  the  intransigent
rejection of peaceful means, the Security Council has a
responsibility 
the
Security Council to do so. What is needed is a stronger
commitment  to  action.  In  its  absence,  mere  talk  of
crisis  prevention  and  dispute  resolution  will  lack
credibility.
to  act.  The  Charter  empowers 
Afghanistan remains trapped in a terrible tragedy.
Its  protracted  war  of  liberation  in  the  1980s  left  it
devastated.  The  internecine  war  in  the  1990s  has
inflicted  further  ravages.  The  economy  of  the  country
is  in  shambles.  Drought  in  southern  Afghanistan  this
past year has added to the misery of the people of this
ancient land.
Tied to the Afghan people by bonds of geography,
history  and  culture,  the  people  of  Pakistan  view  the
tragedy in Afghanistan with a deep sense of sympathy.
Despite  economic  stringency,  we  continue  to  provide
shelter to 1.5 million Afghan refugees. The interruption
of the food supply from, or via, Pakistan would further
aggravate  hardship  and  trigger  a  fresh  influx.  That  is
why Pakistan is opposed to sanctions that hurt people.
No  people  except  the  Afghan  people  themselves
have suffered  more from the conflict and  instability  in
Afghanistan  than  the  people  of  Pakistan.  It  is  natural
therefore  that  Pakistan  should  support  all  efforts  for
peace  and  reconciliation  in  Afghanistan.  We  were
encouraged  to  note  a  similarity  of  approaches  by  the
Foreign  Ministers  of  the  six  contiguous  countries,  the
Russian  Federation  and  the  United  States  at  the  “Six-
plus-Two”  group  meeting  convened  on  15  September
by  the  Secretary-General.  Pooling  our  resources  and
influence,  we  should  make  more  energetic  efforts  to
persuade  the  Afghan  parties  and  assist  the  Secretary-
General of the United Nations in his efforts to promote
a  broad-based  Government  acceptable  to  the  Afghan
political parties and ethnic groups.
14
We  support  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  as  it
leads  a  parallel  effort  for  peace  in  Afghanistan  on
behalf  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference
(OIC).  We  also  appreciate 
recently
undertaken  by  Turkmenistan.  In  our  view,  all  these
efforts complement and reinforce each other.
the  efforts 
In  his  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization
(A/55/1),  the  Secretary-General  referred  to  the  influx
of  war  materiel  to  Afghanistan  from  outside.  Pakistan
urges not only a ceasefire but also a ban on the supply
of  military  equipment  to  the  Afghan  parties  and  the
establishment  of  a  monitoring  mechanism  for 
its
enforcement.  We  also 
the
remain  cognizant  of 
imperative  of  respect  for  sovereignty.  The  Afghan
people  have  a  history  of  fierce  resistance  against
outside  interference.  Engagement  with  the  Afghan
Government  offers  better  hope  for  amelioration  than
attempts  to  drive  it  into  a  corner  and  isolate  it.  The
United Nations has been providing humanitarian relief
in  Afghanistan.  Programmes  aimed  at  rehabilitation
and  reconstruction  may  help  bring  the  country  back
into  the  international  mainstream  sooner.  That  is  also
the more compassionate way.
Pakistan,  itself  a  victim  of  terrorism,  condemns
that  evil  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations,  whether
committed  by 
individuals,  groups  or  States.  Our
Government has ratified nine international conventions
against terrorism and we join all international efforts to
combat this menace.
voted 
in 
Pakistan  has  historically  supported  all  proposals
and  agreements  aimed  at  the  limitation,  progressive
reduction and eventual elimination of weapons of mass
destruction.  For  over  a  quarter  of  a  century  we  made
efforts and  initiated  proposals  to  keep our  area  free  of
nuclear  weapons.  Also,  Pakistan  has  been  prepared  to
support universal and non-discriminatory measures and
proposals.  Pakistan 
the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  in  1996  and
intended to sign it along with all others, especially the
designated  States.  The  process  of  bringing  that  Treaty
into  force  was  derailed  due  to  events  not  of  our  own
making.  Even  then,  Pakistan  was  not  the  first  to
conduct  tests  in  1998.  Pakistan  will  not  be  the  first  to
resume  them.  We  still  hope  the  Treaty  can  be  brought
into force. Pakistan  will not obstruct the  realization  of
that  aim.  Our  Government  continues  efforts  to  build
domestic consensus in favour of signing the Treaty.
favour 
of 
Meanwhile,  restraint  and  responsibility  remain
the  guiding  principles  of  our  nuclear  policy.  Pakistan
will not enter into any nuclear arms race. Our sole aim
is  to  retain  minimum  credible  deterrence.  I  wish  to
reaffirm in this Assembly that our nuclear capability is
only  meant  to  deter  aggression  against  Pakistan;  it
poses no threat to any country.
We support efforts aimed at the prevention of the
vertical or horizontal proliferation of nuclear weapons.
During  the  past  year  we  have  further  strengthened
domestic 
regulations  against  export  of  nuclear
equipment  or  materials.  Our  power  reactors  are  under
international safeguards.
Pakistan  is  prepared  to  cooperate  in  efforts  to
introduce  restraints  on  the  development,  production
and deployment of ballistic missiles. To be  successful,
however,  such  efforts  must  be  non-discriminatory.
Their aim must be stabilization of the situation.
Any  use  of  nuclear  weapons  is  inconceivable.
However, the Charter obliges Members to refrain from
the 
the  use  of  any  force.  The  world
community should, therefore, emphasize no-first-use of
force, nuclear or conventional.
threat  or 
At the global level, Pakistan supports calls for the
continued  observance  of  the  Anti-Ballistic  Missile
Treaty.  The  militarization  of  outer  space  would  be  a
disservice  to  hopes  for  the  maintenance  of  existing
restraint and stability.
Pakistan  will  participate  in  negotiations  on  the
proposed  fissile  material  cut-off  treaty  and  make  a
positive contribution to evolving a fair and an equitable
text that all countries can support.
In  his  address  to  the  Millennium  Summit,  the
of  Pakistan,  General  Pervez
Chief  Executive 
Musharraf, stated:
“The best assurance for the consolidation of
global  peace  lies  in  the  economic  development
and  prosperity  of  all  regions  and  all  peoples.
Economic  progress  in  one  region  supports  and
complements prosperity in the other.” (A/55/PV.4)
Development 
game.
the  Millennium  Declaration  commits
zero-sum 
not 
Accordingly, 
world leaders to
is 
a 
“making  the  right  to  development  a  reality  for
everyone” (resolution 55/2, para. 11) and freeing
the entire human race from want.
A/55/PV.20
as 
Globalization 
raised  hopes, 
technology.  But 
it  offered
opportunities for faster economic growth, higher living
standards  and  accelerated  benefits  from  the  flow  of
knowledge  and 
there  have  been
disappointments.  Experience  has  shown 
the
benefits of globalization have been uneven and that the
number  of  people  living  in  poverty  has  actually
increased.  Technological  and  information  revolutions
have  accentuated  global  inequality,  and  a  new  digital
divide has led to the marginalization of a large number
of developing countries.
that 
Global  trade  regimes  benefit  the  rich,  and  the
South  has  become  poorer.  Competition,  standards,  a
variety  of  non-tariff  barriers,  increasingly  complex
trading practices, protectionism in selected sectors such
as agriculture,  and  restrictions  on  technology  transfers
all  militate  against  the  interests  of  the  developing
countries. They  find  it  hard to  secure  adequate returns
for  their  products  or  to  attract  investment  to  improve
their competitiveness. As a result, economic disparities
are  widening.  This  belies  the  promise  of  free  markets
to ensure the well-being of all.
The  failure  of  the  World  Trade  Organization
meeting in Seattle last November and dissenting voices
heard  in  Washington  last  April  make  it  clear  that  the
international  economic  system  needs  to  be  fixed.
Concerted  global  action 
is  required  for  sustained
development to benefit and protect  weaker economies.
The 
special
responsibility to adopt bold initiatives. Professions of a
desire  for  the  eradication  of  poverty  must  first  lead  to
the  establishment  of  an  international  economic  policy
framework  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  developing
countries.
industrialized 
countries 
have 
a 
the  same  meeting,  suggested 
One important area is the debt issue. In one of the
interactive  dialogues  the  Secretary-General  proposed
that 
the  United  Nations  could  mediate  between
creditors  and  debtors  to  address  the  debt  problem.  We
welcome this  proposal.  Our Chief Executive,  speaking
at 
that  developing
to  utilize
indebted  countries  should  be  allowed 
resources 
servicing 
the
development  of  the  social  sector,  especially  education
and  health  care.  Substantive  debt  relief 
through
innovative  approaches  will  go  a  long  way  to  help
developing  countries  ensure  global  harmony  and
regenerate  a  new  economic  partnership  between  the
North and the South.
allocated 
to  debt 
for 
15
A/55/PV.20
mass 
A  holistic  approach  to  deal  with  problems  of
development  and  poverty  eradication  is  necessary.
While we welcome the Secretary-General’s initiative to
bridge the digital divide, the emphasis  must remain on
addressing 
capacity-building,
infrastructure  and  basic  health  facilities.  Similarly,
multilateral  trade  regimes  should  be  development-
oriented.  Environmental  concerns  about  the  prudent
use 
pursued
simultaneously  with  emphasis  on  sustained  economic
growth in the South.
resources  must 
literacy, 
natural 
be 
of 
The  High-level  International  Intergovernmental
Event  on  Financing  for  Development,  which  will  be
held next year, must involve the world’s finance, trade
and development organizations in discussing the issues
comprehensively. The conference should promote good
governance  at  the  international  level.  It  must  address
how we can manage globalization appropriately so that
its  benefits 
reach  everyone,  ensuring  universal
prosperity.
The upsurge of democracy in the past decade has
been a good omen for the start of the new millennium.
This  salutary  trend  can  only  be  sustained  through
equitable 
the
developing  nations  are  able  to  have  a  fair  share  in
rising  levels  of  global  prosperity,  the  advocacy  of
democratic values and human and social standards will
remain hollow.
development.  Unless 
economic 
In  Pakistan  we  are  addressing  the  challenges  of
both  economic  revival  and  institutional  reforms  that
emphasize  accountability,  good  governance  and  the
devolution  of  power  to  grass-roots  levels  political
institutions.  In  this  endeavour,  the  Government  is
banking  on  the  support  and  enthusiasm  of  our  people.
We  believe  that  democracy  is,  first  and  foremost,
empowerment  of 
strong
institutions.
the  people,  based  on 
The  world  community  is  well  aware  of  the
ravages  inflicted  on  fragile  economies  of  developing
countries and their poor people as a result of corruption
and the transfer of illegal funds to safe havens abroad.
They  are  often  the  worst  victims  of  such  malpractice
due  to  socio-economic  forces  within  and  banking
practices outside their countries.
The  welfare of  humanity  in  developing  countries
demands  international  cooperation  for  the  prevention
of  corruption.  Such  cooperation  was  urged 
in
resolutions 53/176 of 15 December 1998 and 54/205 of
16
22 December 1999. The South Summit, held in Havana
in April 2000, also requested remedial action.
illicit 
funds 
Transfers  of 
from  developing
countries will not make the rich countries much richer,
but  they  will  make  the  poor  countries  poorer.  It  is  a
paradox  that  some  rich  countries  have  such  lax  laws
that  they  provide  safe  havens  and  encourage  private
banks to launder illicit funds looted by corrupt persons
from poor countries by facilitating the establishment of
to 
secret 
is 
the
encouragement  of  plunder, 
financial
terrorism.
tantamount 
indeed,  of 
accounts.  That 
in 
also 
recognized 
The  nexus  between  corruption  and  the  failure  of
democracy  was 
the  Final
Declaration issued by the meeting of the Community of
Democracies in Warsaw, held from 25 to 27 June 2000.
It  emphasized  the  need  to  combat  corruption,  which
corrodes  democracy.  We  need, 
take
effective action. We propose that the General Assembly
should proclaim a policy of zero tolerance of all  types
of corruption and urge a ban on the laundering of illicit
funds.
therefore, 
to 
The  United  Nations  has  emerged  as  the  only
forum  with  the  universal  recognition  and  authority  to
address the entire spectrum of issues relating to human
aspirations for peace, justice and development. To meet
these  growing  expectations,  this  world  body  must  be
strengthened.  Its  role  must  be  reinforced  in  order  to
ensure a better future for the world.
In 
this 
We support the call for enhancing the capacity of
the  United  Nations  in  the  areas  of  conflict  prevention
and  peacekeeping. 
regard,  we  commend
Mr. Brahimi  and  members  of  the  high-level  Panel  for
their  extensive  report.  As  an  important  participant  in
United  Nations  peace-keeping  operations,  we 
in
Pakistan  look  forward  to  discussions  on  the  useful
ideas  and  concepts  that  have  been  presented  in  the
report  to  enable  the  United  Nations  to  respond  more
effectively  to  existing  and  incipient  conflicts  and
threats to international peace and security.
No  other  aspect  of  reform  of  the  United  Nations
merits  as  close  attention  as  the  need  to  make  the
Security  Council  more  democratic,  transparent  and
accountable.  Periodic  elections  of  a  larger  number  of
members will make the Security Council not only more
representative  but  also  more 
the
aspirations of the world community. That will enhance
the  capacity  of  this  vital  organ  to  contribute  to  the
responsive 
to 
maintenance of international peace and security and to
the  realization  of  the  purposes  of  the  Organization.
That  objective  will  not  be  achieved  by  the  creation  of
new  centres  of  privilege  which  detract  from 
the
cardinal  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States.
For  the  same  reason,  the  decision-making  process
needs to be made more democratic.
For  the  Security  Council  to  command  universal
respect,  its  reform  should  have  the  general  agreement
of the membership. Nothing should be done in haste or
in a manner that divides the membership or impairs the
authority and prestige of the Council.
that 
the  desire 
In  this  increasingly  interactive  world,  we  share
with  other  nations 
for  a  peaceful
environment  and  mutually  beneficial  cooperation,  and
we  see  a  pivotal  role  for  the  United  Nations.  The
universality of the United Nations gives it a stature and
legitimacy 
in  history.  The
Organization  should  begin  the  twenty-first  century  by
demonstrating  a  clear  commitment  to  addressing  and
resolving the key development and security challenges
facing  our  peoples.  It  must  be  enabled  to  apply  its
immutable principles and its decisions consistently and
forcefully to ensure durable peace, sustained economic
progress and a better future for all humanity.
is  unprecedented 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
Mr.  James  Victor  Gbeho,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs
of Ghana.
Mr. Gbeho (Ghana): On behalf of my delegation,
Sir,  I  wish  to  congratulate  you  sincerely  on  your
election  as  President  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  This  session  is  indeed  historic,
coming as it does in the wake of a Millennium Summit
largest-ever
that  witnessed 
gathering  of  political 
international
community. I also wish to commend the other members
of the Bureau on their election.
the  presence  of 
leaders  of 
the 
the 
May  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  a  richly
deserved  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Theo-Ben
Gurirab,  Foreign  Minister  of  Namibia,  whose  deep
sense of duty and commitment to  social justice  helped
shape  the  United  Nations  agenda  for  the  new  century.
Indeed, the General Assembly gave impetus to such an
agenda when, in December 1998, it decided to hold the
Millennium  events,  believing  strongly  that  the  turn  of
the century  was a unique and symbolically  compelling
moment to articulate and affirm an animating vision for
the United Nations in the new era.
A/55/PV.20
reaffirm 
the  new  century, 
Barely a fortnight ago,  world leaders  met here in
New  York,  following  that  commitment,  to  address  the
challenges  of 
their
commitment  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and
to  demonstrate  political  will  for  the  new  process.  The
message that emerged from the statements made by the
heads  of  State  or  Government  at  the  Millennium
Summit was the reaffirmation of the unique role of the
United Nations in offering the best, and only, universal
framework  for  confronting 
the
millennium.
the  challenges  of 
also 
guarantees 
and  which 
It  recognized  a  United  Nations  capable  of
promoting  a  new  development  agenda  that  is  people-
oriented 
greater
participation  of  stakeholders,  particularly  women,  the
youth,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society  at  large;  a
United Nations that has been revitalized to play a more
meaningful  role  in  helping  developing  countries  meet
the challenges of poverty reduction, political pluralism
and  the  ongoing  process  of  globalization;  a  United
Nations  that  boldly  plays  its  role  as  an  Organization
working for the good of all, with the confidence of the
world’s people.
than 
this  millennium 
The  conjunction  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the
General  Assembly  and 
the  beginning  of  a  new
millennium provides a symbolic departure point for the
international  community  to  seek  to  do  better  in  all
areas  of  its  endeavour.  Today,  there  is  no  greater
challenge  facing  our  world  and  no  greater  issue
defining 
the  debilitating
inhumanity  of  poverty,  its  heavy  hand  on  wealth
creation,  its  fast  spread  across  the  world,  the  deadly
effect of economic insecurity on peace and security and
its impact on the environment. It is thus perplexing that
under  the  effect  of  globalization,  deprivation  and
inequality are accelerating globally with as much speed
as  innovation,  technological  progress  and  integration,
although 
in  different  directions.  Our  collective
ingenuity,  that  of  both  developed  and  developing,  is
called  upon  to  produce  answers  that  will  bring  us
closer than ever before to the purposes of the Charter.
We  have  encountered  disappointments  as  the
international community has striven for peace, security,
development  and  respect  for  human  rights.  We  have
also  sought  ways  of  dealing  with  the  impact  of
globalization on international trade and investment. We
should  not  resign  ourselves  to  these  reversals,  nor
should  we  accept  living  with  them.  To  do  so  would
defeat  the objective of development. The  way  forward
17
A/55/PV.20
the 
solidarity  characterize 
is not only to revitalize the United Nations to enable it
to  strive  more  boldly  for  a  more  equitable  global
society, but also to work together to ensure that equity,
fairness  and 
international
relations.
On 
important  question  of  maintaining
international peace and security, the role of the United
Nations  has  been,  without  doubt,  that  of  facilitating
conditions under which countries and peoples may live
together  securely  and  harmoniously  in  order  to  give
free rein to their creative talents. One important means
of  achieving  this  objective  in  the  midst  of  violent
conflicts  that  keep  erupting  has  been  to  undertake
peacekeeping  all  over  the  world.  Ghana  has  been  and
will continue to be a major contributor to this effort, as
conflicts in Africa especially pose a major challenge to
the  United  Nations  efforts  to  bring  about  global  peace
and prosperity.
The  situations  in  the  Democratic  Republic of  the
Congo  and  Sierra  Leone,  to  name  only  two  examples,
amply  demonstrate  the  complexities  of  the  challenges
which the  United  Nations  must  show  it  can  handle.  In
the  West  African  subregion,  for  example,  we  must  all
cooperate  in  imposing  a  ban  on  the  purchase  of  small
arms  and  especially  on  the  purchase  of  diamonds  that
are  not  controlled  by  the  Certificate  of  Origin  regime
from  countries  in  conflict.  Unless  the  international
community  helps  by 
this  aspect  of
Security  Council  resolutions,  international  peace  and
security will continue to be prejudiced by the greed and
ambition of individuals.
implementing 
through 
the  United  Nations  and 
Enhancing  Africa’s  peacekeeping  capacity 
to
cope  with  challenging  missions, 
training,
logistics  and  financial  support,  as  well  as  a  stronger
partnership  between 
the
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  Mechanism  for
Conflict  Prevention,  Management  and  Resolution,  is  a
crucial  goal  if  we  are  to  return  the  continent  to  peace
and  security.  That  is  one  of  the  reasons  why  Ghana
attaches 
regional  and  subregional
peacekeeping 
initiatives
should not become an excuse for the United Nations or
the  Security  Council 
primary
the  maintenance  of  peace  and
responsibility  for 
security in Africa.
initiatives.  However,  such 
importance 
shirk 
to 
to 
their 
Disarmament  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  United
Nations  efforts  to  ensure  and  sustain  international
peace  and  security,  conditions  necessary 
for  all
18
productive  human  activity.  The  nuclear  threat  of  the
cold-war  era  still  looms  large  over  all  of  us  and  will
continue  to  do  so  until 
the  nuclear  Powers  and
militarily  significant  countries  disarm.  It  is  therefore
reassuring  that,  despite  the  gloom  that  has  beclouded
the  United  Nations  disarmament  machinery  over  past
years,  positive  results  were  achieved  at  the  Sixth
Review Conference of the State Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
The  United  Nations  must  capitalize  on 
this
momentum  and  continue  its  search  for  new  ways  and
means  to  achieve  nuclear  disarmament  and  arms  non-
proliferation.  It  must  also  embark  on  confidence-
building  measures  in  order  to  enhance  the  process.  In
this  regard,  the  Disarmament  Commission  and  other
relevant  machinery on  disarmament  established  by  the
General  Assembly  should  be  given  every  opportunity
to  fulfil  their  mandates  through  the  demonstration  by
Member  States  of  commitment,  flexibility  and  the
necessary political will.
Ghana  would  therefore  use  this  opportunity  to
reiterate  its  support  for  the  proposal  by  the  Secretary-
General of convening a  major international conference
on  the  nuclear  threat.  We  will  also  play  an  active  part
in  the  preparatory  process  leading  to  the  United
Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms
and  Light  Weapons  in  All  its  Aspects,  to  be  held  in
2001.
Ghana  believes  that  the  efforts  of  the  United
Nations  to  promote  and  maintain  international  peace
and  security  should  rest  on  a  firm  international  legal
framework, hence the need to  maintain support for the
useful  work  being  done  by  the  International  Law
Commission  and  related  institutions  in  the  United
Nations  system.  We  believe 
tremendous
progress  made 
legal
frameworks for the pursuit of crimes against humanity,
for  example,  must  continue  if  our  societies  are  to  be
maintained.
establishment  of 
that 
the 
the 
in 
In  the  particular  case  of  Africa,  support  for  the
International Criminal Court is not only desirable; it is
a must, since censure by the international community is
now  very  necessary  in  dissuading  warlords  and  rebels
from  committing  the  heinous  crimes  that  we  continue
to  witness  in  countries  such  as  Sierra  Leone,  Rwanda
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  Ghana
recommends,  therefore,  that  international  law  should
ensure that the perpetrators of such crimes are punished
and that they do not enjoy amnesty from any country.
The  spirit  of  compromise  which  led 
the
overwhelming  endorsement  of 
the  Rome  Treaty
establishing  the  International  Criminal  Court,  must  be
kept alive to achieve our objectives in this field.
to 
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  continues  to
engage 
the  serious  attention  of  us  all.  Ghana
acknowledges  the  current  propitious  climate  in  the
Middle  East  as  a  result  of  the  revival  of  contacts
between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority  at  the
highest  levels.  The  withdrawal  of  Israeli  Defence
Forces from Southern Lebanon  has  given  these talks a
sense  of  optimism,  and  so  have  the  meetings  between
Chairman  Arafat  and  Mr.  Ehud  Barak.  While  we
commend President Clinton’s efforts, the two leaders of
the  Middle  East  are  urged to  show  flexibility  and  stay
the course, as the obstacles to peace cannot be removed
without compromise, painful sacrifices, diplomacy and
a  strong  desire  for  durable  peace.  Both  sides  should
remember  that  this  is  perhaps  the  finest  hour  for
reaching  agreement.  The  negative  forces  in  Israel,
especially, 
younger
generation  in  Palestine  are  growing  more  and  more
impatient.  No  sacrifice  should  therefore  be  too  great
for success.
regrouping,  while 
are 
the 
Ms.  Brizuela  de  Ávila  (El  Salvador),  Vice-
President, took the Chair.
In this new era we must have the boldness to end
attitudes and situations that are no longer helpful to the
process  of  globalization.  In  spite  of 
the  regular
acknowledgement  by  world 
and  other
leaders 
influential  policy  makers  of  the  need  for  poverty
alleviation,  those  in  a  position  to  do  so  have  failed  to
offer  credible  arrangements  for  debt  relief,  market
access and financing for development  which  would  go
a  long  way  in  enabling  developing  countries  to  build
viable  socio-economic  systems  capable  of  overcoming
the  fragmentation  and  marginalization  being  suffered
as  a  result  of  globalization.  On  the  contrary,  they  are
using 
their  pre-eminent  political  and  economic
positions  to  try  to  control  and  manipulate  developing
countries,  especially  countries  whose  Governments
they do not support.
It seems to me that the world community is yet to
translate  the  traditional  parochial  affirmation  of  the
need  for  equity,  fairness  and  solidarity  for  national
international  actions.
development 
into  concrete 
A/55/PV.20
Furthermore,  the  United  Nations  will  be  able  to  teach
lessons  of  equality  and  justice  to  its  members  only
when it practises those norms itself.
At  the  end  of  the  cold  war  the  peoples  of  the
world  heard  a  lot  about  the  peace  dividend.  Only  a
decade after this  new  concept  was  trumpeted  from  the
rooftops, it  has  turned out  to  be  non-existent.  But  that
concept  can  be  real  if  the  tenor  of  our  negotiations
reflects an awareness of our common humanity and its
highest values rather than the diplomatic stock-in-trade
of  an  era  shaped  by  competitive  warfare  and  an
unequal  advantage  of  the  rich  and  powerful  over  the
poor 
countries.
International cooperation for development must replace
inequity and war.
and  militarily 
insignificant 
of 
the 
context 
Transforming 
international
cooperation  for  development  depends  as  much  on  the
level  of  commitment  of  individuals  and  groups  in  our
respective  countries  as  it  does  on  what  we  do  as
political leaders and policy makers. In this connection,
reinforcing  and  enhancing  the  network  of  linkages
between  the  United  Nations  and  civil  society  is  a
fundamental  necessity.  Unless  our  actions  reflect  this
strategic  understanding  of  the  nature  of  decision-
making  in  the  world  today,  we  are  unlikely  to  benefit
from the mistakes of our past efforts.
We  accordingly  urge  the  Secretary-General  to
examine  ways  of  ensuring  common,  acceptable
standards  for  accountability  and  transparency,  even  in
the operations of non-governmental organizations  with
respect  to  their  participation  in  the  United  Nations.  In
addition,  a  greater  effort  should  be  made  to  build  the
organizations 
capacity 
in
developing 
non-governmental
organization  participation  in  the  United  Nations  could
reflect the diversity of interests across the world.
non-governmental 
that 
countries 
so 
of 
Ghana  welcomes 
the  contribution  of  non-
governmental  organizations  to  the  work  of  the  United
Nations and individual countries, but must at the same
time  caution  against 
the  genuine  and
democratic  voice  of  a  people  with  those  of  externally
controlled  non-governmental  organizations  and 
the
private sector. Non-governmental organizations and the
private sector are vital  agents  of  change  in  developing
countries,  but  they  should  not  replace  the  voice  of  a
people, if democracy is to retain credibility.
replacing 
In an age of globalization and of our increasingly
knowledge-based  society,  we  feel  that  the  United
19
A/55/PV.20
Nations  has  a  major  responsibility  to  support  the
development  efforts  of  the  developing  countries,  and
that  the  international  community  should  provide  the
necessary  resources  for  it  to  do  so.  We  therefore  call
once again on all Member States to fulfil their financial
obligations under the Charter in full and on time.
countries which have not yet ratified the Convention to
take steps to do so, and urge prompt implementation of
the  provisions  of  the  Convention.  We  also  urge  those
who  have  entered  reservations  incompatible  with  the
purpose of the Convention to reconsider their stance, in
the interest of advancing the cause of women.
The 
challenges 
such  as 
facing 
the 
the  growing 
international
community, 
income  and
technology  gaps  between  the  North  and  the  South,
poverty and deprivation, point to the need for stronger
cooperation  between  the  developed  and  developing
countries.  A  concerted  effort  will  be  required  to
promote a systematic dialogue between the two groups
to find solutions to these problems.
in 
that 
indeed, 
the  vocation  — 
the  North-South  partnership 
the
It  must  be 
to
commitment — of 
ensure 
the  new  millennium  governance,
nationally and globally, rests on the recognition that the
wealth of some must not lead to the impoverishment of
others,  and  that  every  person  on  this  earth  must  have
access  to  certain  basic  social  services,  such  as  health
care,  education,  food  and  safe  water,  no  matter  which
corner  of  the  earth  he  or  she  inhabits.  Thus  the  rich
countries have an indispensable role to play by further
opening  their  markets,  by  providing  larger  and  faster
debt  relief  and  by  giving  more  and  better  focused
development  assistance,  which  would  enable  poorer
countries to sustain a meaningful level of development.
It  is  only  fitting  that  as  a  developing  economy,
Ghana  identifies  itself  with  the  cause  of  the  least
developed  countries,  most  of  which  are  in  Africa.  In
this  connection,  we  fully  subscribe  to  the  preparatory
work  for  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the
Least Developed Countries. We expect consensus to be
reached  on  the  accessibility  of  products  of 
least
developed countries to the developed markets.
Our  comments  on 
this  occasion  would  be
incomplete  without touching upon the  crucial  question
of  the  empowerment  of  women  and  the  attainment  of
gender balance. We also wish to express concern about
the  persistence  of  discrimination  against  women  in
most  parts  of  the  world  in  spite  of  the  progress
the  Fourth  World  Conference  on
achieved  since 
Women,  held 
in  1995.  The  challenges 
the
achievement  of  gender  balance  can  be  eliminated
through  a  renewed  commitment  to  the  implementation
of  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Discrimination against Women. We therefore call on all
to 
20
The  promotion  and  protection  of  the  rights  of
children  are  of  equal  concern  to  my  delegation.  They
are  the  compelling  reasons  for  our  co-hosting  jointly
with  the  Government  of  Canada  a  workshop  on
children  in  armed  conflicts.  It  is  our  expectation  that
Member  States  will  endeavour  to  ratify  the  Optional
Protocol  to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child
before the General  Assembly’s special session in 2001
that  will  review  the  implementation  of  the  World
Declaration 
and
Development of Children and of the Plan of  Action. It
is  also  our  hope  that  the  positive  outcome  of  the  just
ended 
International  Conference  on  War-affected
Children,  held  in  Winnipeg,  Canada,  will  be  fully
implemented  to  ensure  the  worldwide  protection  of
children during conflicts.
Protection 
Survival, 
on 
the 
I  now  turn  to  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  whose
impact has been greatest in sub-Saharan  Africa,  where
it  is  estimated  to  have  affected  the  modest  gains  in
social  development.  Statistics  released  during  the  XIII
International AIDS Conference in South Africa in July
this  year showed that almost a third of all people  with
HIV/AIDS  are  between  the  ages  of  15  and  24  years.
Every minute six people under the age of 25 catch HIV,
with girls more than 50 per cent more likely to contract
the  virus  than  boys.  Based  on  this  data,  the  United
Nations  Children’s  Fund  (UNICEF)  has  emphasized
that  to  defeat  the  disease,  Governments  must  commit
themselves to “the largest  mobilization of resources  in
their  history”  and  organize  themselves  as  if  they  were
fighting  “a  full-blown  war  of  liberation”,  with  young
people in the forefront.
staggering 
the
conscience  of  the  entire  international  community  into
rendering  full  support  for  efforts 
to  control  and
minimize the spread of the disease. Ghana supports the
Secretary-General’s  proposal  for  the  adoption  of  2005
and 2010 respectively as deadlines by which to reduce
the  rate  of  infection  of  young  persons  through  the
assurance  by 
their
pharmaceutical  industries  of  the  easy  availability  of
inexpensive vaccines. To reach that goal, we must also
invest  in  education,  publicity,  open  discussions  and
the  developed  partners  and 
situation  must  prick 
This 
moral  counselling  of  our  youth,  in  particular.  They
must  understand that it is  indeed possible to  avoid  the
disease  by  exercising  care,  since  this  fatal  disease  is
transmitted  in  a  very  limited  number  of  ways.  We
appeal 
full
cooperation.
to  our  developed  partners 
their 
for 
the  only 
instrument  for  confronting 
this  millennium.  However, 
Finally, there is no doubt that the United Nations
the
remains 
challenges  of 
it  can
surmount these challenges only by sustaining the good
will and credibility it enjoys among Member States and
this  can  be  achieved  only  by  expediting 
the
democratization  of  the  Organization.  May  the  new
vision  which  our 
the
Organization in this new century spur us all to concrete
action to free our peoples, whose faith and trust reside
in us, from fear, want and exclusion.
leaders  have  charted 
for 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Aleksandar
Dimitrov,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Mr.  Dimitrov  (the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia): At the outset, I would like to congratulate
Mr. Holkeri on his election as President of the General
Assembly at  its  fifty-fifth  session.  At  the  same time, I
would like to express our appreciation to the President
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fourth  session,
Mr. Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  for  the  results  achieved  during
his presidency.
On this occasion, I would also like to express our
gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his
efficient  and  relevant  leadership  of  the  Organization.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  will  continue  actively  to
contribute to the realization of  the  goals  of the  United
Nations.
I  also  welcome  the  admission  of  Tuvalu  to  the
United Nations, wishing it success in its contribution to
United  Nations  activities  and  expressing  our  wish  to
establish  diplomatic  relations.  At  the  same  time,  the
Republic  of  Macedonia  expresses  its  readiness  and
calls for the acceleration of the process of establishing
diplomatic  relations  with  all  other  States  Members  of
the  United  Nations  with  which  we  have  not  yet  done
so.
In the region where the Republic of Macedonia is
located, the situation has to some extent improved after
the huge humanitarian crisis that took place in Kosovo.
A/55/PV.20
The  heavy  consequences  of  the  crisis,  which  posed  a
serious  threat  to  the  stability  and  security  of  the
Balkans  and  more  widely  in  Europe,  have  not  been
fully overcome.
The Republic of  Macedonia has  and  will  have  in
the future a vital role to play for peace and stability in
South-East  Europe  and  beyond.  The  risks  confronting
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  were  enormous.  The
Macedonian  Government  and  our  citizens  have  done
everything  within  their  capacity  to  respond  to  the
problems.  However,  as  was  the  case  in  the  previous
crises  that  occurred  in  the  Balkans  and  during  the
Kosovo  conflict  last  year  as  well,  as  one  of  the
countries  that  most  directly  felt  and  bore  the  brunt  of
the damage, the Republic of Macedonia has shown and
confirmed  its  long-term  commitment  to  acting  as  a
factor  for  peace  and  stability  in  the  region.  The
Government,  even  in  such  conditions,  persisted  in  its
policy to preserve the stability of the Macedonian State
and  at  the  same  time  to  reaffirm  its  capability  to
respond  to  all  challenges  and  risks  confronting  it,  in
particular in the economic and social fields.
relations 
resulting 
initiatives, 
One of the main priorities of the foreign policy of
the Republic of Macedonia is to further improve good-
neighbourly  relations  with  all  its  neighbours.  This
commitment  has  been  confirmed  through  a  number  of
in  more  advanced  and
our 
developed 
in  bilateral  cooperation  and
intensified  cooperation  within  the  framework  of  a
number  of  regional  initiatives.  My  country  is  aware
that  stability  and  prosperity,  in  the  medium  and  long
terms,  can  be  ensured  only  if  stability  is  spread
throughout  South-East  Europe,  with  intensive  mutual
communications  and  good-neighbourly  cooperation
among all States of the region.
My  country  has  managed,  with  almost  all  its
neighbours — Greece,  Albania  and  Bulgaria,  but  not
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  with  which  we
continue  to  negotiate  the  demarcation  of  our  common
border — to have outstanding relations and to develop
cooperation  in  many  areas  of  common  interest.  We
have significantly improved relations with our southern
neighbour,  Greece.  We  continue  to  hold  talks  on  our
differences  over  the  name  of  my  country,  under  the
auspices  of  the  Secretary-General,  expressing  our  will
and interest in resolving this issue as soon as possible,
taking  into  account  the  reality  and  dignity  of  the
country and all its citizens.
21
A/55/PV.20
their 
integration 
Despite the huge expectations and initial support,
the  project  that  is  most  expected  to  contribute  to  the
lasting  stabilization  of  the  region  —  the  Stability
Pact — has not  managed to ensure the implementation
of  a  large  number  of  ideas  and  plans  that  have  been
submitted  and  accepted.  The  Pact,  a  significant
example  of  the  joint  engagement  and  functioning  of  a
large number of international organizations and States,
is intended to hasten the revitalization of the countries
of  South-East  Europe  and 
into
European  structures.  I  appeal 
to  all  participants
engaged  in  this  process,  especially  the  donors  and  the
wider  international  community,  to  make  the  utmost
efforts  to  speed  its  urgent  and  timely  implementation
through  the  accelerated  and  full  realization  of  these
projects. This will provide for the economic prosperity
of  the  countries  of  South-East  Europe  and  strengthen
democratic  processes,  respect  for  human  rights  and
stability in the region. The implementation of the Pact
constitutes a  natural  upgrading  of our  activities  within
the  context  of  regional  initiatives  to  promote  good-
neighbourly 
the
realization  of  the  foreign  policy  priorities  of  my
country:  its  full  integration  into  the  European  and
Euro-Atlantic structures.
the  possibility  of 
relations  and 
In  addition  to  its  foreign  policy  activities,  the
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  is  fully
committed  to  carrying  out  fundamental  reforms  based
on  European  standards —  political,  economic  and
democratic — with maximum respect for human rights,
including  minority  rights.  The  Government  of  my
country  is  continuously  working  on  the  improvement
of  inter-ethnic  relations.  A  law  on  higher  education
was  recently  adopted  that  paves  the  way  for  private
higher education in minority languages. Therefore, as a
result  of  our  commitment,  concrete 
steps  and
achievements,  by  the  end of  this  year  my  country  will
be  the  first  in  the  region  to  conclude  the  Stabilization
and Association Agreement with the European Union.
the 
region, 
to  which 
The  efforts  of  the  international  community  to
stabilize 
the  Republic  of
Macedonia  has  contributed  widely,  are  beginning  to
show results. Despite the limitations, it should be taken
into  consideration  that  the  seriousness  and  complexity
of the situation in Kosovo, and in the Federal Republic
of  Yugoslavia  as a  whole,  mean  that the  consequences
of  this  situation  cannot  be  alleviated  with  the  speed
desired  by  all of  us,  especially  by  the  countries  of  the
region.
22
In  regard  to  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,
our  view  is  that  its  democratization  is  one  of  the  key
factors  for  the  comprehensive  stabilization  of  the
situation  in  the  region.  Our  joint  efforts  should  be
directed  at  support  for  the  democratic  forces  in  that
country  and  at  joint  actions  to  start  the  democratic
process, followed by the provision of opportunities for
economic  prosperity.  It  is  important  to  reassess  the
overall  effects  of  the  sanctions,  which  should  not  be
directed  at  the  citizens.  We  hope  that  the  upcoming
elections in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be
fair  and  democratic,  in  accordance  with  European  and
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
standards,  and  be  a  step 
that  country’s
democratization.
towards 
the 
the  Assembly  about 
Regarding the situation in the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia,  I  would  like,  in  my  capacity  as  Chairman
of  the  South-East  European  Cooperation  Process,  to
inform 
joint  declaration
recently  adopted  by  the  Foreign  Ministers  of  the
participating States in New York. In the declaration we,
the Foreign Ministers, expressed our concern about the
latest  developments  in  the  situation  in  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  as  regards 
the  upcoming
presidential and parliamentary elections, and confirmed
our  support  for  the  democratic  forces  in  that  country
and for its efforts to start the democratic process.
the  succession 
All  of  this  might  contribute  to  the  integration  of
that country into the international community and to its
participation in the work of international organizations,
following the path that all the other successor States of
the  former  Yugoslavia  have  taken.  Furthermore,  the
resolution  of 
the  former
Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  on  the  basis
of the equality of all successors — as acknowledged by
the  decisions  of  the  European  Union/United  Nations
International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, as
well  as  by  the  relevant  Security  Council  and  General
Assembly  resolutions  —  is  a  prerequisite  for  stability
and peace in the region.
issue  of 
Concerning  the  issue  of  succession,  I  would  like
to  point  out  that  during  the  Millennium  Summit  and
Millennium  Assembly,  the  four  successor  States  have
once again reaffirmed their joint position and proposed
to work more intensively to settle this issue.
Furthermore, I  would  like  to  express  our  support
for the stability and the reform processes undertaken in
Montenegro  and  for  the  efforts  of  the  democratically
there 
elected  Government 
to  continue  pursuing
economic  and  democratic  development.  We  also
support  that  Government’s  greater  involvement  in  the
work  of  international  bodies  and  organizations  and  in
other regional cooperation processes.
The consistent position of my country, which was
stated  well  before  the  outbreak  of  the  Kosovo  crisis
and  adoption  of  the  Security  Council  resolution  1244
(1999), was to support a peaceful and political solution
to  the  Kosovo  crisis  through  substantial  autonomy  in
the  framework  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,
respect  for  the  human  rights  of  all  living  in  Kosovo,
respect for the inviolability of the existing borders and,
finally,  the  economic  reconstruction  and  stabilization
of Kosovo and of the region.
We  support  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations
Interim  Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  and  the
Kosovo  Force  (KFOR).  We  are  convinced  of  the  need
to  build  democratic  institutions  and  a  multi-ethnic
society in Kosovo, and to find a model of civil society
that does away with any propensity to create ethnically
cleansed  territories.  The  local  elections  in  Kosovo  are
of paramount importance for its future.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  is  concerned  about
the  reported  violence  and  the  increased  number  of
inter-ethnic  incidents  and  tensions  in  Kosovo.  We
consider  that  KFOR  should  strengthen 
its  border
control  activities,  with  the  aim  of  preventing  violence
from  spilling  over  into  the  neighbouring  countries,
including my country. I am stressing this because there
have been several serious incidents at the border of the
Republic of Macedonia.
In the hope that the developments in Kosovo will
be  the  last  serious  challenge  in  the  Balkans,  we  will
have  to  defend  together  more  successfully  democratic
principles and values and develop long-term preventive
strategies.  Regional  stability  can  be  provided  only  by
economic prosperity, democracy and respect for human
rights  and  the  rights  of  national  minorities,  as  well  as
through  intensive  regional  and  bilateral  cooperation.
However, the most serious guarantee for the security of
the  region  and  its  transformation  into  an  area  of
democracy,  development,  stability  and  cooperation
remains 
full-fledged
membership  of  the  countries  from  the  region  in  the
European  Union  and 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty
Organization (NATO).
integration 
early 
and 
the 
A/55/PV.20
to  analyse 
This  year’s  Millennium  Assembly  presents  a
genuine  opportunity 
the  work  of  our
Organization and to evaluate its efficiency in resolving
issues  of  international  interest.  We  all  hope  that  the
directions 
future  development  will  also  be
underscored,  with  the  aim  of  further  promoting  the
achieved results and practices.
for 
the  question  of 
One  of  the  main  characteristics  of  the  modern
world  is that  now  more  than  ever  there  is  a  great  deal
of  interdependence.  This  represents  a  new  challenge,
and  at  the  same  time  is  a  new  feature  of  international
relations.  Moreover,  when  everybody  is  talking  about
the  enormous  significance  of  the  ever  more  important
multilateral  character  of  the  international  scene  and
about  globalization, 
the  equal
participation  of  all  the  world’s  actors  is  being  raised.
That  is,  at  issue  is  the  official  representation  of  the
voices  of  all  peoples.  In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to
express  our  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  Republic  of
China  on  Taiwan 
the
international  community,  taking  into  consideration  the
its  significant
interests  of 
contribution 
the
solidarity  it  has  shown.  It  is  in  the  interest  of  our
Organization that the 23 million people of the Republic
of China participate in its activities.
that  country  and  also 
to 
international  cooperation  and 
to  become 
integrated 
into 
The  negative  effects  of  crises,  threats  to  peace,
security  and  economic  development,  and  the  pollution
of the environment are felt globally. In accordance with
the  new  situation  in  international  relations,  needs  and
visions,  an  obvious  demand  exists  to  strengthen  the
role  of  the  United  Nations.  Our  Organization  can
successfully carry out its activities only if the Member
States fully contribute to their realization.
In  order  to  allow  the  Organization  to  be  able  to
play  a  successful  role  in  the  twenty-first  century,  it  is
necessary  to  adequately  reform  it.  We  welcome  the
efforts  made  by  the  Secretary-General  thus  far  to  this
effect, and at the same time we would like to urge him
and  the  Member  States  to  continue.  Furthermore,  I
would  like  to  underline  that  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations  will  be  successful  only  if  strengthening  the
role of the General Assembly follows the reform of the
Security  Council.  In  our  view,  it  is  necessary  to
increase  the  number  of  permanent  and  non-permanent
members  of  the  Security  Council  on  the  basis  of  the
new  reality 
international  relations.  These  new
members  should  come  from  both  the  developing  and
developed countries.
in 
23
A/55/PV.20
What needs to be done so that the United Nations
can  adequately  respond  to  the  challenges  of  this
century?  The  Millennium  Summit  offered  part  of  the
answer.  The  adopted  Millennium  Summit  Declaration
creates obligations for all Member States in their future
endeavours.  We  share  the  opinion  that,  although  the
Declaration is a political document, it is  first of all  an
action plan of our Organization for the period to come.
Stressing  the  importance  of  the  adopted  document,  I
would  like  to  urge  the  General  Assembly  to  begin
implementing  it.  In  these  efforts,  the  Republic  of
Macedonia will actively contribute.
The Republic of Macedonia will also continue to
contribute  to  the  strengthening  of  international  peace
and  security.  I  emphasize  that  part  of  our  contribution
to the realization of the issues will be elaborated under
the three agenda items as a follow-up to the resolutions
submitted by the Republic of Macedonia.
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and
security  worldwide  will  continue  to  be  the  priority  of
our  Organization  in  the  twenty-first  century.  As  the
Secretary-General  stated  in  his  report,  the  world,  and
our  Organization  in  particular,  will  be  faced  with  the
need  to  be  fully  involved  in  conflict  prevention,
conflict resolution and the development of the affected
States. Therefore, prevention should become one of the
primary  instruments  of  our  Organization.  In  regard  to
our  contribution  to  prevention  activities  and  policy,  I
would like to inform the Assembly that in the Republic
of  Macedonia  an 
international  centre  for  conflict
prevention and resolution is being established.
Of  great  importance  to  stability  and  security,  in
our  view,  is  the  control  of  small  arms  and  light
weapons,  which  pose  a  large  threat  to  peace  in  many
regions  of  the  world.  In  that  connection,  the  United
Nations, 
regional
organizations,  such  as  the  Organization  for  Security
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and  the  North
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO),  can  have  a
serious impact on preventing the proliferation of small
arms and light weapons.
cooperation  with 
other 
in 
We  urge  the  international  community  to  take
strong  measures  in  its  efforts  to  stop  arms  trafficking,
especially  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  In  that
respect,  we  hope  that  that  the  international  conference
on  this  issue,  which  will  take  place  next  year,  will
contribute to more efficient actions.
24
the  appeal 
Among  the  reasons  for  the  eruption  of  a  large
number of local conflicts worldwide are economic and
social  factors.  Globalization,  apart  from  its  positive
effects,  has  a  number  of  negative  implications  for  the
small  and 
least  developed  economies.  Financial
resources  for  development  are  necessary;  realistically,
the  United  Nations  is  not  able  to  provide  them.  We
support 
the  necessary  voluntary
contributions from Member States, but also the idea of
involving  other  participants,  such  as 
international
financial  institutions,  the  private  sector  and  other
bodies.  In 
this  respect,  we  welcome  next  year’s
international 
for
Development. I underline that  writing off the debts, or
part of them, of countries affected by objective external
influences would have a very positive impact. It would
also 
and
unemployment 
economic
development of the indebted countries.
diminish 
aid 
Conference 
Financing 
poverty 
overall 
global 
help 
the 
to 
and 
for 
on 
in 
the  promotion 
impressive  development  of 
The  General  Assembly  is  the  proper  place  for
evaluating  achievements 
and
protection  of  human  rights  and  freedoms.  There  has
been  an 
international
human  rights  law  in  the  last  50  years.  Today  we  can
proudly state that the United Nations, with the adoption
of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and
other 
the
international consensus  —  that  human  dignity  is  to  be
the basic standard and the main goal for all people and
nations.
instruments, 
succeeded 
affirming 
in 
Last year we marked the tenth anniversary of the
adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child,
and  next  year  there  will  be  a  world  summit  on  this
issue. I take this opportunity to announce the intention
of the  Republic of  Macedonia  to  sign  in  the  very  near
future  the  two  Optional  Protocols  to  the  Convention,
the  first  on  the  involvement  of  children  in  armed
conflict  and  the  second  on  the  sale  of  children,  child
prostitution and child pornography.
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  single  out  a
few  issues  to  which  my  Government  attaches  crucial
importance:  first  the  situation  in  Africa,  both  political
the  Middle  East  peace
and  economic;  secondly, 
process; 
situation  of  our
Organization —  all  Member  States  should  fulfil  their
obligations;  and, 
finally  peacekeeping  operations,
which contribute to the affirmation of our Organization
on  a  global  scale.  This  is  the  right  moment  for  their
financial 
thirdly, 
the 
restructuring  and  strengthening  on  the  basis  of  the
report (A/55/305) prepared by the Brahimi Panel.
securing peace, of fighting poverty and of empowering
and liberating oppressed peoples.
A/55/PV.20
Many  challenges  await  us  in  the  twenty-first
century.  Our  obligation  is  to  make  the  world  a  better
and  happier  place  to  live  in.  In  the  realization  of  that
aim,  the  United  Nations  has  a  significant  place  and
role.  The  significance  and  existence  of  our  universal
Organization  lies  in  its  skilfulness  in  adapting  to  real
situations and future challenges.
We  expect  this  year’s  Millennium  Assembly  to
contribute  to  the  realization  of  this  aim.  I  assure  the
Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia’s contribution
to its successful fulfilment.
The Acting President: (spoke in Spanish) Before
calling  on  the  next  speaker,  the  Foreign  Minister  of
Australia, I draw the attention of Member States to the
appeal  in  connection  with  the  observance  of  the
the  XXVII
Olympic  Truce  during 
Olympiad,  held 
from  15
September  to  l  October.  The  appeal  was  made  on  5
September, at the closing of the  fifty-fourth  session of
the  General  Assembly,  by 
the  President  of 
the
Assembly for that session, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab.
in  Sydney,  Australia, 
the  games  of 
I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  The  Honourable
Alexander  Downer,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Australia.
Mr. Downer (Australia): I join  my  colleagues  in
congratulating 
the  President  on  his  election  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  its  fifty-fifth
session  and  you,  Madam  Vice-President,  on  your
election to your position.
I  am  also  delighted  to  welcome  Tuvalu  as  the
189th  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  Australia  has
long-standing  and  very  friendly  relations  with  Tuvalu,
and  we  have  worked  closely  together  as  members  of
the  South  Pacific  Forum  and  the  Commonwealth.  We
are pleased that Tuvalu is now a Member of the United
Nations, and look forward to new opportunities to work
together for the United Nations common goals of peace
and development.
We  meet  today  just  after  the  largest  number  of
heads of State and Government in history gathered for
the Millennium Summit. While the Summit touched on
the  multitude of problems facing the  world at the start
of  a  new  century,  a  theme  common  to  many  speeches
was the need for the United Nations to reform so as to
meet  the  challenges  of  the  era:  the  challenges  of
I want to respond to those calls for reform in  my
remarks to the Assembly today.
to  keep  up  with 
international 
Without  continuing  commitment  to  reform,  the
United  Nations — like  any  organization  —  cannot
expect 
the
contemporary 
the
absence  of  change  and  adaptation,  the  Organization
will  wither  as  the  nations  of  the  world  bypass  it  in
favour  of  institutions  and  mechanisms  that  are  more
relevant to their needs.
rapid  change 
environment. 
in 
In 
Australians  believe  that  the  most  fundamental
task of the Organization — and the very reason for its
creation at  the  end of the  Second  World  War  — is  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  In
recent  years  we  have  seen the  United  Nations perform
at  both  ends  of 
the  spectrum  of  relevance  and
effectiveness: at a low point in addressing problems in
Kosovo  and  Rwanda,  and  at  a  high  point  in  the
resolution of the conflict in East Timor.
I  am  a  strong  advocate  of  an  active  role  for  the
United  Nations  in  the  restoration  and  preservation  of
international peace and security, especially in situations
where  there  may  be  imminent  danger  of  humanitarian
catastrophe.  Appropriate  action  by  the  United  Nations
in 
than  perhaps
anything  else  to  demonstrate  the  continuing  relevance
of  the  Organization  to  an  often  sceptical  international
public.
these  circumstances  does  more 
Today I want to focus attention on four aspects of
reform within the United Nations system: reform of the
Security  Council;  electoral  group  reconfiguration;
reform  of  peacekeeping;  and  reform  of  the  human
rights  treaty  committee  system.  It  is  our  view  that
progress  in  each  of  these  areas  must  be  achieved  to
enable the United Nations to deliver results and ensure
its relevance and effectiveness.
Reform and expansion of  the  Security  Council is
driven  by  two  fundamental,  interrelated  imperatives:
the  need  to  restore  the  representative  nature  of  the
Council by reconfiguring its composition to reflect the
size  and  diversity  of  contemporary  United  Nations
membership,  and  the  need  to  enhance  the  Council’s
credibility, authority and legitimacy.
The Australian Government’s view has long been
that  expansion  in  both  categories  of  membership  is
25
A/55/PV.20
needed to restore balance and equity to the composition
of 
the  Council.  New  permanent  seats  should  be
assumed  by  the  under-represented  developing  regions
of  the  world.  New  permanent  seats  should  also  be
allocated  to  the  major  industrialized  Powers  best  able
to contribute to the maintenance of international peace
and  security.  Equally  importantly,  other  Members  of
the  United  Nations  should  be  given  the  opportunity  to
contribute  directly  to  the  work  of  the  Council  through
periodic  participation  as  elected  members.  Expansion
of  the  non-permanent  membership  would  enhance  the
representative  nature of  the Council,  enabling  it  to  act
genuinely on behalf of the whole membership.
Australia has long voiced concerns about the veto
and continues to argue that there must be limitations on
its  use.  Of  course,  all  permanent  members  of  the
Council,  old  and  new,  must  remain  accountable  for
their  performance,  and 
this  end  any  new
arrangements for the Council should be reviewed after
10 or 15 years.
to 
Regrettably,  discussion  on  Security  Council
reform  has  failed  to  reach  agreement  on  a  package  of
reforms in the six years since the Open-ended Working
Group  was  established.  The  impasse  is  disappointing,
and  I  hope  that  this  session  will  give  new  impetus  to
the  reform  effort.  It  is  clear  from  statements  at  the
Millennium Summit, and during this  debate, that  there
is strong support for reform. Renewed commitment and
flexibility are needed from all sides.
In the recent debate about United Nations reform,
one key element has largely been missing. I refer to the
United  Nations  electoral  groups.  The  electoral  groups
were  established  to  ensure  that  there  was  fair  and
equitable  representation  on  United  Nations  bodies,  so
that all Members who wanted to make a contribution to
United  Nations  decision-making  would  have  an
opportunity  to  do  so.  Now  that  three  decades  have
passed since the formalization of the present groups, it
is  time  that  we  focused  on  their  relevance  to  present
and future geopolitical realities.
The current  group  system  reflects the  geopolitics
of  the  1960s.  Since  that  time,  more  than  60  nations
have  joined  the  United  Nations,  leading  to  significant
disparities  between  the  size  of  groupings  and  an
inadequate level of representation for some subregions.
In addition, the original rationale for the configuration
of the electoral groups has eroded, creating dissonance
26
in  the  way  many  Member  States  organize  themselves
politically and electorally.
The previous realignment of groups in 1963 was a
long  and  difficult  process,  impelled  by  significant
changes to the United Nations system after the entry of
many newly independent States from Africa and Asia. I
recognize that group reconfiguration is no easy matter,
and accept that change now will be similarly complex.
For  that  very  reason,  we  should  delay  no  longer  in
commencing  a  serious  debate  of  these  issues.  While
there  are  many  possible  configurations  for  revised
electoral  groupings,  and  many  sensitivities  around
altering  the  status  quo,  the  dramatic  global  changes
since  the  current  system  came  into  force  have  created
historical  anomalies  that  cry  out  to  be  redressed.
Australia  looks  forward  to  working  with  others  to
achieve that goal.
As  part  of 
the  Australian  Government’s
commitment  to  a  strong  and  relevant  United  Nations,
we recently  completed  a review  of the  United  Nations
human  rights  committee  system,  with  the  objective  of
improving  its  effectiveness.  The  review  proceeded
from 
the
international promotion and protection of human rights,
and a firm belief that the  United  Nations  has  a central
role to play.
our  Government’s 
commitment 
to 
Australia  has  a  proud  human  rights  record,  and
we 
take  our 
international  rights  and  obligations
seriously. We are party to both human rights Covenants
and  to  the  four  conventions.  Within  Australia,  which
has a strong civil society, human rights are protected by
a  range  of  key  civil  and  political  mechanisms,
including 
our
Constitution, an independent judiciary, a free press and
wide-ranging 
legislation.
Internationally,  Australia  is  a  strong  proponent  of  the
universal  application  of  human  rights  standards  and  is
committed 
international
human rights protection.
to  continued  support  for 
anti-discrimination 
democratic 
tradition, 
strong 
a 
to 
lose 
We are concerned that the committees established
to monitor international compliance  with human rights
treaties  are  beginning 
and
effectiveness because of the way they operate. It is also
important that the international protection system work
efficiently and effectively so that democratic countries,
such  as  Australia,  which  have  a  proud  record  of
extending  generous  humanitarian 
can
continue  to  have  the  confidence  and  support  of  their
credibility 
assistance 
own  domestic  constituencies  for  such  humanitarian
protection.
discuss  reform  issues  and  provide  guidance  to  the
respective committees on their working methods.
A/55/PV.20
It 
is 
important 
Australia’s  review  found  that  the  committees
need  to  adopt  a  more  consistent approach  to  their  role
and understand the pitfalls of simply accepting without
analysis  the  submissions  put  before  them  by  non-
governmental  organizations. 
that
adequate recognition be given to the role and views of
Governments  which  are  democratically  elected  and
which  take  their  treaty  commitments  and  reporting
obligations  seriously.  The  committees  also  need  to  be
more balanced and strategic about targeting key human
rights  offenders  and  avoid  unfairly  focusing  their
criticism on countries with good human rights records.
For  some  years  now  Australia,  together  with  a
number  of  other  countries,  including  Canada,  New
Zealand  and  Norway,  has  been  advocating  reform  of
the  treaty  committees.  Most  recently,  the  Australian
Mission  to  the  United  Nations  in  Geneva  hosted  a
meeting  of  about  20  countries 
treaty
committee  reform.  The  United  Nations  itself  has  also
recognized the need for reform of the treaty committee
system,  and  Australia  has  been  fully  supportive  of
these international reform efforts.
to  discuss 
initiative 
Australia  now  intends to broaden  such  efforts  by
spearheading  a  high-level  diplomatic 
to
garner  broad  support  for  reforms  to  improve  the
functioning of the committees and professionalize their
operations.  Reforms  could  include  the  provision  of
adequate 
treaty
committees,  improvements  in  their  working  methods,
standardized  rules  of  procedure  when  considering
States’  reports  and  better  consultation  between  the
committees 
reporting
timetables and to facilitate cooperative work on reform
issues.
the  human 
themselves 
coordinate 
resources 
rights 
to 
to 
But Australia does not have a monopoly on good
ideas,  and  we  want  to  work  closely  with  United
Nations  officials  and  with  like-minded  countries  to
make 
system  work  more
effectively  for  the  good  of  all  Member  States  and  for
the protection of human rights.
treaty  committee 
the 
issues 
We will therefore be talking widely with others to
develop  concrete  proposals  for  reform.  We  will  raise
these 
the
Commission on Human Rights and in other appropriate
meetings.  We  also  think  that  the  regular  meetings  of
States  parties  to  the  six  human  rights  treaties  should
the  General  Assembly,  at 
in 
Australia  wants  to  maximize  the  effectiveness  of
the  treaty  bodies.  We  will  not  shy  away  from  our
responsibilities,  but  will  press  for  the  reforms  that  are
needed  to  make  the  system  work  well  and  achieve  its
objectives.  If  reform  does  not  occur,  the  committee
system  will 
ignored  and  made
redundant.  That  would  be  a  setback  for  the  cause  of
human rights.
increasingly  be 
that 
I  believe 
I now turn to the  matter of peacekeeping and the
maintenance  of  international  security.  Australia  has  a
long and honourable tradition as a participant in United
Nations peacekeeping operations, most recently in East
Timor,  and 
the  strength  of  our
commitment  is  reflected  in  the  recent  appointment  by
the Secretary-General of Australian Major-General Tim
Ford  as  his  Military  Adviser.  The  experience  of  the
1990s  has  clearly  shown  that  the  ability  of  the  United
Nations 
increasingly
complex  range  of  peacekeeping  demands  is  under
strain. The decade witnessed some important successes
in peacekeeping, notably in East Timor, but  also  some
smaller  and  frankly  rather  unheralded  operations.  It
also  saw  some  tragic  failures, the  costs  of  which  were
often measured in human lives.
to  meet  an  expanding  and 
I  commend  the  Secretary-General’s  commitment
to  blunt  scrutiny  and  review  of  the  United  Nations
performance,  including  the  reports  on  Srebrenica  and
Rwanda.  We  particularly  commend  his  initiative  in
convening the Brahimi Panel on United  Nations Peace
Operations.  The  Brahimi  report  (A/55/305) 
is  a
landmark  document,  setting  out  a  blueprint 
for
modernizing  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and
related  functions.  We  must  move  expeditiously  to
consider its recommendations.
Let  me  highlight  briefly  five  points  that,  in
the  most  significant
Australia’s  view,  are  among 
lessons of recent experiences.
First, military intervention must be used only as a
last  resort.  All  efforts  must  be  made  to  find  peaceful
solutions.  In  this  context,  we  welcome  the  Brahimi
report’s  emphasis  on  preventive  action  and  peace-
building.
Secondly,  when  the  United  Nations  is  deployed,
there must be a peace to keep. There are real dangers in
sending  troops  indefinitely  into  harm’s  way  in  the
27
A/55/PV.20
absence of a clear peace plan and reasonable prospects
of achieving it. Disputing parties must be committed to
peace and must be held accountable for their actions.
Thirdly,  peace  operations  must  have  a  mandate
from the Security Council that is appropriate to the job
they  are  being  asked  to  do.  If  the  environment  is
hostile,  they  must  be  appropriately  equipped  and  able
to project credible force.
Fourthly,  deployment  must  take  place  quickly
once  a  decision  is  taken  by  the  Security  Council.
Delays  can  lead  to  the  further  deterioration  of  a
situation and can cost lives. The Brahimi report offers a
number  of  useful  ideas  to  speed  deployment  which
merit careful consideration.
Fifthly,  United  Nations  peace  operations  must
have a clear exit strategy. This is linked in particular to
the clarity  of  Council  mandates:  as  the  Brahimi  report
rightly  stresses,  mandates  must  be  clear,  credible  and
achievable.  It 
the  efficacy  of
accompanying  peace  processes  and  peace-building
efforts.
is  also 
linked 
to 
that 
We welcome the attention given to these issues in
the  Brahimi  report.  We  also  support  the  point  that  the
United Nations must be given the resources it needs to
carry  out the  demands that we  make  of it. There is  no
question 
the  Department  of  Peacekeeping
Operations  needs  to  be  strengthened  and  reformed.
Ultimately,  it  is  our  responsibility,  as  Member  States,
to support a stronger and more effective United Nations
peacekeeping  capacity.  This 
the
financing  of  peacekeeping  on  a  surer  footing  and
paying our assessed contributions in full and on time.
includes  placing 
I  cannot  conclude  without  referring 
the
to 
question  of  East  Timor.  When  I  addressed 
this
Assembly one year ago East Timor was in the throes of
the most appalling violence at the hands of a brutal and
lawless militia. Since then important progress has been
made in restoring security and building the foundations
of an independent East Timor. Australia pays tribute to
the  men  and  women  of  the International  Force  in  East
Timor  and  of 
the  United  Nations  Transitional
28
Administration  in  East  Timor  for  their  commitment
and, in too many cases, their sacrifice.
East  Timor  faces  a  long  and  difficult  path  to
peace and prosperity.  Australia is playing  a  major  role
in  the  territory’s  reconstruction  through  the  United
Nations  and other  organizations, as  well  as  bilaterally.
We are committed for the long term to helping the East
Timorese  build  their  emerging  nation  not  only  for  the
benefit  of  the  East  Timorese,  but  in  the  interests  of
stability and security in our region.
Regrettably,  the  pro-integration  militia  continue
to  pose  a  significant  threat  to  security  and  stability.
Intimidation  and  violence  against  Timorese  refugees
and  humanitarian  aid  personnel  in  the  camps  on  the
East-West Timor border  must be halted. The  killing of
workers  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  earlier  this
month  deserves  the  world’s  strongest  condemnation.
Australia  reiterates  its  call  on  Indonesia  to  fulfil  its
responsibility  to  provide  effective  security  in  West
Timor, including by bringing to an end militia activity,
bringing 
those  responsible  for  crimes,
creating  the  necessary  conditions  for  the  return  of
UNHCR  and  resolving  the  refugee  situation.  We  urge
the  Indonesian  authorities  to  take  all  possible  steps  in
this direction, including cooperating with the proposed
Security Council mission.
justice 
to 
If  the  United  Nations  is  to  remain  relevant  and
credible,  it  must  work  on  its  strengths  and  maintain  a
strong  commitment  to  a  continuing  programme  of
reform  and  renewal.  The  challenges  that  face  the
Organization  are  formidable,  but  not  insurmountable.
The  need  for  change  is  clear  and  urgent,  but  I  believe
that it is not beyond the ingenuity and good will of our
generation to emulate our predecessors in grasping the
reform nettle.
At  the  Millennium  Summit  the  world’s  leaders
highlighted the need for the United Nations to meet the
challenges  of  the  new  century.  Let  us  heed  their  call,
and  work  together  with  renewed  determination  and
commitment 
this  Organization  more
representative and much more effective.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
to  make 
