
A/55/PV.51
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Fifty-fifth session 

51st plenary meeting 
Friday, 3 November 2000, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Holkeri 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland) 
  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 
for 
research  and 
estimates  of  the  United  Nations  Children’s  Fund  and 
the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS),  34  million  people  are  affected  by 
HIV/AIDS today, about 30 per cent of whom — almost 
10 million — are between 15 and 24 years old. 

HIV/AIDS  is  destroying  our  populations  and  my 
country  is  bearing  the  full  brunt  of  the  assault. 
Information  gathered  by  the  Centre  GHEISKO  —  a 
Haitian  centre 
information  on 
Karposi’s Sarcoma and opportunistic infections — and 
by  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health  indicates  that  5  per 
cent  of  adults  are  seropositive  —  10  per  cent  of  the 
urban  adult  population  and  4  per  cent  of  the  rural 
population.  In  several  regions  of  the  country,  tests  for 
young  adults  between  the  ages  of  15  and  49  have 
shown  that  1  in  12  is  living  with  AIDS.  The  ratio  of 
men and women living with AIDS is almost 1:1 and 80 
per  cent  of  seropositive  young  adults  were  infected  in 
adolescence.  

Unprotected  sexual  relations  between  men  and 
women  are  among  the  main  causes  of  transmission  of 
this  disease.  On  the  one  hand,  young  women  who 
generally do not know  how to protect themselves tend 
to  believe  that  they  are  not  in  danger,  whereas  older 
men imagine  that they  cannot be  infected  if they  have 
relations with younger women. We should recall one of 
the  guidelines  of  the  HIV/AIDS  programme  of  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  which 
to  protect 
stipulates 
themselves  against  HIV/AIDS 
its 
consequences,  we  need  to  remedy  the  imbalance  in 
infection  and 
for  women 
in  order 
that, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

00-72689 (E) 
*0072689* 












Agenda item 179 (continued)
Review of the problem of human immunodeficiency 
virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in all its 
aspects 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/55/529) 
Draft resolution (A/55/L.13) 
Mr.  Lelong  (Haiti)  (spoke 

in  French):  My 
delegation associates itself with the statement made by 
Nigeria on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

Those  who  spoke  from  this  rostrum  yesterday 
addressed  many  crucial  aspects  of  the  AIDS  scourge, 
which  authorities  agree  is  now  a  widespread  and 
alarming  pandemic.  It  is  with  equal  concern  that  we 
resources  being 
see  our  economic  and  human 
decimated  and  our 
the 
uncontrolled spread of this pandemic. Mr. Mandela was 
right when he launched this warning at the 1997 Davos 
Economic Forum: 
jeopardized  by 
future 

“AIDS kills those on whom society relies to 
grow  the  crops,  work  in  the  mines  and  the 
factories, run the schools and govern nations and 
countries.” 

The  virus  was  identified  some  20  years  ago.  At 
the  time,  no  one  thought  that AIDS  would  become  an 
unprecedented  worldwide  problem.  According 
to 


A/55/PV.51 

the 
power  relations  between  individuals  and  in  society, 
which is manifest in the subordination of women.  

To our great despair, young adults affected by the 
virus often have underage children or elderly parents to 
support.  In  Haiti,  HIV/AIDS  is  not  just  a  health 
problem;  it  is  a  social,  economic,  educational,  moral 
and  cultural  obstacle,  since  it  spreads  in  an  extremely 
fragile  political  and  socio-economic  context.  The 
epidemic  simply  exacerbates 
inequalities  and 
poverty that affect the great majority of the population. 
AS  UNAIDS  stresses,  relations  between  economic 
development  policies  and  HIV/AIDS  are  complex. 
Throughout the country, data show that the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic  affects  and 
is  affected  by  economic 
development.  

This is a grim picture and these figures cause one 
to  shudder.  The  AIDS  epidemic  is  robbing  us  of  our 
future  although  we  have  the  means  to  stem  its  wild 
advance.  It  is  not  a  conventional  enemy,  but  it  claims 
more  victims  than  any  war.  Each  hour,  six  people  are 
infected,  110  die  of AIDS  and  110  new  cases  develop 
among  those  who  are  already  seropositive  in  our 
country.  More  than  150  Haitian  children  will  be 
orphaned by the end of the year — a statistic that could 
double by 2010. 

Aware of the gravity and urgency of the situation, 
my  Government  has  adopted  a  series  of  initiatives 
encompassing  questions  related  to  the  education  of 
women,  the  management  of  family  reproduction,  rape 
and  sexual  abuse,  child  prostitution  and  drugs.  Our 
Government,  together  with  certain  actors  of  civil 
society,  has  also  particularly  stressed  the  role  to  be 
played  by  the  media  in  preventing  AIDS  and  in 
educating  the  masses.  Educational  programmes  have 
been launched to make people aware of the disease and 
to  show  them  how  it  spreads  and  how  to  prevent  it. 
Community  programmes  established  with  some  non-
governmental  organizations  have  set  up  educational 
centres  where  courses  are  given  in  literacy,  health, 
family  planning,  AIDS  awareness  among  the  young 
and  sexually  transmitted  diseases.  Condoms  are  also 
distributed at these centres. 

Apart  from  this  type  of  initiative,  the  current 
trend  is  to  use  traditional  public  spaces,  such  as 
churches, 
for 
consciousness-raising.  The  Centre  GHEISKO  that  I 
referred  to  earlier  was  the  first  institution  of  the 
developing  countries  and  the  second  in  the  world  to 
rallying 
schools 
points, 
and 
tragedy, 
this  human 
international  solidarity 
is  now  recommended  by 
treat  AIDS  victims.  Today,  together  with  research 
centres in  Brazil and Trinidad  and Tobago,  studies  are 
under  way  to  find  an  AIDS  vaccine.  The  Centre  has 
developed a treatment for tuberculosis in AIDS patients 
that 
the  World  Health 
Organization. The drug used is known as “AZT for the 
poor”. The tireless work of Dr. Jean William Pape was 
recently recognized  at  the  awards ceremony  organized 
by UNDP on 23 October.  

Haiti, like many other countries ravaged by AIDS 
and  poverty,  needs  the  assistance  of  the  international 
community to  support  our  domestic  initiatives. It is in 
this  context  that  we  have  launched  an  initiative  to 
renew  partnership  and 
to 
in  which  we  are, 
confront 
unfortunately,  actors  and  spectators.  We 
therefore 
support  the  convening  of  a  special  session  of  the 
General Assembly  on  HIV/AIDS  in  order  to  elaborate 
strategies and measures to combat this scourge. Only a 
worldwide effort will allow us to overcome it. 

For all of these reasons, and  mindful of the need 
to  break  the  conspiracy  of  silence  around AIDS,  Haiti 
is  pleased  to  associate  itself  with  the  delegation  of 
Ukraine as a sponsor of the draft resolution on research 
in,  prevention  of  and  mobilizing  against  this  terrible 
scourge. 

of 
HIV/AIDS  has  become  a  serious  health  issue  that 
threatens to reverse a generation of accomplishments in 
human  development  and  is  now  becoming  a  social 
crisis  on  a  global  scale.  It  threatens  the  balance  of 
productive  employment  and  livelihood  of  people  in 
it  a  global  problem  of 
every  continent,  making 
unprecedented  magnitude  and  scope 
terms  of 
consequences for economic growth, social progress and 
international peace and security. 

Since  the  time  of  its  first  occurrence,  HIV/AIDS 
has  spread  in  a  dramatic  manner,  especially  in Africa. 
Of the estimated over 34.5 million HIV-positive people 
worldwide,  about  24.5  million  are  from  the  African 
continent.  What  this  means  is  that  the  demographic, 
economic  and  social  effects,  as  well  as  the  national 
security impact of AIDS on our countries, is enormous. 
The epidemic consumes our potential and requires that 
we divert our  meagre resources  from  our development 
endeavour to AIDS-related activities. 
AIDS affects  every  social  group in our  societies. 

It  is  taking  the  lives  of  our  citizens.  AIDS  does  not 
(Ethiopia):  The 
Mr.  Hussein 
spread 
in 
2 




A/55/PV.51
the 
business 
agencies, 
community, 
discriminate,  but  the  young  are  the  most  frequent 
victims of this disease. As this sector of the population 
constitutes  the  skilled  manpower  in  any  nation,  the 
impact of the loss of the young on economic and social 
development  can  hardly  be  overemphasized.  The 
number  of  children  infected  or  orphaned  by  AIDS  is 
ever increasing. In sum, AIDS is posing a serious threat 
to  our  present  and  future  generations,  and  thus  to  the 
very survival of humanity. 

The responsibility for finding solutions requires a 
comprehensive  approach  at  all  levels.  Above  all,  in 
order  to  fight  AIDS  effectively,  partnership  between 
non-governmental 
Government 
organizations, 
private 
citizens, HIV-infected people and AIDS activist groups 
is  essential.  Communities  and  Governments  should 
work hand in hand to find a solution. In recognition of 
this reality, the current Government in  my country has 
formulated  a  new  comprehensive  HIV/AIDS  policy 
aimed  at  creating  a  conducive  environment 
for 
enhanced partnership among the Government, the civil 
society  and  the  international  community  to  fight  the 
disease. In order to  mobilize all sectors of the society, 
the  Federal  Government  of  Ethiopia  has  established  a 
the 
National  Council  under 
President 
the 
programme.  For  our  efforts  to  succeed,  however, 
international  support  and  assistance  are  indispensable, 
and this is also true of all other African countries. 

In  Africa  the  AIDS  epidemic  is  now  the  main 
cause  of  death.  The  socio-economic  impact  of  this 
situation  is  widespread  and  devastating  beyond  the 
concerns  of  health  and  its  immediate  ramifications. 
Recent studies by the Joint United Nations Programme 
on  HIV/AIDS,  the  International  Labour  Organization 
and  other  United  Nations  agencies  underscore  the 
wider development implications of HIV/AIDS and how 
it  is  reversing  hard-won  social  and  economic  gains. 
Life expectancy, which has reached beyond 60 years in 
some  parts  of Africa,  is  predicted  to  drop  to  less  than 
40 by 2010. 

As  articulated  by  Security  Council  resolution 
1308 (2000), adopted in July, the socio-economic crisis 
precipitated  by AIDS  in Africa  is  threatening  political 
stability  and thereby  affecting  prospects  for peace  and 
security in the continent. 

It  is  against  this  backdrop  that  we  welcome  and 
sponsor  the  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Review  of  the 
the  chairmanship  of 
implementation  of 
to  monitor 
the 
upon 
level, 
builds 
recent 
leading 
the  highest 
problem  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus/acquired 
immunodeficiency  syndrome  in  all  its  aspects”,  by 
which  the  General Assembly  will  decide  to  convene  a 
special  session  on  HIV/AIDS  in  June  2001.  We  thank 
the delegation of Ukraine for introducing this draft. We 
strongly  believe  that  such  a  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  HIV/AIDS  will  create 
the 
necessary  platform  to  mobilize  visible  and  sustained 
political  support  at 
to 
enhanced international cooperation and coordination in 
the fight against the scourge of HIV/AIDS. In addition, 
given the serious challenge posed by this epidemic, the 
special session will have a pivotal role in strengthening 
the  follow-up  and  monitoring  mechanisms  at  the 
national,  regional  and  global  levels.  To  this  end,  it  is 
also  essential  that  the  special  session  be  taken  as  a 
process 
international 
conferences and initiatives. 

Finally, it is our hope that the special session will 
come  up  with  a  clear  declaration  and  plan  of  action, 
commensurate with the required international action to 
fight  the  challenge  posed  by  the  AIDS  epidemic.  In 
particular,  it  must  have  an  explicit  goal  for  the 
reduction of HIV infection rates and prevention targets 
and  articulate  the  required  public-private  partnership 
and  the  practical  measures  to  be  undertaken  by  the 
developed countries to  work  with their pharmaceutical 
industries  and  other  partners  to  develop  an  effective 
and affordable treatment and vaccine against HIV. 

We  believe  that  the  special  session  will  provide 
an opportunity for the international community to exert 
the  necessary  effort  to  address  the  challenge  posed  by 
the AIDS  epidemic in the  world  at  large  and in Africa 
in particular. Broader effort is needed if the response is 
to  catch  up.  For  many 
the 
international  partnership  which  this  special  session  is 
expected to promote vigorously.  
We listened to strong statements made during the 

recent  Millennium  Summit  by 
leaders  of  key 
industrialized countries that they are committed to help 
stamp  out 
the  AIDS  epidemic.  Only  yesterday 
afternoon,  France,  for  one,  reiterated  its  commitment. 
In  the  past,  such  commitments  led  to  rebuilding  some 
countries  in  Western  Europe  and  East  Asia,  literally 
from  total  destruction.  If  similar  commitments  are 
shown  today  on  a  global  basis,  there  is  no  doubt  that 
the threat of AIDS can be removed from the world. 
the  answer 
that 
lies 
in 


3 

A/55/PV.51 

the 
a 
The 
current 
is  negating 
AIDS  claims 
situation  demands 
the  scourge  of  AIDS 

Mr. Akasaka  (Japan):  The  spread  of  HIV/AIDS 
has  defied  every  prediction,  and  now,  with  more  than 
16  million  people  dead  and  34  million  people  living 
with HIV/AIDS, the epidemic threatens human security 
in  many  parts  of the  world. It has reached particularly 
devastating  proportions  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  where 
more than one-tenth of the adult population is infected 
in  16  countries,  and  one  adult  in  five  is  living  with 
HIV/AIDS in seven countries.  

lives  of  people  from  all 
segments of the world — young and old, rich and poor, 
men, women and children. The lives of the families and 
more than 11 million AIDS orphans are also victims of 
in  many  developing 
the  epidemic.  Furthermore, 
countries 
the 
achievements  they  have  made  over  recent  decades 
through their strenuous efforts for social and economic 
development. HIV/AIDS takes a particularly heavy toll 
among 
the  poor.  Poverty  and  gender  disparities 
increase  the  risk  of  infection,  and  the  illness  in  turn 
leads to greater poverty. This is a vicious cycle that we 
must break. 

clearer 
recognition  of  the  gravity  of  the  issue  at  all  levels.  It 
also demands a stronger political leadership to fight the 
disease  by  the  countries  most  affected  by  it.  Recent 
developments  in  some  countries  in Africa  and  in Asia 
demonstrate  that  where  such  political  leadership  is 
present, 
is 
improving.  But,  given  the  magnitude  of  the  problem, 
their efforts must be complemented by greater support, 
cooperation  and  assistance  from 
international 
community,  for  no  country  in  the  world  is  spared  by 
the epidemic. 

At  the  Okinawa  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  Summit 
meeting  held  in  July  this  year  in  Japan,  HIV/AIDS, 
together  with  other  infectious  and  parasitic  diseases, 
was  given  priority  attention.  The  participants  at  the 
meeting  committed  themselves  to  work  together  with 
all  relevant  partners  to  achieve  the  critical  targets  set 
by  the  United  Nations, 
including  a  25  per  cent 
reduction  in  the  number  of  HIV/AIDS-infected  young 
people by 2010. This is the target that was agreed on at 
the  Cairo  +  5  meeting  last  year  and  reaffirmed  in  the 
Declaration adopted at the Millennium Summit. 

Japan,  for  its  part,  gives  high  priority  in  its 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  medium-term 
policy to assistance in the field of HIV/AIDS and other 
is  being  stabilized  and 
the  situation 
the 
the 
took 
summer, 
issues.  This 
broad  population 
Japan 
announced  the  Okinawa  Infectious  Diseases  Initiative, 
which  builds  on  what  has  been  achieved  under  its 
Global Issues Initiative on Population and AIDS, which 
was  launched in 1994 and  will be  complete at the  end 
of  the  Japanese  fiscal  year  2000  that  is,  March  2001. 
Under  the  new  Okinawa  Initiative,  Japan  will  target  a 
total  of  $3  billion  to  be  disbursed  over  the  next  five 
years  to  enhance  assistance  for  measures  to  combat 
HIV/AIDS  and  other  infectious  and  parasitic  diseases, 
improve  public  health,  develop  research  networks, 
support  primary  and  secondary  education  and  provide 
access to safe water. 

Mr.  Lelong  (Haiti),  Vice-President, 
Chair. 

In  the  context  of  the  follow-up  to  the  initiative 
taken  in  Okinawa,  Japan  is  currently  planning  to  host 
an international conference on infectious diseases, also 
in  Okinawa,  in  December  this  year.  The  participants 
will  discuss,  among  other  things,  ways  and  means  to 
translate  their  political  commitments  into  cooperative 
activities which will achieve tangible results. 
Japan’s  efforts  go  beyond  what  I  have  just 

mentioned.  As  may  be  recalled,  serious  attention  was 
given  to  the  issue  of  HIV/AIDS  at  the  Second  Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD  II),  held  in  October  1998.  Soon  thereafter, 
Japan  announced 
it  would  provide  around 
90 billion  yen,  which  is  about  $900  million,  in  grants 
over  five  years,  from  1999  to  2004,  in  such  areas  as 
education,  health  care  and  medical  services  in  Africa. 
Thirty-two  billion  yen  in  grant  aid  has  been  already 
disbursed so far, with 9.7 billion yen — approximately 
$97 million — in health and medical services. It is our 
intention to use a significant portion of these grants in 
the fight against HIV/AIDS in Africa. 

In  the  belief  that  it  is  useful  for  developing 
countries  to  share  their  experiences  and  to  learn  from 
each  other,  Japan  has  been  promoting  South-South 
cooperation  as  a  major  approach  to  its  follow-up  to 
TICAD II. Among its many activities in this regard is a 
seminar 
regarding 
HIV/AIDS,  which  the  Government  of  Japan,  together 
with 
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS),  held  yesterday  and  the  day 
before  yesterday 
that 
participating  African  countries  will  benefit  from  the 
experiences  of  others, 
including  Asian  and  Latin 
in  Tokyo.  We  are  hopeful 
on  South-South 
cooperation 
that 
the 
4 




A/55/PV.51
Japan 
looks 
the 
private 
forward 
American  countries,  and  learn  how  they  themselves 
can  promote  South-South  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
HIV/AIDS. 

Given  the  urgency  of  the  issue,  Japan  supports 
the  holding  of  the  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly on HIV/AIDS in June next year. We strongly 
hope  that  the  preparatory  process  and  the  special 
session will be open to all those who can contribute to 
our  endeavour  to  prevent  the  spread  of  the  disease, 
ensure  adequate  care,  and  find  a  cure  for  people 
affected  by  HIV/AIDS.  We  also  hope  that  the  special 
session  will  not  be  given  over  to  negotiation  over  the 
text  for  its  own  sake,  but,  rather,  that  it  will  be  an 
important  process  of  galvanizing  Governments,  civil 
society, 
sector,  United  Nations 
organizations, and people affected by AIDS to fulfil the 
commitments  they  have  made  and  work  together  to 
take  concerted  action. 
to 
participating  actively  in  the  special  session  as  well  as 
in the forthcoming process leading up to it. 
Mr.  Boisson  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

representative  of  Ukraine  has 
introduced  draft 
resolution  A/55/L.13,  of  which  the  Principality  of 
Monaco 
is  a  sponsor.  We  congratulate  Mr. Oleh 
Herasymenko  on  the  professionalism  with  which  he 
conducted  the  consultations,  with  the  result  that  today 
we  are  meeting  to  decide  to  convene  from  25  to 
27 June  2001  a  special  session  of 
the  General 
Assembly  to  consider  acquired  immune  deficiency  in 
all  its  aspects.  My  delegation  is  pleased  that  Member 
States  have  decided  to  hold  this  session  next  year, 
because time is of the essence. 

AIDS  is  more  than  a  pandemic.  It  is  a  real 
humanitarian  disaster.  It  is  not  necessary  to  list  the 
alarming  statistics  attesting  to  the  wide  spread  of  the 
disease. We know them all. On the other hand, it seems 
crucial  to  recall  that  the  fight  against  this  grave 
pandemic is one of the major challenges of the twenty-
first  century.  The  international  community  must  do 
everything  to  eliminate  this  threat  that  weighs  on  its 
future and on humanity as a whole. We are particularly 
aware of this. 

The  international  community  has  become  aware 
of  the  urgency  of  this  situation.  The  Millennium 
Declaration,  in  particular  paragraphs  19,  20  and  28, 
Security  Council  resolution  1308  (2000)  and  General 
Assembly resolution 54/238, which were co-sponsored 
situation 
by  Monaco,  attest  to  this  and  are  a  valuable  source  of 
encouragement.  

First,  I  wish  to  emphasize  the  very  serious 
situation  in  which  the  African  continent  finds  itself, 
whose population is being relentlessly wiped out. Over 
the last decade,  many African nations have acceded to 
democracy,  undertaken  economic  reforms,  developed 
their markets, privatized their businesses and stabilized 
their  currencies.  These  achievements  are  being 
seriously  jeopardized  by  the  spread  of  this  pandemic. 
AIDS  affects  workers,  teachers,  judges,  lawyers,  civil 
servants,  the  military  and  all  vital  national  forces.  It 
drives  millions  of  orphans  into  the  streets  or,  in  the 
best  cases,  they  are  left  in  the  care  of  grandparents  or 
of  social  services  that  are  often  overburdened.  It 
threatens the recent and still fragile stability of certain 
regions. It runs the risk of extending the already tragic 
consequences  of  current  conflicts.  Fighting  AIDS  in 
Africa  means  working  for  international  peace  and 
security. 
I  also  wish  to  focus  attention  on  the  equally 

alarming 
in  Eastern  Europe,  where, 
unfortunately,  there  has  been  a  large  increase  in  the 
number of infections, particularly among injecting drug 
users. 

Generally  speaking,  it  seems  essential  not  to 
isolate the fight against AIDS from the broader context 
of  development  and 
improvement  of  health 
systems. Care and follow-up treatment of the sick must 
be provided, which means training doctors, nurses and 
more  social  workers,  as  well  as  opening  more  clinics 
and  community-based  organizations.  As  a  matter  of 
urgency, we must also reduce the incidence of mother-
to-child  transmission,  particularly  by  the  preventive 
use  of  antiretroviral  drugs,  by  performing  Caesarean 
section  delivery,  when  necessary,  and  by  not 
breastfeeding.  Progress  must  also  be  made 
in 
improving diagnostic quality. 

The  same  applies  to  education,  particularly  the 
education  of  girls  and  women.  It  seems  essential  that 
girls  become  aware  of  the  dangers  posed  by  certain 
types  of  risky  sexual  behaviour  and  that  they  should 
know of the available means of protection. 

The  international  community  should  promptly 
ensure  that  access  to  these  preventive  means  are 
universal  and  affordable  by 
specific 
measures,  such  as  mass  consignment  of  syringes  and 
supporting 
the 


5 

A/55/PV.51 

facilitate 
fully 
respecting 
the 
in 
to  drugs  and 
the  developing 
condoms,  including  female  condoms,  to  the  most 
affected and particularly isolated areas. 

I  would  like  to  focus  on  the  issue  of  access  to 
medical  drugs.  I  commend  the  initiative  of  France, 
which  organized  last  April  a  very  useful  briefing  to 
encourage  all  steps  to  promote  access  to  treatment  by 
infected  persons 
countries. 
Convening  a  conference  soon  on  access  to  drugs  will 
supplement  and  strengthen  the  General  Assembly’s 
initiative  to  deal  with  this  tragedy  as  a  whole  and  to 
allow for greater access to treatment. 

The Principality of Monaco believes that we need 
to  act  urgently  in  this  regard,  because  nothing  can  be 
achieved  without 
the  effective  participation  of 
pharmaceutical  companies,  which  henceforth  must 
allow  easier  access 
the 
production  of  generic  drugs.  With  the  support  of  the 
international  community,  Governments  and  civil 
society,  we  should  also  ensure  follow-up  treatment  of 
patients in the field so that important constraints linked 
to  taking  drugs  can  be  duly  and  truly  considered.  In 
order to achieve that, easing national and international 
legislation on patents and intellectual property could be 
considered,  while 
legitimate 
interests  of  pharmaceutical  companies,  for  which 
research  and  development  of  new  drugs  always 
represent significant cost and investment. 
As  the  draft  resolution  rightly  states,  it  seems 

essential 
the 
preparatory  process  of  the  Conference,  with  a  view  to 
establishing realistic deadlines for the manufacture and 
distribution  of  relevant  drugs.  The  battle  that  is  about 
to be  won on  poliomyelitis, thanks  to the  commitment 
of Aventis and the Pasteur Institute certainly shows us 
the path to be followed in the fight against AIDS. 

In  accordance  with  the  draft  resolution  that  we 
will  soon  adopt,  the  delegation  of  Monaco  hopes  that 
during  the  preparatory  process  the  President  of  the 
Assembly may assume a leading role and that the draft 
plan of action to be submitted for consideration by the 
special  session  will  be 
realistic  and  potentially 
effective. 
Similarly,  the  delegation  of  Monaco  welcomes 

the  view  to  hold  round  tables  during  the  special 
session,  which  will  allow  certain  aspects  of 
the 
problem  to  be  dealt  with  in  depth  and  substantially 
enrich its  work, thanks to the participation not only of 
States, but also of actors from civil society, particularly 
these  companies  with 
to  associate 
organizations  of  infected  persons,  and  from  interested 
NGOs  and 
the  private  sector,  which,  of  course, 
includes the pharmaceutical companies. 

Finally,  the delegation of  Monaco  commends the 
work done by  the Joint  United  Nations Programme on 
HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), which seeks to raise awareness 
of  initiatives  of  local,  national,  regional  and  global 
organizations.  Mindful  of  the  importance  and  the 
difficulty  of  its  task,  my  country  believes  that  this 
programme  should  benefit  from  greater  support  and 
redoubled  efforts  so  that  coordination  between  the 
various institutions devoted to the struggle against this 
pandemic will be increasingly effective. 

The gravity of the situation is such that only real 
cooperation  and  the  full  commitment  of  all  parties 
concerned can constitute effective weapons against the 
spread  of  this  pandemic.  We  must  devise  a  complete 
strategic  plan,  including  all  actors  in  civil  society, 
particularly the non-governmental organizations. At the 
same  time,  we  must  also  establish  a  specific  funding 
programme,  for  which  the  international  community 
will undoubtedly have to provide unprecedented effort. 

Alarmed  and  disquieted,  the  world  expects  the 
United  Nations  to  play  a  major  role.  Let  us  not 
disappoint the world. We have a few months to prepare 
for  the  special  session  of  the  general  assembly  and  to 
ensure  its  vital  success,  which  now  more  than  ever  is 
essential  so  that  every  society,  of  the  North  and  the 
South, will be able to contemplate a better future. 
Mr.  Yusof Ahmad  (Malaysia):  My  delegation 

welcomes the inclusion of the issue of HIV/AIDS as an 
agenda  item  in  the  General  Assembly,  as  we  believe 
that it is imperative for the United Nations to deliberate 
on  a  comprehensive  agenda 
this 
pandemic.  

HIV/AIDS has now become a global problem, no 
longer  just  a  health  crisis,  but  also  a  development 
crisis.  Malaysia 
that  HIV/AIDS  has 
devastating  effects  on  the  personal  lives  of  people, 
families,  communities  and  the  economies  of  nations. 
The  disease  is  also  rapidly  becoming  a  security  risk 
that  threatens  the  entire  socio-economic  structure  of  a 
country. It is dimming the prospects of generations and 
nations, threatening to roll back the development gains 
of  nearly  half  a  century.  It  is  therefore  fitting  and 
proper that the fight against HIV/AIDS be mounted on 
a  global  scale,  as  that  is  the  only  way  in  which  the 
for  action  on 
recognises 
6 




scourge  can  conceivably  be  contained  and  eventually 
stamped out. 

The  United  Nations  took  the  right  step  when  it 
adopted  the  innovative  approach  of  bringing  together 
the  various  agencies  needed  to  address  the  many 
factors  of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  to  form  the  Joint 
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS). 
This coordinated effort is indeed essential to maximize 
United  Nations  efforts  to  help  countries  deal  with  the 
impact  of  HIV/AIDS  on  households,  communities  and 
local  economies.  My  delegation  strongly  supports  the 
convening next year of a special session of the General 
Assembly  to  review  the  problems  of  HIV/AIDS  in  all 
its aspects. To ensure that the issue can be discussed as 
comprehensively  as  possible,  my  delegation  welcomes 
the participation of all interested and affected parties at 
both  the  preparatory  stages  and  the  General Assembly 
session. 

Since  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  first  emerged  two 
decades  ago,  the  global  impact  of  the  disease  has 
deepened.  The  available  statistics  are  grave,  and 
become  more  gruesome  when,  on  closer  look,  it  is 
revealed that those who are hardest hit by the epidemic 
are between the ages of 15 and 49, a time when people 
are  in  their  most  productive  years  of  life.  The  1.1 
million  people  who  have  died  of  HIV/AIDS  have  left 
almost  200,000  children  orphaned.  AIDS 
is  also 
affecting  younger  people,  with  half  becoming  infected 
before  the  age  of  25.  If  left  unchecked,  the  pandemic 
will  not leave  much  of a  future  generation to carry  on 
in the world. 

The  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP) has highlighted the close link between poverty 
and  HIV/AIDS,  which  continues  to  spread  alarmingly 
in  poor  regions.  The  fact  is  that  95  per  cent  of AIDS 
sufferers  live  in  developing  countries.  AIDS  is  an 
impoverishing  disease,  as  it  strikes  the  very  people 
who can develop a country. It is also altering the global 
economic  scenario,  as  the  countries  that  are  suffering 
from  it become poorer, as they  have the  least capacity 
to  provide  treatment  for  those  who  become  infected. 
The net result is that the gap between the rich and the 
poor and the North and the South becomes even wider. 
There  is  therefore  a  need  for  the  wealthier  developed 
countries — out of enlightened self-interest, if not pure 
altruism  —  to  make  available  more  resources  to 
ameliorate  the  effects  of  the  disease  in  the  developing 
countries. This can be done through their economic aid 
programmes  by  making  available  necessary  drugs  for 
A/55/PV.51
The 
initial 
combat 
international 
the  treatment  of  persons  infected  with  HIV.  The  giant 
pharmaceutical companies can, and should, also play a 
part  by  reducing  the  price  or  by  allowing  compulsory 
licensing of these life-saving drugs. 

HIV/AIDS  is  also  a  gender  problem,  as  the 
number  of  women  infected  by  the  disease  is  growing 
faster than that of men. We need to focus on the special 
needs  of  women  in  HIV/AIDS  prevention,  care  and 
treatment. There is a need for enhanced availability of 
education,  testing,  counselling,  care  and  treatment 
designed  to  address  the  specific  needs  of  women  and 
girls.  There  must  be  affordable,  enhanced  medical 
intervention  which  is  aimed  at  lessening  the  risk 
factors associated with mother-to-child transmission of 
HIV/AIDS,  and  which  addresses  the  needs  of  mothers 
as well as their newborn. 

against 
HIV/AIDS, which focused on health and medical care, 
has  had  limited  success.  The  use  of  information, 
education  and  communication  as 
instruments  of 
prevention  has  also  not  been  followed  by  behavioural 
changes.  The  project  by 
the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
(UNESCO) of  using a  cultural  approach to  HIV/AIDS 
so  that  greater  efficiency  and  sustainability  will  be 
reached in the field of HIV/AIDS prevention and care, 
through a better understanding of people’s motivations 
and  reservations,  therefore  merits  our  support.  This 
cultural  approach  will  take  into  account  the  cultural 
references  and  resources  of  the  various  populations 
affected by  HIV/AIDS. A  greater  understanding of  the 
relationship  between  culture  and  the  spread  of  highly 
contagious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, can contribute 
to  more  effective  strategies  to  stamp  out  this  dreadful 
menace. 

My  delegation  believes  that  the  slogan  of  the 
World  AIDS  Campaign  —  “The  Three  Ls”;  “Listen, 
learn,  live”  —  is  most  appropriate,  as  we  should 
encourage  communities around  the  world to engage in 
open communication and combat cultural attitudes that 
are  obstacles  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS.  We  must 
break  away  from  the  culture of  silence  and the  shying 
away  from  frank  discussion  of  sex  and  drug  abuse, 
when  it is  evident  that  openness and  sharing  can  help. 
Dissemination  of 
information  can  also  eliminate 
discrimination  against  people  with  HIV  infection  due 
to  ignorance  on  how  it  can  be  transmitted.  The  social 
stigma  attached  to  people  living  with  HIV/AIDS, 
which  includes  not  just  the  infected  persons,  but  their 


7 

A/55/PV.51 

the 
reduce 
to 
ignorance  and 
them  men.  Of 
to 
attached 
families  and  communities  as  well,  is  the  greatest 
barrier to preventing the spread of the disease, as many 
are  reluctant  to  be  tested  for  HIV  or  to  seek  early 
treatment.  For  this  reason,  there  is  a  need  to  launch  a 
concerted,  multi-pronged  approach,  with  a  view  to 
sensitizing  both  Governments  and  the  public  and  to 
promote care and education at every level of society. 

Like many other countries, Malaysia has not been 
spared the problem of HIV/AIDS. The official estimate 
of  people  with  HIV/AIDS  in  Malaysia  is  around 
34,000 — 96.5  per  cent  of 
those 
infected,  76.4  per  cent  are  intravenous  drug  addicts. 
While  there  is  already  a  move  to  face  the  epidemic 
squarely in the face at the highest level, the HIV/AIDS 
threat is still invisible to the majority of the Malaysian 
public. Many are still unable to accept that HIV/AIDS 
is a disease that is among them and that requires urgent 
attention. The non-governmental organizations (NGOs) 
in Malaysia have taken the lead in bringing the issue of 
HIV/AIDS,  which  has  remained  hidden  due  to  its 
stigma,  into  the  open.  They  are  also  working  to  fight 
stigma  and 
the 
discrimination 
it.  The  Malaysian 
Government  will  also  continue  to  play  its  role  in 
providing a suitable policy environment for these NGO 
initiatives, and to provide as much support as possible. 
Malaysia  recognizes  that  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS 
has  to  be  a  joint  effort  between  the  Government, 
NGOs, the private sector and the media. 
My  delegation  is  concerned over the rising  trend 

of  mother-to-child 
infection  among 
young  people,  sexually  transmitted  diseases  —  which 
signal  a  danger  of 
infection  — 
connection  between  mobility,  migration  and  HIV 
spread,  drug  use  and  HIV  infection.  We  are  also 
concerned  about the  stigma and discrimination  against 
people  living  with  HIV/AIDS,  the  accessibility  and 
affordability of treatment with anti-retroviral drugs and 
the  potential 
inadequate 
interventions. 

To  address  these  concerns,  Malaysia  is  active  in 
several  regional  efforts  to  combat  the  HIV  pandemic. 
Malaysia  has  taken  the  initiative  by  calling  for  a 
summit of the Association of South-East Asian Nations 
(ASEAN)  on  HIV/AIDS,  which  will  take  place  in 
Brunei  Darussalam  in  2001  in  conjunction  with  the 
seventh  ASEAN  summit.  The  main  objective  of  the 
summit  is  to  mobilize  solidarity  and  peer  political 
support  among  ASEAN  heads  of  Government  to  put 
increasing  HIV 
transmission, 
cost  of 
impact 
and 
8 

to 
My 
like 
urge 
delegation  would 
the  United  Nations 
in  combating  AIDS 
rights,  peace  and  security, 
HIV/AIDS  high  on the  national agenda and to  make a 
commitment  to  collaborate  in  inter-country  and  cross-
border  issues,  as  well  as  to  effect  an  exchange  of 
technical  expertise  and  experiences  to  address  the 
HIV/AIDS problem. 

the 
international  community  to  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  call  to  stop  and  reverse  the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS  by  2015.  Financial  and  human  resources 
must  be  dedicated  to  that  goal.  The  United  Nations 
system,  with  its  global  mission  of  protecting  and 
promoting  human 
is 
uniquely  placed  to  provide  assistance  on  very  often 
difficult policy matters relating to HIV/AIDS. The role 
of 
is 
particularly  pertinent  in  the  context  of  human  rights, 
since two of the most fundamental human rights are the 
right to life and the right to health. 

is 
spreading faster than was estimated some 15 years ago. 
What  used  to  be  a  personal  problem  talked  about  in 
hushed voices in close-knit family circles is now being 
discussed  in  national  and  international  forums.  What 
used to be a lone statement at a lone funeral by a lone 
village  chief  in  a  lone  village,  decrying  the  rate  at 
which  the  young  were  succumbing  to  HIV/AIDS  and 
lamenting the fact that babies and the elderly would be 
left alone in the village, is now a global cry. 

(Botswana):  HIV/AIDS 

“Having  enjoyed  peace  and  security  and 
steady  economic  growth,  we  suddenly  find  our 
gains  in  social  advancement  reversed  by  this 
scourge.  The  economically  active  population  in 
our  society,  our  most  precious  resource,  is  being 
decimated.” (A/55/PV.5, p. 21) 
Mr.  Mmualefe
That  is  no  longer  a  cry  from  a  lone  African  head  of 
State but an international call. What  was a decade ago 
regarded  as  a  serious  health  crisis  is  clearly  a  multi-
sectoral  international  crisis.  The  discussion  of  this 
agenda item today is an acknowledgement of the global 
nature of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. 

The statistics that have been released by the Joint 
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS) 
and  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  indicate 
that a total of 34.3 million people worldwide are living 
with HIV; 18.8 million have died globally, and of these 
3.8  million  were  children.  The  total  number  of  AIDS 
orphans  is  now  greater  than  13  million.  Africa  is  the 
most  affected  continent,  with  24.5  million  people 



A/55/PV.51
are 
(SADC), 
life  expectancy 
living  with  the  virus.  The  figures  in  Asia,  Eastern 
Europe, Central Asia and some Caribbean island States 
are  equally  distressing.  These  are  chilling  statistics 
which  call  for  immediate,  effective  and  coordinated 
responses. 

It  is  a  sad  fact  that  Africa,  the  cradle  of  the 
human  race,  faces  a  grim  future  unless  effective 
measures  are  taken  to  lower  the  incidence  of  the 
disease and to  mitigate the impact of the scourge. It is 
even  more  disheartening  that  the  southern  cone  of  the 
continent  is  most  affected,  with  at  least  one  adult  in 
five living  with the virus. The southern African region 
had  just  emerged  from  decades-old  conflicts  and  was 
on  the  verge  of  an  economic  and  social  revival.  That 
ideal appears distant now. The region’s ambitious plans 
and  projects,  spearheaded  by  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community 
being 
undermined by the pandemic. 

In my country, close to 35.8 per cent of adults are 
now 
infected  with  HIV.  Our 
is 
calculated  to  have  been  reduced  from  67  to  47  years. 
The  number of  children  aged  0  to  9  years  is projected 
to fall by 32 per cent to 40 per cent below a no-AIDS 
scenario by the year 2010. 

In  his  address  to  the  Millennium  Summit,  my 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Festus  Mogae, confined 
his statement to the HIV/AIDS scourge. That was done 
not  out  of  a  lack  of  interest  in  other  global  issues  but 
out  of  an  acceptance  of  the  fact  that  Botswana  has  an 
unenviable  record  of  being  the  country  most  seriously 
affected  by  HIV/AIDS  in  the  whole  world.  This 
dubious  record  was  acquired  against  a  backdrop  of  an 
economy  with growth rates comparable to those of the 
Asian tigers, impressive human development indexes, a 
well-functioning  multi-party  democracy,  accountable 
and  transparent  governance  and  an  open  and  well-run 
economy.  Those  achievements  made  over  the  past 
25 years  are  being  significantly  eroded  by 
the 
HIV/AIDS scourge. 
and 

same 
its 
purposefulness 
nationhood 
after 
independence,  is  being  harnessed  to  fight  HIV/AIDS. 
One  of  the  major  strategies  to  fight  HIV/AIDS  has 
been  the  establishment  of  a  multisectoral  National 
Council which is chaired by the President of Botswana 
himself. This  demonstrates  the  serious  with  which  the 
problem  is  being  treated. At  the  executive  level,  there 
that  helped  my  country  build 
determination, 
economy 
scratch 
drive 
from 
The 
and 
care 
and 
the 
official 
to 
implement 
community-based 
The  Government, 
of 
education 
of 
transmitted 
counselling; 
sexually 
is  a  National AIDS  Coordinating Agency  headed  by  a 
senior 
anti-HIV/AIDS 
programmes.  The  principal  strategy  is  information, 
education and communication. This has been combined 
with concerted efforts to destigmatize HIV/AIDS. 

The  focus  of  our  HIV/AIDS  strategy  is  on  the 
reduction of risk and vulnerability and on mitigation of 
socio-economic  impact.  Mitigation  of  the  impact  is 
through 
done 
care 
primarily 
programmes  and 
through  clinical  management  of 
opportunistic  infections,  while  risk  and  vulnerability 
reduction takes place through community education. 

in  partnership  with  other 
stakeholders,  has  initiated  a  number  of  interventions 
such  as  prevention  of  mother-to-child  transmission 
through  the  use  of  anti-retroviral  drugs;  voluntary 
testing  and  counselling  centres  in  major  settlements; 
orphans; 
house-to-house 
management 
diseases; 
information, 
behaviour-change 
communication; HIV/AIDS research; and multisectoral 
response and institutional strengthening. 
Considerable  resources  have  been  diverted  from 

development  projects 
fight  against 
HIV/AIDS.  So  far,  the  Government  funds  80  per  cent 
of all HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities. This is 
certainly  not  sustainable.  We  will  therefore  need  an 
infusion  of 
the  country. 
Botswana  is,  in  this  regard,  grateful  to  Governments, 
the  United  Nations  system,  private  organizations  and 
individuals  and  non-governmental  organizations  that 
have  established  partnerships  with  us  in  the  fight 
against AIDS. 

My country takes solace in the fact that AIDS in 
Africa was chosen as the theme for the United Nations 
Security  Council  meeting  on  10  January  2000  —  the 
that  body  dealt  with  a 
first  occasion  on  which 
developmental 
issue.  We 
the 
forthcoming  special  session  to  review  the  problem  of 
HIV/AIDS in all its aspects. It is our conviction that its 
convening,  on  such  short  notice,  is  an  affirmation  of 
the fact that, for millions of people, even one more day 
of  action  delayed  is  one  too  many.  We  hope  to  see, 
emerging  from  the  special  session,  commitment  and 
unity of purpose to heed the cry for help — help that is 
required  now.  Developing  countries  cannot,  on  their 
own,  deal  with  the  plethora  of  actions  required  for 
intervention,  such  as  those  relating  to  education  and 
from  outside 
resource 
towards 
forward 
look 
to 


9 

A/55/PV.51 

of 
the 
the 
The 
spread 
accelerating 
session  and 
this  Hall  and 
sensitization, 
testing  and  counselling,  adolescent 
reproductive  health,  the  prevention  of  mother-to-child 
transmission,  the  acquisition  of  retroviral  drugs  and 
medication  and  the  provision  of  care  for  the  affected 
population.  This  is  the  message  that  my  Government 
will  be  taking  to  the  special  session.  Our  hopes  lie  in 
the 
recommendations  of 
their 
immediate implementation. 
The facts are available; the grim picture has been 

highlighted  and  discussed 
in 
Copenhagen,  Beijing,  Cairo  and  Durban.  The  special 
session on  HIV/AIDS  will  fail  humanity if it does  not 
deliver  on  the  undertakings  that  were  made  by  our 
leaders in the Millennium Declaration. 
Mr.  Sun  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the  outset,  I 

would  like  to  thank  Ukraine  and  the  other  sponsoring 
countries  for  submitting  draft  resolution  A/55/L.13. 
Sharing  in  the  spirit  and  supporting  the  letter  of  the 
draft,  the  Republic  of  Korea  has  decided  to  join  the 
other sponsors. 

human 
immunodeficiency virus and the consequent increase in 
the  cases  of  acquired  immunodeficiency  syndrome 
have  led  to  an  unprecedented  epidemic  of  global 
proportions.  Statistics  show  that  nearly  36  million 
people  are  living  with  HIV/AIDS  worldwide.  It  is 
noteworthy that 95 per cent of HIV-infected people are 
living  in  developing  countries,  particularly  in  the 
sub-Saharan  region,  which  alone  accounts  for  23 
million  infected  people.  Attention  should  be  given  to 
the view that the accelerated pace of globalization may 
be  contributing  to  the  uncontrolled  spread  of  the 
disease. 

HIV/AIDS  has  been  reaching  far  beyond  the 
realm  of  health  and  has  enormous  human,  social, 
development  and  security  ramifications.  AIDS  has 
become  a  disease  associated  with  poverty,  ignorance 
and  gender  discrimination,  and  it  is  having  deplorable 
effects  on  poor  children  and  women.  It  is  distressing 
how  HIV/AIDS  has  developed  into  a  threat  to  social 
security,  exacerbating  inequalities  and  undermining 
sustainable 
countries, 
particularly developing countries. 

to 
overcome  two  major  challenges  —  one  scientific  and 
the other financial. The world is in desperate need of a 
vaccine  against  HIV.  However,  it  is  discouraging  to 
note  that  an  absolute  majority  of  the  resources  have 
In  addressing  such  problems,  we  need 
development 
affected 
in 
in 
companies 
are  moving 
been  diverted  to  research  on  and  treatment  for  AIDS, 
rather than used to create a vaccine. On the other hand, 
according  to  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS)  report  to  the  Security  Council 
last  July,  beating  back  the  epidemic  in  Africa  alone 
would  cost  $3  billion,  and  the  contributions  from 
donors  are  far  below  the  levels  needed  to  cover  the 
cost. 
I  firmly  believe  that  the  multifaceted  challenges 

will  be  properly 
tackled  only  with  a  genuine 
partnership  between  the  developed  and  developing 
countries,  and  between  the  public  and  private  sectors. 
Among other such partnerships, the Global Alliance for 
Vaccines and Immunization, formed in  1999,  has been 
recognized  as  a  successful  example  of  public  and 
private  cooperation  in  finding  a  global  solution  to  a 
global  problem.  The  Framework  for  Action  of  the 
International  Partnership  Against  HIV/AIDS  in  Africa 
is  another  example  of  such  collaboration  and  I  am 
confident  that  it  will  provide  a  solid  basis  to  move 
forward  with  the  global  endeavour.  Furthermore,  it  is 
encouraging  to  note  that  a  number  of  world-renowned 
pharmaceutical 
towards 
reducing  the  prices  of  AIDS  drugs  for  States  affected 
by the disease. Yet partnerships cannot be strengthened 
without  strong  public  support.  The  fear  of  stigma 
associated with HIV/AIDS has often created silence for 
various  reasons.  The  vicious  circle  of  silence  around 
the  disease  must,  however,  be  broken  if  we  are  to 
overcome  one  of  the  worst  human  tragedies  of  our 
time.  It  is  vital  that  proper  information  on  HIV  and 
AIDS  be  widely  disseminated.  In  this  regard,  I  find  it 
extremely 
the  Silence  on 
HIV/AIDS”  was  chosen  as  the  theme  of  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme’s  Fourth  Annual 
Race Against Poverty. 

HIV/AIDS has now become a top priority on the 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations  system.  This  is  not 
surprising,  given  the  role  to  be  played  by  the  United 
Nations 
a 
comprehensive strategy for action. The final documents 
relating, 
adopted 
by 
respectively, 
social 
development,  served  as  a  basis  for  all  stakeholders  to 
take specific action against HIV/AIDS. 

In  a  bold  decision,  the  Millennium  Declaration 
set a target to halt and reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS 
by  2015  in  the  context  of  development  and  poverty 
eradication.  I  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  United 
recent 
to  population,  women 
that  “Breaking 
coordinating 
formulating 
sessions 
special 
timely 
and 
and 
in 
10 




A/55/PV.51
its 
to  strengthen 
Nations has taken the lead in combating the scourge of 
the  AIDS  pandemic  by,  among  other  things,  raising 
public  awareness  and  addressing  the  socio-economic 
and  development  implications.  In  particular,  UNAIDS 
has  done  a  commendable  job  in  coordinating  and 
supporting efforts to address HIV/AIDS in all relevant 
forums.  It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  UNAIDS  will 
continue 
role  of  coordinating 
international  undertakings  in  close  collaboration  with 
governmental and non-governmental partners. 

I also welcome the report of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Causes of Conflict and the Promotion of 
Durable Peace and Sustainable Development in Africa, 
which  recommended  that  the  General  Assembly  take 
the  necessary  steps 
to  address  HIV/AIDS-related 
problems. 

Before closing, I would like briefly to touch upon 
the  current  situation  surrounding  HIV/AIDS  in  my 
country.  Despite  the  fact  that  it  currently  has  a 
relatively  small  number  of  infected  people,  we  are 
concerned about the trend of rising figures. Faced with 
this  challenge,  my  Government  has 
taken  steps 
primarily  to  focus  on  enhancing  education  about  and 
awareness  of  HIV/AIDS 
to  promote  voluntary 
counselling  and 
to  work  with  civil  society  and 
volunteers. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  has  also  provided 
assistance 
its 
experiences  in  addressing  problems  associated  with 
HIV/AIDS  and,  more  broadly,  in  the  promotion  of 
reproductive  health  care,  and  it  will  continue  to  do  so 
in the future. 

the  Millennium  Declaration,  we 
Through 
resolved  to  meet  a  time-bound  target:  to  halt  and 
reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS by the year 2015. I am 
confident  that  the  special  session  to  be  held  next  year 
will  provide  an  important  platform  for  achieving  our 
common  goal.  Considering  the  time  constraints  before 
the session,  we  must carry  out the preparatory process 
in the most efficient manner possible. The Republic of 
Korea  will  do  its  share  to  ensure  the  success  of  the 
special session. 
Mr.  Donigi  (Papua  New  Guinea):  I  have  the 

honour  to  make  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
countries of the Pacific Islands Forum represented here 
in  New  York:  Australia,  Fiji,  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Zealand, 
Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu and  my own 
to  developing  countries  by  sharing 
is 
infection 
rates  have  accelerated 
The  growing  HIV/AIDS  pandemic 
country, Papua New Guinea. It is with a keen sense of 
the  importance  of  this  issue  that  our  delegations  have 
asked to speak on agenda item 179 on “Review of the 
problem  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus/acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome in all its aspects”. 

fast 
becoming  the  most  serious  health  issue  facing  the 
international  community  in  the  coming  century.  Yet  it 
is  much  more  than  that.  The  scale  and  spread  of  this 
disease  have  made  it  a  major  development  issue  — 
indeed the most pressing one for those countries which 
suffer its effects most acutely. In those countries where 
it  is  most  rife,  it  threatens  to  undermine  and  reverse 
many  of  the  development  gains  of  the  last  four 
decades.  Such devastating  social  and economic  effects 
threaten  to  make  it  a  serious  security  issue  as  well. 
Above  all,  the  epidemic  has  produced  a  humanitarian 
disaster  of  frightening  proportions.  Nearly  36  million 
people are currently living with the disease; another 19 
million  are  thought  to  have  died  from  it. At  the  same 
time, 
in  some 
countries.  At  present,  an  estimated  11,000  people 
become infected every day. There were over 13 million 
AIDS orphans at the  start of  this  year,  many  of  whom 
were themselves infected. 

Nowhere  are  the  effects  of  this  terrible  disease 
more  profoundly  felt  than  in  sub-Saharan Africa. That 
region  is  currently  host  to  two  thirds  of  HIV-infected 
people and has lost over 14 million of its inhabitants to 
the  disease.  Yet  the  spread  and  effects  of  HIV/AIDS 
are  not  the  exclusive  concern  of  any  one  community, 
country or region. It is a global problem that demands 
global  efforts  to  combat  it.  The  Security  Council’s 
decision  to  hold  an  open  meeting  on  the  subject  in 
January  of  this  year  was  an  important  step  in  this 
direction.  Our  delegations  support  the  draft  resolution 
presented  under  this  item,  contained  in  document 
A/55/L.13,  and  particularly  welcome  the  decision  to 
hold a special session of the General Assembly in June 
next  year.  We  call  on  all  Member  States  and  relevant 
agencies  to  begin  preparations  immediately  to  ensure 
its success. 
The  Declaration  to  which  our  leaders  committed 

recent  Millennium  Summit 
themselves 
established the target of halting, and then reversing, the 
spread  of  HIV/AIDS  by  2015.  The  success  of  next 
year’s  special  session  will  be  crucial  in  achieving  this 
aim.  It  must  be  focused  to  produce  ambitious  but 
achievable  goals,  underpinned  by  concrete  proposals 
at 
the 


11 

A/55/PV.51 

in 
for  action.  Financial  and  technical  resources  must  be 
freed  up  to  help  bolster  national  capacities  to  combat 
the  disease 
the  most  affected  regions.  Health 
systems must be strengthened to prevent its spread and 
treat  its  victims,  and  ways  must  be  sought  to  increase 
the  access  of  victims  in  developing  countries  to 
affordable and effective medicines. 

Damage  control  is  not  enough,  however.  With 
HIV/AIDS, as with all diseases, prevention is infinitely 
preferable  to  cure.  There  is  considerable  evidence  to 
suggest 
that  political  will  and  early  preventive 
measures  are  essential  to  prevent  the  exponential 
spread  of  the  disease.  Public  education  campaigns 
should be vigorously pursued, public debate should be 
open and informed, and access to condoms, disposable 
needles,  and  detection  and 
treatment  of  sexually 
infections  should  be  made  universal. 
transmitted 
Involving  people 
living  with  HIV/AIDS  within 
affected  communities  in  the  development  of  these 
strategies is another crucial component for success. 

The spread of HIV/AIDS is also of concern in our 
own  region.  While  the  number  of  those  infected 
remains  low  in  relative  terms,  infection  rates  are  of 
increasing concern, particularly in Melanesia and some 
parts  of  Polynesia.  Exact  figures  have  been  hampered 
by  a  lack  of  reliable  research  and  by  low  public 
awareness of the issue in the region. What is more, our 
region  is  affected  by  a  number  of  socio-economic, 
health  and  educational 
it 
vulnerable to the future spread of the disease. 

We  urge  the  international  community  to  include 
the  Pacific  in  its  efforts  to  combat  this  disease.  In 
particular,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  gather  accurate 
and comprehensive health and demographic data in the 
region  and  to  assist  the  development  of  HIV/AIDS 
prevention  programmes.  We  also 
the 
continuation  of  a  representative  position  of  the  Joint 
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS) 
in the region is imperative. 
The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  nothing  short  of  a 

crisis.  Without  urgent  and  effective  action, 
its 
dimensions  will  continue  to  expand.  We  have  no  time 
to  lose.  The  international  community  must  quickly 
muster  its  will  and  resources  to  tackle  this  daunting 
problem at both the national and international levels. 

Mr.  Huang  Xuegi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
The rapid spread of HIV/AIDS is turning into a global 
public  health  and  social  problem. At  present  a total  of 
factors  which  make 
that 
feel 
Its 
in 
infection 
Humanity 
the 
impact  on 
is  not  helpless 
34.3  million  people  are  infected.  Not  only  are  the 
patients  and  their  families  suffering  greatly,  but  the 
countries  concerned  are  also  shouldering  heavy  social 
burdens and grave economic consequences. HIV/AIDS 
has  triggered  crises  in  some  countries,  particularly 
African  countries. 
their  poverty-
elimination  efforts,  economic  growth  and  social 
progress is hard to estimate. If urgent measures are not 
taken, not only will the gains of economic development 
and  progress  achieved  over  a  long  period  of  time  be 
wiped out, but their development prospects will also be 
dimmed. 

No country in the world will be so fortunate as to 
escape the scourge of HIV/AIDS, which is the common 
enemy of all humanity. Curbing its spread and reducing 
its  evil  effects  will  require  the  joint  efforts  and 
coordinated  actions  of  all  Governments,  international 
organizations and people of all circles. 

face  of 
in 
HIV/AIDS.  Such  international  organizations  as  the 
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS) and the World Health Organization (WHO), 
as  well  as  some  national  Governments,  have  already 
taken considerable steps. As a result, in some countries 
HIV/AIDS 
reduced. 
However,  it  is  disturbing  that  the  global  spread  of  the 
disease has increased sharply. 

Efforts  to  reverse  this  trend  still  face  many 
practical obstacles. Special attention needs to be given 
to the question of how to resolve the difficulties faced 
by  the  developing  countries,  where  90  per  cent  of  the 
HIV/AIDS-infected 
these 
circumstances it is all the more imperative to mobilize 
more  international  forces  to  work  together  to  contain 
the spread of the pandemic. 

Combating  HIV/AIDS  requires  a  comprehensive 
policy.  The  attention  and  personal  involvement  of 
senior  government  leaders  are  also  very  important. As 
regards  potential  strategies,  while  vigorous  research 
should  be  conducted 
the  areas  of  cure  and 
prevention —  including  vaccines  and  drugs  —  people 
at  the  grassroots  levels  should  also  be  effectively 
mobilized  to  take  preventive  measures.  It  is  also 
necessary to resolve the relevant social problems. 

A  positive  impetus  from  relevant  international 
organizations  plays  an  important  role.  We  commend 
WHO  and  UNAIDS  for  their  efforts  to  mobilize  the 
international community, including all Governments, to 
rates  have  been 
population 
lives. 
In 
12 




A/55/PV.51
make political commitments, provide financial support 
and  take  measures  to  help  developing  countries  carry 
out  prevention  and  control,  as  well  as  to  lower  drug 
prices  so  that  people  infected  with  HIV/AIDS  can 
receive drug treatment. 

It  is  very  timely  that,  by  resolution  54/283,  the 
General Assembly decided to convene a special session 
on HIV/AIDS. This session will provide an opportunity 
for all countries to consider fully various AIDS-related 
policy  issues,  exchange  experiences,  sum  up  lessons 
learned,  raise  society’s  awareness,  strengthen  political 
will  and  gather  resources  in  order  to  jointly  seek  an 
effective strategy to overcome HIV/AIDS. 
In  order  for  the  special  session  to  be  a  success, 

preparations 
should  begin  early.  We  encourage 
representatives  from  all  fields  to  offer  advice  and 
suggestions that can aid Member States in formulating 
policies. 
HIV/AIDS  is  also  a  major  challenge  to  China’s 

economic  and  social  development.  The  Chinese 
Government  has  taken  and  is  taking  various  measures 
to  deal  with  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS  infection.  Our 
policy  on  this  problem  is  to  focus  on  prevention, 
advocacy and education; tackle the symptoms and root 
causes 
integrated  manner;  and  establish  a 
controlled  preventive  system  based  on  Government 
leadership,  multisectoral  cooperation  and  the  joint 
participation  of  society  at  large. To  control  the  spread 
of  HIV/AIDS,  we 
disseminated 
information about how it can be prevented and cured. 
to 

participate  actively  in,  the  special  session  and  its 
preparatory  work.  We  will  work  with  all  countries  to 
ensure the substantive success of the session. 

Mrs. Browne (Saint Kitts and Nevis): On behalf 
of  the  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM),  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  agenda 
the  problem  of  human 
item  179:  “Review  of 
immunodeficiency  virus/acquired 
immunodeficiency 
syndrome (HIV/AIDS) in all its aspects”. We welcome 
the debate on this item, as it allows for sharp focus on 
an  issue  of  increasing  concern,  which  demands  urgent 
global  attention.  We  commend 
the  delegation  of 
Ukraine  for  the  leadership  demonstrated  in  producing 
the important draft resolution before the Assembly. 

statistics  on  HIV/AIDS  have 
confirmed  that  the  AIDS  epidemic  has  escalated  to 
to,  and  are  ready 
have  widely 
importance 
We  attach 
in  an 
recent 
The 
and 
(UNAIDS) 
global  proportions.  The  most  recent  relevant  global 
estimates  of  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS 
the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) on the epidemic reveal that about 
34.3 million people are living with the virus and that in 
the  next  decade,  but  for  a  miracle,  most  of  them  will 
die. However, what is even more alarming is that about 
95  per cent of those infected  with the AIDS  virus live 
in  the  developing  world,  where  poverty,  inadequate 
health  systems  and  limited  resources  for  prevention 
and care increase the spread of the virus. 

The reality is that the disease does not recognize 
national  boundaries.  This  devastating  pandemic  is 
ravaging  the  small  island  States  of  the  Caribbean, 
where,  according  to  the  statistics,  several  countries 
have  already  recorded  transmission  rates  that  are 
among  the  highest  in  the  world,  outside  sub-Saharan 
Africa.  The  HIV/AIDS  crisis  in  the  Caribbean  has 
assumed  dangerous  proportions,  since  360,000  adults 
and  children  are  living  with  the  virus.  From  the 
beginning  of  the  epidemic  to  the  end  of  1999,  an 
estimated  160,000  persons  in  the  Caribbean  region 
have  died  from  this  dreaded  disease.  Stigmatization 
and a long incubation period are among the factors that 
make  detection  of  the  prevalence  rate  of  the  disease 
difficult  to  obtain  in  any  population.  In  the  Caribbean 
this 
inadequate 
epidemiological  systems,  indicating  that  the  present 
statistics  may not even be reflecting the gravity of our 
situation. 
The epidemic has cast a sinister shadow over the 

that 
global 
confronts us should now be urgently addressed through 
intensified, coordinated approaches at the international 
level.  The  AIDS  epidemic  now  assumes  a  prominent 
position  on  the  agenda  of  an  increasing  number  of 
international  organizations,  and  we  are  pleased  with 
the  effort  the  United  Nations  has  made  to  raise 
awareness and mobilize political will and international 
funding,  as  well  as  to  provide  much  needed  technical 
advice.  The 
international  community  has  become 
increasingly  sensitized  to  the  need  for  multisectoral 
and 
intergovernmental  approaches.  The  WHO-led 
campaign  has  now  been  supplemented  by  a  multi-
agency  approach  of 
Joint  United  Nations 
Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS).  I  commend  the 
UNAIDS  Secretariat  and  its  sponsoring  organizations 
for  their  active  support,  commitment  and  initiative  in 
the global struggle against the AIDS epidemic. 
landscape.  The  enormous  challenge 
compounded 
difficulty 
the 
by 
is 


13 

A/55/PV.51 

as 
that 
the 
special 
as  well 
companies, 
inter  alia,  for 

In  his  millennium  report  the  Secretary-General 
challenged  world  leaders  to  work  assiduously  towards 
stemming  the  spread  of  the  deadly  disease,  while 
setting  specific  preventive  targets.  He  exhorted  the 
international  community  to  work  towards  achieving 
this goal by 2015. We are encouraged by the leadership 
role  that  the  United  Nations  has  taken  in  the  battle 
against  AIDS  by  forging  closer  partnerships  with 
stakeholders  in  the  business  community,  including 
pharmaceutical 
non-
governmental  organizations  and  international  financial 
and trade institutions. 

The  international  community  should  be  further 
mobilized  to  confront  this  challenge  to  reverse  the 
trends of the AIDS epidemic. CARICOM welcomes the 
draft  resolution,  which  calls, 
the 
convening, as a matter of urgency, of a special session 
of  the  General Assembly  on  HIV/AIDS  from  25  to 27 
June 2001. In  view  of  the  gravity  of  the problem  with 
which  we  are confronted, every  effort  should  be  made 
to  ensure  the  successful  outcome  of  this  session.  It  is 
our  hope 
session  will  enjoy 
participation  at  the  highest  level  and  will  receive  the 
political  impetus  and  the  commitment  necessary  to 
ensure its success. 

As  we  attempt  to  move  forward  in  the  twenty-
first century, CARICOM member States are constantly 
reminded of the unprecedented challenges of the AIDS 
epidemic,  which  threatens  to  undermine  our  future 
economic and social developmental gains. We share the 
view 
the 
combustible  mix  of  social  dilemmas  that  plague  the 
Caribbean  in  this  millennial  era.  The  effects  of  this 
deadly  disease  are  indeed  multifaceted,  impacting  the 
infected individuals and the affected households on the 
one  hand,  and  our  whole  developmental  thrust  on  the 
other. While  attempting, therefore,  to  grapple  with  the 
reality that the AIDS epidemic is touching every sector 
of society, with enormous human, social and economic 
ramifications, we are equally convinced that one has to 
dispense  with  the  view  that  HIV/AIDS  should  be 
confined  to  the  health  portfolio.  Moreover,  the  global 
community has been informed by the Security Council 
of the security dimension of HIV/AIDS and the critical 
importance of including it on the international agenda. 

CARICOM  member  States  are  equally  disturbed 
that the AIDS epidemic in the region has the potential, 
as has been sadly demonstrated in Africa, to claim the 
lives  of  a  large  segment  of  the  most  productive 
the  AIDS  pandemic 
is  among 
that 
in 
its 
full  support 
CARICOM  pledges 
members  of  our  labour  force.  Seventy  per  cent  of  the 
cases  diagnosed  are  between  the  ages  of  15  and  44, 
with 50 per cent between 25 and 34. This phenomenal 
factor underscores the serious threat of the epidemic to 
sustainable development within the Caribbean region. 

In addition to the accompanying human suffering, 
AIDS  tears  at  the  very  fabric  of  our  family  and 
community  life.  It  exacerbates  existing  high  levels  of 
poverty and threatens social stability. In the face of all 
this, CARICOM has not remained complacent. We are 
committed to investing the required resources to ensure 
the  development  and 
implementation  of  national 
strategic plans to stem the spread of this scourge. 

CARICOM  member  States  will  persist  with 
national  and  strategic  initiatives  and  will  continue  to 
seek  out  possibilities  for  more  comprehensive,  high-
level  approaches  that  will  have  a  more  substantive 
effect on reversing the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS. 
the 

initiative  before  the  Assembly,  and  will  be  actively 
involved  in  the  preparatory  process  for  the  special 
session.  I  call  upon  member  States  and  all  sectors  of 
the international community to join in the fight against 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 

Finally, I reiterate the admonition of CARICOM’s 
spokesperson  on  health  issues,  the  Honourable  Prime 
Minister of Saint Kitts and Nevis, Mr. Denzil Douglas: 
“We  have  to  act  now  to  prevent  the  spread  of 

HIV/AIDS  in  our  communities.  We  have  to 
increase  and improve the quality  of our response 
against HIV/AIDS if we are to save the lives and 
improve  the  quality  of  life  of  those  who  already 
have the dreaded disease”. 
Mr.  Naidu  (Fiji):  My  delegation  fully  endorses 

the statement made by Mr. Peter Donigi of Papua New 
Guinea on behalf of the countries of the Pacific Islands 
Forum. 
Fiji  is  not  immune  to  the  global  invasion  of 

HIV/AIDS.  Although  70  per  cent  of  the  34.3  million 
infected victims are in Africa, HIV/AIDS is bigger than 
Africa.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  HIV/AIDS  has  been 
pronounced  by 
to  be  an 
international security issue. 
Fiji  now  records  59  officially  reported  AIDS 

cases.  There 
the  exact  number  of 
HIV/AIDS victims in Fiji today. Our limited facilities, 
the  Security  Council 
telling 
is  no 
14 




A/55/PV.51
to 
the 
the 
the 
due 
pursuing 
awareness 
circumstances, 
Fiji  acknowledges  the  work  of  UNAIDS 
expertise  and  knowledge,  the  different  quality  of 
reporting  systems  and 
lack  of  best-practice 
protocols are part of the problem. Those few who have 
passed  away  from  HIV/AIDS  have  died  under  sad  or 
tragic 
continuing 
stigmatization  and  associated  myths 
that  can  be 
dispelled with only targeted and global advocacy. 
Fiji,  nonetheless,  is  not  resting  on  its  laurels 

because  of 
the  seemingly  slow  pace  at  which 
HIV/AIDS is setting upon us. On the contrary, the Fiji 
Government has in place a national task force for AIDS 
and,  through  relevant  appropriate  line  ministries,  as 
well  as  key  stakeholders,  including  civil  society,  it  is 
relentlessly 
education 
programme to tackle the problem. 

in 
collaboration  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Children’s 
Fund  (UNICEF)  offices  in  Fiji.  The  joint  efforts  are 
advancing  networking  in  advocacy,  youth  awareness 
and activities, peer education and counselling, research 
and  study,  and  are  projecting  suitable  programmes  in 
addressing  HIV/AIDS.  These  efforts  pursue  cross-
sectoral  and  multidisciplinary  avenues  that  promise 
positive  outcomes.  The  joint  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations  agencies  have  catalyzed  national  and  regional 
pilot studies and conferences. 

first  Pacific  Regional  HIV/AIDS  and 
Sexually Transmitted Diseases Conference, held in Fiji 
in  February  1999,  gave  a  high  profile  focus 
to 
HIV/AIDS in the region. In particular, it served as the 
platform  for  youth  delegates  to  formulate  a  statement 
of  specific  actions  that  young  people  can  engage  in, 
including  peer  education,  legal  protection  and  life 
skills. 

Some  of  these  works  are  being  undertaken  by 
relevant  non-governmental  organizations,  such  as  the 
AIDS Task Force in Fiji, or interdenominational church 
groups,  such  as  the  Churches  AIDS  and  Related 
Diseases,  Pastoral  Care  and  Education,  Inc.  (CAPE), 
which  attest  to  the  need  to  approach  HIV/AIDS  in  a 
more holistic way. 
The Human Rights HIV/AIDS Advisory Council, 

based at the University of the South Pacific in Suva, is 
coordinating  the  three  study  programmes  that  were 
piloted in the South Pacific. 

The President returned to the Chair. 
The 
a 
testimony, 
Again,  we 
experiencing 

The  United  Nations  needs  to  be  commended  for 
recognizing  the  work  on  HIV/AIDS  that  is  being 
conducted  in  the  Pacific,  however  small  in  relative 
terms compared to other regions. In giving Maire Bopp 
Dupont one of the four awards for breaking the silence 
on HIV/AIDS, the United Nations paves the way for a 
strengthened  partnership  with  the  Pacific  peoples, 
Governments  and  non-governmental  organizations,  and 
in so doing the Pacific, including Fiji, commits itself to 
the “big noise” slogan to arrest the spread and invasion 
of HIV/AIDS. 

My  delegation  finds  the  debate  on  the  culture  of 
peace  in  this  Assembly  this  week  to  be  a  timely  and 
critical  event  in  our  consideration  of  the  HIV/AIDS 
pandemic.  Through  Mary’s 
the  Pacific 
advocates the inculcation of peace and tolerance in the 
minds  of  our  peoples  and  children  through  education 
and through family. Prevention, tolerance, support and 
care  are  immediate  values  that  we  can  foster  now  in 
adding to that big noise.  

seemingly 
are 
insurmountable  health,  development  and  security 
problem which is contracted in developing nations and 
for  which  medicine,  research  and  finance  are  in  the 
hands  of  the  developed  nations.  We  must  not  yield  to 
this  scenario  with  feelings  of  helplessness.  On  a 
positive note, we can be more effective by contributing 
in  our  own  small  ways  at  home  to  building  strong, 
holistic  partnerships 
to 
complement  international  partnerships.  Our  collective 
efforts  can  then  make  a  difference.  In  this  regard,  Fiji 
wishes to acknowledge the contribution of Australia in 
HIV/AIDS  work  in the Pacific. The recent decision  to 
commit  $200  million  to  assisting  partner  countries  in 
the Asia/Pacific  region  in  the  next  six  years  is  highly 
appreciated.  

To  signal  my  Government’s  increased  dedication 
to  this  noble  cause,  Fiji  is  co-sponsoring  the  draft 
resolution  now  before  this  Assembly.  Its  adoption  by 
consensus  can  generate  the  political  will  of  Member 
States  for  the  preparations  for,  convening  of  and 
critical follow-ups to the special session on HIV/AIDS 
in  2001.  My  Government  is  confident  that  the  special 
session  will  augment  all  efforts  and  resources  to  raise 
resource 
the 
commitments 
that  can 
effectively  halt 
this  pandemic,  which  has  been 
categorized  as  the  greatest  human  security  risk  of 
modern times. 
of 
and 
to  an  unprecedented  scale 
in  our  own  countries 
political, 
levels 
social 


15 

A/55/PV.51 

to 
the  plague 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 

Assembly  resolution  49/2  of  19  October  1994,  I  now 
call  on  the  observer  of  the  International  Federation  of 
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 
Ms.  Pohjankokka  (International  Federation  of 

Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies): I am honoured 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  head  of  the 
delegation of the International Federation of Red Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  Societies.  He  regretted  not  being 
able  to  be  present  to  participate  in  this  important 
discussion, due to his urgent mission in Europe. 

During  one  of  the  most  heated  debates  some 
weeks  ago  in  this  very  room,  a  Foreign  Minister  from 
Africa  compared  HIV/AIDS 
that 
devastated  Europe  many  centuries  ago  and  asked  an 
unpleasant  question:  How  long  will  we  have  to  wait 
until  we  find  a  joint  strategy  to  fight  this  deadly 
plague?  We  at  the  International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  (IFRC)  appreciate 
the  fact  that  Ambassador  Richard  Holbrooke  took  a 
very  courageous  and  visionary  step  at  the  Security 
Council  some  time  ago,  declaring  HIV/AIDS  a  threat 
to world peace and security. 

That is  exactly  what  it is. And  only  a  month  ago 
in  Ouagadougou,  Burkina  Faso,  some  53  African  Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Societies and the IFRC, during 
the  fifth  Pan African  Conference,  decided  that  enough 
is enough. The  way  the  world  failed to  see  the  danger 
of  the  Nazi  virus  in  the  early  1930s,  which  led  to  the 
Holocaust  and  the  loss  of  some  50  million  people 
during  the  Second  World  War,  is  the  same  way  we 
sadly  wasted  the  first  20  years  after  the  HIV  virus 
started sweeping the world and Africa in particular. All 
the  tragic  statistics  are  now  well  publicized,  so let  me 
say  a  few  words  on  how  the  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  Movement  plans 
the 
important meeting in Ouagadougou. 

The IFRC  and its 53 African  Red Cross and Red 
Crescent  National  Societies,  with  over  2  million 
volunteers,  will start immediately implementing a new 
strategic  initiative  called  the  African  Red  Cross  and 
Red Crescent Health Initiative, together with all health 
ministries  in  the  continent  and  all  major  United 
Nations partners. This 10-year plan of action identifies 
all  major  health  problems  in Africa,  HIV/AIDS  being 
the most urgent to deal with.  
In  order  to  change  the  scope  and  speed  of  this 

killing  machine,  the  IFRC,  recognizing  that  the  war 
to  continue  after 
16 


to 
use 
promoted.  This 
activity, 
as  well 
as  gender  differences 
against  HIV/AIDS  will  be  won  or  lost  at  the  local 
level,  plans  to  concentrate  its  efforts  on  working  ever 
more  closely  with  the  local  communities. Actions  will 
be focused first on advocacy to convince public health 
authorities  and  political  leaders  to  declare  HIV/AIDS 
an  emergency  and  give  it  due  priority.  High  profile 
attention  needs  to  target  unsafe  sexual  behaviours, 
discrimination and stigmatization of people living with 
HIV/AIDS, 
in 
vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. 

Second,  we  must  build  and  apply  knowledge  by 
ensuring 
that  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  members, 
volunteers  and  staff  are  knowledgeable  on  HIV/AIDS 
prevention  and  that  they  apply  this  to  their  own  lives. 
We  must  promote  youth  peer  education  in  and  out  of 
schools  as  a  way  of  having  a  significant  impact  in 
terms of attitude and behaviour changes regarding safe 
sex. 

Third,  condoms  must  be  distributed  and  their 
proper 
currently 
undertaken  by  12  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  Societies, 
aims  at  increasing  availability  and  accessibility,  in 
particular in rural areas, where Red Cross/Red Crescent 
volunteers 
condom 
distributors  and  promoters.  What  needs 
to  be 
established is a pull mechanism that can create demand 
at a big enough scale and lead to behavioural change. 

Fourth,  home  care  must  be  supported  for  people 
living with HIV/AIDS. The focus is on training family 
members in basic care, first aid and support techniques. 

Fifth,  we  must  advocate  towards  community 
authorities on  behalf of orphans.  In  collaboration  with 
other  partners,  we  will  assist  communities 
in 
strengthening their traditional assistance to address the 
problems of millions of orphans. 

Sixth,  we  must  promote  voluntary  non-
remunerated  blood  donation.  Thirty-three African  Red 
Cross/Red Crescent Societies are involved today in this 
programme;  three  of  them  manage  blood  banks.  Since 
5  to  10  per  cent  of  HIV  infections  are  still  caused  by 
transfusing  contaminated  blood,  additional  efforts  and 
investments will be made to prevent it. 

availability of voluntary counselling and HIV testing. 

appreciation 
concerned,  and  particularly 
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  state  our  great 
the  several  African  Governments 
the  Burkina  Faso 
Seventh,  we  must  promote  the  development  and 
outreach 
to 
serve 
as 
valued 


A/55/PV.51
in 
draft 
delegation,  for  their  active  support  in  endorsing  the 
Ouagadougou Declaration and recognizing it within the 
United  Nations  system,  where  it  is  now  registered 
under document A/55/480. Further, we highly value the 
recognition  by  the  Governments  in  taking  note  of  the 
Ouagadougou  Declaration 
resolution 
A/55/L.13.  We  consider  this  a  meaningful  step  in 
building our strategic partnerships. We look forward to 
continuing  further  our  cooperation  with  the  national 
plans. 

Here I would like to inform the Assembly that, in 
an act of solidarity, all major donor Red Cross and Red 
Crescent  Societies  have  expressed  the  commitment  to 
support  their  colleagues  from  Africa  in  this  difficult 
and  long  war  that  we  all  are  going  to  fight.  We  know 
that  a  quick  solution  is  not  on  the  horizon.  The  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement  is  preparing  for  a 
long and difficult war against the disease. We hope that 
the  Governments  and  all  our  major  United  Nations 
partners will support us. 

In conclusion, let me go back to history. The Nazi 
virus  was  defeated  only  when  a  worldwide  coalition 
was  created  to  stop  it  and  exterminate  it.  If  we  know 
today  that  in  the  coming  years  HIV/AIDS  will  kill 
more people than all wars and natural disasters have in 
the  last  50  years,  the  time  has  come  to  form  this 
coalition  and  start  the  counter-attack  with  all  the 
financial,  scientific  and  medical  weapons  we  have  to 
hand.  As  the  IFRC  President,  Dr.  Astrid  Heiberg,  has 
said,  
“Ten  years  from  now  we  might  be  able  to  look 
back and say ‘We made Africa a healthier place to 
live.’” 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

the debate on this item. 

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/55/L.13. I give the floor to the representative of the 
Secretariat. 
Mr.  Jin  Yongjian (Under-Secretary-General  for 

General  Assembly  Affairs  and  Conference  Services): 
With  regard 
the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.13,  the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
drawn to the programme budget implications statement 
submitted  by 
the  100th 
plenary  meeting  of  the  fifty-fourth  session  of  the 
Assembly, contained in document A/C.5/54/65. 
the  Secretary-General  at 
to 
as 
required; 
and 
thus  been  made 
for 
secondly, 
coordinating  with 
the  UNAIDS 
the 
inputs  from 

In its report to the fifty-fifth session contained in 
document  A/55/529,  the  Fifth  Committee  decided  to 
inform  the  General  Assembly  that,  subject  to  the 
provisions for the operation and use of the contingency 
fund,  implementation  of  General  Assembly  resolution 
54/283  could,  inter  alia,  require  $1,628,900  over  and 
above  the  resources  in  the  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium 2000-2001.  

the 
Provisions  have 
following: first, the convening of the special session on 
the  basis  of  two  simultaneous  meetings  a  day,  plus 
evening  meetings 
the 
strengthening  of  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme 
on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS)  secretariat  in  New York  and 
Geneva  for  backstopping  the  process  of  the  special 
session, 
the  United  Nations 
the 
Secretariat 
co-sponsors, 
special 
substantive  preparations  of 
session, 
including  ensuring 
the  country  and 
regional  levels,  and  the  preparation  of  a  background 
document for the special session containing an overall 
assessment  of  progress  to  date  in  the  global  effort  to 
combat  HIV/AIDS,  an  analysis  of  major  gaps  and 
constraints,  an  overview  of  remaining  challenges, 
lessons  learned  and  best  practices,  as  well  as  the 
formulation of recommendations for the future; thirdly, 
public  information  programmes  and  coverage  of  the 
special  session;  and  fourthly,  requirements  of  central 
support services and protocol services. 

The  adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/55/L.13, 
therefore,  will  not  give rise to  additional requirements 
over  and  above 
the 
programme budget implications statement submitted at 
the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. 

By operative paragraph 8, however, the Assembly 
would also decide to convene, within the framework of 
the  preparatory  process  for  the  special  session,  open-
ended informal consultations of the plenary, chaired by 
the President of the General Assembly, to undertake, as 
appropriate,  preparations 
the  special  session, 
including  elaboration  of  a  draft  declaration  of 
commitment  and  other 
for 
consideration  during  the  special  session,  to  further 
address the modalities and other organizational matters 
of  the  special  session,  with  a  view  to  submitting 
proposals  for  final  decision  by  the  Assembly,  and  to 
organize  other  relevant  activities  to  contribute  to  the 
preparation for the special session. 
the  $1,628,900  contained  in 
relevant  documents 
for 


17 












A/55/PV.51 


Further,  by  operative  paragraph  14  of  the  draft 
resolution,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
would  still  make  recommendations,  for  consideration 
by  Member  States  during  the  preparatory  process,  for 
final decision by the Assembly as soon as possible, but 
not  later  than  2  March  2001,  as  to  the  form  of  the 
involvement  of  civil  society  actors, 
in  particular 
associations  of  people  living  with  HIV/AIDS,  non-
governmental  organizations  and  the  business  sector, 
including  pharmaceutical  companies,  in  the  special 
session  and,  to  the  extent  possible,  in  the  preparatory 
process. 

Once a final decision is taken on the preparatory 
process  and  the  special  session  itself  —  its  structure, 
participation  and  coverage  —  and  should  they  require 
additional  resources, 
the  Secretary-General  would 
revert to this issue. 

In  the  meantime,  bearing  in  mind  operative 
paragraph  15  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  Secretary-
General  would  endeavour  to  make  every  effort  to 
ensure  mobilization  of  resources  to  a  trust  fund  to  be 
established to ensure the full and active participation of 
all  States,  including  the  least  developed  countries,  in 
the preparatory process for the special session. 

The President:  Before proceeding  to take  action 
on  the  draft  resolution,  I  should  like  to  announce  that 
since  its  introduction  the  following  countries  have 
become sponsors: Benin, Botswana, Ethiopia, Finland, 
Guinea,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Iceland,  Jamaica,  Kenya, 
Liberia,  Liechtenstein,  Mali,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Rwanda,  Saint  Lucia,  Sierra 
Leone,  the  Sudan,  Uganda,  Uzbekistan,  Zambia  and 
Zimbabwe. 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/55/L.13.  May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly 
decides to adopt the draft resolution? 

Draft 
(resolution 55/13). 
The  President:  We  have  thus  concluded  this 

stage of our consideration of agenda item 179. 
resolution  A/55/L.13  was 
adopted
Agenda item 61 
Strengthening of the United Nations system  

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
  Draft resolution (A/55/L.19)

The  President:  We  shall  now  proceed  to  take  a 

decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/55/L.19,  entitled 
“Amendment to rule  l of the rules  of procedure of the 
General Assembly”. 

to adopt draft resolution A/55/L.19? 

Draft 
(resolution 55/14). 

The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
61. 

resolution  A/55/L.19  was 
adopted 
Agenda item 21 
Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Organization of American States  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/55/184)

  Draft resolution (A/55/L.21)
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 


Canada to introduce draft resolution A/55/L.21. 
Mr. Heinbecker (Canada)  (spoke  in  French): As 

Canada  currently  chairs  the  Permanent  Council  of  the 
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS),  I  am  very 
pleased  and  honoured  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.21,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Organization of American States”. 

I  am  especially  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
following  countries  have  joined  Canada,  Costa  Rica, 
Ecuador,  Guatemala,  Mexico  and  Venezuela 
in 
sponsoring  the  draft  resolution: Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
the  Bahamas,  Brazil,  Colombia, 
the  Dominican 
Republic,  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Nicaragua,  Panama,  Peru  and  the  United  States  of 
America. 
(spoke in English) 

important new elements. 
resolution  A/55/L.21 
includes  several 
Draft 
18 




A/55/PV.51
It 
fitting 
It  welcomes 
is  especially 
the  upcoming  Summit  of 

the 
Americas,  to  be  held  in  April  2001  in  Canada,  where 
we will welcome leaders from across the hemisphere. 

It  acknowledges  the  declaration  by  the  OAS  of 
2001  as  the  Inter-American Year  of  the  Child  and  the 
Adolescent,  and  welcomes  related  efforts 
in 
the 
Americas to address emerging issues for children. 

Finally,  it  notes  with  satisfaction  information 
exchanges  between  the  OAS  and  United  Nations 
missions in the hemisphere and recognizes the work of 
the  OAS  in  the  promotion  of  democracy  in  the 
Americas. 

that  Canada  should 
introduce  this  draft  resolution  this  year,  the  tenth 
anniversary  of  our  membership  in  the  OAS.  Since 
joining  the  organization,  Canada  has  increased  its 
engagement  with  regional  partners  in  all  areas,  from 
free trade to drug control to human security. 

As  a  regional  agency  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
OAS shares the fundamental goals of promoting peace 
and  security  and  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights.  It 
is  therefore  important  that  the  two  organizations  work 
closely together to develop and strengthen activities to 
address the  multifaceted challenges  facing the  citizens 
of this hemisphere. 

Such  collaboration  has  developed  impressively, 
including  cooperation  on  activities  such  as  electoral 
observation,  disaster  management,  refugee  protection 
and human rights. 
Leaders  at  the  Summit  of  the  Americas  will 

endorse 
the  already 
substantial work being done by the OAS in these areas. 
We  must  therefore  intensify  efforts  to  identify  areas 
where  cooperation  between  the  OAS  and  the  United 
Nations can be strengthened. 
(spoke in French) 

in 
substance  —  somewhat  pro  forma,  we  are  confident 
that  continued  close  cooperation  between  the  member 
States  of  our  two  organizations  will  result  in  real, 
beneficial impact on the quality of life of their peoples. 

Lastly, I  should like  to  express  our  hope that  the 
draft  resolution  will  be  adopted  by  the  Assembly 
without a vote. 
While  resolutions  such  as 
these  are  — 
initiatives 
that  will 
increase 
the  completion  of 
the  EU  —  Bulgaria, 
the  United  Nations  and 
Improved  coordination  of 
Mr.  Doutriaux  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union  (EU)  on  agenda  item  21,  which  relates  to 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization of American States (OAS). 
The  countries  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe 

associated  with 
the  Czech 
Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, 
Romania, Slovakia and  Slovenia —  and the  associated 
countries  of  Cyprus,  Malta  and  Turkey,  as  well  as 
Norway,  a  country  of 
the  European  Free  Trade 
Association, align themselves with this declaration. 

The  European  Union  noted  with  particular 
interest  the  content  of  the  Secretary-General’s  most 
recent report on this question. Naturally, the European 
Union welcomes the fact that the two organizations are 
able to  maintain and develop close relations  with each 
other. 
the  operations 
undertaken is likely to reinforce the real mutual impact 
of  the  efforts  in  the  region  to  promote  sustainable 
peace  and  development.  Among  the  most  significant 
joint  actions,  the  European  Union  would  emphasize, 
following 
the 
International  Civilian  Mission  in  Haiti  (MICIVIH)  in 
March  2000,  the  continuation  of  regular  consultations 
between  the  OAS  and  the  United  Nations  Civilian 
Support Mission for Haiti (MICAH). In this regard, the 
European  Union  reaffirms  its  full  support  for  the 
efforts  of  the  OAS  to  attempt  to  find a  solution to  the 
serious political crisis that Haiti is experiencing. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  acknowledge 
the decisive role played by the OAS in preventing and 
resolving  conflicts.  Useful  lessons  could  undoubtedly 
be drawn from this experience for other regions of the 
world.  We  would  like  to  underline  in  particular  the 
important role the OAS has played and should continue 
to  play  in  connection  with  the  elections  in  Peru.  The 
EU  also  applauds  the  mediating  role  played  by  the 
OAS  in  settling  the  dispute  between  Honduras  and 
Nicaragua. 

The  European  Union  also  recognizes  the  role 
played by the OAS in developing a number of regional 
and inter-regional projects. 

to 
continue its own cooperation efforts with both the OAS 
and  the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin America  and 
the  Caribbean  whenever  the  opportunity  arises;  hence 
the Union’s financial participation in 1998 and 1999 in 
the  European  Union 
the  mandate  of 
Obviously, 
intends 


19 

A/55/PV.51 

and 
sustained 
in  Guatemala 
in  Guatemala,  where 
an  OAS  programme  to  reduce  vulnerability  to  natural 
disasters  in  Central  America  and  the  Caribbean.  The 
European Union also fosters, either directly or through 
its  Member  States, 
productive 
cooperation  with  the  OAS  anti-drug  unit.  Moreover, 
the  European  Union  has  developed  very  positive 
cooperation  with  the  OAS  in  the  sphere  of  election 
monitoring.  Another  example  of  coordination  was 
the  United  Nations 
noted 
Verification  Mission 
(MINUGUA) 
coordinated  closely  with,  among  others,  the  OAS  and 
the  European  Union  in  the  monitoring  of  Guatemala’s 
general elections in 1999. 

In  accordance  with  its  own  policy  regarding 
relations  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations,  the  European  Union  expresses  its  wish 
for  enhanced  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the OAS, and it will continue to follow this matter 
closely. 
Mr. Akasaka (Japan): Japan has long stressed the 

importance of cooperation between the United Nations 
and  regional  organizations.  We  thus  heartily  welcome 
efforts  to  promote  cooperative  relations  between  the 
Organization of American States (OAS) and the United 
Nations,  as  described  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  and  as  reflected  in  the  draft  resolution  which 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Canada  introduced. 
My  delegation  is  very  pleased  to  sponsor  the  draft 
resolution. 

Guatemala  and  Haiti  are  the  two  most  salient 
cases  of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the OAS.  

Permit me first to touch on the cooperation of the 
two  organizations  in  Guatemala.  Thanks  in  no  small 
part  to  the  information  provided  by  the  OAS,  the 
United  Nations  Verification  Mission  in  Guatemala 
(MINUGUA)  was  able  to  contribute  to  the  peace 
process 
disarmament, 
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants into 
society.  The  referendum  on  constitutional  reform  was 
held  under  its  supervision  in  May  last  year  and  the 
general election  was  held last  November.  Recognizing 
the  importance  of  the  democratization  process,  Japan 
sent  six  observers  to  help  monitor  the  election  in 
November  and  made  a  financial  contribution  for 
MINUGUA’s  election-monitoring  activities. 
Japan 
supports the current and future  work of MINUGUA in 
monitoring  the  peace  process  and  implementing  tax, 
supervising 
the 
by 
in 
to 
for 
the 
the 
fund 
activities  of 
the  United  Nations 
that  country.  In  order 
judicial  and  social  reforms.  Japan  therefore  supports 
the  extension  of  MINUGUA’s  mandate  until  31 
December  2001,  as  recommended  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report. 
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  situation  in  Haiti.  Japan 

appreciates 
joint  United 
Nations/Organization  of American  States  International 
Civilian  Mission  in  Haiti  and  the  United  Nations 
in  promoting 
Civilian  Support  Mission  for  Haiti 
democracy 
to  enhance 
democracy  and  stability 
in  Haiti,  Japan  made  a 
financial  contribution  and  sent  observers  to  monitor 
both the presidential election and the general and local 
elections  held  in  1995.  It  has  also  contributed  $3 
million 
the 
establishment of a national police force in Haiti. Japan 
is  thus  all  the  more  disappointed  with  the  situation  in 
the wake of the general and local elections held in May 
and  July  this  year,  and  urges  the  Government  of  Haiti 
to  make  the  greatest  possible  efforts  to  advance  the 
democratization process. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  refer  to 
some  of  the  recent  instances  in  which  Japan,  as  a 
permanent  observer  of  the  OAS  since  1973,  has 
cooperated with the Organization of American States. 
First, let  me refer  to the  democratization  process 

in  Peru,  which 
important 
implications  for  the  political  stability  and  economic 
development not only of that country, but of the entire 
Andean region. In accordance with that view, Japan has 
contributed  $200,000  in  support  of  the  monitoring 
activities  of  the  OAS  for  this  year’s  presidential  and 
legislative elections in Peru, and has also sent election 
observers to participate in those activities. 
The  second  case  of  cooperation  relates  to  the 

OAS Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission 
(CICAD). Recognizing the importance of the activities 
of CICAD to eradicate both the demand for and supply 
of  drugs,  Japan  has  thus  far  contributed  a  total  of 
$1,880,000 to the various projects of the Commission. 

Thirdly,  the  elimination  of  landmines  that  were 
laid  during  the  civil  wars  in  many  parts  of  Central 
America  has been a  concern of Japan.  Eliminating  the 
landmines  is  important  for  the  repatriation  of  farmers 
and  rural  resettlement,  which  are  prerequisites  for  the 
economic 
recovery  process.  Since  1992  Japan’s 
contribution  to  the  OAS  for  this  purpose  amounts  to 
$340,000. 
Japan  believes  has 
20 




A/55/PV.51
The  OAS 
the  oldest 

In  conclusion,  I  once  again  commend  the  OAS 
for  its  efforts  to  strengthen  peace  and  security  and  to 
achieve  economic  and  social  stability  throughout  the 
region.  I  also  confirm  Japan’s  full  support  for  the 
activities  of  the  OAS  for  the  further  development  of 
Latin America  and  the  Caribbean  region,  and  urge  the 
international  community  to  lend  its  support  to  its 
efforts. 
Mr. Soares (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): I had the 

privilege  and  joy  of  holding  the  office  of  Secretary-
General of the Organization of American States (OAS) 
for  10  years. Therefore,  it  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to 
speak  as  a  member  of  the  Brazilian  delegation  on  an 
item  that  is  very  familiar  to  us:  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of American 
States.  

This item was first introduced in 1982 for annual 
consideration.  Recently  it  has  been  considered  every 
two  years.  We  are  encouraged  that  the  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OAS  grows 
steadily.  

regional 
organization.  It  grew  from  seeds  sown  by  the  First 
International  Conference  of  American  States  in  1890 
and  assumed  its  current  form  in  1948.  The  United 
Nations  Charter 
the 
contribution  that  regional  arrangements  can  make  to 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 

There  is  complementarity  between  various  areas 
of the two organizations; for example, between the Pan 
American  Health  Organization  and  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO),  in  the  work  of  the  OAS  Inter-
American  Drug  Abuse  Control  Commission  (CICAD) 
and 
the 
the  United 
framework  of 
Nations/Organization  of American  States  International 
Civilian  Mission  in  Haiti  (MICIVIH)  and  the  United 
Nations  Verification  Mission 
Guatemala 
(MINUGUA). 

The  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for 
Latin America and the Caribbean continues to make an 
important  contribution  to  development,  particularly  in 
the  fields  of  regional  integration,  statistics  and  the 
status  of  women.  In  turn,  the  concerted  action  of 
member  States  and such bodies of the  Organization  of 
American  States 
Inter-American 
Commission  of  Women,  which  has  been  in  existence 
since  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  and  the 
information  within 
implementation  of 
the  exchange  of 
in  Chapter  VIII 
(OAS)  as 
recognizes 
active 
the 
in 
is 
in 
the 


in 
Transparency 
last  year,  which  makes 
to 
Institute  contribute 
Inter-American  Children’s 
the  status  of  women,  alleviating 
the 
promoting 
problems 
faced  by  children  and  young  people, 
eradicating  extreme  poverty,  raising  peoples’  levels  of 
education  and  making  new 
technologies  widely 
accessible. 

The OAS does work that very often complements 
the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  —  for  example, 
through the adoption of the Inter-American Convention 
Conventional  Weapons 
on 
Acquisitions,  adopted 
it 
mandatory  for  member  countries  to  transmit  to  the 
United  Nations  Register  of  Conventional Arms  annual 
data on purchases and sales of conventional weaponry. 

American  States are  also  carrying out  pioneering 
activities  that  are  still  under  consideration  in  the 
universal Organization. Such is the case with regard to 
the  Inter-American  Convention  Against 
the  Illicit 
Manufacturing  of  and  Trafficking 
in  Firearms, 
Ammunition,  Explosives,  and  other  Related  Materials 
and the CICAD “Model Regulations for the Control of 
the  International  Movement  of  Firearms,  their  Parts 
and  Components  and  Ammunition”,  which  will  be 
important  elements  for  discussion  at 
the  United 
Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms 
and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects,  which  is  to  be 
held in New York in 2001. 

In the same vein, mention should be made of the 
efforts 
institutional 
framework for a comprehensive fight against terrorism 
in the western hemisphere. In particular, I wish to refer 
to  the  1996  Lima  Declaration  and  Plan  of Action  and 
the Mar del Plata Commitment of 1998, which provide 
valuable  inspiration  and  encouragement  for  the  work 
under  way 
to  prepare  a 
convention  on  the  suppression  of  terrorism  in  its 
various manifestations. 

the 
pioneering  role  of  the  OAS  is  that  being  done  in 
defence of democracy. This challenge, inscribed in the 
1948 charter of the organization,  was transformed into 
practice  with  the  reform  of  the  charter  and  the  1991 
adoption  of  resolution  1080,  which  is  known  as  the 
Santiago Commitment. In that resolution, among other 
things, the OAS General Assembly resolved  
Another  area  of  work 
the  United  Nations 
to  develop  an 
the  OAS 
illustrates 
that 
in 
in 
“to instruct the Secretary-General [of the OAS] to 
call  for  the  immediate  convocation  of  a  meeting 
of  the  Permanent  Council  in  the  event  of  any 
occurrences giving rise to the sudden or irregular 
21 

A/55/PV.51 
interruption 
institutional process”. 
of 
the 

democratic 
political 
A few years ago, a unit for the promotion of democracy 
was established in the OAS secretariat.  

It  is  also  appropriate  to  highlight  the  importance 
of  cooperation  between  the  OAS  and  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  on 
questions related to trade and development. 

We  are  pleased  to  take  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations. The large number of shared concerns — 
many  of  which,  such  as  the  promotion  and  defence  of 
democracy, are of singular importance — suggests that 
the  secretariats  of 
two  organizations  should 
enhance  the  dialogue  they  already  enjoy  by  holding 
periodic  meetings.  We 
that 
members  of  the  secretariats  of  the  two  organizations 
meet  next  year  for  a  continued  consideration  of 
programmes  of  cooperation  and  other  matters  to  be 
decided jointly. 
therefore  recommend 
the 
We shall now proceed to take a decision on draft 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

We  support  draft  resolution  A/55/L.21.  We  hope 
that  it,  like  past  resolutions,  will  be  adopted  by 
consensus. 

the debate on this item. 

resolution A/55/L.21.  

draft resolution A/55/L.21? 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
resolution  A/55/L.21  was 
Draft 
(resolution 55/15). 

The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  General Assembly  to  conclude its  consideration  of 
agenda item 21? 


It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m. 
adopted
22 


