
A/55/PV.48
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Fifty-fifth session 

48th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 1 November 2000, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland) 
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 
the 
recommendations  of 
important issue and their guidance in the consideration 
of it. 

Today,  my  delegation  wishes  to  focus  on  the 
Working  Group’s  proposals  to  facilitate  the  further 
implementation  of 
the 
Secretary-General.  These  proposals  complement  the 
objectives we have defined for ourselves in the African 
renaissance. We thus commend the Working Group for 
the  high  priority  placed  on  addressing  the  economic, 
environmental  and  social  issues  needed  to  ensure 
sustainable  development.  These  are  indeed  the  most 
important priorities for Africa. As long as Africa finds 
itself on the  margins of the information superhighway, 
the  mainstream  of  the  world  economy,  the  flow  of 
foreign direct investment, the marketplace of new ideas 
the  central  debate  on  our 
and 
environment, 
the 
countries of Africa to address the issues of conflict and 
sustainable development. 

As  is  so  rightly  pointed  out  in  the  report  of  the 
Working  Group,  the  first  priority  needs  to  be  poverty 
eradication  —  a  priority  also  acknowledged  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration  in  its  reference  to  the  special 
needs  of  Africa.  The  importance  of  education  as  a 
starting 
also 
acknowledged.  My  delegation  fully  subscribes  to  the 
to  donors, 
invitation 
in  close  collaboration  with 
national  Governments, 
to  strengthen  and  promote 
human resource development on the continent. 

The  Working  Group  has  stressed  the  need  to 
address  the  untenable  burden  that  external  debt  places 
it  will  always  be  difficult  for 
technologies  and 
addressing 
poverty 
point 
in 
is 











Agenda item 50 (continued)
Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Open-ended Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Causes of Conflict and the 
Promotion of Durable Peace and Sustainable 
Development in Africa (A/55/45) 
of 
and 
peace 
durable 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/55/431)

Mr. Vermeulen (South Africa): The report of the 

Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in Africa  remains  a  landmark  in  the  way 
it  showed  the  link  between  peace  and  development.  It 
is in fact worth noting that this link became a recurring 
feature  of  most interventions at  the recent  Millennium 
Summit. The  Working  Group  provided  Member  States 
with the unique opportunity to help shape the direction 
and  nature  of  the  response  to  this  very  important 
report.  Under 
the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fourth 
session, assisted by the Ambassadors of Singapore and 
Spain  as  his  Vice-Chairmen, 
the  Working  Group 
produced a most impressive report in a short time. 

We  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary  General,  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  two  Vice-
Chairmen  for  the  focus  they  provided  on  this  very 

the  capable  chairmanship  of 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

00-72178 (E) 
*0072178* 

A/55/PV.48 

on  a  number  of  African  countries.  My  delegation 
recognizes  the  progress  made  by  the  enhancement  of 
the  initial  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt 
(HIPC) Initiative at the annual meetings of the Bretton 
Woods institutions last year. We also welcome the extra 
efforts made by those institutions to meet the target of 
having 20 countries reach decision point before the end 
of  this  year.  While  these  actions  may  be  laudable,  the 
fact  that  we  still  have  numerous  countries  on  the 
African  continent  having  to  pay  more  in  servicing 
external  debt  than  for  education,  health  services  and 
housing  demonstrates  the  crux  of  the  problem  that  we 
face. 

My  delegation  believes  that  we  need  a  two-
pronged  approach.  First,  we  would  need  to  secure  the 
necessary  resources  for  the  full  implementation  of  the 
enhanced  HIPC  Initiative.  We  appeal  to  the  donor 
community to address this issue as a matter of urgency. 
Secondly, we would have to consider ways in which to 
improve  debt  relief  so  that  it  would  benefit  more 
countries  and  to  have  deeper  and  faster  debt  relief.  In 
this  regard,  we  support  the  proposal  of  the  Working 
Group  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade 
and  Development  to  have  an  independent  body  make 
an  assessment  of  the  sustainability  of  African  debt. 
This  should  form  the  basis  of  future  considerations  of 
the external debt overhang. 
My delegation also supports the Working Group’s 

for 
emphasis  on 
development 
and 
sustainable  development  on  the African  continent.  We 
would join the call to  ensure  that the  special  concerns 
of Africa be taken into account at the high-level event 
on  financing  for  development  next  year.  We  add  our 
voice  to  the  appeal  to  donor  countries  to  make  a 
concerted  effort  to  reach  the  agreed  target  of  0.7  per 
cent of gross national product for official development 
assistance  to  developing  countries.  Mr.  Horst  Köhler, 
Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, 
reiterated  only  last  week  here  at  the  United  Nations 
that increased official development assistance, together 
with  debt  relief,  are  critical  requirements  if  we  are  to 
achieve the 2015 development targets that we have set 
for ourselves. 

I  wish  to  also  associate  my  delegation  with  the 
priority that the Working Group has placed on the need 
to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic and the scourges of 
malaria  and  tuberculosis.  These  diseases  have  a  very 
the 
financing 
in  promoting  durable  peace 
importance  of 
the 
efforts 
to 
towards 
to 
the  effective 
the  ongoing  efforts 
serious  effect  on  the  continent’s  ability  to  address  the 
challenges of sustainable development. 

The Working Group appropriately recognized the 
need  to  strengthen  the  Organization  of  African  Unity 
Mechanism  for  Conflict  Prevention,  Management  and 
Resolution.  We  wish  to  support  the  proposal  that  the 
General  Assembly  request  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council 
to  establish  ad  hoc  advisory  groups  on 
countries  emerging  from  conflict.  This  could  greatly 
enhance 
post-conflict 
reconstruction  and  peace-building  and  the  prevention 
of  recurring  conflict.  Africa’s  efforts  to  develop  its 
capacity 
in  conflict  prevention,  management  and 
resolution should also be complemented by an effective 
United  Nations  in  the  field  of  peace  and  security.  We 
therefore believe that  the  Brahimi report represents  an 
important  contribution 
to 
strengthen the United Nations in this regard.  

However,  addressing  all  these  issues  will  make 
little  difference  to  sustainable  development  on  the 
African continent unless we pay proper attention to the 
environment  and 
integration  of 
environmental  protection,  social  development  and 
economic 
of 
sustainable  development.  We  thus  support  the  call  on 
that  environmental 
all  Member  States 
to  ensure 
considerations  be  adequately 
integrated 
into  all 
the  promotion  of  sustainable 
relevant  aspects  of 
development on the continent. 

In this regard, bringing the 2002 Earth Summit to 
the African continent  will be a concrete demonstration 
to  the  people  of  Africa  that  the  United  Nations  is 
serious  about  implementing  the  proposals  of  this 
Working  Group.  It  would  also  provide  the  people  of 
our  continent  with  an  opportunity 
recommit 
ourselves  to  the  principles  of  Agenda  21  and  to  the 
objectives and ideals of sustainable development. 

My  delegation  associates  itself  fully  with  the 
proposals made by the Working Group on the need for 
follow-up. We would strongly endorse the extension of 
the  Working  Group’s  mandate.  In  fact,  it  is  our  view 
that  this  Working  Group  could  play  a  very  important 
role  in  ensuring  a  prolonged  focus  on  the  activities  of 
the  United  Nations  in  Africa  and  assist  in  improving 
the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  United  Nations 
system  on  our  continent.  The  work  of  the  Working 
Group  could  provide  an  important  foundation  to  the 
implementation  of  part  VII  of 
the  Millennium 
implementation 
growth 
into 
the 
to 
2 




A/55/PV.48
to 
to 
achieve 
countries 
Declaration,  dealing  with  the  special  needs  of  Africa. 
We also support the proposal of the Working Group on 
the development of benchmarks. 

The  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in 
the  follow-up  to  and  implementation  of  the  reports  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  of  the  Working  Group  is 
critical. The Council, with its ability to provide system-
wide  guidance  and  coordination,  must  play  a  major 
role in the implementation process. We look forward to 
the  high-level  segment  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council in July 2001, which will be devoted to the role 
of  the  United  Nations  system  in  support  of  the  efforts 
of  African 
sustainable 
development. We further agree that this Working Group 
could  make  a  very  useful  contribution 
the 
preparations  for  the  final  review  and  appraisal  of  the 
United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of 
Africa in the 1990s. We would like to see this included 
in the mandate of the Working Group. 

Finally,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  Working 
Group’s  review  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  has 
already  succeeded  in  sharpening  the  focus  on  the 
special needs of Africa. The Working Group should be 
encouraged  in  this  very  important  endeavour  and  be 
given the mandate to continue with its work. 

Mr.  Patr(cid:237)cio  (Mozambique):  I  wish  to  express 
my profound appreciation to the Secretary-General for 
his  report  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion 
of  durable  peace  and  sustainable  development 
in 
Africa.  The  report  builds  on  the  earlier  reports  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  Africa,  makes  a  candid  analysis 
of 
in  Africa  and  offers 
approaches  to  confront  conflict  and  achieve  durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa. 
I  wish  also  to  commend  the  report  of  the  Open-

ended  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Causes  of 
Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of  Durable  Peace  and 
Sustainable  Development 
in  Africa.  The  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  represents  an  important  step  towards 
the 
the  Secretary-General’s 
recommendations  on  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and sustainable development in Africa. 
Africa is the region of the world most affected by 

conflicts,  which  bring  untold  suffering  to  the  African 
people  and  impeding  their  efforts  to  achieve  durable 
political,  economic  and  social 
the 
Secretary-General’s  report,  the  causes  of  conflicts  in 
Africa are rightly considered as being both internal and 
the  causes  of  conflict 
implementation 
stability. 
of 
In 
through  a  specific  Mechanism 
external  to  Africa.  Therefore,  to  reverse  this  situation 
and tackle the complex sources of conflict and achieve 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa, 
political  will  is  required  primarily  from  us  Africans, 
but also from our various external partners. 

African  countries  in  the  past  decade  have  been 
actively  promoting  democratic  systems  of  government 
and strengthening the rule of law and the protection of 
human  rights,  as  well  as  individual  freedoms  like 
freedom  of  speech  and 
freedom  of  association. 
Furthermore, 
they  are  pursuing  steady  economic 
reforms which enable them to create better frameworks 
for business through structural adjustment programmes 
that  encompass  privatization,  the  adoption  of  sound 
investment  codes  and  regulations,  tight  fiscal  and 
monetary  policies  and  appropriate  macroeconomic 
policies.  At  the  regional  level,  the  Organization  of 
African  Unity  (OAU)  has  demonstrated  its  increased 
commitment  to  finding  solutions  to  the  conflicts  in 
Africa 
their 
prevention, management and resolution. Similar efforts 
have also been made by subregional arrangements such 
as  the  Southern  African  Development  Community 
(SADC) and the Economic Community of West African 
States. 

These efforts, however,  will bear substantive and 
durable results only if the international community also 
demonstrates  its  commitment  by  providing  adequate 
resources,  equipment  and  technical  assistance  for  the 
efforts. 
prevention,  management 
Without 
its 
responsibility, African countries and organizations will 
continue to effectively contribute to the maintenance of 
global peace and security. 

its 
Declaration  that  Africa  has  special  needs  that  require 
the support and solidarity of all nations. To keep up the 
momentum  of  Africa’s  quest  for  durable  peace  and 
prosperity, 
including 
poverty,  external  debt,  improved  access  to  the  world 
market  and  increased  official  debt  assistance  (ODA), 
must  be  adequately  addressed  by  the  international 
community.  Our  continent 
the 
scourge  of  poverty  and  underdevelopment.  Out  of  48 
least  developed  countries  (LDCs),  33  are  in  Africa. 
Moreover,  pandemic  diseases  like  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 
and  tuberculosis  are  taking  their  toll  on  Africans, 
having  claimed  millions  of  lives,  while  the  regular 
occurrence  of  natural  disasters  causes  extensive 
the  root  causes  of  conflict, 
the  Security  Council  of 
The  Millennium  Summit 
is  grappling  with 
recognized 
resolution 
relieving 
and 
for 
in 


3 

A/55/PV.48 

former  combatants, 
devastation  and  misery.  We  believe  that  to  promote 
durable peace and sustainable development, we need to 
tackle  together  these  problems  so  that  we  will  be  able 
to have Africa as a strong partner in the current era of 
globalization  and  more 
interdependence  between 
States. 

Despite  our  different  historical  legacies  we  are 
bound to live in harmony and unity in Africa. Through 
peaceful  dialogue  our  leaders  and  various  regional 
organizations,  in  particular  the  OAU,  are  looking  for 
different ways and means to bring lasting peace where 
conflicts  still  prevail.  We  Africans  always  welcome 
good offices for durable peace that come from various 
countries  and  international  organizations,  primarily 
from  the  United  Nations.  This  assistance  is  more 
acutely  urgent  when  a  peace  agreement  is  to  be 
implemented.  From  adequate  peacekeeping  forces  to 
assistance  for  resettlement  of  refugees,  displaced 
persons  and 
from  demining 
activities  to  reconstruction  programmes,  everything 
must  be  done  in  time  with  adequate  means  to  sustain 
the peace agreed by the parties in conflict. The urgency 
that  we  are  here  highlighting  needs  to  be  adjusted  to 
the  reality  of  each  situation  in  which  we  are  asked  to 
give assistance and share real human solidarity. 

After  many  years  of  a  war  of  aggression,  we 
Mozambicans are committed every day to safeguarding 
lasting  peace  and  to  working  hard  for  our  sustainable 
development.  With  the  dividend  of  peace  we  are 
strengthening  our  democracy  and  at  the  same  time 
doing  our  best  to  accelerate  and  sustain  economic 
growth that will allow us to eradicate absolute poverty 
in the medium term. This is part of the commitment of 
building  a  better 
for  all  Mozambicans, 
particularly for our children in the new millennium. 

regarding 
Mozambique is indeed the general trend taking place in 
the  SADC  subregion  as  well  as  in  the  entire  African 
continent. This  trend  demands  that  all  of  us  apply  the 
values and principles reaffirmed during the Millennium 
Summit 
shared 
responsibility. Then we will be able to have a common 
front and implement a plan of action that will meet the 
special  needs  of  Africa,  as  well  described  in  the 
Millennium Declaration. 

My  delegation  assesses  this  rich  debate  on  the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and 
a 
sustainable  development 
solidarity  and 
What  we  are 
talking  about  here 
regarding 
special 
future 
there,  be 
to  peace  or  development 
reaffirmation  of  our  political  will  to  move  together  to 
achieve,  sooner  rather  than  later,  our  objectives  of 
peace,  democracy  and  development  in  Africa.  Indeed, 
it is our conviction that the United Nations family will 
be  more  effective  in  our  common  quest  for  lasting 
peace, security and development in Africa. 

Mr.  Dorda  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  We  pay  special  attention  to  this  topic.  The 
United Nations continues to pay attention to it, as seen 
in  the  number  of  reports,  volumes,  meetings  and 
speakers. However, from a practical point of view, the 
United  Nations  has  not  paid  any  tangible  attention  to 
the  disputes  and  conflicts  in  Africa,  nor  has  it  paid 
attention 
it 
sustainable or non-sustainable. The reason is that some 
of  us  here  are  strong  and  powerful,  and  they  prevent 
the  taking  of  any  serious  action  to  end  these  conflicts 
or disputes. They hamper or preclude the establishment 
of any development,  not only in Africa but also in the 
entire southern Hemisphere. 

Wise  people  say  that  the  correct  analysis  of  a 
problem  is  half  of  its  solution.  Correct  analysis  of  the 
causes of conflict in Africa was not undertaken frankly 
and  clearly,  neither  here  nor  in  the  Security  Council. 
The  problems  of  Africa  and  the  conflicts  that  it  has 
been experiencing and is expected to experience in the 
future  are  due  to  external  and  internal  factors.  The 
external ones are  as  follows: Africa  was  and  still  is  in 
many  parts  undergoing  social  formation.  African 
nations are not yet complete, are not full-fledged States 
yet.  The  formation  of  nations  is  a  long-standing 
historical  maturation  process  that  does  not  take  place 
overnight  and  does  not  materialize  through  a  decision 
or a resolution adopted here or there. 

Some  of  us  in  Africa  still  live  in  a  tribal, 
primitive age. When we start to settle down — because 
the formation of any nation must go through stabilizing 
stages — people will interact with one another; culture, 
traditions, customs and arts will materialize and people 
will  be  able  to  deal  with  their  environs  and  will  thus 
form  a  civilization.  Culture  and  civilization  will 
constitute  the  nature  and  tangible  character  of  these 
nations. 

In Africa  before achieving  such  stability,  we  had 
to  face  so-called  geographical  discoveries  that  led  to 
colonialism.  Colonialism  came 
that 
tremendous 
invention,  gun  powder.  We,  Africans, 
clashed  with  the  colonialists  repeatedly  because  we 
to  us  with 
in  Africa 
as 
4 




A/55/PV.48
their 
interests, 
designed 
to  chart 
that  managed 
were  afraid  to  suffer  the  same  fate  as  that  of  the  red 
Indians in North America. 

We  fled  to  forests  and  deserts  and  continued  to 
live there with our animals and thus could not achieve 
any stability and the historical social  maturization that 
would  have  transformed  us  into  nations  did  not  take 
place.  Colonialists  not  only  occupied  our  land,  but 
more importantly distorted all aspects of our life. They 
gave  us  labels  that  we  adopted  so  that  Africans  have 
been  calling 
themselves  John,  Robert  and  other 
European  names. They  even  gave  us  our  names. They 
forced  us  to  espouse  their  creeds  and  their  religion. 
They divided our African countries among themselves. 
They  charted  our  borders.  There  is  no  African  State, 
including  Libya, 
its  own 
frontiers  with  its  neighbours.  Colonial  Powers,  in 
accordance  with 
our 
geography.  They  divided  each  single  clan  into  two, 
three or four so-called States.  

We  did  not  know  our boundaries. Probably  some 
representatives will not believe that the former King of 
Libya  before  1969  was  from  Mustaghanem,  Algeria. 
His  family  moved  from Algeria to  Niger  then to  Chad 
then  to  Libya.  In  Libya  they  formed  a  religious 
mystical  sect  and  one  of  their  grandchildren  became 
the  King  of  Libya.  We  did  not  know  nationality  or 
borders.  Some  representatives  here  may  not  know  that 
the  former  President  of  Tunisia  was  from  Libya,  not 
from  Tunisia.  You  certainly  know 
that  President 
Kaunda,  who  liberated  Zambia,  might  not  have  been 
from Zambia. That was the situation in Africa. 

They divided us and charted our borders. Some of 
the  contemporary  conflicts  and  problems  result  from 
those  facts  and  from  those  colonialists.  A  land  was 
divided  into  two  or  three  countries.  Some  may  not 
know that part of the family or clan of the President of 
Chad is in Chad and the other part is in the Sudan. 

That  is  the  situation  that  prevailed  in  Africa. 
Whoever  charted  our  geography  sowed  the  seeds  of 
sedition and conflict in some parts of Africa. 

Also, among the external reasons that affected us 
while we were in that primitive stage — the purpose of 
which was to transform us into nations and to establish 
a  civil  society  in  our  countries  —  was  colonialism, 
which  went  out  the  door  but  came  back  through  the 
window to impose political terms and conditions on us. 
The 
apply 
parliamentary  democracy.  That  may  be  good  for  some 
that  we  had 
colonialists 
said 
societies that have already reached civil society status, 
but  not  for  our  societies  that  are  divided  into  clans, 
factions, tribes and so on. Hence, if any political party 
is established, it is relevant to politics only for slogans 
and proclamations. 

I  use  the  example  of  Sudan  because  my  brothers 
there  will  not  be  angry  and  will  not  misunderstand. 
There  is  the  Umma  party.  That  is  its  name,  but  its 
members  are  of  the  Ansar  faction.  The  other  party  is 
the  Democratic  Union.  It  is  neither  democratic  nor  a 
union. It is merely another faction called al-Khatmiyya. 
The  traditional  leader  of  the  faction  is  from  the  same 
family. Both parties have the same leader. He becomes 
President  if  both  parties  elect  him.  Is  this  democracy? 
The  same  applies  everywhere  in  Africa,  regardless  of 
the  different  nomenclatures  and  declarations.  We  can 
arrive  at  a  truly  democratic  theory  rooted  in  our 
heritage  and  traditions  and  that  includes  rotation  and 
the  rule  of  law,  putting  aside  approaches  that  are  not 
good for us. 

The  Prime  Minister  of  Niger  paid  us  a  visit  in 
Libya. At  that  time,  Niger  had  granted  the  freedom  to 
form  political  parties.  The  Prime  Minister  was  the 
leader  of 
that  was 
overseeing  the  elections.  I  asked  him  “How  many 
parties  do  you  have?”  He  answered,  “Around  60”. 
Then I asked “How many tribes do you have?” He said 
“The same number, more or less.” That meant that each 
one of those tribes constituted a party. Social conflicts 
would  definitely  take  place.  This  is  exactly  what 
happened  in  Burundi,  Niger,  Rwanda,  Somalia  and  all 
the countries that have adopted such approaches. 

their 
in 
footsteps.  One  day  we  will  be  able  to  do  that,  but 
present  social  conditions  and  conditions  of  place  and 
time are not receptive to this formula. If we adopt it, it 
will divide us and lead to war and conflict among us. A 
reason  for  underdevelopment  in  Africa  is  that  the 
economic  conditions  imposed  on  us  dictate  that  we 
adopt  the  market  economy,  and  we  have  neither  an 
economy  nor  a  market.  Some  of  us  do  not  even 
understand that expression, unless we want to be mere 
imitators. After  that  they  trapped  us  in  debt,  resulting 
in  lack  of  progress.  In  this  connection,  I  will  quote 
from  a  recently  published  book.  The  author,  an 
academic, is Canadian, but descended from an African 
family  in  Nigeria.  Writing  about  the  conditions  once 
imposed  on  Nigeria  by  the  International  Monetary 
Fund (IMF), he described the IMF ironically, calling it 
External  forces  want  us 
transitional  Government 
to  follow 
the 
to 


5 

A/55/PV.48 

“Dr.  IMF”.  What  is  the  description  of  this  “Dr.  IMF”, 
the  International  Monetary  Fund?  I  regret  having  to 
read  this  in  English,  one  of  the  colonial  languages 
imposed on us Africans. 
(spoke in English) 

“Following are domestic policies: cut your budget 
by  reducing  your  capital  income;  devalue  your 
currency; cut your defence budget; go hungry and 
pay  your  foreign debt; export  your raw  materials 
at  my  price  and  expect  the  finished  goods  at  my 
price;  reduce  your  population  growth  and  starve 
most of your people; instead of eating beef, send 
it to  us  and eat rat. You  need  a  balanced budget, 
not  a  balanced  diet.  The  Government  should  not 
borrow  internally  except  from  us  [the  names  of 
the  banks  that  should  be  dealt  with];  freeze  your 
wages; revoke Government regulations on private 
business;  and  when  done,  come  back  and  see 
me.” 
(spoke in Arabic) 
This  prescription  has  been  applied  not  only  to Africa, 
but, as the cartoon  on  the cover of  the book indicates, 
to Asia and Latin America.  

Thus, we are a skeleton strangled by debt and the 
IMF policy that represents the policies of the State that 
directs  it.  We  face  this  situation  and  these  economic 
and  political  evils.  How  can  Africa  get  rid  of  its 
conflicts  or  internal  disputes?  How  can  it  settle  down 
to  achieve  sustainable  and  durable  development?  The 
Security  Council  was  prevented  from  sending  soldiers 
to Africa unless in full compliance with the interests of 
a  super-Power  that  controls  the  Council  —  the  United 
States. At the same time, when it wanted to achieve its 
goals  in  Kosovo,  that  super-Power  sent  its  troops 
without  the  Council’s  endorsement.  It  sees  conflicts 
and  people  dying  daily,  but  peacekeeping  troops  are 
prevented from going to the places in question. 

The  Council  has  been  prevented  from  sending 
troops  to  Central Africa.  It  has  only  sent  observers.  It 
calls  on the  States  concerned to  ensure the  security  of 
observer personnel. If there were a central Government 
capable  of  maintaining  security,  it  would  then  be  able 
to  provide  security  for  its  own  people. The  Council  is 
at  the  mercy  of  America  and  serves  its  interests  or  it 
would not be able to adopt any resolutions. What kind 
of democracy is that  when it asks others to implement 
international 
resolutions  and  itself  prevents  the  Security  Council 
from implementing such resolutions? 

When American soldiers died in Somalia, the so-
called 
forces  were  withdrawn,  and 
thousands of Somalis subsequently died. It did not help 
Africa. It impeded assistance to Africa. If we deal with 
African  matters  and  want  to  help  Africa  settle  down, 
first there  should be debt cancellation. This  would  not 
be  a  favour,  for  the  colonial  European  Powers  built 
their  nations  on  the  raw  materials,  goods  and  services 
they  usurped  during  the  colonial  period.  They  must 
repay so that colonialism will not return. 

In  1975  or  1976,  the  former  President  of  Sierra 
Leone,  President  Stevens,  visited  us  and  we  discussed 
these  very  topics;  we  discussed  the  price  of  raw 
materials  and  manufactured  goods  and  the  rise  and 
decline  of  prices.  President  Stevens  told  us  that  three 
years  earlier  they  normally  had  to  export  one  ton  of 
cocoa  in  order  to  import  one  tractor.  At  the  time  I 
spoke  to  him,  they  had  to  export  12  tons  of  cocoa  in 
order  to  import  the  same  tractor.  That  meant  that  the 
price  of  manufactured  goods  had  risen  1,200  per  cent 
over the cost of raw materials.  

There  must  be  a  reconsideration  of  such  matters 
in  order  to  establish  new  standards  of  cooperation  on 
the  basis  of  partnership,  not  on  dependency.  There 
should  be  parity  in  the  future  with  regard  to  the 
sacrifices expected from each party. There should be a 
balance  between  the  price  of  manufactured  goods  and 
raw  materials.  There  must  be  an 
the  cost  of 
international 
plan 
about 
industrialization  in  Africa.  Such  an  approach  would 
accelerate  the  transformation  of  Africa’s  primitive 
societies  and  would  bring  them  closer  to  becoming  a 
civil  society.  Africa  is  rich  in  minerals  and  raw 
materials. A realistic programme has to be developed in 
order to achieve industrialization on that continent.  

In addition, plans are also needed in the areas of 
agriculture,  training  and  education.  More  important 
than  that  is  non-interference  in  the  affairs  of  the 
African  Group,  whether  collectively  or  unilaterally. 
Africa cannot attain either peace or progress as long as 
it  is  being  pulled  in  various  directions  by  powerful 
parties,  even  as  they  claim  to  be  serious  in  their 
determination  to  end  conflicts  and  achieve  peace  and 
stability  in  Africa.  Those  parties  must  illustrate  true 
cooperation by helping to set up the African Economic 
Community  and  by  lending  their  assistance  to  its 
bring 
of 
action 
to 
6 




A/55/PV.48
of 
for 
and 
peace 
recommendations 
economic  institutions,  which  will  be  established  next 
year.  
Mr.  Effah-Apenteng  (Ghana):  Ghana  is  pleased 

with  the  outcome  of  the  work  of  the  Open-ended 
Ad Hoc Working Group on the Causes of Conflict and 
the  Promotion  of  Durable  Peace  and  Sustainable 
Development  in  Africa.  The  sessions  of  the  Working 
Group  were  open,  transparent  and  quite  extensive  in 
their  coverage,  and  offered  a  good  opportunity  to 
evaluate  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations 
of the Secretary-General and the agreed conclusions of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  on  the  subject.  We 
are  most  grateful  to  the  President  of  the  fifty-fourth 
session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Theo-Ben 
Gurirab,  and  to  his  two  Vice-Chairmen,  Ambassadors 
Kishore  Mahbubani  of  Singapore  and  Inocencio Arias 
of  Spain,  for  the  exemplary  leadership  they  provided 
the Working Group. 
The  value  of  the  Working  Group  in  monitoring 

implementation  of 
the 
the 
promotion 
sustainable 
durable 
development  in  Africa  comes  across  clearly  in  the 
conclusions  and  recommendations of  the  report  before 
us. Not only is there significant work left to be done in 
implementing  the  recommendations,  there  is  also  a 
need to  measure performance and assess the impact of 
actions  taken  to  fulfil  those  recommendations.  The 
recommendations in the report of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group  on  the  extension  of  its  mandate  and  on  the 
setting up of thematic groups have our strong support. 
We are convinced that the framework to be provided by 
the Working Group and the thematic groups will enable 
the  General  Assembly  to  ensure  thematic  coherence, 
incorporation  of 
the 
emerging 
the 
international dimensions of the African problem. 

This  Hall  has  heard  bold  words  spoken  to  match 
the gravity of the development condition of Africa. We 
have  had  a  period  of  focus  on  Africa;  we  have  had 
initiatives, meetings and conferences on Africa; and we 
special  development  needs 
have  had  Africa’s 
highlighted 
in  all 
the  major 
conferences  and  summits  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
1990s, as  well as in  multilateral initiatives such as the 
Heavily 
(HIPC)  Debt 
Initiative. Africa’s condition, however, continues to be 
precarious: a falling per capita gross domestic product 
(GDP),  a  decline  in  the  level  of  industrialization  in 
terms  of  manufacturing  value  added  in  GDP,  an 
Indebted  Poor  Countries 
requisite  political  will, 
timely  resolution  of 
the  outcomes  of 
issues  and  a 
the 
The 
failure 
to 
external 
supportive 
to  be  on 
implement  policies  at 
increase  in  the  number  of  people  living  below  the 
poverty  line  and  in  the  number  of  undernourished 
people,  and  mixed  indicators  for  education,  literacy 
and health. Conflicts fuelled by underlying poverty and 
deprivation are becoming a fixture on the continent just 
when  Africa  appears 
the  brink  of  a 
renaissance. It is obvious that the bold words have not 
been matched with the requisite deeds. 

This  has  not  been  for  want  of  commitment  or 
action  by  African  countries  themselves.  In  meeting 
their  primary  responsibility  for  economic  policy-
making for development,  many African countries have 
successfully  pursued  macroeconomic 
stabilization 
policies  and  have  liberalized  their  economic  activities 
in  both  domestic  and  external  sectors.  What  has  been 
missing 
economic 
environment that has been considered critical to ensure 
accelerated  development  in  developing  countries. This 
fact was recently highlighted by the Secretary-General, 
the  President  of  the  World  Bank  and  the  Managing 
Director of the International Monetary Fund.  

the 
international  level  on  trade,  debt  and  international 
financial  flows  and  official  development  assistance 
(ODA)  has  doomed  the  efforts  and  sacrifices  of  low-
income  African  countries  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
build competitive, sustainable economies. On the basis 
of  current  projections,  and  with  the  unanticipated 
losses  associated  with  the  current  oil  price  hikes, 
Africa  will  not  attain  and  sustain  in  the  coming  years 
the average rate of 7 per cent GDP growth necessary to 
make a significant impact on poverty. 

the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  on  peace  and 
sustainable  development.  It  is  clearly  necessary  not 
only  that  we  identify  the  lessons  of  past  performance, 
but also that we have the courage to design our strategy 
around  those  lessons.  One  such  major  lesson  is  that  it 
is  futile  to  address  debt  relief  separately  from  the 
questions  of  market  access,  diversification  and 
primary-commodity 
The 
implementation and follow-up of the recommendations 
must  be  consistent  with  the  need  for  a  concerted 
approach 
on 
macroeconomic reform in African countries with action 
on  debt,  market  access  and  the  further  reform  and 
strengthening  of  the  financial  architecture,  including 
the  enhanced  use  of  public-private  partnerships  to 
leverage  private  capital  flows  and  foreign  direct 
implications 
synchronize 
that  will 
significant 
This  has 
declines. 
action 
price 
is 
the 
for 


7 

A/55/PV.48 

The 
institutions, 
implementation  of 
role  of  United  Nations  agencies 
investments to Africa. This requires that future sessions 
on  follow-up  to  the  recommendations  would  involve 
the  Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade 
Organization and other relevant bodies. 

ODA  constitutes  another  plank  of  the  strategy  to 
be  implemented.  The  efforts  of  African  countries  to 
develop  their  management  capacity  and  to  ensure 
responsive governance will not yield the desired effects 
without an infusion of additional resources in the form 
of  official  development  assistance.  ODA,  as  countless 
reports  have  acknowledged,  is  a  critical  input  in  the 
reform  process.  Reversing  its  20-year  low  levels  and 
attaining  the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national 
product  must  be  a  major  aspect  of 
the  General 
Assembly’s monitoring process. 
in 

in  Africa  constitutes  an 
development  activities 
important  element  for 
the 
the 
recommendations.  The  effectiveness  of  those  agencies 
in Africa  depends  to  a  great  extent  on  the  capacity  of 
programme countries. That capacity is weakened when 
it  is  confronted  with  the  heavy  burden  of  the  myriad 
requirements  and  procedures  for  disbursement  and 
implementation. The General Assembly must reinforce 
the  agreed  conclusions  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  and  request  the  United  Nations  Development 
Group  and  heads  of  specialized  agencies  to  act  with 
speed to harmonize programming procedures and joint 
programming  at  country  level.  The  General  Assembly 
must also use the opportunity of the final review of the 
United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of 
Africa  in  the  1990s,  which  will  take  place  in  2002,  to 
consider the plethora of United Nations initiatives and 
schemes  on  Africa.  A  rationalization  exercise  would 
eliminate  the  tendency  for  those  processes  to  be 
mistaken for effective action. More important, it would 
restore focus and accountability. 

Mr.  Lelong  (Haiti),  Vice-President, 
Chair. 

It  is  worth  pointing  out  in  this  regard  the 
inadequate  reflection  of  the  linkage  between  security 
and  development  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group’s 
report. Follow-up must address in particular the need to 
reinforce  the  capacity  of African  countries  to  identify 
and  integrate  effective  social  responses  to  conditions 
which lead to conflict. 
Finally,  the  success  of  our  work  in  the  United 

Nations  has  a  major bearing  on the implementation  of 
took 
the 
for 
the 
private 
financing 
the  process 
sector,  Governments 
the recommendations on Africa. This will be true of the 
Third  United  Nations  Conference  for  Least  Developed 
Countries  and  of 
for 
development,  just  as  it  is  for  the  way  we  address  the 
educational and digital divide and the other challenges 
identified by the leaders of the world in the Millennium 
Declaration.  Ensuring  the  political  will  to  meet  those 
challenges,  especially 
the  need  for  resources  for 
education  and  for  health  —  to  fight  diseases  such  as 
malaria,  HIV/AIDS  and 
tuberculosis,  which  are 
reversing  the  economic  growth  of African  countries  – 
requires  a  coalition  of  peoples  the  world  over:  civil 
society, 
and 
individuals.  Unless  we  all  work  together  to  give  true 
meaning  to  the  expression  “We  the  peoples”,  our 
success  in  meeting  the  challenges  of  attaining  durable 
peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa  will 
continue to be too little, too late. 
Mr.  Mamba  (Swaziland):  On  behalf  of  my 

delegation, I am  pleased to take part in today’s debate 
on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  As  we 
again discuss this topic,  we are again full of hope and 
optimism  that  Africa  will  eventually  rid  itself  of  the 
unwanted  scourge  of  conflict.  I  believe  that  all  of  us 
here wish for that time to come soon, for we now know 
that  Africa  has  the  capacity  to  do  it.  We  also  believe 
that  efforts  by  the  United  Nations  system  to  promote 
peace  and  security  in  Africa  can  be  intensified,  thus 
ensuring  sustainable  development.  However,  since  a 
large  number  of  the  identified  causes  of  conflict  are 
global  in  character  and  pose  challenges  that  must  be 
addressed  by  collective  efforts,  the  capacity  of  the 
United  Nations 
is 
sometimes compromised. Hence the need to strengthen 
the  Organization’s  role  in  addressing  these  challenges 
in line with its mandate as laid down in the Charter. 

The  report  of  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Causes of Conflict and the Promotion of 
Durable Peace and Sustainable Development in Africa, 
which  was established by the General Assembly by its 
resolution 54/234 of 22 December 1999 to monitor the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  made  by  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development in Africa, shows us that Africa still faces 
many challenges. 

Africa  are  seen 
Whilst  we  welcome  the  fact  that  many  parts  of 
their 
to  deal  with  such  challenges 
to  be  making  progress 
durable 
peace 
of 
and 
in 
8 




A/55/PV.48
that  are  people-centred, 
in  Africa  brought  about 
to  desperation  of  people,  and  eventually 
respective  efforts  to  maintain  peace  and  stability  by 
putting  in  place  and  implementing  political,  economic 
and  social  policies 
is 
regrettable  that  HIV/AIDS  has  arisen  as  another  form 
of  disaster  that  threatens  the  lives  and  security  of 
people  in  Africa  and  elsewhere.  The  convening  in 
January  2000  of  the  Security  Council’s  meeting  on 
AIDS 
recognition  and 
realization  of  the  present  danger  to  world  security 
posed by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. AIDS in Africa has 
become  a  threat  to  economic,  social  and  political 
stability.  Its  impact  is  no  less  destructive  than  that  of 
war.  Statistics  show  that  AIDS  has  on  average  killed 
about 10 times as many people in Africa as have armed 
conflicts,  and  that  it  has  left  many  children  orphaned. 
In  countries  already  facing  instability,  such  a  disaster 
can bring about further insecurity and tension, resulting 
in conflict. 

Furthermore,  Africa  remains  the  continent  with 
the  most  people  living  in  extreme  poverty  and  struck 
by severe food shortages. Poverty is the major cause of 
the  collapse  of  hope  and  expectations  among  people. 
Loss of hope can lead to the disintegration of a society 
and 
to 
excessive protection of one group’s interests over those 
of  the  others  —  this  is  worse  still  when  that  group 
personalizes  the  public  resources  it  is  entrusted  to 
manage. 

instances,  antagonistic  competition 
manifests itself in violent ethnic or religious conflict. It 
is  therefore  of  paramount  importance  that  all  the 
international 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions,  the  private  sector  and  non-governmental 
organizations  —  work 
together  with  national 
Governments in their efforts to eradicate poverty in all 
its  manifestations,  including  through  the  cancellation 
of 
the 
recommendations  made  by  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group. 
Given the broad spectrum of causes of conflict in 

Africa and their complexity, we fully agree with many 
that  the  lack  of  commitment  on  the  part  of  donor 
countries to provide sufficient resources, both financial 
and technical, does not help Africa solve its problems. 
The  same  sentiments  were  echoed  clearly  by  the 
Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF),  Mr.  Horst  Köhler, 
in  Washington,  D.C., 
recently.  Mr.  Köhler  said  that  Africa  should  be  given 
“faster, stronger and better institutional support” by the 
accordance  with 
partners  — 
In  many 
external 
debt 
in 
it 
responsibility,  especially 
world  community  for  it  to  realize  fully  its  capacity  to 
solve its problems. 

The unabated illegal flow of arms is also a major 
challenge  to  the  United  Nations  system.  There  is  no 
question  but  that  this  state  of  affairs  helps  transform 
many  tension  areas  into  areas  of  armed  confrontation. 
The  Security  Council  must  continue 
to  urge  all 
countries  that  are  involved  in  such  trade  to  stop,  thus 
enhancing  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council’s  arms 
embargoes. It is imperative that the illicit arms flow to 
and  within  Africa  come  to  an  end.  We  call  upon  the 
international  community 
to  make  a  coordinated, 
concerted  effort 
to  find  a  credible  and  effective 
solution  to  the  flow  of  arms  in  our  continent.  We 
therefore look forward to the convening in 2001, of the 
United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small 
Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, as a means 
of strengthening our resolve. 

We  note  with  appreciation  the  endeavour  of  the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  to  assume  its 
continental 
in  conflict-
afflicted  areas  where,  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  and 
has  worked 
solidarity, 
it 
and 
complemented 
the  other  continental  bodies  and 
subregional  organizations,  such  as 
the  Economic 
Community of West African States in West Africa  and 
the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development  in 
East  Africa,  as  well  as 
the  Southern  African 
Development  Community  in  southern  Africa.  Such 
efforts  offer  real  prospects  for  conflict  prevention, 
containment  and  resolution.  It  is  therefore  apparent 
that,  in  order  for  these  initiatives  to  be  a  success, 
support 
international 
community. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  pay  particular  tribute  to 
the  European  ministers  responsible  for  trade  and  the 
mining 
resolutely  deciding  against 
diamond  trading  that  helps  finance  warring  parties  in 
areas of conflict. We invite other international partners 
to  make a  meaningful  and comprehensive contribution 
to our fight against insecurity in Africa. 
Mr.  Kobayashi  (Japan):  Over 

the  years,  a 
number  of  wars  and  conflicts  have  been  fought  in 
Africa,  undermining  its  efforts  to  pursue  stability  and 
sustainable  development.  Recently,  however,  Africa 
the  prevention, 
has  made  substantial  progress 
management  and  resolution  of  conflicts.  In 
this 
context,  the  establishment  of  the  Organization  of 
closely  with 
the  entire 
is  needed 
industry 
from 
for 
in 


9 

A/55/PV.48 

is 
and  Resolution 
(OAU)  Mechanism 
for  Conflict 
African  Unity 
Prevention,  Management 
a 
significant  step  forward.  Efforts  by  the  OAU  and 
subregional  organizations,  such  as 
the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  need 
to  be  supported  and  consolidated 
to  prevent  a 
recurrence  of  conflicts  and  to  initiate  and  strengthen 
the  post-conflict  rehabilitation  and  reconstruction  of 
affected countries. Hence, my delegation welcomes the 
report  of  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
the  Causes  of  Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of  Durable 
Peace  and  Sustainable  Development  in  Africa,  which 
specifies actions to mitigate the potential for conflict. 

The  Working  Group  report  revealed  obstacles  to 
the  effective  implementation  of  the  recommendations 
of  the  Secretary-General,  including  lack  of  political 
will,  poor  governance,  too  many  armed  conflicts  and 
insufficient  financial  and  human  resources. The  report 
also indicates areas where special attention is needed in 
order for further action to be taken. 

There are many suggestions in the report on ways 
to promote sustainable development and durable peace 
in Africa. Above  all,  my  Government  attaches  special 
importance  to  the  ownership  by  African  countries  of 
development  in  Africa.  The  Government  of  Japan  has 
been  following  with  keen  interest  the  recent  initiative 
called  the  “African  Renaissance”  programme,  which 
was initiated by President Mbeki of South Africa and is 
based  upon  ownership  by  African  countries.  My 
delegation  sincerely  hopes  that  Africa’s  initiative  will 
be  widely  discussed  in  the  OAU  and  subregional 
organizations,  with  a  view  to  strengthening  Africa’s 
ownership  of  the  development  process.  Japan  is  ready 
to  support  Africa’s  reassuring  movement 
towards 
greater  ownership  and  to  help  construct  a  truly  global 
partnership. 

The  Government  of  Japan  is  strongly  committed 
to  assisting African  countries  in  achieving  sustainable 
development  and  durable  peace  in  Africa  through 
ownership  and  global  partnership,  and  the  Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD)  process  provides  a  framework  for  doing  so. 
To  take  further  steps  to  carry  the  TICAD  process 
forward,  my  Government  has  decided 
to  hold  a 
ministerial  meeting  on  African  development  in  the 
Japanese  fiscal  year  2001,  while  bearing  in  mind  the 
possibility  of  hosting  the  Third  Tokyo  International 
Conference  on  African  Development  (TICAD  III)  to 
build upon the tangible results of TICAD II. 
We  believe 
in  collaboration  with 

that  the  true  outcome  of  many 
international  conferences  on  African  development 
should  be  evaluated  in  terms  of  the  results  they 
produce  at  the  national  and  field  levels  in  African 
countries.  In  this  context,  since  TICAD  II,  Japan  has 
announced  several  new  assistance  programmes  for 
African  countries  through  the  TICAD  process.  One 
example  is  a  90  billion  yen  grant  for  projects  relating 
to  education,  health  and  safe  water  supplies.  It  is 
anticipated that this aid will lead to the construction of 
school  facilities  for  the  education  of  an  additional  2 
million children throughout Africa, and help at least 15 
million  citizens  to  improve  their  living  conditions.  To 
cite an example in the field of human capacity-building 
in  Africa,  my  Government,  in  collaboration  with  the 
Government  of  Kenya,  established  in  Kenya,  the 
African Institute for Capacity Development. 
Within the TICAD process, Japan attaches special 

importance 
to  South-South  cooperation,  especially 
Asia-Africa  cooperation,  to  promote  exchanges  of 
experience and cooperation between Asian and African 
countries.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  Government  of 
Japan, 
the  Government  of 
Malaysia, hosted the third Asia-Africa Forum in Kuala 
Lumpur in May this year. At that meeting, African and 
Asian  countries  discussed  agricultural  development 
and private  sector development  from  the  standpoint of 
capacity-building. Furthermore, my Government, again 
in  collaboration  with  the  Government  of  Malaysia, 
hosted  the  first  Africa-Asia  Business  Forum  in  Kuala 
Lumpur  last  year  to  promote  trade  and  investment 
between Asia and Africa. The forum produced business 
contracts amounting to more than $24 million between 
Asian and African private companies. My Government, 
in collaboration  with the Government of South Africa, 
is  planning  to  hold  the  second  Africa-Asia  Business 
Forum in Durban, South Africa, next July. 

last  month,  an  Asian  business 
mission  was  dispatched  successfully  to  Uganda  and 
Tanzania  under 
the  Asia-Africa 
Investment  and  Technology  Promotion  Centre  —  the 
“Hippalos  Centre”  —  which  is  another  initiative  of 
Japan within the TICAD process. The African Seminar 
on  Health  Development  is also being  held in Tokyo  at 
the moment, and will run until tomorrow. Co-hosted by 
the Government of Japan and the Joint United Nations 
Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), it is a forum for 
discussing  South-South 
to 
HIV/AIDS.  The  seminar  provides  participants  from 
the  auspices  of 
Furthermore, 
cooperation 
relating 
10 




the  high-level  segment  of 
African, Asian,  and  Latin American  countries  with  an 
opportunity  to  share  their  knowledge  and  experience 
on  the  deadly  epidemic.  For  its  part,  Japan  has  made 
clear  that  it  regards  HIV/AIDS  as  one  of  the  most 
important  issues  in  its  relationship  with  sub-Saharan 
Africa  and  that  it  intends  to  strengthen  its  policies  to 
fight HIV/AIDS. 

Finally,  Africa  presents  many  challenges,  which 
the  international  community  as  a  whole  needs  to  take 
up today. Japan will give a great deal of attention to the 
issues  facing  Africa  in  the  United  Nations  various 
forums,  particularly  over  the  next  year,  including  the 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  the  High-level  Event  on  Financing  for 
Development,  and 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  Japan  will  participate 
constructively in those conferences and meetings and is 
determined  to  live  up  to  its  commitment  to Africa  by 
implementing  concrete  programmes  and  projects  in 
that continent. 
Mr.  Kamara  (Sierra  Leone):  My  delegation 

would  like  to  express  its  heartfelt  sympathy  to  the 
Governments  of  Singapore  and  Angola  on  the  two 
tragedies  that  occurred  yesterday,  and  to  all  those 
whose nationals lost their lives in those tragedies. 

It  is  common  knowledge  in  this  Assembly  that 
Sierra  Leone  has  been  saddled  with  an  unprovoked 
conflict  for  the  past  nine  years,  a  conflict  that  has 
brought  untold  suffering  and  destruction  to  human 
lives,  property  and  infrastructure.  It  is  also  common 
knowledge  that  90  per  cent  of  the  victims  of  this 
conflict  are  innocent,  unarmed  civilians,  the  majority 
of which are women and children. 

It  is  also  a  conflict  that  is,  unfortunately,  fuelled 
by external forces, including the active participation of 
neighbouring  States.  It  is  not  an  ethnic,  tribal  or 
religious conflict, but one born of greed and the desire 
by  a  handful  of  unpatriotic  elements  to  control  the 
strategic mineral and natural resources of the country. 

Today,  98  per  cent  of  the  4  million  Sierra 
Leoneans  yearn  for  peace  and  development.  That  is 
why  this item  is of  vital importance to  my  delegation. 
At this point, let me offer my delegation’s appreciation 
to the Secretary-General for today’s debate on “Causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa”. 
A/55/PV.48
We  believe 
that 
the  monitoring  of 

the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  will  provide  Member 
States of this institution the opportunity to help devise 
proposals  that,  hopefully,  will  help  to  resolve  the 
problems  giving  rise  to  conflicts  in  general.  In  this 
vein,  therefore,  my  delegation  wishes to commend  the 
members  of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  for  a 
comprehensive and well-structured report. 

Conflicts usually arise between and within States 
as  a result  of  a combination of  factors,  such  as  border 
disputes,  political  differences,  economic  disparities, 
religious  intolerance  and  socio-economic  differences. 
The  prescription  of  solutions,  therefore,  does  not 
require only an understanding of the individual conflict 
but  also  the  total  cooperation  of  the  international 
community,  particularly  the  industrialized  nations,  in 
this era of political and socio-economic globalization. 

As  indicated  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group’s 
report  (A/55/45),  the  lack  of  political  will  is  also 
evidenced  in  the  failure  of  donor  countries  to  provide 
timely  and  sufficient  resources,  both  financial  and 
technical, to address  most of these problems. In Sierra 
Leone,  for  example, 
the  inability  to  provide  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS)  Monitoring  Group  (ECOMOG) — 
the 
region’s  peacekeeping  force —  with  appropriate  and 
adequate logistical support for its efforts to effectively 
deal with our rebel war is a case in point. 

Today  more  than  ever,  developing  countries  in 
Africa  are  in  dire  need  of  a  variety  of  economic 
considerations 
their  developed  partners — 
considerations  such  as  debt  relief,  the  opening  of 
markets  without  the  imposition  of  strict  and  harsh 
tariffs,  preferential  economic 
the 
transfer  of  adequate  and  appropriate  technology.  This, 
in  my  humble  opinion,  will  go  a  long  way,  not  only 
towards 
of 
underdevelopment but also towards helping to provide 
solutions 
this 
juncture,  my  delegation  wishes 
its 
appreciation  to  all  our  developed  partners  that  have 
demonstrated 
the  alleviation  of  our 
economic woes. 

the 
industrialized  nations  and  the  various  United  Nations 
bodies  will  help  nations  that  are  saddled  with  the 
problems created by conflict, such as the disarmament, 
the  emergence  of  conflicts.  At 
register 
Furthermore,  appropriate  assistance  from 
treatment,  and 
alleviating 
the 
general  malaise 
from 
to 
interest 
in 
to 


11 

A/55/PV.48 

is 
1998, 
put 
out 
that 
Therefore, 
in 
addition 
to 
Associated  with 
conflict 
the  question  of 
a 
blueprint 
to  be  given 
demobilization  and  reintegration  of  ex-combatants, 
especially child soldiers, into civil society. 

concerns 
the 
demonstrated  by  the  Secretary-General  on  this  issue, 
my  delegation  wishes  to  request  that  the  General 
Assembly mandate the Economic and Social Council to 
consider  creating  an  ad  hoc  advisory  group  on 
countries  emerging  from  conflict,  with  a  view  to 
assessing their economic needs and elaborating a long-
term programme of support. 
and  post-conflict 

reconstruction 
refugees  and 
internally  displaced  persons.  Problems  arising  from 
conflicts are not limited only to conflict areas but also 
affect countries of asylum, whose economies also need 
the  attention  of  the  international  community.  The 
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  ministerial 
meeting  on  African  refugees,  held  in  Khartoum  in 
of 
December 
for  assistance 
recommendations 
to 
large  numbers  of  refugees.  My 
countries  hosting 
delegation  believes 
this  blueprint  contains 
legitimate  recommendations,  which,  I  submit,  should 
be given the attention they deserve. 

The  international  community  should  step  up  its 
efforts  in  the  area  of  poverty  alleviation,  since  the 
majority  of  conflicts 
founded  on 
ignorance  and  avarice.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that Africa 
contains  enormous  potential  wealth,  poverty  remains 
the bedrock of conflict and instability on the continent. 
It  is  therefore  evident  that  mass  communication  and 
literacy  campaigns  should  now  more  than  ever  be 
effectively  operationalized  within  the  nation-States  of 
Africa. They  must  focus  on targeted  groups as  well as 
on vulnerable categories of persons, including the aged 
and the disabled. 

in  a 
situation of dire economic need or deprivation, nor can 
economic  development  endure  in  an  atmosphere  of 
war, conflict and instability. Africa, therefore, needs to 
develop a well-structured human resource base, devoid 
of 
to  enhance 
meaningful economic development. 

the 
My  delegation  would  wish 
Assembly  to  further  examine  all  possible  options 
available  through  the  various  United  Nations  bodies, 
especially  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  for  the 
literacy 
maximum 
illusions  or  pessimism, 
Indeed,  peace  cannot 
operationalization 
remain  durable 
in  Africa  are 
to 
request 
of  mass 
in  order 
My  delegation  will  support  any 
campaigns 
in  Africa,  which  would  substantially 
address  the  problems  of  poverty  and  the  promotion  of 
durable sustainable growth and development. 

My  Government  seeks  the  cooperation  of  its 
development partners to candidly ensure that the issue 
of mutual political will is substantially cultivated so as 
to nurture an underlying trust between our societies. In 
this  vein,  Sierra  Leone  subscribes  to  the  integral 
development  of  democracy  and  good  governance 
within Africa. It also subscribes to the development of 
a culture of transparency and accountability, respect for 
human  rights  and  unconditional  peaceful  coexistence 
with its neighbours. 

resolution 
emanating from these discussions that seeks to address 
the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable 
peace  and  sustainable  development  in Africa,  because 
we  believe  that  this  Assembly  must  act  now  to 
facilitate  the  proper  implementation  of  the  Secretary-
General’s recommendations, as well as those contained 
in the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group. 

If Africa is to bestow total global harmony on its 
posterity,  logic  dictates  that  we  act  expeditiously  and 
that  our  developed  partners  must  carry  the  globally 
proclaimed 
international 
development to its logical conclusion. 
in 

French):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  wishes  to  offer 
its most sincere condolences to the permanent missions 
of  Singapore,  Russia  and  Angola  for  the  air  disasters 
that occurred yesterday and today. We would ask them 
to  convey  our  deepest  sympathy  to  the  bereaved 
families. 

Today,  the  General  Assembly  is  considering  an 
important  document,  A/55/45,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
Open-ended Ad  Hoc Working  Group  on  the  Causes  of 
Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of  Durable  Peace  and 
Sustainable Development in Africa”.  

I  wish  first  to  express  our  great  appreciation  to 
Mr.  Holkeri’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  forty-fourth 
session.  It  must  be  said  that  it  was  thanks  to  his 
perspicacity and persistence that the Working Group — 
whose  establishment  we  awaited  throughout  the  fifty-
third  session —  was  ultimately  created.  Similarly,  the 
meetings  of  the  Working  Group  were  marked  by  the 
personal  involvement,  activity,  commitment,  daring 
Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
ideal  of  partnership 
for 
12 




A/55/PV.48
of 
a 
his 
certain 
number 
Summit 
endorsed 
Singapore 
and  wisdom  of  Mr.  Gurirab  and  his  Vice-Chairmen, 
Mr. Kishore  Mahbubani 
and 
Mr. Inocencio Arias of Spain. Africa thanks them. 

Cameroon has participated from the outset in the 
activities  of  the  Working  Group  and  welcomes  the 
spirit of consensus, dialogue and true determination to 
succeed shared by all participants, aware as they are of 
the importance of Africa. 

It  is  only  right  that  the  Millennium  Declaration, 
in its part VII, should address the issue of meeting the 
special  needs  of  Africa,  on  which  international  peace 
and security depend. In the report that he submitted to 
the Security Council and the General Assembly in 1998 
on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa,  the 
Secretary-General  made 
of 
recommendations.  It  is  encouraging  to  note  that  the 
Millennium 
main 
recommendations  and  that  the  participants  in  the 
Summit shared the Secretary-General’s opinion that, in 
order  to  achieve  lasting  peace  and  development,  we 
need an integrated  approach  to  security  that  takes into 
account  the  promotion  of  peace,  poverty  eradication, 
development and democracy. 

We  welcome  the  fact  that  several  priority  issues 
addressed  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  were  the 
subject of broad-based, deep and specific commitments 
undertaken  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  I  refer  to 
the need to increase official development assistance; to 
the 
promote  market  access  for 
developing 
for 
private 
investment;  and  to  tackle  the  painful  problem  of 
HIV/AIDS. 

The Secretary-General’s recommendations clearly 
remain  topical  and  must  be  seen  henceforth  as  the 
indispensable  basis  for  all  action  undertaken  in  the 
framework  of  the  concerns  expressed  by  the  heads  of 
State  and  Government  in  the  Millennium  Declaration. 
They  also  demonstrate  the  importance  of  the  Working 
Group’s  report  and  of  the  current  debate.  Our  job, 
indeed, is to chart the course ahead. 

We  established  the  Working  Group  at  the  fifty-
fourth  session  and  gave  it  the  important  mandate  of 
following  up  the  implementation  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  recommendations  in  order  to  ensure  lasting 
peace and development in Africa. We are happy to note 
that  the  Working  Group  got  down  to  work  and  held 
important 
three  sessions,  presenting  us  with 
the  products  of 
international 
countries; 
the 
and 
agencies 
the  Secretariat, 
to  comply  with 
document  to  which  I  have  just  referred.  It  is  so 
exhaustive  that  in  document  A/55/431  the  Secretary-
General  stated  that  he  had  not  presented  a  report  on 
this  agenda  item,  because  the  report  of  the  Working 
Group was sufficient in itself. 

It is fortunate that in the performance of its task, 
the Working  Group  wanted to  —  so to  speak  —  bring 
order  into  the  house  —  by  bringing  together  all  the 
actors  in  Africa.  During  a  memorable  meeting,  the 
different  actors  — 
funds  and 
programmes, 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  —  explained  what  measures  they  were 
taking 
the  Secretary-General’s 
recommendations.  They  told  us  not  only  about  the 
measures  taken,  but  also  about  the  obstacles  they 
encountered. Hence, one can see the great usefulness of 
these Working Group meetings. 

We  recognized  that  a  praiseworthy  effort  had 
been made within the framework of the implementation 
of the  Secretary-General’s recommendations. But, it is 
only  natural  that  we  recognized,  and  stressed,  that 
much  remains  to  be  done,  because  the  task  is  so 
tremendous. Taking the  next  step requires  a  great  deal 
of  political  will,  because  it  means  an  increase  in 
official development assistance, measures to relieve the 
debt burden and a ruthless battle against HIV/AIDS. 

A  great  deal  of  good  will  has  been  demonstrated 
in 
various 
the 
recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General.  It  should 
not  be  forgotten  that  our  countries,  aware  that  their 
development is their primary responsibility, are making 
tremendous  sacrifices  in  order  to  establish  a  political 
and  economic  environment  propitious to development. 
Unfortunately,  the  aid  promised  by  the  international 
community  is  a  long  time  coming.  The  commonly 
agreed  objective  of  devoting  0.7  per  cent  of  donor 
countries’  GNP  to  development  assistance  has  been 
achieved  by  only  a  small  number  of  countries;  fewer 
than the fingers on one hand — only four countries — 
have reached or exceeded the figure of 0.7 per cent. We 
therefore  welcome  the  fact  that  this  objective  was 
reaffirmed  by  the  heads  of  State  at  the  Millennium 
Summit. In the light of the unanimity demonstrated on 
that occasion, we hope that everything possible will be 
done by our partners to achieve this objective. 

The  other  problem,  which  has  been  widely 
debated,  is  that  of  debt,  to  which  no  lasting  solution 
has  yet  been 
found.  The  various  methods  and 
implementing 
quarters 
in 


13 

A/55/PV.48 

has 
The 
proposed 
My  country 
approaches  advocated  do  not  take  into  account  the 
many complex realities. 

is  grateful  for  having  recently 
qualified for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt 
Initiative.  We  hope  that  the  eligibility  conditions  will 
be made more flexible and that the Initiative’s benefits 
will  be  expanded  and  extended  to  more  countries.  To 
achieve  the  desired  results,  the  special  Trust  Fund  for 
financing  the  Initiative  must  receive  all  the  necessary 
contributions.  We  appeal  to  the  donor  countries  to 
continue  to  demonstrate  their  commitment,  political 
will and generosity to this end. 

the 
Secretary-General 
cancellation  of  all  the  debt  of  the  least  advanced 
countries  in  Africa  and  finding  effective  solutions  for 
managing  the  debts  of  other  categories  of  African 
countries.  We  hope  that  the  Working  Group  will 
continue  to  explore  ways  of  making  a  reality  of  this 
proposal. 

On  the  question  of  HIV/AIDS,  the  Working 
Group  called  on  the  General  Assembly  to  devote 
particular  attention  to  the  devastating  effects  of  the 
pandemic.  My  delegation  supports,  as  we  stated  a  few 
days  ago,  the  convening  of  a  special  session  of  the 
General Assembly to consider, with all partners and all 
actors,  the  various  aspects  of  this  scourge  of  the 
century,  including  proposals  made  by  the  Working 
Group. 

I  need  hardly  remind  the Assembly  that,  despite 
the  progress  achieved  by  our  countries  in  the  area  of 
good  governance  and  democratization,  poverty  and 
other  development  problems  will  continue  to  be  for 
some  years  the  principal  sources  of  conflict  in Africa, 
if vigorous, sustained preventive action is not taken to 
stem the tide. 

In  the  light  of  all  the  comments  I  have  made,  I 
venture  to  make  some  proposals.  I  am  happy  to 
associate  myself  with  the  very  constructive  proposals 
made this morning by the distinguished Ambassador of 
Togo  in  his  capacity  as  representative  of  the  current 
Chairman  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity.  With 
the  permission  of  the Assembly,  I  would  like  to  stress 
some 
the 
rationalization  of  the  activities  of  our  Working  Group 
in  the  fulfilment  of  its  mandate. The  first  is  to  extend 
its  mandate,  and  the  second  is  to  establish  within  the 
Working  Group  terms  of  reference  for  measuring  the 
progress  achieved. This  could  be  accomplished  within 
that  may 
contribute 
proposals 
to 
to 
bring 
about 
efforts 
Furthermore, 
the  high-level  segment  of 
the  framework  of  a  sectoral  or  thematic  evaluation 
instead  of  covering  all  the  questions  examined  in  the 
Secretary-General’s report. 

Thirdly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  could 
and  should  make  a  great  contribution  to  this  exercise. 
Within the framework of its mandate of monitoring and 
coordination,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  could 
create  ad  hoc  groups  to  follow  up  on  specific  aspects. 
Close cooperation with the Security Council, which has 
stated that poverty is a threat to international peace and 
security,  and  with  the  General  Assembly  would  be 
particularly indicated. 

the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  2001,  which  will  be 
devoted to the role of the United Nations in supporting 
Africa’s 
sustainable 
development, would be an opportunity to take concrete 
measures  to  this  end.  May  I  add  that  in  2001  it  is 
expected  that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  will 
formulate  the  terms  of  the  contract  of  solidarity  to 
which  we  continue  to  aspire  between  Africa  and  the 
rest of the international community. 
Mr.  Erwa  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  should 

like at the outset to present my deep condolences to the 
delegation,  Government  and  people  of  Singapore  for 
the demise of the victims of the recent air disaster. We 
wish them solace in their great loss. 

The Sudanese delegation would like to commend 
and thank Mr. Kishore Mahbubani of Singapore and his 
colleague, Mr. Inocencio Arias of Spain, the two Vice-
Chairmen  of  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
on  the  Causes  of  Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of 
Durable Peace and Sustainable Development in Africa, 
for their indefatigable efforts in conducting the work of 
the Working Group. We pay tribute to their ability and 
patience,  which  led  to  the  Working  Group’s  reaching 
consensus  on  many  of 
thorny  and  difficult 
problems. 
My  delegation  would  also  like  to  express  its 

appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  who  expressed 
clear  interest  in  the  problems  and  concerns  of  Africa 
and who followed closely the process of implementing 
the recommendations that were contained in his report 
submitted to both the Security Council and the General 
Assembly 
in  document 
A/52/871. 
in  April  1998,  contained 
the 
14 




A/55/PV.48

The  General  Assembly  took  a  wise  decision  by 
requesting, in its resolution A/52/234, the creation of a 
working  group 
to  discuss  ways  and  means  of 
implementing,  and  to  monitor  the  implementation  of, 
the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and sustainable development in Africa. We believe that 
was  a  very  important  achievement  and  an  important 
step  towards  determining  the  progress  achieved  in  the 
implementation of many of the initiatives taken by the 
United  Nations  in  order  to  deal  with  the  problems  of 
the African continent and to find solutions for them. 

The creation of the Working Group gave Member 
countries an unprecedented chance to specify the form 
and content of the initiatives and the implementation of 
the Secretary-General’s recommendations. 

Here  we  would  like  to  commend  the  Working 
Group  for  holding  sessions  with  the  representatives  of 
United  Nations  agencies  and 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions.  This  initiative  represented  an  innovative 
and  pioneering  method  of  responding  to  this  task  and 
resulted in a qualitative improvement in the content of 
the  recommendations  reached  by  the  Working  Group, 
which are before the Assembly today. 

In  the  three  sessions  that  it  held,  the  Working 
Group  was  greatly  frustrated  as  a  result  of  the  scant 
progress achieved in the implementation of some of the 
recommendations  submitted  by  the  Secretary-General 
since April 1998. This can be seen in the disappointing 
conclusions  reached  by  the  Working  Group  as  it  tried 
to  identify  obstacles  that  impeded  the  implementation 
of  the  recommendations.  It  also  revealed  a  lack  of 
political  will  on 
international 
community,  in  the  insufficient  official  development 
assistance  financing,  in  the  decrease  of  core  resources 
of the United Nations Development Programme, in the 
limited 
the  general 
deterioration  of  public  health,  in  the  weak  private 
sector  and  economic  structures,  in  the  difficulties  of 
coordinating  the  different  initiatives  on  Africa,  in  the 
absence  of  effective  machinery  for  follow-up  and 
monitoring  of  the  implementation  of  these  initiatives, 
and in the lack of adequate solutions to help overcome 
the obstacles to adequate implementation. 

In  the  light  of  these  conclusions,  the  General 
Assembly’s  responsibility  to  continue  to  monitor  the 
the  Secretary-
progress  achieved 
General’s 
reconfirmed, 
implementing 
is 
recommendations 
the  part  of 
technology, 
access 
the 
in 
in 
to 
of 
all 
the 
role 
years 
Therefore, 
concerning 
the 
peace 
the  delegation  of  Sudan 
particularly  since  shortage  of  time  did  not  allow  the 
Working Group to cover all the thematic fields. 

is  fully 
confident that the Working Group can continue to carry 
out its tasks and play a pivotal role in encouraging the 
implementation 
Secretary-General’s 
recommendations.  In  this  respect,  we  wish  to  endorse 
the  proposal  to  renew  the  Working  Group’s  mandate 
for  another  term.  We  also  endorse  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council’s  continued 
in  coordinating, 
guiding  and  following  up  on  the  implementation  of 
these  recommendations  and  on  identifying  effective 
actions,  particularly  next  year  when 
the  Council 
discusses the United Nations role in supporting African 
countries’ efforts to achieve sustainable development. 

In conclusion, I wish to remind Members that the 
lively  discussions  that  have  taken  place  over  the  last 
Secretary-General’s 
two 
recommendations 
and 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa  have  consolidated  the  growing 
belief that peace and development are two sides of one 
coin  and  are  indeed  an  indivisible  whole.  Therefore, 
the  delegation  of  Sudan  calls  upon  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  to  set  up  consultative  groups,  not  only 
for  countries  that  have  just  emerged  from  conflict 
situations,  but  also  for  countries  that  are  at  present 
experiencing  conflicts, 
their 
economic  and  developmental  needs  and  create  a  long-
term  support  programme  for  these  countries  based  on 
the  agreed  concept  of  providing  transition  from  relief 
work  to  rehabilitation,  construction  and  development. 
In this context, the Food and Agricultural Organization 
of  the  United  Nations  (FAO),  was  instructed  by  the 
Secretary-General  to lead a group,  with  the  support of 
nine  other  international  organizations,  as  described  in 
this report, aimed at rescuing the Horn of Africa region 
from the impending threat of starvation faced by more 
than  70  million  people,  who  constitute  half 
the 
population of the region. 
It  is  very  important  to  ensure  Governments’ 

participation 
security 
strategy  developed  by  this  study.  The  international 
community  must  fulfil  its  part,  particularly  through 
partners  in  development,  by  providing  the  necessary 
external support for such efforts and by addressing the 
symptoms  and  root  causes  of  conflict  and  disputes, 
with  a  view  to  achieving  economic  and  political 
stability in the Horn of Africa region, so that the people 
implementing 
in  order 
identify 
food 
the 
on 
to 
in 


15 

A/55/PV.48 

and 
now 
report 
useful 
sorrow 
and  Angola  our  deep 
of  this  region  can  enjoy  development,  peace  and 
sustainable development. 
Mr.  Ben  Mustapha  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Allow me at the outset to express to the delegations of 
Singapore 
and 
condolences  for  the  two  airplane  crashes  in  which 
many people lost their lives. 

My  delegation  would  also  like  to  thank  and 
commend  the  Open-ended Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
the  Causes  of  Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of  Durable 
Peace  and  Sustainable  Development  in  Africa  for  the 
comprehensive 
under 
consideration.  That  report  assumes  great  importance 
for  us  Africans  in  view  of  the  reality  that  many 
countries  in  the  African  continent  are  experiencing 
tension  and  conflict  and  in  light  of  the  level  of  the 
continent’s  development,  which  all  agree  is  not  up  to 
the  new  international  level,  especially  in  the  new 
millennium  that  we  all  hope  will  be  one  of  harmony, 
international solidarity, security and stability. 

If  we  realistically  consider  the  situation  of  the 
African continent amid modern global transformations, 
we  will  easily  detect  that  among  the  reasons  for  the 
continent’s  inability  to  catch  up  with  the  rest  of  the 
world  in  the  economic,  political  and  social  fields  are 
the 
substantive 
circumstances  that  have  caused  the  continent  great 
difficulties.  It  is  extremely  important  at  this  historic 
juncture 
community 
acknowledges  that  reality  and  supports  the  African 
continent,  regardless  of  the  responsibilities  involved. 
Today,  when  we  consider 
the  globalization  of 
international  relations,  it  is  difficult  to  leave  the 
African  continent  marginalized,  moving  in  a  vicious 
circle  fraught  with  difficulties  that  prevent  it  from 
catching  up  with  the  rest  of  the  world  and  from 
achieving  the  objective  of  our  Millennium  Summit 
within  the  context  of  the  new  world  reality  and  the 
means available to face new challenges. 

the  African 
continent,  we  will  undoubtedly  find  that  many  efforts 
and  sacrifices  have  been  made by African  countries to 
overcome  their difficulties  and to deal  with  the reality 
of  the  situation,  as  is  happening  in  many  parts  of  the 
world. But, at the same time, we should also be aware 
that,  despite  efforts  and  sacrifices  made  by 
the 
countries  of  the  continent,  it  is  extremely  difficult  for 
them  alone  to  overcome  their  difficulties  and  to  fulfil 
the  situation  of 
If  we  examine 
international 
intertwined 
accidental 
that 
and 
the 
at 
in 
the 
that 
believe 
support 
therefore 
translated 
international 
the  part  of 
responsibility 
the 
towards 
is  great  and  should  be 
the  requirements  of  development,  stability  and  peace. 
international 
We 
the  African 
community’s 
continent 
into 
multilateral 
level, 
particularly  by  international  financial  institutions.  The 
role  of the  United  Nations,  which  has a philosophy  of 
inclusivity, universality and solidarity, should be in the 
forefront  of  efforts  on 
the  various 
institutions  to  help  the African  continent  overcome  its 
difficulties  in  a  manner  that  attests  to  its  importance 
and priority at the international level. 

Peace  and  security  in  the  African  continent  are 
among the most important aspects of this issue, as they 
are  instrinsically  linked  to  economic  improvement  in 
many African  countries.  We  therefore  believe  that  the 
international  community’s  responsibility  is  essential, 
particularly 
the  field  of  social  and  economic 
development,  and  in  view  of  the  fact  that  African 
countries  have  already  demonstrated  their  willingness 
to make the necessary sacrifices and efforts to achieve 
their desired objectives. 

We  recognize  that  the  prospects  of  the  African 
continent for becoming a partner in globalized relations 
and  world  economy  are  basically  the  responsibility  of 
the  Africans  themselves.  However,  that  cannot  be 
achieved  without the  international  community’s  strong 
bilateral  and  multilateral  commitments  to  help  Africa 
effect  the  drastic  transformation  it  needs  in  order  to 
deal  with  the  requirements  of  the  new  century.  In  our 
view, it is the collective responsibility of all — Africa 
and its international partners. 

We  note  with  satisfaction  the  progress  achieved 
by  the  United  Nations  in  implementing  the  Secretary-
General’s  recommendations  in  the  areas  of  peace-
making, peacekeeping and the protection of civilians in 
armed  conflict.  Likewise,  we  note  the  progress  made 
by  the  Organization  with  regard  to  improving  the 
humanitarian  condition  of  refugees  and  alleviating 
social and physical impacts during post-conflict peace-
building. We are also gratified at the various measures 
put  in  place  to  increase  financing  for  development, 
promote human rights and the rule of law and eliminate 
all  forms  of  discrimination  against  women,  with 
emphasis  on 
food  security, 
reduction  of  debts  and  opening  of  world  markets.  We 
are  also  pleased  with  positive  developments  on  the 
African  front,  particularly  with  regard  to  the  political 
area. Those developments include the establishment of 
social  development, 
16 




A/55/PV.48
in 
Despite  all 
constitutional  institutions  in  many  African  countries, 
which  has  led  to  a  new  way  of  developing  relations 
conducive  to  a  democratic  atmosphere  that  fosters 
domestic  political  improvement  and  new  prospects  in 
the economic field.  

these  encouraging  developments 
referred  to  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report,  we 
continue  to  believe  that  many  difficulties  persist.  One 
such problem is the lack of resources and capacities to 
enable  the  utilization  of  new  technologies  for  the 
purpose  of  development.  No  doubt, 
the  current 
conflicts  on  the  continent  have  prevented  African 
nations  from  achieving  development  and  from  making 
progress 
the  political,  economic,  social  and 
administrative  spheres.  We  believe  it  is  important  to 
realize  reforms  in  these  areas,  for  they  are  closely 
linked to the very essence of stability. 

As  we  have  already  stated,  the African  continent 
has  been  held  back.  Africa  is  home  to  the  largest 
number of least developed countries and has the lowest 
per  capita  income  in  the  world.  Dealing  with  the 
various problems faced by Africa should continue to be 
of  the  utmost  priority  for  the  international  community 
during 
this  particularly  critical  period  currently 
experienced  by  the  continent.  As  I  have  already  said, 
Africa  —  which  hosts  the  largest  number  of  conflicts 
on the planet — has the largest number of refugees and 
internally displaced people. War and tension have made 
the continent a fertile breeding ground for disease and 
other scourges recently experienced by mankind. 

This  reality  should  not  make  us  pessimistic  or 
lead  us  to  desperation.  Instead,  it  should  act  as  a 
challenge to  which all of us  must rise  with the firmest 
international commitment. Poverty and deprivation are 
not  simply  causes  of  underdevelopment,  they  are  also 
responsible for domestic disputes and the proliferation 
of  hotbeds  of  tension.  Poverty  and  the  tragedies  it 
causes  keep  man  from  building  a  better  future.  These 
realities are,  in  our  view, the  causes  of  conflict  on  the 
African continent. 

Our  President,  Mr.  Zine  El Abidine  Ben Ali,  has 
on many occasions stressed the point that Africa is not 
the only continent threatened. He did so  most recently 
at  the  Millennium  Summit  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  at  the  summit  meeting  of  the  Security  Council. 
Accordingly,  we  have  proceeded 
the 
establishment  of  a  global  solidarity  fund  to  alleviate 
poverty in Africa and help its societies to confront the 
to  propose 
the  basic 
tensions  on 
lacked 
dangers 
of  many  African 
the  necessary  philosophy 
the  various  dimensions  of 
challenge of poverty and marginalization in a way that 
promotes  social  and  economic  stability  and  can  bear 
fruit at the political level. 
Conflict  prevention  remains  a  basic  pillar  of 

take  into 
international  action.  It  should  therefore 
the  problem, 
account 
including 
economic  dimension.  The 
international  community  has  always  tried  to  prevent 
conflicts  and 
the  African  continent. 
Nevertheless, the strategy employed thus far has failed 
to produce results in the economic and social fields and 
has  always 
to 
strengthen  stability  after  conflicts  come  to  an  end.  I 
believe  that  bolstering  that  strategy  would  make  the 
prospects for peace and security much better. 

The Security Council remains for us the principal 
organ  responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  Due  to  the  sensitive  nature  and 
potential 
conflicts, 
strengthening  the  Organization  of  African  Unity’s 
(OAU)  1993  Mechanism  for  Conflict  Prevention, 
Management  and  Resolution  is  also  a  very  important 
and urgent priority. We therefore welcome international 
initiatives  in  this  regard,  in  particular  those  taken  by 
friendly countries that are aimed at enhancing Africa’s 
ability  to  establish  and  maintain  peace.  We  also 
welcome  the  OAU’s  regional  role,  as  well  as  the 
international 
the  Security 
Council. 

I welcome the recommendations contained in the 
report  of  the  Working  Group.  However,  I  believe  that 
responsibility  for  the African  continent  is  a  collective 
one 
the  establishment  of  adequate 
mechanisms  to  deal  with  the  causes  of  conflict  on  the 
continent  in  all  their  aspects.  We  would  also  like  to 
stress that multilateral and bilateral strategies should be 
implemented  with the requisite level of interest on the 
part  of  international  financial  institutions. The African 
continent adamantly  and  anxiously  awaits  the  stability 
and  security  that  will  make  it  possible  to  regain  its 
position  in  the  world  and  achieve  comprehensive 
sustainable  development  in  the  new  millennium  —  a 
millennium  we  all  agree  should  be  one  of  peace, 
stability and development. 

Mr.  Menkerios  (Eritrea):  I  should  like  at  the 
outset  to  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  our  deepest 
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Singapore in connection with the tragic losses suffered 
legitimacy  embodied 
that  requires 
in 


17 

A/55/PV.48 

the 
and 
initiatives  on  Africa 
chairmanship  of  Namibia 
as  a  result  of  the  aeroplane  crash  that  occurred 
yesterday. 

I  wish  to  congratulate  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri  of 
Finland  on  the  able  manner  in  which  he  has  been 
conducting  the  ongoing  deliberations  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth  session.  Also,  allow  me  to 
reiterate once again my delegation’s appreciation to the 
Secretary-General  for  his 
in 
general  and  for  his  efforts  for  the  peace,  stability  and 
sustainable development of that continent in particular. 

We would further like to pay tribute to the Open-
ended  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Causes  of 
Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of  Durable  Peace  and 
Sustainable  Development 
in  Africa,  which  was 
established  to  monitor  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations  made  by  the  Secretary-General  on 
the subject under discussion. Over the past year, under 
the 
vice-
chairmanship  of  Singapore  and  Spain,  the  Working 
Group  engaged  in  study  and  initiated  discussion  on 
enhancing  peace  and  development 
in  Africa  and 
proposed  recommendations  in  that  connection.  We 
thank the Working Group also for the succinct report it 
has presented on the subject, which covers the broadest 
spectrum of the areas with which the Group dealt. 

that 
indicated 
Africa’s  problems,  both  political  and  economic,  have 
external and internal causes. We have observed that the 
continent  inherited  a  myriad  of  ills  from  the  colonial 
past, which fundamentally affected the social, political 
and  economic 
thus 
constraining  its  present  capacity  for  stability  and 
development.  Thus,  reversing  those  ills,  which  took 
generations  to  effect,  is  not  going  to  be  easy  or  to  be 
done in a short time. We feel that undoing the colonial 
legacy, whether or not we recognize or acknowledge it 
as such, is going to take more than just one generation. 

that  Africa’s 
present  problems  are  caused  also  by  the  shortcomings 
of  Africans  ourselves,  and  more  so  as  time  passes. 
Solutions  to  Africa’s  problems  must  thus  come,  as  a 
matter  of  priority,  from  us  Africans.  It  is,  indeed,  a 
blessing  that  the  United  Nations  has  provided  the 
forum  and  that  the  Secretary-General  has  initiated  the 
programme  for boosting Africa’s capacity  to  deal  with 
its problems of instability and underdevelopment. 
The  report  of  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc  Working 

Group  (A/55/45)  presents  a  synopsis  of  the  progress 
But  we  would  also  emphasize 
In  past  statements,  we  have 
foundations  of 
society, 
its 
It 
is, 
indeed, 
made in the implementation of the recommendations of 
the Secretary-General, and of obstacles to the effective 
implementation  of  those  recommendations.  It  has  also 
made  recommendations  for  further  action.  We  are 
basically  in  agreement  with  the  content  of  the  report 
and  with  the  broad  outline  of  the  Working  Group’s 
recommendations.  But  we  would  like  to  comment 
briefly  on  efforts  being  made  by  African  countries 
themselves towards peace, stability and development. 

We have said that, although Africa’s problems of 
underdevelopment  may  be  attributed  mainly  to  a  host 
of  inherited  ills,  Africa’s  continued  incapacity  to  deal 
with  those  problems  has  been  basically  caused  by 
internal  shortcomings. 
the  greed, 
dictatorial  rule  and/or  ineptitude  of  some  of  Africa’s 
ruling  elites  that  continue  to  pit  the  continent  against 
itself,  weakening  its  capacity  to  solve  its  problems  of 
underdevelopment.  That  fact  is  recognized  by  an 
increasing  number  of  Africans,  and  appropriate 
changes  are  being  made  throughout  the  continent, 
though slowly and in most places unnoticeably. 

Although  it  is  obvious  that  conflicts  within  and 
among  several  African  countries  have  continued 
unabated,  limiting  the  capacity  of  the  continent  to 
concentrate  on  development, it  is  true  also that,  as  we 
have  stated  in  past  statements  on  this  item,  positive 
changes have, of course, begun to come about in many 
parts  of  Africa,  especially  during  the  past  decade. 
Regimes committed to building democratic institutions, 
adopting  sound  development  strategies  based  on  their 
important, 
needs 
and 
cooperation 
strengthening 
eventual 
for 
integration  have  appeared.  Despite 
the  enormous 
problems  being  encountered  on  the  way,  the  process 
started  by  those  regimes  can  be  expected  to  continue, 
for  it  is  supported  by  a  growing  number  of  African 
people  no  longer  prepared  to  accept  being  eliminated 
from participation in the economic, political and social 
life  of  their  societies.  African  countries  are  also 
increasing 
the 
Organization of African Unity and through subregional 
organizations,  to  resolve  conflict,  enhance  economic 
cooperation and address humanitarian issues. 
Those  efforts,  along  with  the  positive  efforts 

made  by 
to  be  well 
appraised  and  adequately  supported  if  development  in 
Africa  is  to  be  sustained.  The  continent  is  endowed 
with  resources,  both  human  and  material.  What  it  has 
lacked,  and  continues  to  lack,  is  the  development  of 
individual  countries,  need 
capacities 
regional 
and,  most 
concerted 
through 
effort, 
their 
18 




A/55/PV.48
that  will 
institutions 
Those  are 
the  areas 
The  Nigerian 
delegation  welcomes 
those  resources,  especially  human  resources,  and  of 
appropriate 
allow  wider 
participation  by  Africa’s  peoples  in  the  political  and 
economic life of their countries. 

in  which  Africa  needs 
partnership  from  the  international  community.  It  is 
good to see that the United Nations is taking the lead in 
the  direction  of  developing  a  framework  for  that 
partnership. We would like to emphasize in closing that 
such  a  partnership  is  required  for  the  general  mutual 
well-being  of  all  nations  in  the  world;  it  must  not  be 
viewed  as  a  welfare  donation  for  the  benefit  of Africa 
alone. 

Mr.  Akeju  (Nigeria):  I  wish  at  this  juncture  to 
convey  my  delegation’s  heartfelt  condolences  to  the 
Governments  and 
the  peoples  of  Angola  and  of 
Singapore  in  connection  with  the  losses  sustained  in 
the recent aeroplane crashes. 
this 

opportunity  for  the  General  Assembly  to  focus  once 
again  on  the  situation  of  Africa,  this  time  against  the 
background  of  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Causes  of  Conflict  and  the 
and  Sustainable 
Promotion 
Development 
the 
Secretary-General for his tireless efforts to ensure that 
Africa  is  helped  out  of  its  present  difficulties.  I  also 
wish 
to  express  our  deep 
appreciation to the President of the General Assembly, 
to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Theo-Ben 
Gurirab, and to the two Vice-Chairmen of the Working 
Group,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Singapore 
and of Spain, for their commendable work. 

The  decision  of  the  Security  Council  in  1997  to 
take  a  critical  look  at  the  African  continent  was, 
indeed,  a  most  welcome  one.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
peace is a necessary condition for development. As the 
African  experience  has  demonstrated,  the  absence  of 
peace  could  be  one  of  the  major  impediments  to 
development.  In  1998,  there  were  11  major  conflicts, 
which  affected  26  of  the  48  sub-Saharan  countries. 
Those  conflicts  have 
the 
economies of the countries involved, which are already 
among 
the  world.  The  crisis  of 
development  has  become  endemic  to  most  African 
countries.  It  arises  from  multidimensional  sources, 
including  the 
level  of  education,  social  and 
economic  deprivation  and  diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS 
of  Durable  Peace 
taken  a  great 
toll  on 
the  poorest 
in 
to  use 
this  occasion 
in  Africa 
(A/55/45). 
I 
thank 
the  Office  of 
the  Working  Group  and 
and  malaria.  Economically,  the  continent  is  being 
increasingly  marginalized,  as  other  parts  of  the  world 
are  moving  into  the  era  of  the  information  and 
communications revolution. 

It  is  against  this  background  that  the  Nigerian 
delegation  attaches  a  great  deal  of  importance  to  the 
report  of 
its  various 
recommendations. Indeed, there is a dire need for new 
approaches  and  measures  to  address  these  issues, 
which  have  grave  consequences  for  the  peace  and 
socio-economic  development  of  the  African  continent 
and  its  peoples.  In  this  regard,  it  is  heartening  to  note 
that 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  has  intensified  efforts  in 
the areas of security and humanitarian assistance aimed 
at  ameliorating 
the  plight  of  almost  8.1  million 
refugees — Africa’s share of the 22 million refugees in 
the  world.  It  is  also  crucial  to  acknowledge  here  the 
progress recorded  in  the  field  of  human rights  and the 
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law,  as  contained  in  the 
Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action  adopted  by 
the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  Ministerial 
Conference on Human Rights in April 1999.  

It  is  equally  pertinent  to  recall  the  collaborative 
international  efforts  to  find  a  solution  to  Africa’s 
political  and  economic  problems,  which  include  the 
Africa-Europe  Summit,  held  in  April  in  Cairo,  which 
focused, inter alia, on debt, trade and market access for 
African  products;  the  Cotonou Agreement  on  the  new 
cooperation framework between the African, Caribbean 
and  Pacific  States  and  the  European  Union;  and  the 
Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, which was passed 
by  the  United  States  Congress,  seeking  to  promote 
further  trade  with  Africa  by  lowering  and  eliminating 
tariffs and quotas for products from the region. 

Furthermore, it is gratifying to note the increasing 
number  of  donors  and  financial  institutions  which  are 
expressing  genuine  concern  over 
the  economic 
problems  of  Africa.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the 
efforts  of 
the  International 
Monetary  Fund  under  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries  (HIPC)  Debt  Initiative,  as  well  as  the 
Poverty  Reduction  and  Growth  Facility.  According  to 
the  report,  both  programmes  are  aimed  at  providing 
faster,  deeper  and  broader  debt  relief  and  poverty 
reduction  and  ensuring  a  growth-oriented  policy. 
However,  we  in  Nigeria  believe  that,  whatever  efforts 
are  being  made  to  ameliorate  the  problems  of  conflict 
and to ensure durable peace in Africa, they will be able 
the  World  Bank  and 
low 


19 

A/55/PV.48 

to 
the 
themselves 
initiatives  aimed  at 
to achieve the desired results only if a genuine solution 
is  found  to  the  continent’s  external  debt  burden.  This 
should  go  beyond  the  HIPC  Debt  Initiative  to  include 
total debt cancellation for African countries. 

As the Secretary-General mentioned in his report, 
there  are  a  number  of  obstacles  militating  against  the 
implementation  of 
reducing 
conflicts  and  promoting  sustainable  development  in 
Africa.  These  range  from  problems  on  the  part  of 
African  countries 
international 
community’s  abdication  of  its  commitments.  The  lack 
of  political  will,  which  is  without  doubt  a  major 
hindrance, is reflected mostly in the refusal of feuding 
parties  in  some  troubled  parts  of  Africa  to  implement 
peace accords. This is the main cause of the impasse in 
a  number  of  conflicts  in  Africa,  particularly  in  the 
Central  African  region.  However,  equally  serious  for 
the  continent  as  a  whole  is  the  lack  of  financial 
resources  for  the  implementation  of  recommendations 
at  the  level  of  official  development  assistance  as  well 
as for programmes funded by the United Nations. 

Africa’s human resource problems have certainly 
been aggravated by the HIV/AIDS crisis. According to 
the  report,  of  the  34  million  cases  in  the  world,  24 
million are in Africa. Africa has already lost 10 million 
people  to  the  dreaded  disease. The  situation  is  similar 
with regard to malaria. Of the 400 million people in the 
world  suffering  from  malaria,  300  million  are  in 
Africa — and 2 million die each year from this disease. 
Indeed,  these  are  not  only  grave  health  problems,  but 
also economic obstacles on which this Assembly, in its 
consideration  of  the  report,  needs  to  act  with  the 
utmost urgency. 

In the search for solutions to African problems, it 
has always been recognized that Africa’s destiny lies in 
its own hands. Thus, African countries themselves have 
borne, 
primary 
responsibility for undertaking various initiatives at the 
national, subregional and continental levels to confront 
the  multifarious  challenges 
their  development 
efforts, and most African countries have already started 
addressing these problems. This is reflected not only in 
the  radical  reform  of  their  economies,  but  also  in  the 
increasing  democratization  process  and  various  other 
initiatives,  such  as  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African  States  peacekeeping  mechanism  for  coping 
with  conflicts  and  wars.  All  these  are  worthy  of  note 
and support by the international community. 
constraints, 
severe 
under 
the 
to 
and 
stability 
to  meet 
initiative  by  African  countries 
Mr.  Lavrov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 

African countries’ own efforts, under the aegis of 
the OAU, to strengthen the continent’s capacity for the 
prevention,  management  and  resolution  of  conflicts  is 
commendable.  The  African  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Security,  Stability,  Development  and  Cooperation  in 
Africa (CSSDCA)  process  is  a case  in  point. This  is  a 
the 
bold 
challenges  of  political 
economic 
development.  Under  it,  the  resolution  of  interrelated 
problems  of  security,  stability,  development  and 
cooperation in many African countries is conceived of, 
not in isolation, but as a process which will address the 
issues.  We  strongly  recommend  the African  Ministers’ 
Declaration, contained in the CSSDCA final document, 
for  serious  consideration  in  the  future  work  of  the 
Open-ended Ad Hoc Working Group. 

In  conclusion,  we  recommend  that  the  Working 
Group’s  mandate  be  extended  to  enable  it  to  continue 
its  good  work  on  thematic  issues,  in  particular,  the 
implementation  of  the  principles  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration,  with  special  emphasis  on  Part  VII, 
“Meeting the special needs of Africa”. 
in 

Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  is  very  pleased  to 
able  to  point  to  the  growing  role  of  African  States  in 
world  affairs.  Without 
fledged,  active 
participation  of  African  countries  in  the  life  of  the 
world community, it is impossible to have development 
and fruitful cooperation at a global level or to create a 
complete  and  stable  system  of  international  security 
based on the United Nations Charter, oriented towards 
the twenty-first century. 

At the same time, one of the gravest problems in 
the  world  today  remains  the  incessant  conflicts  in 
Africa. The future of the continent will depend in large 
measure  upon  their  speedy  and  effective  settlement, 
particularly  by  political  and  diplomatic  means.  While 
preserving 
primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  and  with  unswerving  compliance 
with  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, priority must be given to close coordination of 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  this  area  with  the 
efforts 
the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  and  other  African 
organizations. 

It  is  important  to  support  the  efforts  of Africa  to 
develop  its  own peace-building  potential,  while  laying 
of  African 
themselves, 
Council’s 
countries 
Security 
the 
fully 
the 
20 




A/55/PV.48
the 
States, 
the  foundations  for  collective  security  and  preventing 
illicit  trade  in  arms  and  ammunition.  Ultimately,  we 
might consider the creation of an effective pan-African 
system  aimed  at  the  prevention  and  settlement  of 
conflicts and at the comprehensive task of post-conflict 
reconstruction. A key role in this area is being played, 
as  it  should,  by  the  Organization  of  African  Unity, 
which  has  the  best  potential  to  do  so.  We  also  highly 
appreciate  the  work  of  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African 
Southern  African 
Development  Community  and  the  Inter-Government 
Authority on Development. 

If a durable and long-term solution to conflicts in 
Africa is not found, it will be impossible to ensure the 
real  emergence  of  the  continent,  help  it  set  out  on  the 
path  of  stable  and  dynamic  development  and  see  it 
achieve  its  fully  fledged  integration  into  the  world 
economy.  On  the  other  hand,  poverty  and  the  serious 
social  and  economic  problems  of  many  African 
countries  not  only  hamper  their  development  but  also 
serve as sources of conflict. 

Russia  is therefore in  favour of a comprehensive 
approach to the consideration and resolution of Africa’s 
military,  political,  social,  economic,  humanitarian, 
ethnic  and  other  problems. We  must  develop  a  culture 
of  crisis  prevention,  deploy  greater  efforts  of  a 
preventive  nature,  and  determine 
the  deep-rooted 
causes of conflicts, including those of an economic and 
social  nature. This  should  enjoy  particular  attention  in 
the course of discussions on the Brahimi report, which 
have  now  begun  in  the  context  of  improving  crisis 
management  in  the  United  Nations.  We  welcome  the 
consistent  progress  of  States  of  the  region  towards 
economic and political reform and the strengthening of 
regional and subregional integration. 
This kind of approach is particularly necessary in 

view 
of 
globalization, which brings with it not only qualitative 
and  positive  change  in  the  lives  of  human  beings  but 
also  considerable  potential  for  risks  and  dangers.  In 
overcoming  the  dangerous  phenomena  stemming  from 
globalization, in particular divergent rates of economic 
growth, it is important to take  measures to ensure that 
globalization  works  to  the  benefit  of  all  countries  and 
peoples, 
the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  other  modern-day  evils. 
Particular attention in this regard should be paid to the 
needs of African countries. 
interests  of  social  progress, 
accelerated 
process 
sharply 
the 
of 
in 
the 
Mr.  Urib
(Namibia):  Before 

Russia  is  determined  to  continue  actively  to 
cooperate  in  the  settlement  of  conflicts  and  in  the 
search for  ways and  means of resolving the social and 
economic  problems  of  Africa.  As  was  emphasized  by 
President Putin at the Security Council summit meeting 
held on 7 September: 

“If  in  the  twentieth  century  Africa  became  free 
from colonialism, the twenty-first century should 
rid  it  of  poverty  and  military  confrontation.” 
(S/PV.4194, p. 11) 
The  United  Nations  should  do  everything  in  its 
sustained  economic  growth  and 

power to resolve this problem. 

I  make  my 
statement,  allow  me  to  join  others  in  paying  our 
heartfelt  condolences  to  the  Governments  and  people 
of  Singapore  and  Angola  on  the  tragic  plane  crashes 
that  occurred  yesterday. We  would also like to convey 
our  deepest  sympathy  to  the  families  of  those  who 
perished in the tragic accident. 

The  Open-ended Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Causes of Conflict and the Promotion of Durable Peace 
and Sustainable Development in Africa has provided us 
with  a comprehensive report covering  the  entire  scope 
of  its  monitoring  responsibilities  relating  to  the  issues 
of peace  and the  creation  of  a  favourable environment 
for 
sustainable 
development in Africa. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  express  its  gratitude  to 
the Permanent Representatives of Singapore and Spain, 
Ambassador  Mahbubani  and  Ambassador  Arias,  Co-
Vice  Chairmen  of  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group, for their commitment to the cause of Africa and 
the  outstanding  leadership  they  have  provided  to  the 
Working Group. 

We  would  also  like  to  reiterate  our  deepest 
appreciation to the President of the fifty-fourth session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab, 
Minister 
and 
Broadcasting  of  the  Republic  of  Namibia,  who  was 
instrumental  in  the  establishment  of  the  Open-ended 
Ad Hoc Working Group in terms of resolution 53/92 of 
7 December 1998 and for providing overall direction to 
the work of the Group. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General,  who  has  spared  no  effort  in  promoting  the 
cause of peace  and  sustainable development  in Africa. 
of  Foreign  Affairs, 
Information 


21 

A/55/PV.48 

The  report  of 
the  alarming  magnitude  of 
Our  gratitude  also  goes  all  the  other  bodies  of  the 
United  Nations  system,  the Bretton Woods institutions 
and other players for the invaluable contributions they 
have  been  making  in  our  common  effort  to  rid  the 
African  continent  of  endemic  violent  conflict  and 
chronic underdevelopment. 

the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
contained in document A/55/45 entails progress on the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the  Secretary-General,  as  well  as 
the  report  of 
coordination  of  follow-up  by 
the  United  Nations 
system regarding initiatives on Africa. 

Much  has  been  said  about  the  economic,  social, 
political,  security  and  environmental  plight  of  the 
African  continent.  Both  its  old  and  new  ills  are  now 
well  documented.  The  nature  and  causes  of  conflicts 
and  of  underdevelopment  on  the  continent,  as  well  as 
the  specifics  of 
the 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  are  now  well  known.  Yet  the 
situation  appears  to  be  worsening  daily.  Although  the 
United Nations and the international community are in 
possession  of  all  the  necessary  information  on  the 
development  needs  of Africa,  the  continent  appears  to 
be  irremediably  drifting  deeper  into  an  economic 
abyss.  While 
rehearse 
unworkable development strategies, development itself 
continues to elude African countries. 
While  we  debate  aid  and  trade  in  the  sumptuous 

halls  of 
international  conferences, 
millions of Africans continue to suffer the daily assault 
and  degradation  caused  by  hunger,  ignorance,  disease 
and  the  oppression  of  underdevelopment.  While  we 
theorize  on  the  risks  and  benefits  of  globalization,  the 
marginalization  of  the  African  continent  is  becoming 
increasingly globalized. 

It  is  against  the  backdrop  of  these  observations 
that  our  debate  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa  must  take  place.  Today,  many 
ordinary  Africans  are  asking  if  the  world  really  cares 
about  the  fate  of  Africa.  This  sentiment  expressed  by 
ordinary  Africans  is  strengthened  by  the  lukewarm 
suggestions we offer to Africa instead of workable and 
people-centred  solutions.  My  delegation  wishes  to 
speak to these issues of conscience, ethics and politics 
today. 
We agree with the assessment in the report of the 

Working  Group  that  the  effective  implementation  of 
the  forums  of 
formulate 
durable 
experts 
peace 
and 
and 
of 
not 
deny 
does 
recent 
  The President returned to the Chair. 
Namibia 
the 
the recommendations of the Secretary-General requires 
strong  political  will  on  the  part  of  African  countries 
and  the  international  community  alike.  But  it  appears 
to  this  delegation  that  this  political  will,  instead  of 
being  demonstrated  through  concrete  action,  is  being 
held  hostage  to  language  and  other  clichés.  In  the 
meantime, many more millions of African children are 
left  hungry,  sick,  homeless,  abused,  uneducated, 
exploited  and  subjected  to  the  horrors  of  violence  and 
conflict.  When  the  international  community’s  efforts 
produce these unintended results, it is time to seriously 
rethink  our  strategies  for  Africa’s  development.  My 
delegation calls for a change of course today. 



significant 
achievements  made  over  the  years  in  the  fight  against 
poverty  and  under-development.  My  country  is  indeed 
grateful  to  the  international  community  and  all  our 
development  partners  for  the  support  that  Africa  has 
received  to  enhance  its  own  development  efforts.  But 
Namibia is concerned about the obvious contradictions 
and  mismatches  evident 
international 
development  policy  and  practice.  For  example,  at  a 
time  when  most  African  countries  have  undertaken 
remarkable  economic  and  political  reforms,  creating 
open 
of 
governance, development assistance and foreign direct 
investment  flows  into Africa  are  at the lowest  level  in 
history and are dwindling further. When Africa is most 
in need of hard cash, it is compelled to become a major 
exporter of capital. We have liberalized our economies 
and opened our markets to global competition, but our 
most competitive products and services are deliberately 
barred  from  entering  the  markets  of  industrialized 
countries.  These  are  the  facts  of  the  situation.  This 
must  change 
to  see  any  significant 
improvement  in  our  development  policies,  and,  more 
important,  if  we  want  to  see  any  change  in  the 
livelihood of the people of Africa. 
the 

recommendations  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group’s 
report 
this 
objective.  The  Working  Group  should  therefore  be 
allowed  to  continue  its  work,  and  Namibia  intends  to 
support  a  draft  resolution  to  that  effect.  But  there  is 
also  a  great  need  for  the  Working  Group  to  be 
strengthened through active and effective participation, 
especially  by  the  African  delegations  themselves.  In 
the past year, the participation of African delegations in 
the  realization  of 
implementation 
indispensable 
if  we  want 
democratic 
economies 
effective 
systems 
The 
is 
in 
and 
of 
to 
22 




A/55/PV.48
to 
tirelessly  over 
ideal.  Yet  all  of  us  recognize 
the  deliberations  of  the  Working  Group  has  been  less 
than 
that  African 
development  is  primarily  the  responsibility  of  our 
Governments and the African peoples themselves. 

The  Namibian delegation  holds the  view  that the 
eradication of poverty will go a long way in helping to 
solve  conflicts  on  the  African  continent  by  giving 
ordinary  people  real  choices  and  opportunities  to 
improve  their  living  standards.  In  this  context,  we 
reiterate our firm commitment to the implementation of 
the  Millennium  Declaration  as  a  means  to  redress  the 
problem of poverty and underdevelopment in Africa. In 
this  respect,  Africa  views  cancellation  of  the  debt 
burden  and  increased  official  development  assistance 
(ODA) as key elements that have to be considered. 

Some delegations have referred to the problem of 
corruption  in  Africa.  Corruption  in  and  of  itself  is  an 
anathema 
social  and  economic  development. 
Namibia  has  passed  anti-corruption  legislation  to  both 
prevent  and  fight  corruption  when  it  occurs.  Both  our 
executive  and  judicial  branches  of  government  have 
worked 
the  10  years  of  our 
independence  to  ensure  that  Namibia  remains,  by  and 
large,  a  corruption-free  nation.  But  we  are  aware  that 
where  corruption  occurs  in  Africa  the  corrupters  are 
generally those who have the financial and other means 
to  corrupt  Africans.  Even  more  important,  the  wealth 
of  Africa  lost  to  corruption  ends  up  in  the  financial 
institutions of the very nations that blame the Africans 
for corruption. In addition, when a legitimately elected 
African  Government  seeks  to  recover  the  billions  of 
African  dollars  stashed  away  in  these  countries,  their 
efforts are made excruciatingly difficult, if not outright 
impossible.  This,  too,  is  a  fact  of  the  situation.  We 
believe that the problem of corruption has two sides to 
it, and we must all work together to address it once and 
for all. 

Last  but  not  least,  this  morning  a  representative 
of  a  friendly  country  inadvertently  characterized  my 
country, Namibia, as having had internal conflict in the 
last  25  years. 
that 
characterization.  The  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  for 
more  than  25  years  the  Namibian  people,  under  the 
leadership  of 
the  South  West  Africa  People’s 
Organization  (SWAPO),  and  with  the  support  of  the 
international 
the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council, waged a protracted 
struggle  against  colonialism  and 
illegal  apartheid 
In  1990  we  attained  our  hard-won 
occupation. 
community, 
to  correct 
I  would 
including 
like 


23 
in 
to 
the 
sympathy 
that,  with 
international 
independence  and  declared  a  policy  of  national 
reconciliation  and  nation-building.  We  are  pleased  to 
state 
community’s 
continued  encouragement  and  support,  we  have  been 
successful  in  this  regard.  Namibia  is  at  peace  with 
itself and with its neighbours. 

In  conclusion,  Namibia  would once again like  to 
express its gratitude to all its development partners and 
friends  of  Africa  for  the  noble  work  that  they  have 
been doing in the field. We will continue to support the 
efforts of the international community to assist African 
countries  to  overcome  poverty,  conflict,  disease  and 
underdevelopment. 
Mr.  Kuindwa  (Kenya):  I  join  others  who  have 

spoken before  me today in expressing  my delegation’s 
condolences  and 
the  people  and 
Governments  of  Singapore,  Angola  and  the  Russian 
Federation following the aircraft tragedies. Our prayers 
are  with  them.  We  wish  those  in  hospital  a  quick 
recovery and the families of those who lost their loved 
ones our heartfelt condolences. 

My  delegation  congratulates  the  Open-Ended Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  its  commendable  job  in 
discussing the progress made in the implementation of 
the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and sustainable development in Africa. 

It  is  against  this  background  that  my  delegation 
would  like  to  make  the  following  observations  and 
comments.  
Since  peace  is  a  prerequisite  for  development,  it 

is 
international  community, 
imperative 
including  the  national  Governments  of Africa,  as  well 
as  the  United  Nations  system,  make  every  possible 
effort to find ways and means of ensuring lasting peace 
in  Africa.  In  addition  to  the  ongoing  peacekeeping 
operations,  every  effort  must  be  made  to  include  all 
concerned  parties 
in  peace  negotiations.  Regional 
efforts should also be encouraged and fully supported. 

Since  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  it  has  become 
evident  that  conflicts  in  Africa  have  intensified,  and 
instead of being inter-country they have become intra-
country,  which  has  restrained  external  intervention,  as 
well as adversely affecting the process of development 
within and among African countries. 

in  Africa  were  systematically 
We firmly believe that the root causes of conflicts 
the 
identified 
that 
the 

A/55/PV.48 

to 
the 
that 
stress 
We  wish 
tangible,  durable  peace 
Secretary-General’s 1998 report (A/52/871) and should 
be  addressed  as  recommended  by  the  Working  Group 
Assembly  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels. In this context, we wish to see concrete actions 
being  taken  by  all  concerned  in  order  to  sustain  and 
promote 
for 
sustained 
economic growth and development in Africa. 

forthcoming 
preparations  for  the  final  review  and  appraisal  of  the 
United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of 
Africa in the 1990s should streamline and enhance the 
promotion  patterns  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development in Africa. 

While  progress  has  been  made  in  a  number  of 
areas  at  the  level  of  the  United  Nations  system,  it  is 
still apparent that much more remains to be done at the 
national, regional and international levels to implement 
the  recommendations  contained 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  In  this  context,  we  call  upon  the 
international  community, including the  United  Nations 
and the Bretton Woods institutions, to provide new and 
additional  financial  resources  required  to  address  in  a 
comprehensive  manner  the  following  socio-economic 
problems  confronting 
the  development  process  of 
African  countries:  the  eradication  of  poverty  and 
illiteracy,  as  well  as  of  the  diseases  of  HIV/AIDS  and 
malaria;  the  cancellation  of  external  debt  to  give 
developing countries a fresh start; the fulfilment of the 
agreed official development assistance target of 0.7 per 
cent  of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP)  of  donor 
countries 
to  developing  African  countries  and  an 
additional 0.15% of GNP to least developed countries; 
the removal of all trade barriers to accommodate export 
products  from  the  African  countries;  the  provision  of 
adequate financial assistance in investment for building 
the  capacity  and  capability  of  the African  countries  in 
scientific  and  technical  knowledge;  and  the  provision 
of  resources  to  contain  environment  degradation  and 
natural disasters. 
strongly 

recommends  that  the  United  Nations  should,  as  a 
matter  of  priority,  extend  the  mandate  of  the  present 
Working  Group  to  the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the 
General Assembly  to  enable  it  to  continue  monitoring 
the  implementation  of  all  recommendations  made  by 
also 
the  Secretary-General 
its 
recommend 
consideration 
these 
recommendations  in  the  areas  of  peace  and  security 
the  Security  Council  pursue 
conclusion,  my 
report.  We 
delegation 
follow-up 
in  his 
that 
the 
of 
in 
In 
of 
a 
a 
to 
view 
ensuring 
with 
comprehensive 
implementation of the reports of the Secretary-General 
and  of  the  Open-ended Ad  Hoc Working  Group  of  the 
General Assembly. 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 

Assembly  resolution  49/2  of  19  October  1994,  I  now 
call  on  the  observer  of  the  International  Federation  of 
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 
Ms.  Pohjankukka  (International  Federation  of 

Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies): I am honoured 
to take the floor on this agenda item, particularly after 
the  heads  of  States  committed  themselves  in  the 
historic Millennium Declaration to meeting the special 
needs  of  Africa 
for 
development. 

The  176  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  National 
Societies around the world know what it means to fight 
for 
from  want.  Our  members  and 
volunteers in the affected areas are a part of the poor; it 
is their own fight. They can also be the  most effective 
weapon  in  the  fight  against  poverty,  if  they  are  only 
given  the  possibility  to  take  that  responsibility  and 
better tools to implement it.  

The Secretary-General stated in his report entitled 
“We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the 
twenty-first century” that  

“[l]ack of access to basic health care is one of the 
main reasons poor people stay poor”. (A/54/2000, 
para. 113)
freedom 
fighting 
further 
and 
the 
to 
He further noted that  

“[i]n Africa,  the  high  burden  of  disease  not  only 
requires families to stretch their meagre resources 
but  also  locks  them  into  a  high-fertility,  high-
mortality poverty trap”. (ibid.)
The  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and 

Red  Crescent  Societies  shares 
the 
Secretary-General.  We  strongly  believe  that  public 
health  is  one  of  the  key  challenges  facing Africa  now 
and  in  the  future.  Most  people  who  die  in  Africa  die 
from preventable diseases, as the majority of people do 
not  have  access  to  basic  public  health  care.  The  Red 
Cross/Red  Crescent  Movement  has  been  involved  in 
public health activities for decades, but we believe that 
more  can  be done  and  has  to  be done  in  order to  save 
lives. 
the  view  of 
24 




A/55/PV.48
in  1998.  Since 

The  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  Movement  and 
States  parties  to  the  Geneva  Conventions  committed 
themselves  to  doing  just  that,  to  achieve  more. At  the 
twenty-seventh  International  Conference  of  the  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent,  held  in  November  1999,  the 
Plan  of  Action  for  the  years  2000-2003  was  adopted. 
By  the  Plan  of  Action,  the  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent 
Movement  and  States  declared  their  intention  to  work 
for  strategic  partnerships  to  improve  the  lives  of 
vulnerable people. Ever greater cooperation is urgently 
needed between States, international organizations and 
Red Cross/Red Crescent National Societies to advocate 
and  respond 
to  priority  public  health  problems. 
HIV/AIDS  is  clearly  one  area  that  requires  a  focused 
and concentrated collaboration from all partners. 
The  African  Red  Cross  Red  Crescent  Health 

Initiative  (ARCHI  2010)  is  an African  response  to  the 
call  of  the twenty-seventh  International  Conference. It 
is  also  an  integrated  part  of  Strategy  2010  of  the 
International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies, which places health and care in the 
community  as  one of  its  core  areas. ARCHI  2010  was 
launched 
then,  53  African  Red 
Cross/Red  Crescent  National  Societies  —  in  close 
partnership  with  their  respective  Governments,  United 
Nations 
academic  
world  —  have  reviewed  and  analysed  basic  health 
problems.  This  continent-wide  process  identified  the 
following  priorities  for  action:  HIV/AIDS,  malaria, 
vaccine-preventable  diseases  and  malnutrition.  All 
these  problems  can  be  addressed  at  the  community 
level. That is  why ARCHI 2010 builds on the strength 
of the Red Cross/Red Crescent, which is our long-time 
presence  in  every  country  of  the  continent,  with  more 
than 2 million volunteers. 
The  reason  we  started  to  develop  ARCHI  2010 

was  that  we  asked  the  question:  How  can  we  serve 
better? The  main  answer  was  found  to  be  that  we  can 
effectively  increase  our  impact  by  clearly  identifying 
priorities  and  taking  large-scale  action  in  the  chosen 
areas.  This  requires  thorough  planning,  strengthening 
the  volunteer  networks  and  building  capacities  at  the 
national and local levels. We remain focused on doing 
what  the  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  does  best:  public 
education, using our great experience in dissemination; 
prevention,  using  our  experience  in  first  aid  and 
primary  health  care;  home  care,  using  our  experience 
in  relief;  and  advocacy,  using  our  framework  of 
national and international connections. 
the  African 
agencies 
and 
to 
urgently 
offer 
as  well 
as 
against  HIV/AIDS, 
the  African  Governments, 

The  African  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  National 
Societies  are  strongly  committed  to  achieving  all  of 
this. Therefore, the African National Societies adopted 
the  Ouagadougou  Commitment,  marking  the  close  of 
the fifth Pan African Conference held in Burkina Faso 
from  21  to  25  September  2000.  In  the  Ouagadougou 
Commitment,  the  African  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent 
National  Societies  adopted  the  ARCHI  2010  Strategy 
and  confirmed  their  commitment  to  scaling  up  the 
action 
their 
determination to see that every African enjoy the right 
to food security. 
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  state  our  great 

appreciation 
and 
particularly  to  the  Burkina  Faso  delegation,  for  their 
support  in  endorsing  the  Ouagadougou  Commitment 
and  recognizing  it  within  the  United  Nations  system, 
where  it  is  now  registered  under  document  A/55/480. 
We  consider  this  a  meaningful  step  in  building  our 
strategic  partnerships.  We  look  forward  to  continuing 
our cooperation with the national plans. 

The  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Societies  welcomes  the  overwhelming 
willingness of the international community to reach out 
for  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  However,  we 
hope  that  the  lessons  learned  will  be  kept  in  mind,  to 
avoid 
the  undesirable  consequences  of  assistance 
replacing  the  community’s  own  effort  and  individual 
initiatives.  Therefore,  we 
the 
comparative  advantage  of  our  established  presence. 
Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  national  societies  are  already 
a  part  of  the  national  fabric of  every  country,  creating 
the  only  continent-wide  indigenous  grassroots-level 
organization. 

A  prime  example  of  community  action  is  our 
fight  against  HIV/AIDS.  The  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent 
is involved in community projects across the continent, 
including  home  care  support  for  persons  living  with 
HIV/AIDS  in  Zimbabwe  and  South  Africa,  education 
campaigns  in  Mozambique  and  Namibia  and  peer 
group campaigns among the youth in Central and West 
Africa.  Further,  we  believe  that  the  key  is  in  breaking 
the  silence  and  recognizing  that  the  disease  is  a  long-
term  disaster 
resources  and 
immediate  mass  action.  Therefore,  the  International 
Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies 
welcomes the recent initiatives by the Security Council 
to 
international 
dimensions  and  consequences  for  world  peace  and 
that  HIV/AIDS  has 
that  needs  massive 
recognize 


25 

A/55/PV.48 

security.  We  believe  that  the  strong  commitment  of 
several  States,  declared  during 
the  Millennium 
Summit,  to  massively  increase  funds  for  supplies  and 
service delivery improvements is essential. We, in turn, 
are  ready  to  work  together  with  our  Red  Cross/Red 
Crescent  national  societies  to  mobilize  the  over  2 
million Red Cross/Red Crescent volunteers in Africa to 
create  demand  for  these  supplies  and  services  and  to 
make  a  difference. We therefore  commit  to  continuing 
to  mobilize  the  power  of  humanity  to  build  a  healthy 
future. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

the debate on this item. A draft resolution on this item 
will be submitted at a later date. 

Agenda item 19 (continued) 
Admission of new Members to the United Nations 










  Application for admission (A/55/528)
  Letter from the President of the Security 
Council (A/55/535)
in 
In 
The  Security  Council  has  recommended 
  Draft resolution (A/55/L.23)



The President: I should like to invite the General 
Assembly  to  consider  the positive recommendation  by 
the  Security  Council  on  the  application  for  admission 
to  membership  in  the  United  Nations  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia. 

the 
admission  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to 
membership 
in 
document  A/55/535. 
this  connection,  a  draft 
resolution has been submitted, in document A/55/L.23. 
I should now like to consult the Assembly with a 

immediately  draft  resolution 
view 
to  considering 
A/55/L.23. 
since  document 
A/55/L.23  has  only  been  circulated  this  morning,  it 
would  be  necessary  to  waive the relevant provision of 
rule  78  of  the  rules  of  procedure,  which  reads  as 
follows: 

the  United  Nations,  as  stated 
“As a general rule, no proposal shall be discussed 
or  put  to  the  vote  at  any  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly unless copies of it have been circulated 
to all delegations not later than the day preceding 
the meeting.” 
this  connection, 
In 
to 
the 
floor 
I  give 
It was so decided. 
The  President: 

Unless I hear any objection, I shall take it that the 
General  Assembly  agrees  to  consider  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.23. 


the 
representative  of  France  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.23. 
Mr.  Levitte  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  the  Central  and 
Eastern  European  countries  associated  with 
the 
European  Union —  Bulgaria,  the  Czech  Republic, 
Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, 
Slovakia  and  Slovenia —  and  Cyprus,  Malta  and 
Turkey, as well as the European Free Trade Association 
countries  members of the European Economic Area — 
Liechtenstein,  Iceland  and  Norway —  which  align 
themselves  with  this  declaration,  and  on  behalf  of  all 
the  70  sponsors,  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  the 
draft resolution proposing the admission of the Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia to the United Nations. 

On  24  September  2000,  the  Yugoslav  people 
chose  democracy.  Their  choice,  made  in  especially 
difficult  circumstances,  earned  them  the  international 
community’s  unanimous  admiration.  That  choice  will 
have  positive  effects  for  the  entire  region.  In  seeking 
the admission of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to 
the United Nations, President Kostunica confirmed his 
resolve to break with the dead-end policy in which the 
Milosevic  regime  had  enmeshed  itself.  He  confirmed 
his country’s complete adherence to the principles and 
values of our Charter. 

President  Kostunica  is  making  here  today  the 
steps  we  all  expected. A  hiatus  of eight  years is about 
to end. With legitimate pride, the Yugoslav people will 
take  its  rightful  place  in  the  concert  of  nations.  This 
evening,  the  first  words  of  our  Charter,  “We  the 
peoples of the United Nations”, will have even greater 
meaning. Tonight also means an important step towards 
reconciliation,  stability  and  peace  in  a  region  that  has 
been marked by so many trials. 

The  countries  of  the  European  Union  have  been 
resolutely  involved  in  today’s  historic  event.  They 
made  that  commitment  because  President  Kostunica 
and  the  Yugoslav  people  took  every  risk  so  that 
democracy  and  respect  for  law  could  triumph  and 
because  the  Yugoslav  people,  in  bringing  our  shared 
26 




A/55/PV.48
Iraq, 
Israel, 
Indonesia, 
To  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  we  say 
values  to life,  has cleared  the  way  to its  family — the 
European Union.  

By  adopting  this  draft  resolution  by  consensus, 
the  General  Assembly  would  be  sending  a  unanimous 
message of friendship and hope to the Yugoslav people 
and  its  new  leaders.  It  would  be  sending  a  brotherly 
greeting  and  the  warmest  wishes  for  complete  success 
from all the States in the Assembly.  

welcome to the United Nations.  
The President: Before proceeding to take action 

on  the  draft  resolution,  I  should  like  to  announce  that 
since  its  publication,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  draft 
resolution  A/55/L.23: 
Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Australia,  Bangladesh, 
Brazil,  Chile,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  the  Czech  Republic, 
Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Iceland, 
India, 
Japan,  Latvia, 
Lithuania,  Mauritius,  Monaco, 
Liechtenstein, 
Myanmar,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Norway, 
Paraguay, Peru, Poland, the Republic of Moldova, San 
Marino, Seychelles, the Sudan, Togo, Turkey, Uruguay 
and Yemen.  

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  accepts 
the recommendation of the Security Council and adopts 
draft resolution A/55/L.23 by acclamation?  

Draft  resolution  A/55/L.23  was  adopted  by 
acclamation (resolution 55/12). 
The  President:  I  therefore  declare  the  Federal 

Republic of Yugoslavia admitted to membership in the 
United Nations.  

I  request  the  Chief  of  Protocol  to  escort  the 
delegation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to its 
place in the General Assembly Hall.  

The  delegation  of 
the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  was  escorted  to  its  place  in  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  It  is  a  great  pleasure  on  this 

historic occasion to welcome, on behalf of the General 
Assembly,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  as  a 
Member of the United Nations.  

At  the  Millennium  Summit  we  reaffirmed  our 
commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter.  The  admission  of  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  into  the  family  of  nations  is  of  great 
the 
Less 
than  a  month  ago, 
international  community 
significance,  as  it  strengthens  the  universality  of  the 
United  Nations  and  thus  enhances  its  legitimacy  and 
effectiveness.  
Equally,  I  am  confident  that  it  strengthens  the 

efforts  by 
to  bring 
stability  to  South-East  Europe,  efforts  in  which  the 
United Nations plays the leading role in many ways.  

The  path  leading  to  this  moment  has  been  long 
and  troublesome.  But  today  we  should  look  into  the 
future  and  welcome  the  admission  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia as a promising new beginning. 
Today  also  signals  the  strength  of  the  United  Nations 
itself and its decisions.  

the  whole  world 
congratulated  the  newly  elected  President  Kostunica 
and  the  people  of  his  country  on  their  success  in 
ensuring a peaceful victory for democracy. We all held 
in  high  regard 
the  people  whose  democratically 
expressed  will  prevailed  over  many  obstacles.  Their 
voices  have  been  heard  around  the  world,  and  the 
movement 
towards  democracy  has  gained  new 
strength.  

Moreover, this change gave realistic hope for the 
solution  of  the  remaining  problems  in  the  region  of 
South-East  Europe  based  on  the  principles  of  peace, 
democracy, rule of law and human rights.  

the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia to the United Nations signifies a new era in 
cooperation  between  the  new  Member  State  and  the 
other  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  including  its 
neighbours  and  other  successor  States  of  the  former 
Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  The 
resolutions  of 
the 
strengthening  of  cooperation  in  the  region  of  South-
East Europe  will gain additional  momentum. This  will 
also  give  new  vigour 
to  a  number  of  regional 
initiatives.  Here  we  welcome  the  recent  admission  of 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  into  the  Stability 
Pact for South-Eastern Europe. We can also envisage a 
new  era  in  the  fulfilment  of  many  other  goals  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  including  respect  for  human 
rights  and  this  will  contribute  to  the  strengthening  of 
regional stability and international peace and security.  

The United Nations and its Member States should 
be  prepared  to  strengthen  their  support  to  the  region 
and  to  the  Government  of  the  Federal  Republic  of 
the  General  Assembly  on 
The  admission  of 


27 

A/55/PV.48 

I call on the representative of the United States of 
Yugoslavia in addressing the many remaining problems 
that need to be solved.  

Today,  we  must  look  to  the  future,  while  at  the 
same  time  remembering  that  freedom  carries  with  it 
responsibilities,  including  those  relating  to  the  pursuit 
of justice. Cooperation  with the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  is  of  paramount 
importance  for  all  the  countries  concerned,  including 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 

Finally, I wish the Government and the people of 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  peace,  prosperity 
and every success for the future. 

America, the host country. 
Mr.  Holbrooke  (United  States):  As  you  said  a 

moment  ago,  Mr.  President,  this  is  indeed  an  historic 
day for the United Nations and for the Balkans, for all 
Europeans  and,  indeed,  for  all  of  the  world.  We 
welcome  Yugoslavia  as 
the  newest  Member.  We 
welcome  Professor  Svilanovic  as  he  takes  his  seat  in 
this  great  Hall  and  leads  his  nation  into  the  United 
Nations  as  a  full  democracy  committed  to  the  rule  of 
law.  Yugoslavia  has  accepted 
the  obligations  of 
membership  laid  out  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  It 
has  entered  the  United  Nations  family  on  an  equal 
basis  with  the  other  Republics  of  the  former  socialist 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  An  eight-year  quarrel  in  this 
great institution is over. What was this quarrel about? It 
is gone without residue or a trace, as is the flag that has 
flown  so  wrongly  over  First Avenue  for  the  last  eight 
years. 

We  congratulate  President  Kostunica  on  his 
leadership in bringing peaceful and democratic change 
to  Yugoslavia.  We  congratulate  his  colleagues  in  the 
brave democracy movement that brought the will of the 
people  to  power  in  Belgrade.  When  I  met  with 
President Kostunica last  week in Skopje, I  was deeply 
moved by his historic accomplishment and the bravery 
he  and  his  supporters,  including  Professor  Svilanovic, 
exhibited.  We  applaud  him  also 
for  his  public 
commitment 
to  United  Nations  Security  Council 
resolution  1244  (1999)  concerning  Kosovo  and  to  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Dayton  Peace  Accords. 
Today,  a  sterile debate comes to  an end. The  flag  of  a 
nation  that  long  ago  ceased  to  exist  will  no  longer  fly 
at  United  Nations  Headquarters  here  and  elsewhere  in 
the world. 
to  events 
in 

The  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia’s  admission 
to  the  United  Nations  is  an  historic  moment.  It  opens 
up  possibilities  for  the  future  for  Yugoslavia,  for  the 
region,  for  all  of  Europe.  When  I  travelled  to  the 
Balkans  last  week,  I  was  struck  by  how  often  the 
conversation  drifted  back 
the  past, 
particularly  1912.  It  seemed  no  one  wanted  to  speak 
yet  about  the  earthquake  of  September  2000.  But,  my 
friends, this is a new century and President Kostunica’s 
leadership creates an opportunity to look to the future, 
a future denied to the brave people of Yugoslavia for so 
long.  Of  course,  there  are  still  vestiges  of  the  past, 
which Yugoslavia  will  want to address. Many political 
prisoners  have been imprisoned by  the  former regime, 
including  nearly  1,000  Kosovo  Albanians  still  being 
held. All  of  these  prisoners  should  be  released  and  all 
of  the  missing  on  both  sides  should  be  accounted  for. 
As part of its pledge to respect its obligations under the 
Charter,  I  hope  that Yugoslavia  will  understand  that  it 
should  cooperate  with 
the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia,  and  I  was 
encouraged  greatly  on  this  issue  by  my  talks  with 
President Kostunica. 
We  all  know  that  talks  between  Serbia  and 

Montenegro  are  vitally  important  and  are  at  a  delicate 
stage.  Both  sides  have  expressed  their  disapproval  of 
the illegal constitutional changes made by the previous 
regime  in  July  this  year.  We  welcome  this  and  we 
welcome  the  fact  that  preliminary  talks  under  the  rule 
of law and in a spirit of conciliation have begun. I can 
say  on  behalf  of  my  Government,  and  I  am  sure  on 
behalf  of  everyone  here, 
international 
community  will  accept  any  decision  that  is  reached 
mutually 
democratic 
procedures. 
In  closing,  let  me  reiterate  on  this  happy  and,  as 

the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  has  said, 
historic  day,  that  my  country  is  firmly  committed  to 
working with Yugoslavia and the United Nations, in the 
spirit of the historic friendship between us and between 
Americans and the Serbian people of many decades, to 
address the problems remaining in the Balkans and the 
global challenge of the future. On a personal note, this 
is  a  day  that  means  a  great  deal  to  me  and  my 
colleagues  in  the  United  States  Government,  and  we 
are  proud  to  join  the  rest  of  the  world  community  in 
welcoming Yugoslavia to its rightful place in the world 
Organization. 
accordance  with 
that 
the 
and 
in 
28 




A/55/PV.48
(spoke 
(Mauritania) 
Mr.  Ould  Deddach 
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 

Mauritania,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States. 

in 
French): Before I make my statement, I wish, on behalf 
of  African  delegations,  to  extend  our  condolences  to 
the  sister  delegations  of  Angola  and  Singapore  in 
connection with the tragic plane accidents that claimed 
so many lives, and ask them to convey our condolences 
to the families of the victims. 
I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 

accession to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of 
the  General  Assembly.  Your  personal  qualities  and 
experience  will ensure  full success in  our  work. I also 
wish  to  pay  a  tribute  and  congratulate  the  famous  son 
of Africa,  your  predecessor Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  for  his 
excellent  work  carried  out  during  the  fifty-fourth 
session of the General Assembly. 
In  my  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  African 

Group,  I  wish  to  welcome  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  on  its  admission  today  to  the  United 
Nations.  However,  all  praise  should  particularly  go  to 
the  great  people  of  Yugoslavia,  who  have  found  once 
again  the  path  of  democracy  and,  we  hope,  peace. We 
extend our full friendship and cooperation to them, on 
behalf  of  the  people  of  Africa.  As  for  the  Yugoslav 
delegation  to  the  United  Nations,  whom  we  welcome 
once  again  and  wish  success,  I  wish  to  assure  it  that 
African  delegations  are  open  to  contacts  aimed  at 
establishing continuous cooperation with Yugoslavia in 
order 
the  noble  objectives  of  our 
Organization. 

Now that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will 
fully  enjoy  its  status  as  a  Member  of  the  United 
Nations,  we,  as  the  African  Group,  hope  that  the 
Yugoslav  democratic  authorities  will  carefully  uphold 
the obligations incumbent on them under the Charter of 
the United Nations by cooperating effectively with the 
international  community  to  establish  a  climate  of 
peace,  cooperation  and,  we  hope,  prosperity  in  the 
Balkans, which it so greatly needs. 

The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Kyrgyzstan,  who  will speak on behalf of the Group of 
Asian States. 
Ms. Ibraimova (Kyrgyzstan): It is a great honour 

and  privilege  for  me,  acting  in  my  capacity  as  the 
Chairman  of  the  Asian  Group  for  the  month  of 
realize 
to 
The  President: 
the  President  of 
November  2000,  to  congratulate  the  Federal  Republic 
of Yugoslavia  on  its  admission  to  the  United  Nations. 
We,  the  members  of  the  Asian  Group,  would  like  to 
extend  it  our  warmest  welcome  and  express  our 
support  for  the  efforts  of  the  new  Government  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia  to  rebuild  the  country 
and  normalize  relations  with  the  world.  We  welcome 
the  commitment  of 
the  Federal 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  Mr.  Vojislav  Kostunica,  to 
uphold  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  to  fulfil  all  the  obligations 
contained therein. 

On  behalf  of  the  Member  States  of  the  Asian 
Group,  I  would  like  to  express  our  best  wishes  to  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  on  this  significant 
event,  and  to  wish  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  peace,  prosperity, 
happiness  and  every  success  for  the  future.  The 
Member  States  of  the  Asian  Group  look  forward  to 
working  closely  with 
the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  in  strengthening  international  peace  and 
security  and  pursuing 
the  goals  and  objectives 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 

the 
representative of Slovenia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States. 

 (Slovenia): On behalf of the Group of 
Eastern  European  States  and  my  own  country, 
Slovenia, 
to 
congratulate the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on its 
admission today to membership of the United Nations. 
Each new Member of the Organization strengthens the 
universality  of  the  United  Nations,  its  legitimacy  and 
its  validity  in  today’s  world.  We  note  with  particular 
pleasure  the  presence  of  the  Special  Envoy  of  the 
President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  who 
has  arrived  to  witness  this  historic  event  for  his  
country — but also for us.  

We  would  like  to  express  our  deep  respect  for 
President  Kostunica  personally  and  the  democratic 
coalition  for  their  commitment  to  political  and  social 
change in their country, their commitment to the rule of 
law and democratic values and their determination and 
courage,  which  brought  about  the  democratic  changes 
in their country. 

Nobody  knows  better  about  the  challenges  they 
have  to  confront in  the immediate  future than  the  new 
democratic  authorities  in  Belgrade.  The  international 
the  honour  and  pleasure 
Mr. Petri
I  have 
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 


29 

A/55/PV.48 

for 
the 
We  note  with  great  satisfaction 
community  should  do  its  utmost  to  help  the  new 
leadership  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to 
cope with the catastrophic state of affairs they inherited 
and to strengthen the country’s democratic institutions. 
The country’s humanitarian needs should be addressed 
urgently,  and  programmes 
recovery  and 
revitalization  of  the  economy  should  be  speedily 
established. The United Nations and its Member States 
should make an important contribution to the efforts of 
the new leadership in that regard. 

the  solemn 
commitment  of  the  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia  to 
uphold  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  to  fulfil  all  the  obligations 
contained therein. This promises to be the beginning of 
a new relationship between the United Nations and the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  for  the  benefit  of  the 
people  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  for  the 
benefit  of  our  Organization,  and  for  the  benefit  of  the 
peoples  of  the  world  at  large.  It  also  represents  an 
important step towards normalization of relations in the 
region  of  south-eastern  Europe.  It  anticipates  the 
promise of a speedy solution of all the remaining issues 
and  the  strengthening  of  relations  of  cooperation  and 
good-neighbourliness,  with  the  aim  of  providing  a 
better future for all the peoples of the region. 

The  members  of  the  Group  of  Eastern  European 
States,  to  which  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia 
geographically belongs,  want to extend to it our  warm 
welcome  to  the  Organization  and  to  the  Group.  We 
look 
the 
representatives  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia 
in  pursuing  the  goals  and  objectives  of  the  United 
Nations Charter. 

the 
representative  of  Brazil,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of 
the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. 
Mr.  Baena  Soares  (Brazil):  It  is  a  great  honour 

for  me  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  to  congratulate  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  on  its  admission  as  a 
member  of  the  United  Nations.  The  resolution  just 
adopted  crowns  a  process  of  remarkable  democratic 
changes  experienced  by 
the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  and  represents  a  landmark  occasion  for  its 
people and for the history of the Organization. 
The  Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 

States  notes  with  satisfaction  Yugoslavia’s  solemn 
The  President: 
closely  with 
to  working 
forward 
I  give 
floor 
the 
to 
to 
the 
that 
floor 
looks 
I  give 
forward 
The  President: 
the  participation  of 
to  cooperating  with 
commitment  to  accept the  obligations  contained in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  fulfil  them.  Our 
Group 
the 
delegation  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  We 
are  sure 
the  Yugoslav 
delegation in the United Nations will be of benefit not 
only to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but also to 
the  efforts  of  all  Member  States  to  advance  the 
purposes and principles of the Charter, in particular the 
equality of Member States and the promotion of peace, 
justice, human rights and prosperity. 

the 
representative of Germany, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Western European and other States. 
Mr.  Schumacher  (Germany):  On  behalf  of  the 

Group  of  Western  European  and  other  States,  I  would 
like to congratulate the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
on  its  admission  to  the  United  Nations.  The  Group  is 
delighted  to  see  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia 
finally  take its  place  within the  family of  nations,  and 
warmly welcomes it. 

We  commend  President  Kostunica  for  having 
acted  so  swiftly  to  end  the  isolation  imposed  on  the 
country  by  his  predecessor,  and  we  note  with  great 
satisfaction his assurances that the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia  will  act  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  comply  with  all 
its 
international obligations. 

Our Organization is meant to be universal. Today 
universality  has been  brought  an important  step  closer 
towards  being  fully  accomplished.  We  wish  the  new 
Member  every  success,  and  we 
to 
fruitfully  cooperating  with  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  for  the  benefit  of  peace  and  stability  in 
Europe and the world. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  South  Africa,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.  

Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  On  behalf  of  the 
members  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  we  welcome 
the admission of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as 
a  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  We  extend  our 
support  to  the  efforts  of  the  people  of Yugoslavia  and 
their new Government as they rebuild their country and 
normalize relations  with their neighbours and  with the 
rest  of  the  world.  The  application  by  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  for  membership  of  the  United 
look  forward 
30 




A/55/PV.48
to 
the 
of 
in 
challenges 
taking  place 
instability,  destruction 
Nations and its solemn commitment to accept and fulfil 
the  obligations  set  out  in  its  Charter  constitute  a  most 
welcome development. 

We  are  grateful  that  the  principle  of  equality 
among  the  successor  States  to  the  former  Socialist 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  has  been  accepted  by 
all  the  parties.  We  trust  that  this,  along  with  the 
democratic  changes 
the  Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia and with similar developments 
in the rest of the region, is a signal that at long last the 
people of the Balkans are ready to turn their collective 
attention 
reconstruction, 
reconciliation and sustainable peace and development. 

For many years the members of the Non-Aligned 
Movement  have  been  deeply  distressed  by  the  painful 
dissolution  of  the  former  Yugoslavia,  a  founding 
member  of our  movement,  and by the ensuing  turmoil 
and division among its former republics. For the people 
of  the  former  Yugoslavia,  the  past  decade  has  been 
characterized by conflict and unimaginable horror. The 
wider  region  has  in  turn  suffered  from  the  effects  of 
socio-economic 
lost 
opportunities. 

We  hope  that  today,  in  stark  contrast  to  the  past 
and  despite  the  many  difficult  challenges  remaining, 
the  Balkans  now  stand  at  the  crossroads  of  peace  and 
stability.  This  is  an  opportunity  that  we  hope  will  not 
be lost again. 

Russian Federation. 
Mr.  Ordzhonikidze  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 

in  Russian):  The  Russian 
delegation  warmly 
congratulates the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on its 
admission  to  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
welcome  the  solemn  commitment  entered  into  by 
Yugoslavia,  reflected  in  the  letter  from  President 
Kostunica, 
the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  fulfil  all  obligations  set 
out therein. 
It  is  important  that  the  General  Assembly  is 

taking 
the 
application  from  the  democratically  elected  leadership 
of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and on the basis 
of  the  will  of  the  Yugoslav  people.  We  welcome 
democratic Yugoslavia as a full-fledged member of the 
world  community.  It  is  symbolic  that  this  should  be 
taking place at the Millennium Assembly, during which 
The President: I call on the representative of the 
it  will  uphold 
the  basis  of 
this  decision 
today,  on 
that 
and 
in 
factor 
important 
recognized  norms 
In  Russia’s  view,  one 
representatives  of  all  States  at  the  highest  level  have 
confirmed the crucial importance of the United Nations 
in the world affairs of the twenty-first century. 

We  are  convinced  that  Yugoslavia’s  membership 
of  the  United  Nations  is  important  not  only  for 
Yugoslavia  itself  but  also  for  the  universality  and 
viability  of  the  Organization  as  a  whole.  Active  and 
full  participation  by 
the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  in  United  Nations  activities  will  certainly 
enable us to make more effective use of the potential of 
the  United  Nations  to  promote  the  establishment  of 
peace,  harmony,  mutual  trust,  stability  and  good-
neighbourliness  in  South-East  Europe,  on  the  basis  of 
generally 
and  principles  of 
international law. 

in 
stabilizing  the  situation  in  the  Balkans  is  the  full  and 
unwavering 
implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1244  (1999).  For  our  part,  we  shall 
cooperate  closely  with  Yugoslavia 
the  United 
Nations  and  in  other  international  organizations  and 
multilateral  forums  to  consolidate  general  peace  and 
security. 

Republic of Yugoslavia. 

former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 

Mr. Čalovski  (The  former Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia):  My  delegation  has  the  honour  to  address 
the Assembly in its capacity as Chairman of the South-
East  European  Cooperation  Process,  whose  members 
are  Albania,  Bulgaria,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
the  Federal 
Croatia,  Greece,  Romania,  Turkey, 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia 
the  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  as  well  as  on  behalf  of  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia itself. 

I  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Goran 
Svilanovic,  Special  Envoy  of  the  President  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  His  Excellency  Mr. 
Vojislav  Kostunica,  and  his  delegation  on 
the 
admission  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  and  I  wish  them 
success as a Member of the Organization. 

The  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  South-East 
European Cooperation Process  welcome the admission 
of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to  membership 
is  of  special 
of 
The President: I call on the representative of the 
Once again: we sincerely congratulate the Federal 
the  United  Nations.  This  event 
and 


31 

A/55/PV.48 

time  welcome 
the  first 
in 
importance. It signals a new democratic period for our 
region and for future relations between the Republic of 
Macedonia  and  the  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia.  It 
also constitutes an important development  towards  the 
integration of our entire region into developed Europe. 

The  membership  of  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  in  the  United  Nations  will  have  a  positive 
influence on the speedy resolution of the succession of 
the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on 
the basis of the equality of all five successor States and 
on  the  resolution  of  the  demarcation  of  the  borderline 
between our two countries. 
Yesterday,  on  a  proposal  by  the  Republic  of 

Macedonia, 
the  First  Committee  adopted  a  draft 
resolution (A/C.1/55/L.47/Rev.1) by which the General 
Assembly  would  for 
the 
democratic  changes 
the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  and  their  positive  effects  on  the  peace, 
stability  and  development  of  South-Eastern  Europe. 
The  same  was  done  at  a  meeting  of  the  leaders  of 
South-East  European  countries  held  in  the  capital  of 
my  country,  Skopje,  on  25  October  2000,  which  was 
attended by President Kostunica. 

With that in mind, and on this special and historic 
occasion,  we  wish  the  Federal  Republic  of Yugoslavia 
all  the  best  for  successful  participation  in  the  work  of 
the Organization. 

Albania. 
Mr.  Nesho  (Albania):  I  should  like  to  welcome 

the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to  the  United 
Nations.  The  Serbian  people  and  the  new  democratic 
leadership have expressed the will to join the family of 
the  United  Nations  and  to  respect  the  basic  principles 
of the United Nations Charter. 

This admission is the result of understanding and 
accepting  the  new  historic  realities  in  the  Balkans  on 
the  part  of  the  democratic  leadership  in  Serbia,  which 
includes recognizing the right of the people to freedom 
and  self-determination,  creating  a  free,  democratic 
society  that  respects  human  rights  and  dismantling  a 
nationalistic  policy  that  caused  the  Balkans  so  much 
bloodshed and suffering for more than 10 years. 

I should like to take this opportunity to thank, in 
particular,  the  international  community,  the  United 
Nations 
international 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
organizations,  such  as 
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
regional 
and 
and 
the 
the 
for 
them 
through 
the 
that 
the  new 
provision 
(NATO)  and 
the  Organization 
Albania  believes 
the  confidence  of 
Organization 
for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  for  their 
great  and  excellent  contribution 
to  South-Eastern 
Europe in maintaining peace and stability in the region 
and  integrating  the  troubled  Balkans  into  a  united 
Europe. 

We  share  the  view  that  this  membership  is  an 
expression  of 
international 
community in the Serbian people and of its outstanding 
support 
of 
unconditional assistance to enable them to share in the 
prosperity  of 
the  European  countries  and  create 
conditions  for  their  integration  with  the  other  Balkan 
countries,  based  on  a  common  philosophy  and  respect 
for the principles of the modern world. 

spirit  of 
cooperation  among  nations,  clearly  expressed  at  the 
Millennium  Summit,  will  be  supported  by  all  the 
Balkan countries, including the newly admitted Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia. This will create conditions for 
solid  cooperation  through  the  Stability  Pact,  enhance 
peace  in  the  region,  overcome  past  divisions  and  old 
hostilities  among  the  Balkan  nations  and  encourage 
them to look forward to their future. 

We hope that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
and its new leadership will be able to move away from 
the  dictatorial  legacy  of  the  Milosevic  regime,  release 
the Kosovar political prisoners as a gesture of goodwill 
and  reconciliation,  work  for  peace  and  stability  in 
South-Eastern Europe and respect the universal right of 
the  people  to  self-government  and  self-determination. 
Albania  hopes  that  the  authorities  of  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  will  fully  cooperate  with  the 
international  community  to  respect  Security  Council 
resolution  1244  (1999)  and  accept  the  new  reality  in 
Kosovo. 

Croatia. 

  (Croatia):  There  are  turning 
points  in  the  history  of  countries  and  regions,  after 
which  nothing  remains  the  same.  In  the  hope  that 
President  Kostunica’s  application  for  membership  in 
the United Nations reflects such a turning point for the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  and  for  the  whole  of 
South-East  Europe,  we  welcome  the  admission  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to  the  United  Nations 
as its newest Member.  
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Mr.  imonovi
32 




A/55/PV.48
the 
five 
territorial 
successor  States 
the  borders  and 

We congratulate the head of the delegation of the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  Mr.  Svilanovic.  By 
applying  to  the  United  Nations,  just  as  the  other  four 
successor  States  did  previously,  the  new  authorities  of 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  have  confirmed 
that they accept the principle of the equality of all the 
States that  emerged  after the  dissolution  of  the  former 
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.  

This  step  is  a  good  start  for  the  new  authorities, 
and  is  cause  for  optimism  that  they  will  depart  from 
other  failed  policies  of  the  Milosevic  regime  by 
respecting 
integrity  of 
neighbouring  States,  protecting  human  and  minority 
rights,  consistent  with  international  standards,  and 
cooperating  with  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia, as well as by respecting the 
legal  equality  of 
in 
negotiations on all succession issues. By doing so, the 
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  will  make  a  valuable 
contribution  to  good-neighbourly  relations,  peace  and 
lasting stability in South-East Europe.  

Today, people in Croatia are observing All Saints’ 
Day; it is a time for remembering loved ones who have 
died.  Nobody  can  bring  back  the  victims  of  the 
hostilities  in  South-East  Europe.  However,  it  is  our 
legal,  political  and  moral  duty 
in 
prosecuting  war crimes, resolving the issue of  missing 
persons and preventing a repetition of the tragedy. It is 
by  accepting  responsibility  for  the  events  of  the  past 
that we can lay sound foundations for the future. There 
are  prospects  for  a  brighter  future  in  South-East  
Europe — a future of political stability and democratic 
and economic development. By accepting the principle 
of  equality,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  has 
opted  to  cooperate  with  its  neighbours  in  order  to 
achieve  these  noble  ends.  In  this  spirit,  Croatia  joined 
in  sponsoring  this  resolution  and  looks  forward  to 
future  cooperation  with  the  new  authorities  of  the 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
Mr.  Sacirbey  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  We 

would like to join all the other speakers in  welcoming 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the family of the 
United  Nations.  Much  has  already been  said about the 
new 
the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia  in  joining  this  institution  and  about  the 
goodwill  that  has  been  expressed  today.  With  the 
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
responsibilities  of 
to  cooperate 
of 
for, 
these 
to  convey 
responsibilities  and 
the  Permanent  Representative 
the 
reconfirmation  of 
resurgent 
feelings  of  goodwill  also  come  new 
opportunities.  The  greater  our  commitment  to  our 
mutual  responsibilities,  the  closer  and  more  realizable 
the  opportunities  will  be.  I  believe  that  our  future  
is  full  of  these  as  yet  unrealized  opportunities,  and  
in  this  context  we  also  welcome  the  vision  and  words 
of 
France, 
Ambassador  Levitte,  with  regard  to  our  common 
destiny  —  membership  in  the  European  Union.  We 
welcome Mr. Svilanovic and his entire delegation. 
The President: I now have the pleasure to invite 

the  Special  Envoy  of  the  President  of  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  Mr.  Goran  Svilanovic,  to 
address the Assembly. 
Mr. Svilanovic (Federal Republic of Yugoslavia): 

I  wish 
the  greetings  of  Mr.  Vojislav 
Kostunica,  the  President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia, and those of its Government and people.  

This  is  a  very  special  moment  for  me,  which  I 
would like to share with all present. The Assembly has 
decided unanimously to admit my country. The Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia is now a fully-fledged Member 
of this world Organization, which makes it possible for 
it to take its rightful place in the family of nations. 

the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia, Mr. Kostunica, and I are deeply grateful to 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  and  to  the  members  of 
the  Security  Council,  and  its  permanent  members  in 
particular,  for  their  support  and  for  their  decision  to 
recommend  our  country  for admission into  the  fold  of 
the United Nations speedily and expeditiously. 
We  understand  the  resolution  just  adopted  as 

expressing 
the 
profound  democratic  changes  that  have  taken  place  in 
Yugoslavia. After 10 long years of conflict, my country 
is  faced  with  many  difficulties  and  many  problems, 
internal  and  external  alike.  Most,  but  not  all,  of  them 
have  already  been  mentioned  in  the  statements  made 
here.  

I take this opportunity to offer some assurances to 
the  members of the Assembly,  and in  particular  to  our 
neighbours 
respective  Governments. 
Yugoslavia is aware of these problems and is ready and 
willing to work with its neighbours and with the entire 
international  community  to  overcome  them.  To  that 
end, Yugoslavia  will  be  a trustworthy  neighbour and  a 
recognition  of,  and  support 
The  President  of 
their 
and 


33 

A/55/PV.48 

and 
the 
selflessly  by 
tremendous  odds, 
conscientious  member  of  the  international  community 
and  will  invest  its  best  efforts  to  promote  peace  and 
stability in the region as well as worldwide. 

This  policy  reflects  the  vital  interests  of  the 
Yugoslav  people  and  is  the  result  of  the  profound 
democratic  changes  that  have  taken  place  in  my 
country.  Against 
the  people  of 
Yugoslavia  exercised  their  right  to  vote  and  rejected 
overwhelmingly  authoritarianism  and  the  repressive 
regime, choosing democracy instead. The people of my 
country  demonstrated  courage  and  perseverance  in 
defending their vote and stood up to threats of violence 
and  terror.  They  were  brave  and  proud,  and  the  new 
Government will make sure that it does not betray their 
expectations. 

Yes,  the  people  of  my  country  won  their  battle 
through  their  own  courage  and  resolve,  but  that  battle 
would  certainly  have  been  much  more  difficult  to  win 
if  it  had  not  been  for  the  helping  hand  extended  so 
generously 
international 
community.  I  thank  all  of  our  numerous  friends  and 
allies who have always believed in us and helped us in 
our hard, arduous and often uphill battle, every step of 
the way. 

My  presence  here  is  also  a  final  recognition  of 
the victory of the people of  my country — the victory 
of  ordinary  Yugoslav  men  and  women  —  in  their 
struggle for a better future. 

To  break  free  from  the  past,  political  change 
alone  will  not  suffice.  Economic  change,  growth  and 
development  will  be  needed  as  well.  In  order  to 
achieve them, the goal of the new Government will be 
to  join  economic  projects  of  the  region  and  to  be 
integrated in the world economy as a whole. Just a few 
days ago, my country was admitted to the Stability Pact 
for South-east Europe, and I can say that this is just the 
beginning. 

Democratic  Yugoslavia,  ruled  by  a  Government 
elected  by  the  people,  is  committed  to  the  pursuit  by 
the  people  of  the  policy  of  friendship  and  cooperation 
with all countries, and it will strive for peace, promote  

that 
the  flag  of 
goodwill and uphold stability. In addition to promoting 
relations  with  the  countries  of  the  region,  Yugoslavia 
will have as a priority cooperation with Europe. It will 
remain open and  willing to  maintain close relations of 
cooperation  with  all  other  countries  of  the  world  and 
with  international  organizations.  In  doing  so,  it  will 
always  proceed  from  the  principles  of  the  equality  of, 
and respect for, all nations, large and small, and peace 
and  prosperity.  Yugoslavia  will  also  respect  the  noble 
goals  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly 
that  democratic  Yugoslavia,  its  Government  and  its 
people  will  never  waver  in  their  resolve  to  keep  this 
promise. 
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  Member 

States 
the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia will be raised at the ceremony that will take 
place  in  front  of  the  delegates’  entrance  immediately 
after  the  adjournment  of  this  meeting.  I  invite  all 
representatives to attend. 


Programme of work 

The  President:  I  should  like  to  announce  the 

following  additions  to  the  programme  of  work  of  the 
General Assembly. 

On  Tuesday  morning,  7  November  2000,  the 
General  Assembly  will  take  up  as  its  fourth  item 
agenda item 36, entitled “Bethlehem 2000”, which was 
originally scheduled for 16 October 2000. 

On Wednesday  morning,  15  November  2000, the 
Assembly will take up as its first item agenda item 105, 
entitled  “Crime  prevention  and  criminal  justice”,  for 
the  sole  purpose  of  taking  action  on  the  draft  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime and the protocols thereto. 

On  Monday  morning,  20  November  2000,  the 
Assembly  will  take  up  as  its  third  item  agenda  item 
175,  entitled  “The  role  of  diamonds 
in  fuelling 
conflict”. 


  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  
34 


