
A/55/PV.57
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Fifty-fifth session 

57th plenary meeting 
Friday, 10 November 2000, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland) 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

00-73891 (E) 
*0073891* 







 The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 

Report of the Secretary-General (A/55/350 and 
Add.1) 
Mr.  Kobayashi 
Agenda item 30 
Implementation of the United Nations New Agenda 
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, including 
measures and recommendations agreed upon at its 
mid-term review 




(Japan):  My  Government 
welcomes  the  report  on  the  mid-term  review  of  the 
United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of 
Africa  in  the  1990s  (UN-NADAF),  and  would  like  to 
thank  the  Office  of  the  Special  Coordinator  for Africa 
and  the  Least  Developed  Countries  (OSCAL)  for 
preparing  this  excellent  report,  as  well  as  the  one  on 
the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa, which we 
discussed last week in the same context. 

In sub-Saharan Africa, per capita income today is 
lower than it was in 1970 in real terms. Of the 44 least 
developed  countries,  33  are  in  Africa.  Almost  half  of 
the  world’s  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons 
are  in Africa.  Indeed, Africa  is  the  only  region  where 
conflicts  are  increasing.  There  were  more  than  34 
million  people  living  with  HIV/AIDS  in  the  world  as 
of  the  end  of  1999,  of  which  24  million  were  in  sub-
Saharan Africa. This is a reality that we must face. 

Mr.  Dangue  Réwaka  (Gabon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
like 
My  Government  would 

Many  important  points  are covered  in  the report. 
On this occasion, I would like to focus on the issues of 
good  governance,  trade  and  foreign  direct  investment, 
information  and  communication  technology,  regional 
integration and HIV/AIDS. 

to  stress  how 
important  it  is  for  African  countries  to  summon  the 
political  will to promote good governance by ensuring 
human rights and the rule of law, and by strengthening 
transparent  and  accountable  public  administration  and 
the capacity to maintain it. 

The  re-emergence  of  armed  conflicts  in  some 
regions  of  Africa  and  the  negative  impact  of  these 
conflicts  on  national  and 
to 
promote  economic  and 
social  development  are 
alarming.  Rapid  population  growth,  unequal  access  to 
resources  and  opportunities  and  unequal  participation 
in national decision-making are among the root causes 
of  armed  conflict.  Good  governance 
in  African 
societies 
issues 
adequately. 

African  countries  have  not  sufficiently  shared  in 
the  opportunities  for  international  trade  and  foreign 
direct 
investment  offered  by  the  world  economy. 
African exports of goods have grown by an average of 
2 per  cent  per  year,  compared  to  a  world  average  of 
7 per cent. The share of African exports decreased from 
5.9  per  cent  of  world  exports  in  1980  to  3  per  cent  in 
1990 and 2.3 per cent in 1996. 
to  addressing  priority 
international  efforts 
is  central 

A/55/PV.57 


My  Government believes  that in the  increasingly 
globalized  world,  trade  and  foreign  direct  investment 
present  enormous  opportunities  for  Africa.  Aid  is  no 
substitute  for  trade.  The  multilateral  trading  system 
must 
therefore  be  responsive  to  the  development 
aspirations  of  Africa.  The  international  community 
should  support  the  efforts  of  African  countries  to 
identify  and  upgrade  African  products  with  export 
potential. 

Japan  would  like African  countries  to  pay  closer 
attention to the new opportunities that could be opened 
up  by  creating  better  conditions  for  foreign  direct 
investment.  Foreign  direct  investment  could  enable 
African  countries,  among  other  things,  to  tap  into  the 
large  pool  of  expatriate  expertise,  which  will  help  to 
fill the human-resource gaps in Africa. 

My  delegation  believes  that  information  and 
communication  technology  offer  African  countries  an 
unprecedented chance to hasten their development. On 
the  other  hand,  those  countries  in  which  most  people 
live  without  access  to  information  technology  cannot 
fully participate in the new global society. Accordingly, 
the  digital  divide  must  be  addressed  before  it  is  too 
late.  Bilateral  aid  donors,  as  well  as  international 
organizations,  should  be  encouraged  to  devise  ways 
and means of giving the people of Africa greater access 
to information and communication technology. 

Prior to the Okinawa G-8 Summit, Japan declared 
that  it  would  prepare  a  comprehensive  cooperation 
package  for  bridging  the  digital  divide  with  a  view  to 
providing a total of $15 billion over the next five years. 
In  implementing  this  package,  Japan  will  collaborate 
with  the  United  Nations  system,  including  the  United 
Nations Development Programme, the World Bank, the 
International  Telecommunications  Union  and  other 
relevant international organizations. 
African  countries and  their development  partners 

should 
regional 
cooperation  for  liberalizing  trade;  developing  physical 
infrastructure  and 
regional 
institutions, 
capital  markets  and  research 
tackling 
HIV/AIDS;  and  preventing,  managing  and  resolving 
conflicts.  More 
increasingly 
integrated  world,  subregional  and  regional  integration 
provide  higher  visibility  to  global  investors,  promote 
cross-border 
reduce 
production and marketing costs. 
including 
institutions; 
investment,  and 
specifically, 
trade  and 
importance 
in  an 
recognize 
the 
of 
to 
relating 

Due  to  their  proximity  to  the  field,  regional  and 
subregional  organizations  may  have  a  comparative 
advantage  over  global  organizations  in  terms  of  their 
better understanding of the issues and their context, as 
well  as  in  their  greater  ability  to  fine-tune  measures 
and mechanisms. Thus, they are preferred channels for 
the design and implementation of measures for conflict 
prevention,  management  and  resolution.  This  is  the 
reason  why  external  support 
is  so  important  for 
building and strengthening the capacity of regional and 
subregional  institutions  and  for  further  implementing 
the  programmes  of  African  subregional  economic 
groups. 

HIV/AIDS  is  not  merely  a  health  issue;  it  also 
impedes  the  development  of  developing  countries. 
Governments  and  the  United  Nations  system  should 
actively  promote  the  incorporation  of  a  broad-based 
approach to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in all policies and 
programmes 
development.  Fighting 
HIV/AIDS should be a central part of the development 
programmes  of  developing  countries,  particularly  in 
the efforts for poverty reduction. 

On the occasion of the G-8 Okinawa Summit, the 
Government of Japan launched the Okinawa Infectious 
Diseases  Initiative,  under  which  Japan  will  target  a 
total  of  $3  billion  to  be  allocated  over  the  next  five 
years  to  enhance  assistance  for  measures  to  combat 
HIV/AIDS  and  other  infectious  and  parasitic  diseases. 
As  a  follow-up  to  the  G-8  Okinawa  Summit,  the 
Government  of  Japan  is  now  preparing  a  conference 
for  December  in  Okinawa,  the  aim  of  which  is  to 
actualize the commitment made by G-8 leaders in order 
to  establish  a  new  partnership  to  fight  the  major 
infectious diseases — namely, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis 
and  malaria.  It  is  sincerely  hoped  that  that  conference 
will  contribute  to our efforts  against  HIV/AIDS. Also, 
Japan, along with the Joint United Nations Programme 
on  HIV/AIDS,  co-hosted  in  Tokyo  earlier  this  month 
the  second  seminar  on  the  development  of  health  and 
medical  services  for Africa,  as  a  part  of  the  follow-up 
of  the  Second  Tokyo  International  Conference  on 
African  Development.  At  the  seminar,  participants 
from  African,  Asian  and  Latin  American  countries 
discussed  ways  to  enhance  South-South  cooperation 
against  HIV/AIDS 
the 
summary  of  the  seminar,  which  is  expected  to  make  a 
contribution 
in 
Okinawa.  Also,  Japan  is  currently  preparing  for  a 
ministerial meeting on African development to be held 
in  Africa.  They  adopted 
international  conference 
the 
to 
2 




A/55/PV.57
poverty 
through 
eradication 
Mrs.  Viotti
(Brazil):  Brazil  welcomes 
While  certain  progress  has  been  made 
in  the  fiscal  year  2001,  as  announced  by  Foreign 
Minister  Yohei  Kono  in  his  speech  to  the  General 
Assembly this September. 

in 
implementing  UN-NADAF,  much  remains  to  be  done. 
In the final review,  what has been achieved so far and 
what  has  not  should  be  carefully  analysed.  Japan  has 
been  trying  to realize the  goals  and objectives of  UN-
NADAF through the process of the Tokyo International 
Conference on African Development (TICAD). TICAD 
has  much  in  common  with  UN-NADAF  in  that  both 
stress 
accelerated 
economic  growth,  the  economic  integration  of  Africa 
into  the  world  economy,  economic  diversification  and 
human resources development. 

Finally,  Japan  remains  committed  to  working 
together  with  African  countries,  as  well  as  with  the 
United  Nations, 
in  efforts  to  build  a  prosperous 
continent  free  from  want  and  fear,  by  realizing  the 
objectives of UN-NADAF. 

the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  New Agenda  for  the  Development 
of  Africa  in  the  1990s  (UN-NADAF).  First  of  all,  I 
wish  to  highlight  the  need  to  establish  follow-up 
mechanisms and frameworks to ensure the consistency 
of  ongoing  initiatives  for  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa. 
Brazil shares the view that effective responses to 

Africa’s  problems  can  be  achieved  only 
through 
coordinated efforts of the international community and 
the  mobilization  of  political  will,  both  in  Africa  and 
beyond  its  borders.  As  we  know,  in  response  to  the 
development challenges faced by the African continent, 
in  December  1991  the  General  Assembly  adopted  the 
New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the 
1990s  as  a  framework  of  consensus  and  partnership 
between  Africa  and  the  international  community.  We 
regret,  however,  that  progress  has  been  limited  in  the 
implementation  of  the  New  Agenda.  Foreign  direct 
investment in Africa remains minimal and concentrated 
in  a  few  areas,  while  official  development  assistance 
continues 
insecurity  and 
inadequate  financial  support  continue  to  aggravate  the 
situation  of 
the  majority  of  African  countries. 
Structural adjustment, which has led to the recovery of 
some  macroeconomic 
indicators,  has  not  been 
sufficient  to  set  African  countries  on  the  road  to 
to  decline.  Economic 
by 
the 
greater 
commitment 
sustainable  development.  As 
the  Secretary-General 
correctly pointed out in his report, while there has been 
some progress in resolving the debt crisis, this has been 
less  visible  in  low-income  countries  where  external 
debt service claims nearly one fifth of average savings. 

New  problems  have  affected  the  continent,  such 
as  that  of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  In  sum,  the 
mobilization  of  resources  to  promote  peace,  stability 
and sustainable development in Africa requires a much 
higher  degree  of  international  financial  cooperation 
and 
international 
community. 

The international  community  plays  a  crucial  role 
in addressing the challenges faced by African countries 
in  their  development  process,  as  well  as  in  translating 
commitments 
into  concrete  actions.  The  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Debt  Initiative,  for 
instance,  should  be  strengthened  and  broadened  so  as 
to  benefit  more  countries.  Brazil  is  making  very 
important efforts to contribute to the HIPC process. So 
far,  our  costs  related  to  bilateral  debt  relief  to  the 
countries  that  have  already  qualified  for  assistance 
have  amounted to  more than $300  million.  Brazil also 
participates 
International 
the 
Monetary Fund’s additional HIPC costs. 

We  urge  Member  States  to  respond  creatively  to 
the positive developments in Africa and to react to the 
less  positive  ones  through  a  constructive  and  attentive 
dialogue. The  objective  of  such  a  dialogue  should  not 
be to impose conclusions unilaterally arrived at, but to 
assist  Africans,  when  such  assistance  is  required,  to 
come  up  with  appropriate  solutions  and  make  them 
work.  Technical  assistance,  for  instance,  cannot  be 
supply-oriented,  but  must  be  targeted  at  the  specific 
needs  of  the  recipient  countries  and  should  make  full 
use  of  their  resources  and  potentialities.  On  the  other 
hand, in order to  make a difference for Africa in areas 
such  as  trade,  finance, 
technical  cooperation  and 
capacity-building, the United Nations must continue to 
implement  specific  assistance  initiatives  and  forge  a 
closer  relationship  at  all  levels  with  relevant  regional 
organizations and the Bretton Woods institutions.  

achievement  of  priority  development 
objectives,  however,  goes  far  beyond  institutional 
arrangements 
the  United  Nations  system  and 
depends  ultimately  on  the  political  will  of  Member 
States to strengthen their cooperation with Africa. 
funding  of 
The 
the 
in 
in 


3 

A/55/PV.57 

to 
technical 
cooperation 
long-standing 
programmes,  management 
I  wish  to  stress  the  importance  of  South-South 

the  development  of  Africa.  The 
cooperation 
strengthening 
of 
among 
developing countries can contribute significantly to the 
mobilization  of  resources  and  to  the  promotion  of 
sustainable  development  in Africa.  Despite  its  limited 
resources,  Brazil  has  a 
record  of 
cooperation with Africa and has been deploying efforts, 
through  the  Brazilian  Cooperation  Agency  and  other 
national  institutions,  to  share  with  Africa  its  own 
experience in struggling for development. 

A large portion of Brazilian technical cooperation 
projects  with  developing  countries  are  channeled  to 
African  countries  in  a  number  of  strategic  areas,  such 
as  capacity-building  and  training  of  experts,  health, 
basic 
of 
agricultural  policies, 
tropical  agriculture,  electric 
power  generation  and  monitoring  and  exploration  of 
mineral resources. 

In  the  field  of  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  for 
example, since 1997 Brazil has carried out cooperation 
programmes with Portuguese-speaking countries in the 
areas  of  the  management  of  preventive  programmes 
and  the  establishment  of  epidemiological  monitoring 
systems. This  cooperation,  which  is based  on  our own 
national  experience,  is  now  being  extended  to  other 
countries  in Africa.  Last  year,  experts  of  the  Brazilian 
Ministry  of  Health  visited  Kenya,  Zimbabwe,  South 
Africa,  Namibia  and  Botswana  in  order  to  identify 
cooperation projects. 

The  dialogue  between  subregional  integration 
processes 
cooperation. 
Enhancing external trade with other partners, including 
developing  countries,  has  been  one  of 
the  main 
objectives 
the  Southern  Common  Market 
(MERCOSUR).  We  attach  great 
to 
furthering  a  dialogue  between  MERCOSUR  and  the 
integration processes in Africa. We have already taken 
initial steps in this direction with the Southern African 
Development Community. 
Another  modality  of  cooperation  to  be  explored 

involving  an 
might  encompass 
African  country,  Brazil  and  a 
third  country  or 
international  organization.  For  example,  initiatives  in 
the field of agriculture and health  might be taken  with 
the 
and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  the  World  Health 
Organization or the United Nations Children’s Fund. At 
trilateral  schemes 
cooperation  of 
importance 
is 
another 
example  of 
education 
of 
the  Common  Fund 
the  international  level,  Brazil  and  African  countries 
have  been  working  together  in  such  organizations  as 
the International Coffee Organization, the International 
Cocoa  Organization  and 
for 
Commodities. 

As  far  as  conflict  resolution  is  concerned,  Brazil 
continues  to  provide  political  and  material  support  to 
Africa,  as  illustrated  by  its  participation  in  the  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
in  Angola  and 
Mozambique and its  contribution to  the  negotiation  of 
a ceasefire in Guinea-Bissau.  

Regarding the need for a coordinated approach to 
humanitarian  assistance,  we  believe  that  appropriate 
mechanisms  for  efficient  coordination  within 
the 
United  Nations  system  should  be  developed,  taking 
into  account  that  several  United  Nations  organs  are 
responsible for addressing humanitarian problems. 

A  peaceful,  stable  and  prosperous  Africa  is  a 
crucial  element  of  world  stability.  It  is  true  that,  in 
recent  years,  some  unfortunate  events  have  led  us  to 
fear  that  Africa  was  bound  to  fail  as  a  continent  of 
peace  and  prosperity,  a  sentiment  that  has  been  called 
“Afro-pessimism”.  Nevertheless,  Africa  need  not  be 
defined  as  a  continent  immersed  in  conflict.  As  is 
widely  recognized,  there  are  many  parts  of  Africa 
where  peace  and  economic  growth  are  taking  root. 
Through 
the  United  Nations 
all  Member 
Millennium  Declaration, 
States 
acknowledged the special needs of Africa and pledged 
to  assist  Africans  in  their  struggle  for  lasting  peace, 
poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development.  The 
effective  implementation  of  such  commitments  calls 
for  a  strategic  partnership  between  Africa  and  the 
international community. 
the 

economic  development  of African  countries and  hopes 
that  the  international  community  will  strengthen  its 
assistance  to  the  region  and  thereby  contribute  to  the 
full realization of the fundamental rights of Africans. 

Mr. Kumalo (South Africa): It is good to see you 
in the chair today, Sir. It makes me want to practice my 
French, but I will not. 

We meet today to evaluate the implementation of 
the  United  Nations  New Agenda  for  the  Development 
of  Africa  in  the  1990s  (UN-NADAF).  Before  us  are 
two  very  useful  reports  by  the  Secretary-General, 
aimed  at  assisting  us  in  this  review.  My  delegation 
Brazil  remains  determined 
to  work  for 
adoption  of 
the 
the  Food 
4 




A/55/PV.57
of 
of 
implementation 
the  mid-term  review  of 
wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  a  very 
thorough report and addendum providing a most useful 
the 
overview 
the 
recommendations  of 
this 
important Agenda. The reports also contain interesting 
proposals  for  further 
implementation,  which  need 
serious consideration. 

The addendum on resource flows to Africa makes 
rather  sad  reading,  as  it  highlights  the  deteriorating 
situation  in Africa  in  the  recent  past.  The  decrease  in 
domestic savings rates; the continuing flight of capital 
from  the  continent,  which  has  reached  a  staggering 
estimated  total  of  $350  billion;  the  drop  of  more  than 
50  per  cent  in  official  development  assistance  flows 
into  the  continent  in  the  six-year  period  from  1992  to 
1998; the persistently low and decreasing foreign direct 
investment flows into Africa; the deterioration in terms 
of  trade  for  the  continent;  the  escalating  debt  burden; 
and the decline of  the per  capita income  from $749 in 
1980 to $688 in 1998, a decline of about 9 per cent — 
all  this  paints  a  very  bleak  picture  of  the  problems 
facing our continent. 

All  these  signs  seem  to  suggest  that,  once  we 
come  to  the  final  review  of  the  UN-NADAF  in  2002, 
we  will  be  faced  with  an  even  greater  challenge  than 
we  had  at  the  beginning  of  the  Agenda.  We  risk  the 
prospect  of  a 
that  Africa’s 
economic  and  financial  situation  has  worsened  in  the 
decade that UN-NADAF has been in place. 

Despite  these  negative  and  depressing  statistics, 
my  delegation  believes  that  we  Africans  are  at  a 
turning  point  and that  the  future of Africa looks  much 
brighter.  In  this  regard,  I  wish  to  echo  the  Secretary-
General, who in his report on this item observes that  

“Africa  has  an  important  opportunity  for  a  new 
beginning 
the  new  millennium.  Since 
independence,  never  have  the  momentum  and 
conditions 
better.” 
(A/55/350/Add.1, para. 48) 

I share this optimism for a number of reasons. We 
Africans  have  started  assuming  responsibility  for 
finding solutions to our own problems. We are ready to 
address  the  challenges  we  face.  There  is  a  growing 
understanding  of  the  particular  nature  of  Africa’s 
problems  and  challenges.  The  wide  range  of  bilateral 
and multilateral initiatives bears testimony to the active 
interest  in  addressing  the  particular  needs  of  our 
continent.  Already,  Africa  is  grappling  with  its  own 
tragic  confirmation 
change 
been 
for 
in 
towards 
the  African 
proposals 
the  establishment  of  a  global 
partnership for the development of the continent. These 
proposals, by Africans for Africans, will, hopefully, be 
launched in the not-too-distant future. 

Africans are  in  the  process  of defining the broad 
priorities  for  our  continent.  We  choose  to  call  this 
process 
renaissance.  First,  we  have 
concluded  that  the  African  renaissance  means  the 
establishment  of  democratic  political  systems  which 
will  ensure  the  accomplishment  of  the  goal  that  the 
people must govern.  

Second,  the  renaissance  will  make  certain  that 
these  systems  take  into  account  African  specifics  so 
that,  while  being  truly  democratic  and  protecting 
human  rights,  they  are  nevertheless  designed  in  ways 
which  really  ensure  that  political  and  peaceful  means 
can  be  used  to  address  the  competing  interests  of 
different social groups in each country. 
Third,  the  renaissance  will  establish  institutions 

and  procedures  that  will  enable  the  continent  to  deal 
collectively  with  questions  of  democracy,  peace  and 
stability.  
to  achieve  sustainable 

Fourth, 
development 
continuous 
improvement  of  the  standard  of  living  and  the  quality 
of life of the masses of people.  

Fifth, it will qualitatively change Africa’s place in 
the global economy so that it is free of the yoke of the 
international  debt  burden  and  is  no  longer  a  mere 
supplier  of 
importer  of 
manufactured goods.  

women of Africa.  

Seventh,  it  will  help  in  successfully  confronting 
the  scourge  of  infectious  diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis and malaria.  

environment  of  our  continent  and  ensuring 
sustainable use of our natural resources. 

in the agenda of UN-NADAF. 

the 
consideration  of  a  possible  successor  arrangement 
would  have  to  address  a  number  of  challenges.  The 
first would be to make a thorough evaluation of all the 
Lastly,  the  renaissance  is  about  protecting  the 
the 
Sixth,  it  will  ensure  the  full  emancipation  of  the 
Not  surprisingly,  these  priorities  are  all  included 
review  of  UN-NADAF  and 
it  will  help 
results 
that 
raw  materials  and  an 
final 
The 
in 
the 


5 

A/55/PV.57 

initiatives  so  far.  These  would  not  only  be  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  but  would 
include  other 
bilateral, multilateral and regional initiatives related to 
Africa.  This  will,  of  course,  also  include  initiatives 
emanating from our continent. 

Another  challenge  will  be  to  consider  how  this 
review process can be linked to the work of the Open-
ended  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Causes  of 
Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of  Durable  Peace  and 
Sustainable  Development  in  Africa.  The  high-level 
segment  of  the  substantive  session  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  in  2001  must  also  feed  into  the 
review process. 

Furthermore,  consideration  will  have to be  given 
to  ways  in  which  the  Africa-specific  elements  of  the 
major  United  Nations  conferences  can  be  brought 
together with the other initiatives for and by Africa. As 
our  heads  of  State  or  Government  said  during  the 
Millennium  Summit  held  here  in  New  York  a  few 
weeks ago, the problems of the new millennium require 
comprehensive  solutions.  And  we  from  Africa  know 
this truth better than many. 
As  hopeful  as  we  are  about  the  future  of  our 

continent,  we  also  recognize  that  there  can  be  no 
sustainable  development  without  peace  and  security. 
The  immediate  reminder  for  us  is  the  senseless  war 
raging  in the  Democratic  Republic of the  Congo. This 
war  consumes  nine  other  countries,  many  of  them  our 
neighbours.  We  watch  helplessly  as  we  see  very 
precious  resources,  both  human  and  material,  being 
wasted in this war. 

The  countries  of  southern  Africa,  under  the 
leadership  of  President  Chiluba  of  Zambia,  came 
together more than a year ago to agree on a peace plan 
known  as  the  Lusaka  Agreement,  which  we  believed 
would  help  bring  this  war  to  an  end.  Sixteen  months 
later,  we  are  still  waiting  for  the  Security  Council  to 
play its mandated role for restoring peace and security 
in the region. 

This  is  one  reason  why  for  us  in  Africa  the 
Brahimi  report  is  fundamental  and  very  important  in 
laying the foundation for peace in Africa. If we lose the 
Brahimi  report  to  the  disagreements  that  we  have, 
which  my  delegation  believes  can  be  overcome,  the 
biggest losers will be those of us in Africa. Already we 
have  lost  much,  and  we  cannot  afford  to  lose  even 
more. 
together 
three 
countries, 
infrastructure  as 

One of the areas we will have to review when we 
next  discuss  UN-NADAF  will  be  the  contribution  of 
regional  solutions  to  the  problems  we  face  in  Africa. 
We  in  the  Southern  African  Development  Community 
(SADC) have seen the fruits of our regional integration 
and  cooperation.  SADC  has  over  the  years  designed  a 
number  of  spatial  development  projects  that  bring 
together  the  efforts  of  more  than  one  country  in  our 
region.  For  example,  South  Africa  and  Mozambique 
have  combined  to  provide  the  physical  transport, 
communication  and  power 
the 
the  development  of  services  and 
foundation  for 
manufacturing.  This  is  what  is  known  as  the  Maputo 
Corridor. The  joint  efforts  by  our  two  countries  vastly 
improved  the  costing  structure  and  competitiveness, 
thereby  attracting  significant  foreign  direct investment 
to the area.  
Another example is the Lebombo corridor, which 

brings 
Swaziland, 
Mozambique  and  South  Africa,  working  together  to 
develop  environmentally  friendly  projects,  including 
those  for  attracting  eco-tourism.  Several  neighbouring 
countries,  including  Zimbabwe,  Namibia,  Botswana 
and  Mozambique,  joined  to  built  a  major  road  to 
transport  goods  to  places  between  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
and  the  Indian  Ocean.  More  projects  are  in  the 
pipeline.  Besides  the  normal  economic  advantages, 
these  projects  have  deepened  democracy  and  good-
neighbourliness  while  making  development  in  our 
region more sustainable. 

We  in  Africa  are  going  through  a  difficult  but 
very  promising  period,  as  the  Secretary-General  so 
correctly  pointed  out 
to 
strengthen the partnership between the countries of the 
North  and  the  countries  of  the  South,  especially  those 
of  us  in  Africa.  The  problems  we  face  cannot  be 
addressed by Africans only. The HIV/AIDS pandemic, 
malaria and other diseases require a global rather than 
a continental solution. While we may be ready to do as 
much  as  we  can,  we  hope  those  countries  that  have 
more to give, especially our northern partners, will find 
it in their hearts and their budgets to assist.  

At  the  next  review  of  UN-NADAF  we  hope  the 
Secretary-General  will  be  able  to  report  that  there  has 
been a change in the plight of Africa. With confidence, 
our  leaders  meeting  at  the  Organization  of  African 
Unity  summit  in  Algeria  in  1999  declared  this  the 
African  century.  We  believe  they  must  have  known 
in  his  report.  We  need 
6 




A/55/PV.57
to 
the 
From 
reforms, 
the 
accelerate 
adjustment 
something,  and  UN-NADAF  may  bear  this  out  next 
time. 
Mr.  Kafando  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French): 

The item on the implementation of the United Nations 
New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the 
1990s is of the utmost importance in the opinion of my 
delegation.  This  is  why  we  would  like  to  share  our 
views in this debate. 
The  prime  objective  of  the  United  Nations  New 

Agenda  was 
transformation, 
integration,  diversification  and  economic  growth  of 
African  countries,  to  make  them  less  vulnerable  to 
outside  forces,  to  enhance  their  autonomy  and  vigour 
and to ensure a lasting development process. 
this  standpoint,  at  the  1996  mid-term 

review  of  the  implementation  of  the  New Agenda,  the 
General  Assembly  noted  the  progress  that  had  been 
made  by  a  number  of African  countries  in  the  area  of 
economic 
process, 
democratization  and  the  strengthening  of  civil  society. 
However,  despite  all  these  efforts,  Africa  is  still 
grappling  with  serious  socio-economic  problems, 
which  are  aggravated  by  a  set  of  endogenous  and 
exogenous  factors  such  as  globalization,  investments, 
indebtedness and so forth.  

In  fact,  globalization,  while  presenting  clear 
advantages for the world economy and particularly for 
industrialized  countries,  causes  new  problems  and 
involves  constraints  for  the  African  countries,  which 
find themselves further pushed to the sidelines. 

Export receipts and the survival of the majority of 
African  countries  continue  to  depend  on  certain  basic 
commodities,  whose  prices  as  a  whole  have  declined 
ever  since  1998,  thereby  causing  a  decline  in  internal 
savings  and  investment.  Despite  the  efforts  deployed 
by  a  large  number  of  countries  to  improve  conditions 
for  private 
investment 
continues to contribute very little to our economies. 

Moreover,  in  addition  to  the  drastic  decline  in 
official  development  assistance,  African  countries’ 
huge debt remains a source of great concern, since debt 
servicing  consumes  a  large  part  of  our  income,  to  the 
detriment of national investment. 
Other  facts,  such  as  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic, 

malaria 
cause 
tremendous  human  suffering,  but  also  impede Africa’s 
the  most 
socio-economic 
conflicts,  not  only 
foreign  direct 
development, 
investment, 
and 
armed 
since 
investment 
stability,  a 
vulnerable  sectors  of  our  population  are  mainly  those 
in the productive sectors. 

In  the  face  of  all  these  challenges,  a  number  of 
initiatives  have  been  launched,  but  unfortunately  they 
have  been  weakened  by  the  fact  that  many  of  the 
commitments  made  by  the  international  community 
under the New Agenda have not been honoured. 

We  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 
adopt and implement new measures, especially to help 
in the struggle against poverty and to stimulate growth. 

Implementation  of  these  new  measures  to  ensure 
lasting  development  requires  first  a  strategy  having  as 
its  backbone  macroeconomic 
secure 
environment  to  encourage  investment,  support  for 
export  activities,  adequate 
in  human 
development sectors such as health and education, and 
good  governance,  as  well  as  improvement  of  basic 
infrastructure. 

The  key  to  development  and  the  main  objective 
of  any  development  policy  in  Africa  is  the  struggle 
against poverty. We  know  that poverty  arises  from  the 
interaction  between  population,  environment  and 
development. 

The  tragedy  of  Africa  is,  first,  that  population 
growth  is  far  greater  than  growth  in  food  production 
per capita and, secondly, that the rapid deterioration of 
the environment seriously harms agricultural output. It 
is therefore important urgently to tackle these problems 
incorporate  population,  environmental  and 
and 
agricultural  development 
issues 
in  development 
planning and anti-poverty policies. 
After  the  follow-up  in  Geneva  in  June  to  the 

World  Summit 
the 
Millennium Summit condemned the various constraints 
on  developing  countries,  particularly 
the  African 
countries,  since,  according  to  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  (UNDP),  80  per  cent  of 
countries with weak human resources development are 
in Africa  and  four  out  of  ten Africans  live  in  absolute 
poverty. 

those  most 
concerned,  will  have  to  adopt  adequate  and  urgent 
measures  to  get  out  of  this  impasse,  particularly  by 
ensuring  good  governance,  it  is  also  essential  that 
donors and lenders agree, without too many conditions, 
to  help them  mobilize  the  resources  needed  to  finance 
their  development. All  eyes  are  therefore  on  the  high-
for  Social  Development, 
Although  African 
countries, 
to 


7 

A/55/PV.57 

for 
relating 
to 
but 
to 
the 
poorest 
different, 
overcome 
it  falls  within 
the  situation  of 
importance,  because 
the  United  Nations  New  Agenda 
level  international  and  intergovernmental  meeting  on 
financing for development, to be held in 2001. 

We  repeat  that  advancing  the  cause  of  Africa 
means advancing the cause of the entire world, since in 
our  globalized,  interdependent  world  it  is  only  by 
helping 
their 
underdevelopment  that  the  better  off  can  guarantee 
their own survival. 

Mr.  Mesdoua  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  This 
third debate on Africa in the space of just 10 days is of 
particular 
the 
framework  of  the  preliminary  dialogue  on  preparation 
for  the  final  review  and  evaluation  of  implementation 
of 
the 
Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s,  which  will  take 
place  in  2002. Although  it  would  have  been  desirable 
to  space  out  these  debates  a  little,  each  has  its  own 
nevertheless 
merit 
complementary,  aspects  of 
the 
continent which are taken up each time. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  the  New  Agenda 
embodied  the  concern  of  the  Organization  and  the 
international community as a whole to support Africa’s 
development efforts. The New Agenda, which is a true 
plan  of  action,  has  become  a  political  contract 
containing responsibilities and commitments agreed by 
the  African  States,  on 
their 
development partners, on the other, concerning specific 
actions. 

During  the  mid-term  review  in  1996  it  emerged 
clearly  that,  despite  some  progress  in  some  areas,  on 
the  whole  the  same  conditions  which  had  justified  the 
launching  of  the  New Agenda  at  the  beginning  of  the 
decade  remained  in  place.  Moreover,  it  was  widely 
recognized  that  for  their  part,  despite  the  innumerable 
difficulties  and  the  objective  limits  on  their  resources, 
to 
the  African  States  had  made  serious  efforts 
implement 
thereby 
honoured  a  good  part  of  their  responsibilities.  That 
being  so,  and  given  the  difficult  prospects  for  the 
continent,  particular  measures  and  recommendations 
were  proposed  by  common  agreement  in  order  to 
continue and accelerate the New Agenda’s application. 
Thus, it is with great interest that Africa looks forward 
to the final review in 2002. 

In  this  framework,  the  progress  report  submitted 
to  us  by  the  Secretary-General  on  implementation, 
including measures and recommendations agreed at the 
the  agreed  actions  and  had 
the  one  hand,  and 
including 
the  mobilization  of 
mid-term  review  in  1996,  and  the  addendum  are  two 
documents  full  of  information,  analyses  and  proposals 
on  actions  taken  and/or  initiated  both  by  the  African 
States  themselves  and by  the international community, 
in  particular  the  United  Nations  system,  and  are 
therefore  a  source  of  an  enormous  amount  of 
information about a fundamental dimension of African 
development  — 
financial 
resources.  My  delegation  appreciates  the  high  quality 
of these two documents. 

The General Assembly resolutions and the agreed 
conclusions  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
contain terms of reference which can guide the review 
process.  Algeria  believes  that  the  independent  review 
of the implementation of the New Agenda should have 
the  aim  of  drawing  up  a  balance  sheet.  It  would  be 
useful in this connection if the team responsible for the 
study included representatives of African countries and 
their development partners, both in the north and in the 
south.  The  United  Nations  system, 
the 
Economic  Commission  for  Africa  and  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development,  as 
well  as  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU), 
should  also  be  represented  on  this  team.  Civil  society 
could also make a useful contribution to the review. 

Clearly,  the  independent  review  and  the  final 
examination  of  the  implementation  of  UN-NADAF 
would  remain  incomplete  if  they  were  not  part  of  an 
ongoing  approach  in  the  international  community’s 
support 
the 
discussion and negotiations to take place between now 
and 2002 should aim at developing another framework 
or programme of cooperation to succeed UN-NADAF. 

Similarly,  it  would  be  useful  if  they  took  into 
account the results of the debate that the Economic and 
Social  Council 
the 
coordination  segment  of  its  substantive  session  in 
1999,  which  was  devoted  to  the  implementation  and 
coordinated 
development 
initiatives. 

At this stage we think it would be useful to stress 
that  consideration  of  the  arrangements  for  a  successor 
to  UN-NADAF  should  be  guided  by  the  following 
elements. 

The  first  is  an  effective  commitment  on  the  part 
of  the  international  community  in  a  spirit  of  real 
partnership  with  Africa  and 
for  African 
priorities  as  defined  by  Africans  in  their  national  and 
for  African  development.  Therefore, 
of  African 
(ECOSOC), 
follow-up 
respect 
during 
held 
8 




A/55/PV.57
in 
to 
of 
effort 
to 
and 
regional 
levels 
improve 
subregional 
cooperation 
programmes 
coordination 
international 
include  adaptation  of 
that  organization,  especially 
regional development strategies. The second element is 
strengthening  Africans’  sense  of  ownership  of  the 
cooperation  activity  proposed 
them.  Another 
element is ongoing support for African capacities at the 
in 
national, 
coordinating 
and 
development assistance. 

Other  elements 
the 
cooperation with the continent so that it can take on the 
new  priorities  resulting  from  globalization;  greater 
involvement  of  the  Organization  of African  Unity  and 
greater attention to the  main areas of  work established 
by 
the  areas  of 
integration, education, health and others; the need for a 
serious 
and 
harmonization  of  the  many  international  bilateral  and 
multilateral initiatives for Africa; the need for adequate 
identification of the continent’s need; and the need for 
specific  benchmarks  in  the  form  of  targeted  goals  or 
indicators  and  time  limits  for  implementation.  The 
Algerian delegation believes these principles should be 
considered in evaluating a successor to UN-NADAF. 

considerable 
importance  for  Africa  are  expected  before  the  final 
review  of  UN-NADAF  in  2002.  The  international 
conference  on  financing  for  development,  the  Third 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries  and  the  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  HIV/AIDS  should  all  bear  in  mind  the 
specific dimensions of the African situation in order to 
firmly  consolidate  a  consensus  on  a  special  effort  for 
the continent. 

Furthermore,  the  high-level  ECOSOC  segment 
next year, which is to be devoted to the United Nations 
role 
sustainable 
development of Africa, will no doubt enrich the debate 
and take place  within the context of developing a new 
framework  of  cooperation  for  the  Organization  to 
replace  UN-NADAF.  Furthermore,  Algeria  can  only 
welcome  the  fact  that  African  development  continues 
to represent a priority for our Organization. 

leaders 
unanimously recognized Africa’s special needs. Algeria 
dares  hope,  in  this  context,  that  the  commitments 
made,  especially  in  terms  of  special  measures  to  be 
taken  to  meet  challenges  such  as  eliminating  poverty 
and  achieving  sustainable  development  in Africa,  will 
soon take concrete form. 
the  Millennium  Summit,  world 
support  of  efforts 
events  of 
for 
the 
Many 
in 
At 
for 
support 
serve  as 
that  would 
Therefore,  Algeria 
solidarity  and  effective 

In  this  connection,  the  final  review  of  UN-
NADAF in 2002 offers an opportunity of choice for the 
rest of the world to reflect on a real world programme 
of  support  for  Africa  along  the  lines  of  the  Marshall 
Plan  for  a  Europe  that  had  emerged  bled  white  at  the 
end  of  the  Second  World  War.  Would  it  not  be  as  fair 
for Africa also to have its chance?  

calls 
international 
mobilization  for  a  world  programme  on  African 
development,  in  which  the  United  Nations  would  play 
a  central  role.  Such  a  programme  could  be  called  a 
“programme”  or  a  “world  partnership  for  African 
development” 
the  global 
framework for all existing initiatives. 

In  recent  years,  many  bilateral  and  multilateral 
initiatives  have  been  taken  by  Africa’s  development 
partners  in  the  North  and  the  South.  Africa  can  only 
welcome  this,  while  hoping  that  these  initiatives  will 
be  further  strengthened  and  will  promote  a  spirit  of 
world 
for  our 
continent’s efforts. 

Mr.  Doutriaux  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  The  Central  and  East  European  countries 
associated  with  the  European  Union —  Bulgaria,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania, 
Poland,  Romania,  Slovakia  and  Slovenia —  and  the 
other  associated  countries  Cyprus,  Malta  and  Turkey, 
align themselves with this statement. 

As the main donor of funds and principal trading 
partner  of  the  African  continent,  the  European  Union 
attaches  special  importance  to  the  success  of  the 
United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of 
the  1990s  (UN-NADAF).  The  African 
Africa 
in 
continent, 
in  particular  sub-Saharan  Africa  which 
includes 33 of the 48 countries officially designated as 
least  developed  countries,  is  the  priority  region  for 
European  Union  cooperation.  The  European  Union 
endeavours 
to  fully 
consider  the  particular  needs  of Africa.  It  does  this  at 
the  United  Nations, 
especially  during  General 
Assembly  special  sessions,  as  well  as  in  international 
financial institutions. 

This  is  one  of  the  key  policy  objectives  of  the 
European  Union,  which  was  clearly  stated  at  the 
Africa-Europe  summit  held  in  Cairo  this  year.  The 
European  Union  welcomes 
that 
conference and the adoption of a declaration and a plan 
international  meetings 
the  success  of 
in  all 


9 

A/55/PV.57 

the  persistently  weak 
of  action  which  set  guidelines  for  its  relations  with 
Africa. The hosting by the European Union in Brussels 
of  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least 
Developed  Countries  next  year  is  another  example  of 
Europe’s  commitment  to  development,  particularly  in 
Africa. 

The report submitted by the Secretariat highlights 
the  varying  results  achieved  in  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  New Agenda  for  the  Development 
of  Africa.  On  the  one  hand,  it  shows  what  we  have 
achieved  in  terms  of  resumed  economic  growth,  the 
ongoing  re-establishment of the  major  macroeconomic 
balances,  efforts  to  establish  sound  economic  policies 
and  structural  reforms  and  real  progress  on 
the 
democratization front. 

On the other hand, however, the report shows the 
enormous challenge that remains to be met, with 51 per 
cent  of  the  sub-Saharan  African  population  living  in 
absolute  poverty,  insufficient  agricultural  and  food 
production, lack of progress in diversifying economies, 
insufficient  integration  into  the  world  economy  and, 
finally, 
indicators 
threatened  by  the  rapid  spread  of  AIDS.  It  is  crucial 
that the African countries  take  the  measures  necessary 
to fight this scourge; have been positive results in this 
regard,  as  the  examples  of  Senegal  and  Uganda  have 
demonstrated. 
The  international  community  must  support  their 

efforts, 
the  additional 
resources  that  are  required.  The  European  Union 
welcomes  the  fact  that  the  fight  against  AIDS  has 
become  a  top  priority  for  United  Nations  agencies.  It 
will  continue 
in 
particular through the Joint United Nations Programme 
on  HIV/AIDS.  It  will  also  continue  its  efforts  to 
strengthen  health  systems,  including  the  fight  against 
other  infectious  diseases  such  as  tuberculosis  and 
malaria. 

The European Union continues strongly to favour 
the  formulation  of  an 
integrated  United  Nations 
approach  to  African  development  which  also  takes 
account  of 
social 
dimensions  of  conflict  prevention  and  conflict 
resolution.  The  European  Union  would  point  out  that 
20  of  the  38  poorest  countries  in  the  world  are  still 
embroiled  in  or  are  only  just  emerging  from  conflict. 
The coming of peace is not in itself enough to eradicate 
the  political,  economic  and 
including  by  mobilizing 
to  support  action 
that  area, 
social 
in 
the 
chief 
and  of 
contributors 
undermining 
integration,  and  ultimately 
subregions, 
poverty.  But  there  can  be  no  real  progress  in  the  fight 
against poverty without sustainable peace. 

In that connection, the European Union is greatly 
concerned at the proliferation or recurrence of conflict 
in  West  Africa,  in  the  Great  Lakes  region  and  in 
southern Africa.  Not  only  do  such  conflicts,  inter  alia 
through  the  concomitant  illegal  exploitation  of  natural 
wealth,  deflect  the  financial  resources  of  African 
countries 
from 
development  to  the  peacekeeping  operations  budget, 
but  they  also  threaten  to  do  permanent  damage  to 
efforts  at  regional 
to 
destabilize 
the 
entire 
development  efforts  of  all  the  surrounding  States. The 
European  Union  therefore  supports  United  Nations 
endeavours  in  the  sphere  of  conflict  prevention  and 
conflict  resolution,  whether  in  the  form  of  support  for 
regional peace and security efforts, mediation attempts 
or  a  better  understanding  of 
the  economic  and 
commercial aspects of particular African crises. 

The report submitted by the Secretariat pinpoints 
the  difficulties  faced  by  the  African  continent  in 
mobilizing  financial  resources  and  in  using  them 
effectively  for 
its  development.  The  report  also 
highlights  the  extent  of  the African  continent’s  needs. 
While  recognizing  the  shortage  of  domestic  resources 
which can be mobilized in the countries concerned, the 
European  Union  would  again  stress  the  importance  of 
developing 
an 
environment  that  is  favourable  to  development  by 
encouraging  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights  and  good 
governance, inter alia through the setting up of reliable 
and  effective  systems  of  taxation.  It  goes  without 
saying that the resources mobilized in that way must be 
channelled into satisfying the basic social needs of the 
people, especially the  most vulnerable groups,  without 
ethnic, religious or gender discrimination. The creation 
of  a  favourable  environment  is  moreover  a  means  for 
African  countries  to  assume  responsibility  for  the 
measures  decided  upon  to  help  them;  that  is  an 
essential condition for the success of such measures. 

The European Union acknowledges the vital role 
of  funds  and  programmes  and  of  the  World  Bank  and 
the regional development banks in reducing poverty. It 
calls  for  concessional  funds  to  be  targeted  at  the 
poorest  countries,  which  have  only  limited  access  to 
financial  markets,  and  most of  which are  in Africa,  so 
that the requisite basic infrastructures can be developed 
there.  It  considers  that  policies  to  combat  poverty  and 
themselves 
countries 
creating 
10 




A/55/PV.57
inequality  must  be  at  the  centre  of  economic  reforms. 
They must be more than just safety nets to cushion the 
impact of adjustment policies. 

Official  development  assistance  (ODA)  must 
complement the mobilization of national resources and 
must  play  an  essential  role  of  catalyst  for 
the 
channelling  of  private  funds  and  direct  international 
funding to developing countries. It is vital that the flow 
of foreign direct investment to Africa be increased. The 
Secretariat report highlights the fact that in 1999 Africa 
attracted  a  mere  4.5  per  cent  of  total  foreign  direct 
investment in developing countries. 

On the debt issue, the European Union expressed 
its  position  during  the  debate  on  that  item  in  the 
Second Committee. The Union confirmed in particular 
that  it  considers  the  enhanced  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative to be a key element in 
fighting  poverty  and  achieving  the  objective  of  the 
sustainable  development  of  developing  countries.  It 
fully supports that Initiative. The European Union calls 
on  eligible  countries  to  take the requisite  political  and 
economic  measures  to  join  the  process.  It  also  urges 
creditor  countries  which  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
contribute 
the  enlarged  HIPC 
Initiative  so  that  the  burden  can  be  shared  equitably. 
The  European  Union  will  see  to  it  that  the  financial 
contribution to  the Initiative  is  not  to the  detriment  of 
other ODA channels. 

the 
the 
European  Union  confirms 
it  attaches  great 
importance 
to 
International 
Intergovernmental 
for 
Development,  to  be  held  in  2001.  It  must  provide  an 
opportunity  to  campaign  for  better  mobilization  of 
national  and  international  resources  for  development, 
and to help achieve greater consistency in policies. 

Access by African countries to the markets of the 
developed  countries  is  an  important  aspect  of  their 
economic  development.  Here,  the  European  Union 
regards Africa’s integration into the world economy as 
particularly  important.  The  Union  has  opened  its 
market  wide  to  products  from  African  countries  and 
intends to go even further in that direction. The Union 
was 
force  behind  a  World  Trade 
Organization 
to  guarantee  duty-free  and 
quota-free  access  for  exports  from  least  developed 
countries. The European Union is prepared to work for 
further  progress  in  eliminating  customs  duties  and 
issue  of  financing, 
that 
To  conclude  on 
the  funding  of 
the 
Event 
the  driving 
High-level 
on 
Financing 
to 
initiative 
to  support 
to  set  up  unified  structures  within 
quotas,  a  major  effort  which  we  hope  might  be 
followed  by  other  countries.  The  Union  extends  a 
general invitation to the other industrialized nations to 
follow  its  lead  in  opening  up  trade  to  manufactured 
products from African countries. 
Regional  integration  too  could  be  an  effective 

factor  for 
the  economic  development  of  Africa, 
considering  that  many  African  countries  have,  as  the 
report  notes,  internal  markets  of  limited  scale.  The 
European  Union  supports  the  promotion  of  regional 
integration,  which  could  also  be  an  instrument  for 
coordinating and harmonizing a broad range of sectoral 
policies,  and  which  is  also  an  indispensable  means  of 
combating  natural  disasters.  The  European  Union  will 
continue  actively 
the  various  regional 
integration  initiatives  and  United  Nations  programmes 
helping 
the 
continent. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  the 
fundamental  importance  for  the  European  Union  of  a 
comprehensive  and  integrated  approach  to  African 
development  which  would 
take  account  both  of 
political  and  economic  aspects  and  of  the  social  and 
environmental  dimensions  of 
sustainable  human 
development.  That  is  the  approach  of  the  recent 
Cotonou  agreement  between  the  African,  Caribbean 
and  Pacific  (ACP)  States  and  the  European  Union, 
which focuses on the objective of reducing poverty in a 
way  consistent  with  the  objectives  of  sustainable 
development  and  the  gradual  integration  of  the  ACP 
countries into the world economy. 

Such  a  global  and  integrated  approach  calls  for 
coordination  based  on  existing  processes  such  as  the 
Comprehensive  Development  Framework,  the  poverty 
reduction  strategy  paper  and 
the  United  Nations 
Development Assistance Framework. 

the 
Secretary-General on the comprehensive nature and the 
thought-provoking  quality  of the report (A/55/350  and 
A/55/350/Add.1)  before  us.  We  have  read 
those 
documents  with  great  interest  and  believe  that  the 
thorough  examination  and 
the 
recommendations  contained  therein  would  certainly 
contribute to the realization of the resolve of our heads 
of  State  or  Government  at  the  Millennium  Summit  to 
meet the special needs of Africa. 
During  discussions  on  this  agenda  item  at  the 

fifty-third  session,  my  delegation  pointed  out  that  the 
implementation  of 
Mr.  Malhotra
I  compliment 
(India): 


11 

A/55/PV.57 

report 
resolve, 
remains 
a 
related 
(A/55/350) 
the  present 
the  New  Agenda 
best of intentions and goodwill have to be  matched by 
the  provision  of  adequate  resources  that  are  not  only 
sufficient for the implementation of the United Nations 
New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the 
1990s (UN-NADAF) but that will lead to a growth rate 
in  gross  domestic  product  of  at  least  8  per  cent  per 
annum,  which  is  judged  to  be  the  minimum  required 
for  an  effective  fight  against  poverty  in  the  African 
continent.  We  then  fully  concurred  with  the  views  of 
the Secretary-General, expressed in his progress report 
(A/53/390), that one of the critical issues hindering the 
implementation  of 
to 
impediments encountered in increasing financial flows 
to the countries of Africa. We note from paragraph 165 
of 
that  effective 
mobilization  of  financial  resources,  despite  often-
expressed  political 
critical 
development  challenge  for  the  African  region.  Given 
the  critical  importance  of  this  issue,  the  Secretary-
General has presented to us an addendum concentrating 
exclusively on the mobilization of additional resources 
for African development. 

The  picture,  as  outlined  in  the  addendum,  is 
bleak:  inflows  have  been  largely  offset  by  outflows; 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  to  Africa  has 
been falling by about 20 per cent in real terms since the 
advent  of  the  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of 
Africa; 
perceived 
integration  of  African  countries  into  the  globalized 
market  place  appears  to  be  becoming  a  curse,  with 
Africa’s  loss  of  market  share  in  its  exports  over  the 
period  1970-1997  representing  a  staggering  annual 
income loss of $68 billion — almost 20 per cent of its 
gross domestic product.  

in 
comparison  with  those  of  the  1980s,  recent  trends 
indicate  a  worsening  of  aggregate  resource  flows  to 
Africa.  It  furthermore  makes  the  absolutely  valid  and 
crucial  point  that  ODA  and  other  external  resource 
inflows  are 
is 
greatest — when the African countries have undertaken 
valiant  economic  reforms  and  achieved  considerable 
progress  with  regard  to  the  promotion  of  the  private 
sector, the intensification of democratization processes, 
the  strengthening  of  civil  society  institutions  and  in 
other  areas.  It  is  clear  that  productivity  per  dollar  of 
ODA  in  Africa  has  increased  considerably  through 
these  efforts  made  by  African  countries,  but  it  is 
saddening 
the 
falling  precisely  when 
correctly  points  out 
in  efficiency 
importantly, 
and,  most 
that 
the 
increase 
The 
report 
the  need 
the 
that, 
in 
that 
the  report 
We  noted  from 
utilization of external assistance should be matched not 
by enhanced commitments, but by reduced inflows. 

Africa  is  perhaps  the  only  region  in  the  world 
where per capita income in 1998 was lower than it was 
1980  —  $688,  as  compared  with  $749;  and  it  is  the 
only  region  where  poverty  is  projected  to  increase  in 
the next decade. A sustainable reduction in poverty can 
be  ensured  only  through  the  promotion  of  sustained 
and broad-based income growth. It has been estimated 
that  to  achieve  the  required  growth  rates,  investment 
rates  of  at  least  30  per  cent  to  40  per  cent  of  gross 
domestic product (GDP) per annum would be required 
for  sub-Saharan  African  countries.  Given  the  average 
savings rate of 13 per cent during the 1990s — or even 
the  current  domestic  savings  rate  of  about  18  per 
cent —  they  face  a  significant resource  gap of at least 
22 per cent to 27 per cent per annum. This gap must be 
filled by external financial resources.  

the  average 
national  savings  rate  of  15.8  per  cent  for  the  period 
1996-1998  was  small  in  comparison  with  Africa’s 
historical  peak  performance  of  28.4  per  cent,  in  the 
1980s.  But,  as  the  report  itself  points  out,  and  as  my 
delegation said two years ago, there can hardly be any 
levels  without  squeezing 
savings  at  subsistence 
consumption.  Furthermore,  even 
face  of 
difficulties,  the  savings  rate  is  depleted  by  capital 
flight, which remains pervasive and severe, and by the 
net  transfer  of  resources  abroad  in  the  form  of  net 
factor income less public grants. 
These  structural  impediments  could  have  been 

international  community  been 
overcome  had 
responsive 
the 
to 
Secretary-General  states in  document A/55/350/Add.1, 
in  terms  of  quantity,  reliability  and  effectiveness, 
external finance has been disappointing. The inflow of 
capital  to African  countries has  steadily  declined  from 
$28.2  billion  in  1995  to  $20.8  billion  in  1996  and  to 
$17.1 billion in 1998  —  a  fall  of  over a third  in  three 
years.  The  fall  in  ODA  from  $19.7  billion  in  1992  to 
$9.7  billion  in  1998  —  a  reduction  of  more  than  one 
half  in  six  years  —  is  even  more  disturbing.  The  fall 
has  been  dramatic,  especially  when  we  consider  the 
promises 
the  expectations 
generated  when  we  estimated 
that  ODA  should 
increase  by  4  per  cent  per  annum  in  real  terms  in  the 
1990s.  Instead  of  an  increase,  there  has  been  a  24  per 
cent decline in real terms — an average annual decline 
during the past 10 years of 2.4 per cent per annum. 
the 
the  needs  of  Africa.  But,  as 
that  were  made  and 
the 
in 
12 




A/55/PV.57
25 
the 
is 
in 
for 
of 
implicit 
The  reason 
requirements, 
and  weakens 
this  decline 
the 
report 
in 

paragraph 
document 
A/55/350/Add.l. As the Secretary-General states in that 
paragraph,  “In  reality,  development  is  but  one  of  the 
multiple objectives served by aid.”  

The end of the cold  war did not produce a peace 
dividend  simply  because  many  African  countries  and, 
indeed,  other  developing  countries,  lost  their  strategic 
appeal.  Another  problem  is  that  foreign  technical 
assistance absorbs over 25 per cent of ODA. The more 
than  100,000  foreign  experts  in  Africa  cost  about  $4 
billion per annum and represent a major leakage of aid 
resources.  The  multiplicity  of  donors,  with 
their 
differing 
also  weakens  African 
capacities, as the new parallel aid economy attracts the 
more  skilled  civil  servants  with  higher  salaries  while 
the  remaining  civil  servants  spend  more  than  50  per 
cent  of  their  time  dealing  with  a  myriad  of  donors. 
Much  of  the  aid  delivery  bypasses  national  budget 
accountability 
processes 
of 
democratically elected leaders to their own people. 

Some  of  the  suggestions  put  forward  by  the 
Secretary-General  deserve  our  immediate  and  urgent 
consideration. Two of them, which could have a critical 
influence, are the complete and full untying of aid and 
ensuring  that technical  assistance  is  used  for capacity-
building  —  taking  our  cue  from  the  aid  recipient, 
which must be in the driver’s seat. Another courageous 
proposal  of  the  Secretary-General,  which  deserves  to 
be fully supported, is the need to acknowledge that the 
current system, based on altruism, has not worked well, 
and that the time has therefore come to institutionalize 
aid  commitments  as  mandatory  obligations  with  an 
institutional  mechanism to collect such resources from 
developed  countries  and 
to  needy 
countries. 

The  Secretary-General  has  estimated  that  terms-
of-trade  losses  typically  offset  70  per  cent  of  ODA  to 
Africa,  and  exceed  all  inflows  to  Africa  —  ODA, 
foreign direct investment, private lending and portfolio 
flows. The international community must act in concert 
to  ensure 
to  products  and 
manufactured  goods  from  Africa  is  available  as  an 
integrated  element  of  its  development  process.  Rising 
levels  of  protectionism  in  developed  country  markets, 
tariff  escalations  and  tariff  peaks,  protectionism,  the 
frequent and unjustified use of anti-dumping duties and 
countervailing  measures  and  non-tariff  barriers 
to 
that  market  access 
transfer 
them 
reach 
the  supposed 
the  unwillingness  of 
African  exports  —  and,  indeed,  to  exports  from  other 
developing countries — must be effectively removed. 

The  issue  of  external  debt  and  the  problem  of 
debt  overhang  deserve  urgent  consideration.  Many 
African countries have become trapped in a debt cycle 
whereby  new  aid  is  given  to  service  existing  debt 
stock.  While  such  aid  shows  up  as  “new  resources”, 
that  is  a  mere  accounting  adjustment,  and  no  new 
dollars 
recipient.  Additional 
resources  are  required  —  apart  from  ODA  —  to  fully 
finance the envisaged debt cancellation. 

Another  important  issue  is  that  of  the  return  of 
capital  squirrelled  away  from  these  countries.  Capital 
flight  remains  pervasive  and  at  the  end  of  the  1990s 
was  estimated  at  about  $350  billion  —  about  the  size 
of  Africa’s  external  debt  stock.  The  situation 
is 
complicated  by 
the  foreign 
Governments  in  whose  banks  lies  the  preponderant 
portion  of  these  massive  amounts  to  make  efforts  to 
return this capital to those to  whom it rightly belongs: 
the  people  of  Africa.  Africa  urgently  and  desperately 
needs  these  funds,  not  only  for  development,  but  also 
to further its efforts to staunch corruption. 
We  are  convinced  that,  if  we  can  achieve  the 

mobilization  of 
resources, 
African countries  will  make even greater progress. We 
commend the people of Africa and their leaders for the 
significant gains outlined in the report of the Secretary-
General, 
economic 
environment remained  unfavourable  to  them. This is  a 
predicament  that  we  and  other  developing  countries 
share and empathize with. 

India  has  always  attached  the  highest  priority  to 
its  cooperation  with  Africa.  Within  our  resource 
constraints,  we  are  committed 
to 
capacity-building 
technical 
cooperation with the countries of Africa. More than 60 
per cent of nearly 1,500 training slots every year in our 
best 
from 
banking, foreign trade, hydrology and water resources, 
satellite,  agriculture, 
communications,  electronics, 
small  and  medium 
renewable 
energy  and  the  like,  are  reserved  for  nominees  from 
African countries. 

We have also implemented and initiated technical 
assistance and infrastructure-building projects in Africa 
under our cooperation programme, including upgrading 
of  hospitals,  establishment  of  rural  health  centres, 
industry,  software, 
to  contributing 
institutions, 
in  diverse 
expanded 
financial 
required 
external 
through 
though 
fields 
ranging 
the 
even 
the 


13 

A/55/PV.57 

training 
entrepreneur 
development 
to  contribute, 
into  history,  and 
establishment  of  demonstration  farms 
to  promote 
agricultural  sufficiency,  establishment  of  solar  energy 
lighting  systems,  manufacturing  plants  for  poultry 
vaccines, 
centres, 
mechanical 
information 
workshops, 
technology training centres, and so on. 

Cooperation  between  the  private  sectors  of  India 
and  of  African  countries  is  also  growing  at  a  vibrant 
pace.  Several  joint  ventures  in  manufacturing  sectors 
have  been  established  by 
Indian  private-sector 
companies 
in  Africa.  In  certain  sectors  such  as 
railways, Indian industry is involved in a major way in 
the development of African transport infrastructure. 

We  propose  to  continue  further  in  this  direction, 
as  we  believe  that Africa  and  India  are  bound  by  ties 
that  reach  way  back 
that  our 
the 
partnership  should  embrace 
future.  We  will 
endeavour 
to 
the  maximum  extent 
possible within our capacities, to the efforts of African 
countries towards growth and self-reliance, particularly 
in  the  area  of  human  resource  development,  since,  in 
the  true  spirit  of  South-South  solidarity,  it  is  in  their 
success that our progress also lies. 

Mr.  Babaa  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s deep appreciation to the Secretary-General 
and  his  staff  for  the  progress  report  before  us  on  the 
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for 
the Development of Africa in the 1990s. 

Consideration of this item offers the international 
community the opportunity to increase its awareness of 
the  development  challenges 
the  African 
continent  and  reflects  the  increasing  attention  devoted 
by  the  world  to  Africa’s  development  and  growth.  It 
also  reaffirms  the  commitment  made  by  the  Member 
States to support the efforts of the United Nations and 
its  specialized  agencies  in  the  realization  of  that 
objective. Further, it represents yet another opportunity 
for  Africa,  in  the  framework  of  its  determination  to 
realize  sustainable  development, 
its 
responsibilities and to rely on itself and on its peoples, 
as  well  as  on 
international 
community. 

We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
and  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  recommendations 
therein.  We  call  on  the  United  Nations  and  non-
governmental 
the 
international  community  in  its  entirety,  to  redouble 
the  support  of 
organizations 
to  shoulder 
(NGOs), 
facing 
the 
and 
the 
initiatives 
their 
to  support  Africa’s  development 
efforts.  We  hope  also  that  the  United  Nations  will 
promote  its  cooperation  with  the  Organization  of 
African  Unity,  the  African  Development  Bank  and 
other specialized regional organizations, in  addition  to 
strengthening its partnership with African NGOs at the 
grass-roots  level,  which  bear  the  responsibility  for 
coping  effectively  with  development  challenges  on  a 
daily basis. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  contains 
good  news  and bad  news.  On  the one  hand,  the report 
indicates  that  some  progress  has  been  achieved  in  the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  mid-
term  review  since 
last  progress  report  was 
submitted  to  the  fifty-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, particularly in the field of economic reform, 
the development of the private sector, the strengthening 
of  civil  society  and 
the  promotion  of  economic 
cooperation and integration. Nevertheless, there is still 
a need to redouble efforts in order to achieve progress 
in this regard. 

On  the  other  hand,  prospects  are  still  gloomy  in 
Africa  due  to  the  intensification  of  the  debt  crisis,  the 
spread of HIV/AIDS and the widespread persistence of 
abject poverty. At  the  same time, a  sharp decrease  has 
been  noted 
resources  and  official 
development  assistance  and  in  growth  rates,  coupled 
with  a  considerable  reduction  in  the  prices  of  basic 
commodities  exported  by  the  continent.  Furthermore, 
the  continent  has become  increasingly  marginalized  in 
the course of world trade and the globalization process, 
which has further intensified its problems. 

Africa  is  still  the  scene  of  armed  conflicts,  civil 
wars  and  natural  disasters,  all  of  which  hinder  its 
development efforts. In spite of the particular attention 
devoted  by  the  Millennium  Summit  to  the  special 
needs  of  the  continent,  particularly  the  promotion  of 
the 
regional 
prevention 
the 
establishment of peace and stability and other measures 
needed to face development challenges, there is still an 
acute  need  for  the  Organization  to  continue  to  accord 
the  highest  priority  to Africa  and  for  the  international 
community 
the  necessary  support  for 
Africa’s  urgent  needs,  especially  since  the  programme 
under consideration will be concluded in two years. 

I  should  like  in  this  regard  to  express  our 
satisfaction  at  the  fact  that  light  has  been  shed  on  the 
subregional  mechanisms 
for 
conflicts, 
to  provide 
settlement 
financial 
and 
and 
of 
in 
14 




A/55/PV.57
in 
to 
the 
achieve 
in  order 
urgent  economic  and  social  problems  of Africa  in  the 
United  Nations  programme  and 
several 
conferences and important events that have taken place 
recently,  in  particular  the  two  special  meetings  of  the 
Security Council on HIV/AIDS and security in Africa, 
and other major United Nations conferences.  

We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  strategy  for 
the  realization  of  sustainable  development  in  Africa 
should focus on the following points. 

First,  reduction  of  poverty,  which  is  the  greatest 
challenge  to  Africa,  and  the  elaboration  of  effective 
programmes to gradually eliminate it in that continent. 
Poverty leads to conflicts, and the reverse is also true. 
There  is  a  need  to  mobilize  all African  resources,  and 
all other resources provided by its partners, in order to 
realize that objective. 

Second,  a radical  solution  to the debt  problem  is 
needed, as Africa is one of the continents most affected 
by  this  problem,  which  hinders its  economic  progress. 
That  could  be  achieved  through  the  cancelling  of 
African  debt 
sustainable 
development. 

Third, immediate  measures must be taken to halt 
the  spread  of  AIDS,  which  threatens  security  and 
political  stability  in  the  continent.  We  must  devise  a 
strategy  to  guarantee  the  distribution  of  medicines  at 
reasonable prices and launch an information campaign 
that would concentrate on prevention. 

Fourth, a solution must be found to the problems 
of desertification and drought in Africa, particularly in 
land-locked  countries,  and  bilateral  and  multilateral 
assistance must be provided to the affected States in an 
effort to achieve water security in the continent. 
Fifthly,  necessary  support  must  be  provided  to 

Africa  so  that  it  can  manage  its  natural  resources, 
strike  a  balance  between  population  growth  and 
economic  growth,  and  study  how  to  diversify  its 
economies 
in 
manufacturing African commodities. 

Sixthly, priority must be given to the agricultural 
sector  in  order  to  develop  the  agricultural  and  rural 
areas,  concentrating  on  the  role  of  women  in  rural 
areas  and  on  using  modern 
that  are 
sustainable and that will help preserve the environment 
and provide food security. This in turn would lead to a 
reduction in the costs of importing foodstuffs. 
that  progress  can  be  made 
techniques 
so 
the  need  for  globalization 

Seventhly, Africa’s share of global trade needs to 
be enhanced by means of fair and reasonable prices for 
its commodities. Africa should also be allowed to take 
its  due  position  in  the  world  and  in  the  decision-
making process in the economic and political fields. 

During the  last decade there  were several  United 
Nations  conferences  —  from  Rio  to  Cairo,  from 
Copenhagen  to  Beijing  —  all  of  which  reflected  an 
international  consensus  on  the  need  to  support  Africa 
and  to  meet  its  urgent  development  needs. Also  in  the 
last  few  years  increasing  attention  has  been  paid  to 
Africa  by  various  international  and  regional  entities. 
There  were a series of conferences of the francophone 
countries,  meetings  in Tokyo,  exchanges  of  views  and 
the  summit  in  Cairo  last  April  —  which  for  the  first 
time  included  European  and  African  leaders,  who 
focused  on  promoting  cooperation  between  the  two 
continents.  Finally,  there  was  a  ministerial  meeting 
between  the  Chinese  and  the  Africans  in  Beijing  that 
dealt with activating cooperation between South-South 
countries  and  with 
to 
advance the interests of all nations and peoples. 

If  we  truly  wish  to  develop  Africa,  the  great 
Powers should stop exploiting its wealth and resources 
at  reduced  prices  and  should  cease  interfering  in  the 
continent’s 
international 
community has accepted the principle of compensation 
for  some  past  crimes,  why  does  it  not  require  the 
colonial  Powers 
the  peoples  and 
countries of Africa for committing the greatest crime in 
history  —  colonization  and  enslavement?  The African 
people  should  be  compensated  for  all  the  destruction 
and usurpation to which they were subjected during the 
colonial era. 

This  gloomy  picture  of  Africa  will  gradually 
change.  The  new  African  generation  is  growing  and 
becoming 
a  marked 
determination  to  make  progress  and  develop.  African 
leaders and experts continue their efforts, in spite of all 
the  difficulties  they  are  facing  and  in  spite  of  all 
attempts  to  marginalize  their  continent.  They  are 
cooperating  to  solve  their  domestic  problems  and 
conflicts, 
their  political  and 
economic  clout,  to  make  their  voices  heard  and  to 
allow  their  continent  to  gain  its  rightful  place  on  the 
new globalized map of the world. 

Not  a  single  day  passes  without  an  initiative  for 
Africa.  Two  days  ago  my  delegation  hosted  a  small 
to  unite  and  regain 
internal  affairs. 
to  compensate 
showing 
greater. 
the 
If 
It 
is 


15 

A/55/PV.57 

towards 
realizing 
its  efforts 
to  progress,  with 
summit of the parties to the conflict in the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  Several  heads  of  State  of 
neighbouring  countries  participated  in  this  summit, 
which considered the various aspects of the problem, in 
an attempt to find an African solution to it. 

In  addition,  last  week  Lusaka  witnessed  the 
establishment  of  the  first  free  trade  zone  in Africa  by 
the  summit  of  the  Common  Market  for  Eastern  and 
Southern Africa (COMESA). The summit of Sahel and 
includes  my  country, 
Saharan  countries,  which 
continues 
to  achieve  cooperation  and 
complementarity  among  North,  Central  and  Western 
African nations. 

Regional  economic  blocs  in  every  part  of  the 
continent  continue 
the  utmost 
determination, 
their  economic 
objectives.  These  efforts  reaffirm  Africa’s  resolve  to 
establish  economic  blocs  that  will  play  an  important 
role  in  the  fields  of  trade,  investment,  sustainable 
development  and  complementarity,  in accordance  with 
the  Abuja  Agreement  of  1991,  which  is  striving  to 
make the vision of the founders of the Organization of 
African Unity a reality. 

Lastly, I would like to reaffirm the importance of 
the  United  Nations  efforts  in  support  of  Africa’s 
development  programmes.  We  look  forward  to  the 
Economic and Social Council playing a central role in 
this  regard,  particularly  in  this  new  millennium,  and 
assisting 
the  disadvantages  of 
globalization  and  enabling  the  continent  to  benefit 
from 
information 
revolution  that  globalization  provides.  The  efforts  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
will  not  succeed,  however,  without  the  necessary 
political  will  to  provide  adequate  resources  for  the 
sustainable development of Africa. 

Africa represents the greatest present challenge to 
the  United  Nations.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  so 
eloquently stated, if the Organization does not succeed 
in  improving  the  humanitarian,  economic  and  social 
conditions  of  its  people,  this  will  be  a  political  and 
moral  failure,  not  only  for  the  Organization,  but  also 
for the international community as a whole. 

Mr.  Sun  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the  outset,  I 
would like to thank the Secretary-General for his report 
on  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations  New 
Agenda  for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s, 
its 
which 
in  sparing  Africa 
technology  and 
the  new 
progress 
taken 
stock 
has 
the 
of 
in 
of 
16 


the 
remain 
including, 
particular, 
development 
implementation, 
in 
mobilization of additional resources. 

Despite  positive  signs  of  economic  growth  in 
some  parts  of  Africa,  the  overall  trends  in  Africa’s 
economic 
grim.  Although 
worsening  poverty  and  a  widening  digital  divide, 
heavily influenced by globalization, are common in all 
developing  countries,  the  situation  in Africa  is  unique 
and  most  dire.  For  instance,  per  capita  income  is 
stagnating  at  around  $700  dollars,  and  the  global 
market share of African countries has remained at less 
than 2 per cent. Official development assistance (ODA) 
has been falling in both nominal and real terms,  while 
the  debt burden  is  worsening. To  make  matters  worse, 
the HIV/AIDS pandemic is running rampant across the 
continent,  and  armed  conflicts  are  prevailing  in  some 
parts of the region. 

It is, in fact, a daunting challenge to reverse these 
trends.  In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  draw  delegates’ 
attention  to  the  commitments  that  the  world’s  leaders 
made at the Millennium Summit for combating poverty 
and  underdevelopment,  in  particular  in Africa.  In  line 
with  the  firm  commitments undertaken  at the  Summit, 
we  must  make  our  utmost  efforts  for  the  expeditious 
and successful implementation of the New Agenda. 
In  view  of  the  fact  that  such  challenges  are 

complex 
a 
comprehensive and integrated approach to take care of 
the  various  dimensions  with  socio-economic,  political 
and  institutional  ramifications.  In  this  regard,  I  am 
confident 
is  uniquely 
positioned 
the 
desperate  needs  of  Africa  and  that  it  possesses  a 
comparative 
in  dealing  with  global 
problems. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  highlight  two  main 
targets  of  our  actions  for  implementing  the  New 
Agenda.  First,  there  is  a  pressing  need  to  end  armed 
conflicts,  which  prevent  Africa 
from  achieving 
political,  economic  and  social  development.  Conflicts 
bring  with  them  destruction  of  life  and  property,  and 
force substantial diversions to the defence and military 
sectors of scarce resources that could have been used to 
revamp the economies. In order to keep or create peace 
in  Africa,  the  United  Nations  capability  for  conflict 
disputes, 
prevention, 
peacekeeping, 
and 
reconstruction  must  be  further  strengthened.  In  this 
that 
to  coordinate  activities 
and  multifaceted,  we  must 
the  United  Nations 
peace-building 
post-conflict 
advantage 
resolution 
to  meet 
peaceful 
have 


A/55/PV.57
the  donor 
and  absorptive 
and 
regard, my delegation welcomes the report of the Panel 
on  United  Nations  Peace  Operations  and  the  report  of 
the Open-ended Ad Hoc Working Group on the Causes 
of  Conflict  and  the  Promotion  of  Durable  Peace  and 
Sustainable Development in Africa. 

Secondly,  new  avenues  need  to  be  explored  for 
mobilizing additional resources and promoting exports 
of African countries. So far the funds and programmes, 
as  well  as  other  agencies  of  the  United  Nations,  have 
taken a number of initiatives in this area. However, it is 
discouraging to note the huge gap between the level of 
financial  resources  needed  for  development  and  the 
capital  inflows  available  to  meet  these  needs.  In  this 
regard,  actions  to  bridge  the  widening  gap  need  to  be 
taken  both  by  donors  and  recipients.  The  recipient 
countries  must  make  their  best  efforts  to  enhance 
capacity  by 
country  ownership 
administrative 
promoting  good  governance 
reforms,  while 
community  provides 
increasing financial resources to deserving countries in 
a predictable and timely manner. 

Over  the  past  several  years  African  countries 
have  made  a  great  deal  of  effort  towards  export 
promotion  and  diversification,  in  close  collaboration 
with 
the  donor 
community.  However,  Africa’s  share  of  the  global 
market  remains  at  less  than  2  per  cent.  To  facilitate 
access  to  the  international  markets  of  products  from 
Africa,  redressing  the  trade  barriers  alone  is  not 
sufficient;  better  arrangements  need  to  be  in  place  for 
enhancing financial and technical assistance to address 
supply  side  constraints  by  improving  the  quality  of 
goods, 
promoting 
marketing and packing skills. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  has  made  the  utmost 
efforts  for  sharing  its  development  experience  with 
other developing countries, and  with African countries 
in  particular.  In  cooperation  with  the  Office  of  the 
Special  Coordinator 
the  Least 
Developed  Countries,  we  hosted  the  Forum  on  Asia-
Africa Cooperation in Export Promotion, held in Seoul 
in  December  1998. As  a  follow-up  to  that  Forum,  my 
country  invited  over  40  African  experts  and  offered  a 
training  programme  for  export  promotion  in  July  this 
year. 

In  the  area  of  market  access,  we  removed  tariffs 
on  80  commodities  of  major  export  interest  to  least 
developed  countries,  effective  from 
this  year.  To 
the  United  Nations  system  and 
for  Africa  and 
infrastructure 
upgrading 
and 
of 
for 
the 
financial 
resources 
Economic 
Cooperation 
promote  South-South  cooperation 
in  science  and 
technology,  my  Government,  in  collaboration  with  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) 
Special  Unit 
for  Technical  Cooperation  among 
Developing  Countries,  hosted  the  Forum  on  South-
South  Cooperation  in  Science  and  Technology  in 
February  this  year.  The  Republic  of  Korea  has  also 
increased  the  scale  of  ODA  since  its  admission  to  the 
Organisation 
and 
Development (OECD) in 1996. The volume of ODA in 
1999 amounts to over $300 million, and we expect it to 
increase in the years to come. 

Finally,  2001  will  be  an  important  year  for 
addressing  the  issues  of  development  and  poverty 
eradication, as the Third United Nations Conference on 
the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
the  high-level 
international and intergovernmental event on financing 
for  development  and 
the  high-level  dialogue  on 
strengthening  international  economic  cooperation  are 
to  be  held.  My  delegation  sincerely  hopes  that  these 
events  will  make  great  strides  in  mobilizing  political 
will  and 
sustained 
development of developing countries, especially for the 
special needs of the African States. 
Mr.  Bautista  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  my 

delegation  expresses 
the  Secretary-
General  for  the  report  prepared  for  the  Assembly’s 
consideration 
the 
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for 
the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s,  including 
measures and recommendations agreed upon at its mid-
term review. 

I  would  like  to  focus  on  just  a  few  matters  of 
special  interest to  my  delegation.  My  delegation  notes 
the  positive  steps  taken  by  Africa  in  building  its 
capacity to support the process of regional integration, 
and  notes  in  particular  the  efforts  of  the  Economic 
Commission  for  Africa  (ECA)  in  providing  technical 
assistance  to  support  the  development  of  a  regional 
economic  community.  In  particular,  we  welcome  the 
ECA’s  efforts  to  facilitate  the  formulation  of  African 
positions  at  the  Seattle  World  Trade  Organization 
Conference and the tenth session of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD  X) 
in Bangkok. 

As  a  founding  member  of  the  Association  of 
South-East  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  the  Philippines 
knows how difficult the process can be, and how much 
agenda 
thanks 
item 
of 
this 
its 
to 
on 


17 

A/55/PV.57 

in 
to 
regard 
to  Africa’s 
integration  by  sharing 
the  Asia-Africa  Forum  since 
dedication  and  hard  work  are  needed  for  meaningful 
progress towards regional integration. Indeed, we have 
a  special  appreciation  of  the  challenges  inherent  in 
integrating  a  region  composed  of  countries  with 
different  historical  experiences,  at  varying  levels  of 
economic  development,  and  with  differing  levels  of 
mutual comfort. We therefore believe that ASEAN can 
contribute 
its 
experiences, particularly with regard to the critical first 
steps. 

To  this  end,  the  Philippines  has  participated 
actively 
it  was 
established.  We  were  particularly  encouraged  by  the 
third  Forum,  held recently  in  Kuala  Lumpur,  in  which 
we  shared  our  experiences  with 
the 
agricultural sector and the private sector. We also look 
forward  to  a  lively  exchange  of  experiences  at  the 
forthcoming  Fourth  International  Conference  of  New 
or  Restored  Democracies,  to  be  held  in  Cotonou, 
Benin, next month. 

My  delegation  believes  that  one  of  the  reasons 
ASEAN  has  succeeded  is  because  of  our  efforts  to 
build confidence within the group through the ASEAN 
approach  of  resolving  problems  among  ourselves, 
quietly  but  resolutely.  We  believe 
that  a  similar 
approach  would  help  develop  a  climate  conducive  to 
economic growth and social development in Africa. In 
this 
the  Secretary-
General’s recognition of the progress made in terms of 
democratization  in  the  region  and  the  encouraging 
performance  of  many  African  economies.  Indeed, 
nothing helps to establish peace better than democracy 
and emerging prosperity. 

While  a  more  tranquil  environment  may  be 
conducive to growth, my delegation is cognizant of the 
fact that,  for  many  countries, the resources  are  simply 
not  available  for  poverty  alleviation  projects.  This  is 
due  to  many  factors,  including  insufficient  capital 
inflows,  an  unmanageable  debt  burden  and  the  simple 
lack  of  consumer-led  consumption.  My  delegation 
therefore  hopes  that  the  enhanced  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor  Countries  Debt  (HIPC)  Initiative  will  succeed 
where its antecedent did not. We particularly hope that 
the  Initiative  will,  among  other  things,  take  into 
account  capacity  to  pay.  We  also  voice  the  concern 
expressed by many that the enhanced HIPC will divert 
resources  away  from  official  development  assistance 
(ODA), rather than complement it. 
regard,  we  particularly  note 

With  regards  to  ODA,  my  delegation  notes  with 
disappointment  that,  while  some  developed  countries 
have  met  the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national 
product  devoted  to  ODA,  most  have  not.  We  strongly 
encourage these countries to follow the example of the 
more  generous  developed  nations.  We  do  recognize 
that some of the motivations for ODA have shifted as a 
result  of  the  end  of  the  cold  war  and  that  many 
countries,  including  in  Africa,  are  suffering  from  a 
decline  in  donor  interest  and  the  resulting  lack  of 
predictability in the flow of aid. 

A shift in how aid is provided must therefore take 
place.  This  new  approach  should  make  aid  more 
predictable  and  should  take  into  account  a  country’s 
state of underdevelopment. At the same time, recipient 
countries  must  bear  the  responsibility  of  ensuring  that 
the  necessary  infrastructure  is  in  place  to  ensure  that 
the poorest and the  most vulnerable truly benefit from 
this aid. My delegation therefore notes with interest the 
proposal  in  the  addendum  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  that  aid  commitments  be  institutionalized  as 
mandatory  obligations. While  many  will  have  obvious 
difficulties  with  this  idea,  it  is  an  interesting  point  to 
ponder  and  a  basis  for  what  we  hope  will  be  fruitful 
future discussions.  
the 

observation 
the  United 
Nations system working in Africa should take a holistic 
approach.  Coordination  must  therefore  be  enhanced 
among 
the  United  Nations  system’s  organizations 
working in Africa. We also share the view that there is 
a  need  for  harmonizing  non-United  Nations  initiatives 
through  the  creation  of  linkages  and  the  sharing  of 
information. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  highlight  recent  Philippine 
efforts to enhance our contribution to the development 
of  Africa.  This  year,  the  Philippines  initiated  the 
establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  with  African 
countries  with  which  we  had  no  formal  relations.  In 
particular,  we 
joint 
communiqués  with  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the 
Republic of Cape Verde, the Republic of Togo and, just 
this  week,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe.  We  hope  to  conclude  the  remaining  joint 
communiqués in the very near future. 

The  Philippines  has  also  espoused  an  active 
policy  of  pursuing  a  strong  relationship  with  our 
brothers in the developing world within the umbrella of 
My  delegation  also  wishes 
the  organizations  of 
to  support 
appropriate 
signed 
that 
the 
18 




South-South cooperation, in both the economic and the 
technical  fields.  We  look  forward  to  concrete  results 
from sharing, in particular, our experiences in capacity- 
and  institution-building  through  third-country  training 
programmes,  the  sending  of  experts,  exchanges  of 
scholars  and  fellowships.  Indeed,  some  of 
these 
activities are ongoing and are being coordinated by the 
Technical Cooperation Council of the Philippines.  

We hope that, through our efforts to intensify our 
cooperation  with  Africa,  the  Philippines  will  make  a 
difference  in  the  international  community’s  efforts  to 
help that great continent along the path of development 
and prosperity. 
Mr.  Hussein  (Ethiopia): At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 

thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  progress  report  on 
the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda 
for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s  (UN-
NADAF).  The  report  provides  a  solid  analysis  and 
concrete  recommendations  for  actions  at  the  national 
and global levels. 

As stated in the report of the Secretary-General, a 
number  of  African  countries  have  made  substantial 
progress in putting the right macroeconomic policies in 
place.  Similarly,  considerable  progress  has  been 
achieved in implementing the recommendations of  the 
mid-term review in the promotion of the private sector 
and  the  intensification  of  the  democratization  process 
and the strengthening of civil society. 

Notwithstanding  these  efforts, Africa’s  economic 
and  social  problems  remain  acute.  Africa,  despite  its 
enormous  resources,  sadly  still  remains  the  world’s 
poorest  region.  The  continent’s  growth  rate  in  1990 
was 3 per cent and 2.1 per cent for the entire decade of 
the  1990s.  This  figure  is  far  below  the  7  per  cent  per 
annum  growth  rate  in  the  gross  domestic  product 
needed  for  Africa  to  meet  the  international  target  of 
reducing poverty by half by the year 2015.  

Beyond  growth  and  poverty  reduction,  Africa  is 
facing  a  plethora  of  underdevelopment  traps.  The 
HIV/AIDS pandemic is ravaging Africa. AIDS killed 2 
million people in Africa in 1998 alone, leaving millions 
of  children  orphaned.  In  the  1990s,  the  international 
economic  environment,  too,  was  not  conducive  to 
Africa’s  sustaining  growth  and  making  a  dent  in 
poverty. Official development assistance (ODA), which 
is 
the  only  dependable  source  of  growth  and 
development  for  many in Africa, continued  to  decline. 
ODA  declined  from  $19.7  billion  in  1992  to  $9.7 
A/55/PV.57
for 
three 
billion in 1998. The unpredictability of such flows has 
contributed to macroeconomic instability and worsened 
the already fragile economy of African countries. 

On the debt front, it is not just that the debt relief 
being provided is coming too late and too slow, but that 
the  magnitude  of  assistance  in  debt  relief  is  quite 
simply  too  little.  Furthermore,  the  effectiveness  of 
external transfer, be it in the form of aid or debt relief, 
has been undermined by the nature of the international 
delivery  system.  Aid  management  and  coordination 
between  donors  and  multilateral  financial  institutions 
without the active involvement of beneficiary countries 
have also undermined aid effectiveness in Africa. 

Africa’s share of international trade has also been 
declining.  The  share  of  trade  as  a  source  of  foreign 
exchange  and  surplus 
investment  has  been 
deteriorating since the early 1980s. The sector has been 
beset  by 
interrelated  problems.  These  are 
increasing  loss  of  the  market  share;  the  perennial 
volatility  and  fall  in  terms  of  trade;  and  unguarded 
trade  liberalization,  which  has  more  than  doubled  the 
growth  of  imports  to  exports. All  these  factors  lead  to 
the worsening of the trade balance and the depletion of 
resources  for  investment.  According  to  the  report 
before  us,  it  is  estimated  that  terms-of-trade  losses 
typically  offset  70  per  cent  of  official  development 
assistance  to  Africa,  or  about  120  per  cent  of  the 
average  gross  domestic  product,  for  the  period  1970-
1997. 

As we move forward, it is extremely important to 
take  stock  of  our  strengths  and  weaknesses  that  are 
observed  in  the  implementation  of  UN-NADAF  and 
take  the  necessary  course  of  action.  We  have  to 
implement  fully  —  in  spirit  and  in  letter  —  the 
recommendations  contained in the  mid-term  review  of 
the  New  Agenda  to  resolve  the  decline  of  external 
resources, 
the 
deterioration of terms of trade. 

It  is  against  this  backdrop  that  we  call  on  our 
development 
substantial, 
unconditional  and  untied  aid  to  Africa  commensurate 
with 
its  development  needs.  The  provision  of 
increased, predictable and effective development aid is 
pivotal  for  growth  and  sustainable  development  and 
poverty  reduction.  In  addition,  substantial  reform  is 
required  to  improve  the  aid  delivery  mechanism  for 
greater  effectiveness.  As  has  been  articulated  in  the 
Secretary-General’s report on the causes of conflict and 
the  debt  overhang  problem  and 
partners 
to 
provide 


19 

A/55/PV.57 

it 
relief 
initiatives, 
partnership 
participation, 
is  necessary  for 
the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa”  (A/52/871),  the  principles  of 
ownership, 
and 
decentralization need to be further developed to ensure 
that they are anchored in the recipients’ socio-political 
process. 

For  Africa  to  effectively  embark  on  the  path  of 
sustainable  development, 
the 
international  community  to  take  fast,  deep  and  broad 
debt 
including  outright  debt 
cancellation.  Full  debt  relief  to  the  African  countries 
represents a major resource transfer. Most of the recent 
economic  analyses  on  the  African  debt  recommend 
unconditional write-offs as the only realistic solution to 
the crisis. 
We  totally  concur  with  the  recommendation  of 

the  Secretary-General 
that  Africa’s  development 
partners,  besides  providing  official  development 
assistance and debt relief, need to provide a package of 
incentives to encourage their firms to locate in Africa. 
Such  incentives  could  also  entail  allowing  exporters 
from  Africa  unconditional  access  to  the  Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  markets, 
free  of  duties.  This  strategy  would  have  the  highest 
pay-off in terms of transfer of real resources to African 
producers. 

While  we  call  on the  international community  to 
live up to the commitment it entered into 10 years ago, 
we  are  also  fully  cognizant  that  the  development  of 
Africa  remains  the  responsibility  of African  countries. 
We need to strengthen the reform that  we have started 
in  order  to  create  an  enabling  environment  for  growth 
and  sustainable  development.  It  is  also  incumbent  on 
us to see to it that conflicts  within and between States 
are quickly resolved, thus strengthening the climate for 
meaningful development. 

Finally, it is our earnest hope that the final review 
and  appraisal  of  the  New  Agenda  scheduled  for  2002 
presents  the  international  community  with  another 
opportunity  to  examine  and  reorient  its  approach  to 
partnership with Africa and to come up with innovative 
strategies  for  its  sustainable  development.  We  believe 
the cornerstone of this partnership should be ownership 
by  African  countries  of  their  own  development  plans 
and strategies. 
Mr.  Osio  (Nigeria):  I  am  speaking  on  behalf  of 

the  Group  of  77  and  China  on  agenda  item  30, 
“Implementation  of  the  United  Nations  New  Agenda 
is 
in 
that 
Africa 
for  the  Development  of Africa  in  the  1990s”.  I  would 
first of all like to congratulate the Secretary-General on 
a  very  enlightening  progress  report.  We  commend  the 
report for study and full implementation. 

It  is  worrisome  that  the  development  challenges 
that Africa faced in the 1990s have been carried over to 
the  twenty-first  century.  Increasing  that  worry  is  the 
fact 
these  challenges  have  assumed  a  more 
complex  and  devastating  character,  calling  for  urgent 
and  concrete  action  on  the  part  of  everyone  if  that 
important  continent  is  not  to  slip  further  into  misery. 
Whereas  African  countries  grappled  in  the  1980s  and 
1990s  with  the  problem  of  building  modern  States 
founded  on  democratic  principles  and  a  diversified 
economic  base,  they  are,  in  addition,  now  confronted 
with  the  frightening  spectre  of  total  marginalization, 
even  physical  annihilation, 
the  aftermath  of 
globalization  and  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  ravaging 
the continent. The countries are in very dire need of the 
benefits of globalization. 

in  danger  of  being  destroyed  by 
HIV/AIDS.  The  figures  contained  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  regarding  the  victims  of  this  scourge 
are  indeed  frightening:  24  million  Africans  are  living 
with HIV/AIDS, representing 70 per cent of the  world 
total;  14  million  Africans  are  already  dead  from  the 
disease;  and  in  1999  alone  4  million  African  adults 
were  newly  infected  with  the  virus.  The  implications 
are  obvious.  Africa’s  adult  and  working  population  is 
being progressively depleted to the point that its socio-
economic  future  hangs  in  the  balance.  This  calls  for 
urgent and serious action by Africa and its partners. In 
this  regard,  the  HIV/AIDS  summit,  coming  up  in 
Abuja,  Nigeria  next  year,  deserves  the  support  of  all. 
the  Abuja 
With  appropriate 
conference 
the 
international  effort  to  stem  the  dangerous  tide  of 
HIV/AIDS  in  which  humanity,  especially  Africa,  is 
now inexorably being carried. 
that  globalization  has 

The  nature  and  pace 
assumed  in  the  past  few  years  is  a  source  of  serious 
concern  for  Africa.  Africa’s  progressively  decreasing 
ability  to  attract  foreign  direct  investment  and  official 
development assistance — despite its huge potential — 
and  generally  mobilize  external  financial  resources  is 
directly  attributable 
the  negative  effects  of 
globalization on the continent. Dwindling access to the 
world markets and its position on the wrong side of the 
digital  divide  further  aggravate  the  continent’s  dismal 
international  support, 
should  mark 
a  watershed 
in 
to 
20 




A/55/PV.57
in 
to  meet 
technology 
is 
If 
its  biggest  challenge  yet 
the  conventional  markets  were  hard 
The  debt  overhang  probably  constitutes 
situation.  Indeed,  that  Africa’s  export  revenues  have 
declined  steadily  in  the  last  two  decades  —  from  3.2 
per  cent  of  the  world  total  in  1985  to  1.5  per  cent  in 
1998 — is one serious cause for concern. 

to 
penetrate,  the  emerging  e-commerce  and  e-business 
market  environments  of  the  Internet  and  the  World 
Wide  Web  are  virtually  out  of  the  reach  of  most 
African  countries.  Africa  needs 
the  support  and 
assistance of the international community to overcome 
what  may  be 
the 
development  process  in  the  early  twenty-first  century: 
entering  the  information  and  communication  age.  In 
this regard, the gesture of Japan at the Okinawa Group 
of  Eight  Summit  in  setting  aside  a  fund  to  help 
developing  countries 
the  challenges  of 
information 
commendable.  When 
operationalized, that gesture is worthy of emulation.  

the 
greatest  impediment  to  development  for  many African 
countries.  Many African  countries  have  been  weighed 
down  for  decades  by  a  heavy  debt  burden.  These 
countries  continue to be  hampered  by the  excruciating 
weight  of  debt  and  debt  servicing  obligations,  which 
consume  more  than  33  per  cent  of  annual  revenues. 
Any 
rapid 
development of  the  continent  must  therefore  include  a 
strategy  for technology transfer  and  for alleviating  the 
debt  burden.  Not  only  should  the  enhanced  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Debt  Initiative  be  at 
once expanded to include many more countries, but the 
initiative  should  also  be  adequately 
funded  and 
redesigned  to  achieve  the  desired  objective  of  freeing 
the  resources  of  these  countries,  especially  in  Africa, 
for  development.  In  fact,  debt  cancellation  for  the 
world’s  poorest  and  indebted  countries  remains  the 
most viable option. 

We  recognize  that  the  New  Agenda  for  the 
Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s  represents  a 
veritable  and  viable  blueprint  for  achieving  the  rapid 
socio-economic  development  of  the  continent,  even  in 
the  new 
effective 
mobilization  of  external  and  domestic  resources,  the 
promotion  and  invigoration  of  the  private  sector  and 
the intensification of the democratic process are all on 
target in this regard. In addition, a quick and effective 
resolution  of  the  debt  problem  and  increased  market 
access  and  better  pricing  for  African  commodities 
would go a long way in contributing to Africa’s efforts 
century.  The 
to  promote 
initiative 
that  seeks 
strategies 
for 
the 
for  and  dream  of  economic  revival  and  renaissance  in 
the twenty-first century. 

Furthermore, African  countries  would  make  their 
own  efforts  at  industrialization  and  diversification  of 
their  economic  base,  thereby  intensifying  agricultural 
production,  while  following  the  path  of  sustainable 
development,  preferably 
in  concert  with  regional 
partners.  But  these  would  be  feasible  only  if  Africa 
paid  due  attention  to  the  development  of  its  human 
resource  base  by  providing  appropriate  education, 
health  care  and  infrastructure,  as  well  as  ensuring  the 
full participation of all segments of society in the task 
of  nation-building.  These  are  very  evident  in  the 
recommendations  contained in the  mid-term  review  of 
the  New Agenda  for the  Development  of Africa  in  the 
1990s.  But  adequate  funds  are  needed  to  implement 
and attain these noble objectives. 

It is sad that no single country, let alone a whole 
continent  like  Africa,  can  survive  on  a  diet  of  good 
recommendations  or  promises  alone.  Action,  only 
productive and gainful action, on the recommendations 
now  placed  before  us  can  bring  about  the  desired 
socio-economic growth and development of Africa and 
its  people.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  are  therefore 
happy  to  note  that  Africa,  with  its  huge  potential  for 
development and prosperity, is not without friends. 

Let me conclude by stating again our appreciation 
for  the  good  work  being  undertaken  under  the  United 
Nations initiative. We can assure the Assembly that the 
Group  of  77  and  China  are  prepared 
to  work 
assiduously,  nationally  and  in  collaboration  with  the 
United  Nations  system  and  all  our  partners,  for  the 
actualization  of  the  laudable  objectives  of  the  New 
Agenda  for  the  Development  of  Africa.  We  count  on 
the  support  and  cooperation  of  all,  in  the  new  and 
invigorated  spirit  of  globalization  and  the  common 
destiny of humankind. 

(Ghana):  Africa  has 
demonstrated  its  commitment  and  determination  to 
bring opportunity and progress to its peoples. Since the 
mid-1980s many countries on the continent have made 
important 
economies, 
improving  macroeconomic  management,  liberalizing 
markets  and  trade  and  making  the  private  sector  the 
engine of growth. 

Despite  the  outbreak  of  conflicts  and  natural 
disasters in parts of the continent, Africa made gains in 
the  1990s,  with  rising  incomes  and  exports  and,  in 
Mr.  Effah-Apenteng 
reforming 
strides, 
their 


21 

A/55/PV.57 

remote,  with  only 
some cases,  with decreases in severe poverty. Political 
reforms  have  led  to  participatory  governance  and 
expanded the horizons of civil liberties. 

The  progress  achieved  so  far  has,  however,  not 
been  enough  to  overcome  the  enormous  development 
challenges  facing  the  continent.  While  5  per  cent 
annual growth is needed just to keep the number of the 
poor  from  rising,  African  economies  grew  by  only  3 
per cent in 1999, a marginal increase over 1998. Gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  growth  in  2000  is  only 
expected to increase to 4.2 per cent. The annual growth 
of  7  per  cent  estimated  to  lead  to  halving  poverty  by 
2015  appears 
three  countries 
attaining  that  rate  in  1999. Average  income  per  capita 
is lower than at the end of the 1960s. 

The  Secretary-General’s  progress  report  on  this 
agenda item points to other problems: declining export 
shares  in  traditional  primary  products  and  terms  of 
trade losses which offset concessional loans and grants. 
Africa’s  share  in  global  foreign  direct  investment 
inflows  remained  at  the  low  level  of  1.2  per  cent  in 
1999,  compared  with  2.3  per  cent in 1997  and 1.2 per 
cent  in  1998.  It  is  clear  that,  eight  years  since  the 
adoption  of  the  United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the 
Development of Africa in the 1990s (UN-NADAF), the 
challenge of Africa’s development requires even bolder 
commitment and action. 

Only last week my delegation noted in the debate 
on  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Causes of Conflict and the Promotion of 
Durable  Peace  and  Sustainable  Development  in Africa 
the 
to 
implement  policies  on  market  access,  debt  relief, 
international  financial  flows  and  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  needed  to  leverage  Africa’s  own 
efforts  to  achieve  sustained  growth  and  development. 
The  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  mobilization  of 
additional 
development 
reinforces this point. 

We  therefore  welcome  this  opportunity  to  assess 
the  impact  of  the  New  Agenda,  a  compact  between 
Africa  and  the  international  community.  We  believe 
that  such  an  assessment  would  set  the  stage  for  the 
evaluation  of  the  New  Agenda  in  2002  and  help  map 
out the way forward. We anxiously look forward to the 
evaluation. 
There are several initiatives on Africa, along with 

other  events  also  focusing  on  Africa,  planned  for  the 
international  community 
for  African 
failure  of 
resources 
the 
In 
this 
Event 
on 
to 
Financing 
the  High-level 
its  development 
regard,  consideration  of 
coming  year.  While  this  proliferation  may  give  the 
mistaken  impression  of  progress,  we  believe  that  the 
benefits  from  all  the  initiatives  on  Africa  will  come 
from  our  ability  to  consider  them  within  a  holistic 
framework. 
the 
implementation of UN-NADAF must take into account 
all  the  other  relevant  processes,  such  as  the  Third 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries, the special session of the General Assembly 
International 
on  HIV/AIDS  and 
Intergovernmental 
for 
Development. 

As  important  as  the  review  process  is,  Africa 
cannot  wait  until  2002  for  the  outstanding  issues 
critical 
to  be  addressed.  The 
Secretary-General’s  report,  as  well  as  reports  by  other 
major international institutions, provide adequate input 
for  effective  and  immediate  action.  In  this  regard,  we 
appreciate the  efforts  of both bilateral and  multilateral 
partners  in  the  context  of  Africa’s  development.  We 
regret,  however,  that  the  contributions  of  some  of  our 
partners have yet to  match their potential or expressed 
commitment. 

In this connection, we reiterate the proposals that 
have been made by our delegation, among others, for a 
real  commitment  to  write  off  Africa’s  debt  and  reach 
agreement  on  market  access  for  products  of  critical 
interest  to  African  countries  in  a  coherent  manner  to 
ensure 
and 
development. This means putting priority on resolving, 
within  the  shortest  possible  time,  trade  issues  over 
agriculture,  textiles  and  leather  outside  the  framework 
of the comprehensive round of trade negotiations being 
canvassed. 

We  also  urge  the  major  industrial  countries  to 
consider  providing  additional  capital  to  the  World 
Bank,  as  well  as  their  national  institutions,  to  expand 
the  possibilities  for  export  credit  and 
investment 
guarantee  schemes  in  leveraging  private  capital  to 
Africa,  especially  to  sectors  with  greater  forward  and 
backward linkages. 

Official development assistance (ODA) remains a 
major  catalyst  for  the  attraction  of  private  capital 
flows.  It  is  also  an  essential  source  of  funding  for  the 
capacity-building  needed 
the 
continent to take advantage of the opportunities created 
by  globalization.  Therefore,  the  decline  of  ODA  to 
Africa is a matter of great concern. We must reconsider 
for  Africa’s 
conditions 
to  enable 
in  Africa 
growth 
22 




A/55/PV.57
to 
the 
poverty, 
eradicate 
particularly 
in  cooperation  with 
the  basis  of  the  changing  motivation  for  development 
assistance,  as  well  as  the  need  for  a  coordinated 
approach  to  ODA  that  maximizes  its  impact.  Linking 
ODA  to  conditionality  poses  grave  problems  for  our 
efforts 
our 
commitment  to  the  most  vulnerable  segments  of  our 
societies. 

It  is  important  to  underscore  the  need  to  focus 
attention  on  the  pervasive  capital  flight  from  Africa. 
relevant 
Africa  must, 
international  bodies,  design  policy  frameworks 
to 
ensure stability that encourages the retention of foreign 
currency  on  the  continent.  It  is  clear,  however,  that 
other forms of net transfer of resources abroad are also 
harmful to Africa’s economy. In this respect, measures 
should  be  taken  to  reverse  the  net  resource  transfer 
abroad that sometimes results from the implementation 
of aid programmes. 

initiatives  which  have  been 
The  diverse 
undertaken at the bilateral and multilateral levels must 
feed into the larger framework of the New Agenda. Our 
goal  must  be  to  seek  interlinkages,  coherence  and 
comprehensiveness  to  ensure  that  the  solutions  meet 
the  challenges  and  that  they  create  the  critical  mass 
envisaged in the Secretary-General’s report. 

We recognize the work being done by the United 
Nations system to assist the efforts of African countries 
in 
information 
technology,  population  and  South-South  cooperation, 
among  others.  Their  sustained  efforts  to  deepen  the 
focus  on  Africa  is  commendable,  and  we  encourage 
them 
their  partnerships, 
including  with  the World  Bank  and others, to  increase 
the impact of their activities. We urge all countries in a 
position  to  do  so  to  increase  their  contributions  to  the 
funds and programmes to enable them to achieve their 
objectives in programme countries. 

Ultimately,  no  one  can  change  the  fate  of Africa 
except  Africans  themselves.  We  still  need  to  pursue 
with  urgency  the  outstanding  work  in  the  process  of 
economic  and  political  reforms.  Our  commitment  to 
zero 
in 
government and for civil conflict must be demonstrated 
through  proactive  support  for  and  encouragement  of 
good governance. 

Every day that each of us, as partners and owners 
of Africa’s development, fails to take the bold but right 
decisions  for  Africa’s  development,  we  add  to  the 
to  continue  building  on 
for  unconstitutional 
governance, 
education, 
tolerance 
changes 
health, 
In 
its 
the 
the 
solidarity  between 
forty-sixth  session, 
two  years  we  will  celebrate 
Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
magnitude  of  the  continent’s  development  challenge. 
We must resolve to use the process of the UN-NADAF 
review to change the dynamic of Africa’s development 
agenda in order to launch Africa on a truly sustainable 
course of progress. 

in 
French):  At 
the  General 
Assembly  decided  to  make Africa  one  of  its  priorities 
for the 1990s, or even its top priority. In this context, it 
unanimously  adopted  the  United  Nations  New Agenda 
for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s  (UN-
NADAF). This  New Agenda,  which  represented  a real 
contract  of 
international 
community  and  Africa,  defined  the  commitments  and 
the responsibilities of both parties. 

tenth 
anniversary of the New Agenda. Is not this a good time 
to  ask  ourselves  what  has  become  of 
these 
commitments?  Has  the Agenda  become  just  one  more 
of 
the  many  unimplemented  declarations?  These 
questions  need  to  be  asked  because  of  the  dwindling 
interest in the debate on Africa, specifically the debate 
on the New Agenda for its development in the 1990s. 
the 

My  delegation  was  very 
Secretary-General’s  mid-term 
the 
implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for 
the Development of Africa in the 1990s. 

Naturally, my country welcomes the efforts made 
by  the international  community  to  provide  the African 
continent  with  additional  financial  resources  to  enable 
it to improve the standard of living of its people and to 
combat poverty. 

Cameroon  recognizes  the  important  role  played 
by  Governments,  the  United  Nations  agencies  and 
organs and the other partners in promoting a number of 
projects  involving  the  private  sector,  intensifying  the 
democratization  process 
civil 
society. 

For  their  part,  the  vast  majority  of  African 
countries  have  taken  steps  to  ensure  far-reaching 
economic 
reforms  within  sectoral  and  structural 
frameworks  agreed  during  the  mid-term  review.  Many 
countries  have  had  encouraging  results,  sometimes,  if 
not always, at the cost of enormous sacrifices. 

However,  today  we  note,  as  emphasized  in  the 
report of the  Secretary-General,  that the objectives  set 
in  the  New  Agenda  in  terms  of  mobilizing  external 
interested 
report 
strengthening 
and 
on 
in 


23 

A/55/PV.57 

of  Africa 
should 
encourage 
impact  on 
and  outside 
activities  within 
that  has  a  negative 
implementation  has  been 
resources  have  not  been  achieved.  In  fact,  official 
development  assistance  to  Africa  has  declined,  from 
$19.7  billion  in  1992  to  $9.7  billion  in  1998.  As  for 
foreign  direct  investment,  it  is  being  diverted  from 
Africa  despite  the  incentives  put  in  place  by  African 
countries  and  despite  the  continent’s  great  potential. 
Meanwhile, Africa’s external debt burden, estimated at 
$350  billion,  has  continued  to  grow  in  spite  of  debt-
relief  measures  intended  to  lighten  it  adopted  in  the 
context of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) 
Debt Initiative. 

It  is  clear  from  these  observations  that  the  New 
Agenda has not met our expectations. Let us recall that 
the  United  Nations  New Agenda  was  intended  to  be  a 
catalyst, a political engine that would drive all African 
development 
the 
continent.  In  that  regard,  initiatives  to  promote  the 
development 
the 
implementation  of  the  Agenda  and  should  avoid  the 
overlapping 
the 
implementation of agreed measures. In the view of my 
delegation, 
impaired  by 
insufficient political will, insufficient coordination and 
insufficient coherence. This has resulted in a diffusion 
level  of  activities, 
of  energies,  a  decline  in  the 
resources, 
inadequate  mobilization  of 
the 
inefficient  use  of  existing 
resources.  Corrective 
measures  must  therefore  be  taken  if  we  wish  to  lend 
fresh  momentum 
implementation  of  UN-
NADAF,  an  Agenda  that  had  given  rise  to  such  high 
hopes. 
Here, we think the recommendations made by the 

Committee  on  Programme  and  Coordination  at  its 
thirty-eighth through fortieth sessions are of particular 
interest; 
is 
significant  that,  in  preparing  his  report,  the  Secretary-
General  drew  on 
the 
Committee on Programme and Coordination. 

Let  me  recall  some  of  what  we  see  as  the  key 
recommendations.  With  a  view  to  avoiding  wasteful 
overlapping  among 
the  various  United  Nations 
programmes  for Africa,  the  Committee  on  Programme 
and  Coordination 
the  United  Nations 
Initiative  on  Africa  as  an 
System-wide  Special 
implementing arm of the New Agenda. The Committee 
also  strongly  advocated 
implementation  of  a 
strategic  master  plan  setting  out  the  directions  to  be 
taken  by  various  partners,  identifying  goals,  defining 
they  could  be  extremely  useful. 
those  recommendations  of 
identified 
and 
It 
to 
the 
the 
Finally, 
for  Africa  by  continuing 
Have  that  concept  and  that  division 
evaluation  mechanisms  and  providing  for  the  sharing 
of responsibilities among the various actors. 

The Secretariat  was to play the role of advocate-
general 
to  mobilize 
international  public  opinion  in  favour  of  the  cause  of 
the  Special 
African  development.  The  Office  of 
Coordinator  for  Africa  and 
the  Least  Developed 
Countries  was  to  monitor  closely  the  implementation 
of  UN-NADAF  and,  when  necessary,  to  sound  the 
alarm.  Finally, 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  and  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa 
were to design specific operational activities. 

labour, 
approved  by  the  General  Assembly,  been  respected? 
There  is  every  reason  to  doubt  it.  Certainly,  the 
haziness resulting from such non-respect seems to have 
a great deal to do  with the deplorable lack of progress 
to date towards implementation of the Agenda. 
the  Committee  on  Programme  and 

Coordination  advocated  an  independent  evaluation  of 
the programme that, at the time of the final review and 
appraisal  scheduled  for  2002,  would  make  it  possible 
objectively  to  measure  the  quantity  and  quality  of 
resources and programmes, along with their real impact 
on  the  sustainable  development  of  Africa.  We  are 
pleased that the Economic and Social Council acted on 
that  recommendation:  at  its  1999  substantive  session, 
the  Council  declared  that  following  the  2002  final 
review 
independent  experts  with 
evaluating the implementation of the Agenda. Here, we 
the  Committee  on  Programme  and 
agree  with 
Coordination 
that  for  such  an  evaluation 
to  be 
objective,  its  terms  of  reference  must  be  defined  in 
advance. 
My  delegation  makes  these  observations  in  the 

light  of the  momentum  generated for the  New Agenda 
at 
the 
international  community  decided  that Africa  remained 
its top priority. The Millennium Declaration (resolution 
55/2),  which  confirmed  that  priority,  reiterated  the 
determination  of  heads of  State  or  Government  and of 
States Members of the United Nations  to  stand  firmly  by 
Africa  in  its  struggle  to  attain  lasting  peace  and 
sustainable  development.  Africa,  which  is  facing  so 
many  old  and  new  problems  —  with  the  new  ones 
amounting to a pandemic — expects a great deal from 
the concrete manifestations of this renewed solidarity. 
the  Millennium  Summit,  during  which 
it  would 
task 
24 




A/55/PV.57
in 
initiatives  presented 

As  I  approach  the  end  of  my  remarks,  I  would 
recall the appeal for Africa that Pope John Paul II made 
at Yaoundé: 


“Africa  is  a  continent  in  which  countless 
human  beings  —  men,  women,  children  and 
young people — have in a sense been left by the 
wayside,  ill,  wounded,  powerless,  marginalized 
and abandoned. They have a crying need for good 
Samaritans who will come to their assistance”. 

These concerns, as expressed in the  words of the 
Holy  Father,  are  the  same  as  those  expressed  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration,  particularly  in  the  paragraph 
relating  to  solidarity.  May  the  commitments  made  by 
heads  of  State  or  Government  at  the  Millennium 
Summit give rise to a real response to this appeal from 
Africa — the continent of the future. We have said this 
before, and we repeat it today: Africa will remember. 
Mr.  Hønningstad  (Norway):  I  would  like  to 

thank the Secretary-General for the considerable effort 
that  has  gone  into  the  report  before  us.  The  activities 
and 
the  report  show  an 
admirable  scope  and  diversity.  It  gives  an  interesting, 
although  not  altogether  encouraging,  picture  of  the 
situation  in  Africa.  In  spite  of  the  continent’s  natural 
resources,  Africa  scores  lower  on  key  development 
criteria  —  notably,  economic  growth  —  than  other 
regions  of  the  world.  Of  course,  the  reasons  for  the 
slow development do not lie only with Africa. The debt 
burden  is  excessive,  official  development  assistance 
flows  are  too  low,  trade  obstacles  to  Africa’s  exports 
are considerable and the digital divide is getting wider. 
While  the  world  is  richer  than  ever  before,  the  North-
South gap continues to widen. 

In this context I would like to touch upon one of 
the  most  urgent  challenges  facing  the  African  States. 
Poverty  reduction  is  crucial  in  terms  of  economic 
development, political stability and regional and global 
security,  and  economic development  is  fundamental to 
achieving  poverty reduction. We therefore  believe  that 
the  international  trend  of  reduced  disbursements  of 
development 
reversed.  My 
Government is currently working on a plan to increase 
Norway’s development assistance to 1 per cent of gross 
domestic  product.  Special  emphasis  will  be  placed  on 
increased cooperation with our African partners. 

nor 
assistance 
multilateral arrangements can assume the responsibility 
that  rests  at  the  national  level,  nor  would  that  be 
assistance  must  be 
However, 
bilateral 
neither 
and 
gender 
equality 
education 
desirable.  The  main  responsibility  for  development 
strategies leading to sustained progress rests, therefore, 
with  Africa.  It  is  African  countries  themselves  that 
must show leadership to generate economic growth. 

Development  strategies  will  best  succeed  when 
implemented  in  a  stable  political  environment  and 
aimed at both economic and social progress, including 
health, 
issues. 
Accountable  democratic  Governments  and  the  rule  of 
law are vital elements in any development process. 
Since  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  we  have  seen 

many  African  States  opt  for  economic  and  political 
reform.  Unfortunately,  we  have  also  seen  the outbreak 
of new wars  and, in several countries, continuing civil 
strife, dashing our hopes for a more peaceful future for 
Africa.  This  turn  of  events  may  threaten  the  stability 
and future prospects of large parts of the continent. 

The  report  rightly  emphasizes  the  responsibility 
of  African  countries  for  positive  developments  in 
Africa.  Increasing  African  capacity  with  regard  to 
peacekeeping  operations  and  conflict  prevention  will 
contribute to the stability of the continent. The role of 
the  international  community  should  primarily  be  to 
strengthen  and  support  efforts  and  initiatives  taken  by 
the  African  countries  themselves.  This  is  part  of  our 
global  responsibility,  and  we  look  forward  to  such 
cooperation with our African partners. 

In  many  African  countries,  particularly  in  sub-
Saharan Africa,  the AIDS pandemic  is ravaging  whole 
communities.  We  agree  with  the  observation  in  the 
report that  without a renewed effort in  many countries 
the AIDS pandemic may erode all the progress that has 
been  made 
independence.  The 
International Partnership against AIDS in Africa should 
be highlighted here, as a new and innovative initiative 
to  turn  this  tragic  situation  around.  We  also  recall  the 
important debate in the Security Council in January on 
the  impact  of  HIV/AIDS  on  peace  and  security  in 
Africa, and the follow-up meeting in the Economic and 
Social Council in February. 

that  Norway’s 
programmes  for  development  cooperation  with  our 
African partners have increasingly addressed questions 
of  governance,  democracy-building 
and  human 
rights —  factors  which  are  crucial  in  order  to  prevent 
conflicts  from  erupting.  We  fully  endorse  the  report’s 
recommendation  that  African  countries  should  pay 
attention  to  ensuring  accountability,  transparency  and 
to  point  out 
I  should 
political 
since 
like 


25 

A/55/PV.57 

in  particular 
the  donor  countries, 
the  rule  of  law  in  their  efforts  to  improve  governance 
and  increase  the  involvement  of  civil  society.  My 
Government  will  continue  to  support  programmes  and 
institutions  that  pay  heed  to  these  guiding  principles, 
which constitute the basis of sustainable development. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  recall  part  VII  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  entitled  “Meeting  the 
special needs of Africa”, which in our view constitutes 
more  than  a  blueprint  for  sustainable  development  on 
the African  continent. It  is  an  obligation  for the  world 
community, 
to 
support  Africa  in  its  struggle  to  achieve  sustainable 
development in all sectors and to bring Africa into the 
mainstream of the world economy. 

Mr.  Mostafa  Chowdhury  (Bangladesh):  The 
international  community  has  been  making  efforts  to 
bring the special needs of Africa to the forefront of the 
global development agenda for some time. At long last 
we  are  openly  discussing,  in  different  global  forums, 
issues  of  African  development.  Many  measures  are 
being  suggested;  many  commitments  —  although they 
are  far  from  adequate  —  have  also  been  made.  But, 
sadly,  our  actions  are  not  keeping  pace  with  our 
words — indeed, they are lagging far behind. 

The development problems of Africa, the home of 
33  out  of  the  48  least  developed  countries,  have  now 
been  widely 
recognized.  The  Secretary-General’s 
report,  in  the  addendum,  describes  the  resource  issues 
in some detail. I will refer briefly to some of the facts. 

flow  of  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  has  continued  to  diminish  globally; 
Africa  has  not  been  spared.  There  has  been  a  24  per 
cent  yearly  reduction  since  1990;  ODA  declined  from 
$19.7  billion  in  1992  to  $9.7  billion  in  1998.  This  is 
hurting  the African  countries  most of all,  as they  have 
little  opportunity 
to  mobilize  sufficient  domestic 
resources  to  undertake  vital  projects  like  the  building 
telecommunication  networks. 
of 
the  essential  preconditions  for 
These  are  among 
attracting 
foreign 
investment.  Aggregate 
resource 
flows  to  Africa  declined  from  $26  billion  in  1997  to 
$17.1 billion in 1998, a staggering reduction in a one-
year period. 

Africa’s  debt  burden  is  increasing,  despite  the 
various  well  publicized  measures  taken  to  reduce  the 
debt overhang. Debt service as a percentage of exports 
was  30  per cent in  1999, compared  with 21.3  per cent 
to  discern  what 
in  1997.  Indeed, 
infrastructure  and 
The  overall 
it 
is  difficult 
26 

in  Africa  and 
significant  improvements  the  current  initiatives  have 
made. 

Africa’s loss of global market share for the period 
1970-1997  amounted  to  $68  billion.  That  stands  in 
stark  contrast  to  the  sharp  increase  in  the  volume  of 
global  trade.  There  has  been  an  increasing  loss  in 
market share for Africa’s traditional exports. 

The  world  has agreed  to reduce absolute poverty 
by  half  by  the  year  2015.  To  achieve  this  target,  a 
minimum  growth  rate  of  7  per  cent,  continued  for  the 
next  15  years,  has  to  be  ensured.  In  fact,  average 
growth in the last decade was a mere 2.1 per cent. 

Per  capita  income  in  1998  slipped  to  $668, 
compared  to  $749  in  1980.  This  has  give  rise  to  an 
increase  in  the  number  of  people  living  in  poverty, 
rather than a reduction. 
These are but a few examples of the deterioration 

of 
the  development  scenario 
the 
diminishing  inflow  of  resources  in  a  region  where  the 
need  for  increased  international  support  is  widely 
recognized.  In  the  last  decade,  the  world  has  seen  a 
tremendous  increase  in  international  trade  and  in  the 
accumulation of global  wealth. Although this has been 
mostly  concentrated  in  the  industrialized  world,  some 
developing  countries  have  registered  notable  success; 
many  others  also  shared  a  spin-off  benefit.  But Africa 
has been left out. 

African  countries,  like  other  developing  nations, 
have  been  fighting  to  overcome  underdevelopment. 
However,  their  task  has  been  especially  difficult,  as  a 
number  of  complicating  factors,  on  a  magnified  scale, 
are  holding  back  the  progress  they  otherwise  could 
achieve. 
Poverty  is  pervasive  in  Africa,  with  a  high 

concentration of people living in conditions of absolute 
poverty  in  many  of  the  sub-Saharan  countries,  which 
makes  it  extremely  difficult  to  mobilize  domestic 
resources. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is especially acute 
in  Africa,  robbing  it  of  the  vitality  of  the  younger 
generation.  Millions  of  adults  are  dying  or  becoming 
debilitated.  Millions  of  children  are  being  orphaned 
and  face  an  uncertain  future  with  little  hope.  The 
health-care  system  is  overwhelmed  and  cannot  deal 
with  the  many  public  health  threats,  such  as    the 
scourge of malaria and tuberculosis. 
The major global conferences of the 1990s set out 

guidelines  on  how  to  fight  underdevelopment  and 



A/55/PV.57
to  break  out  of 
Mr.  Aboulgheit  (Egypt)  (spoke 
poverty.  Most  countries  have  chalked  out  their  own 
national  programmes  of  action  to  put  the  agreed 
principles to  work. It is ironic, however, that at a time 
when  national  machinery  is  poised  to  deliver  a  much 
greater output for any unit of investment, international 
support  and  assistance  are  drying  up.  It  is  also 
unfortunate  that  we  are  not  coming  up  with  bold 
initiatives to join forces with Africa in the fight against 
the root causes of underdevelopment. 

African  countries  are  bravely  fighting  against 
many  odds.  There  are  many  factors,  however,  which 
are  beyond  their  individual  efforts.  The  international 
community  should  be  much  more  forthcoming,  in  a 
spirit  of  genuine  partnership  and  support,  in  Africa’s 
struggle 
the  vicious  circle  of 
underdevelopment and poverty. There is an urgent and 
desperate  need  to  combine  our  individual  efforts  to 
lend support to Africa, and we have a  moral obligation 
to do so. 

in  Arabic): 
African  countries  made  tremendous  efforts  to  reform 
and  improve  their  domestic,  economic,  political  and 
social environments during the 1990s, and in so doing 
encountered  major  obstacles  and  difficulties.  Those 
efforts,  as  is  noted  in  the  report  (A/55/350)  of  the 
Secretary-General,  have  led  to  progress  in  the  fields 
addressed  by  the  mid-term  review  in  1995,  namely 
consolidating the process of economic adjustments and 
reform,  encouraging  the  private  sector  and  enhancing 
democracy and civil society. 

The  reform  and  development  of  any  society  is 
primarily  the  responsibility  of  that  society.  However, 
several  major  obstacles  are  impeding  the  efforts  of 
most African  countries  to  overcome  the  challenges  of 
poverty  and  disease  and  to  open  up  prospects  for 
development.  Foremost  among  those  obstacles  are 
international  economic 
rapid  developments 
environment  and 
international 
community,  despite  several  initiatives  to  that  end,  to 
create  a  suitable  mechanism  to  integrate  the  African 
countries,  in  particular  the  least  developed  ones,  into 
the international economy. 

turmoil  and 
upheavals  that  occurred  towards  the  end  of  the  1990s 
underscored the urgent need for internal reform among 
the  developing  nations  in  order  to  adapt  to  the  new 
international realities. At the same time, they reflected 
the presence of certain shortcomings in the framework 
the  failure  by 
International 
economic 
crises, 
the 
the 
in 
in  order 
to  restrict 
the  exports  of 
in  general  and 
the  African  countries 
of  international  trade  and  financial  institutions,  which 
should be decisively redressed. 

In this context, I wish to state frankly that most of 
the  solutions offered  to the developing  nations  tend to 
emphasize  the  internal,  domestic  dimension  while 
largely  ignoring  the  negative  impact  of  imbalances  in 
the  system  of  international  trade  and  finance.  The 
speedy  pace  of  globalization,  which  has  given  rise  to 
rapid  movement  in  capital  markets  and  to  strong 
competition,  has  led  to  practices  that  tend  to  restrict 
trade.  These  practices,  which  include  anti-dumping 
policies and the application of rigid, inflexible sanitary 
and  environmental  measures  and  standards,  are  being 
misused 
the 
developing nations to the developed countries. This has 
led  to  major  economic  losses  for  the  developing 
nations 
in 
particular. 

In addition, there has been a continued decline in 
official  development  assistance,  to  the  extent  that  the 
internationally  agreed  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national  product  has  become  almost  impossible  to 
achieve,  in  view  of  the  poor  performance  of  most 
donor  countries  in  this  respect.  There  is  no  sign  that 
this  objective  will  be  attained  any  time  soon,  even 
though  official  development  assistance  remains  the 
main  source  of  financing  for  development  in  most 
African countries. 
Furthermore,  Africa’s  share  of  foreign  direct 

investment  does  not  exceed  6  per  cent  of 
total 
investments geared to the developing countries, and the 
AIDS  pandemic  is  ravaging  the  continent,  killing 
millions annually and threatening economic and social 
stability  in  several  countries  of  the  continent.  This  is 
by any standard a truly tragic situation. 

Efforts  at  social,  political  and  economic  reform 
by the African countries remain a sine qua non for the 
realization  of  their  aspirations  to  development  and 
progress.  However, 
be 
accompanied  by  a  serious  international  undertaking  to 
enable  the  African  countries  to  continue  their  march 
towards  development,  through  the  opening  of  markets 
to  the  products  of  those  countries  and  by  increasing 
official  development  assistance,  as  we  have  already 
mentioned. 

In  this  context,  I  wish  to  underline  the  need  for 
the  forthcoming  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  to  be  held  in  Brussels  next  May,  and  the 
should 
efforts 
those 


27 

A/55/PV.57 

High-level  International  Intergovernmental  Event  on 
Financing  for  Development  to  deal  seriously  and 
realistically with the needs of the African countries and 
to  redress  the  imbalances  in  the  present  international 
trade and financial systems, with a view to creating an 
external  environment  conducive 
those 
countries achieve sustainable development. 

the debate on this item. 

I  would  like  to  inform  members  that  a  draft 
resolution on this item will be submitted at a later date. 

The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
to  helping 
for 
the 
the  General  Assembly 
  Programme of work 


The President: I  should like to inform  members 

that  document  A/INF/55/3/Add.3  contains  a  revised 
programme  of  work  and  schedule  of  plenary  meetings 
of 
remainder  of 
November  2000.  It  had  been  circulated  to  delegations 
this  morning  and  is  also  available  at  the  documents 
distribution centre in the General Assembly Hall. 

Before  adjourning  the  meeting,  I  would  like  to 
inform  members  that  the  remaining  two  items  on  the 
agenda  for  this  morning  —  namely  agenda  item  44, 
“Global implications of  the  year 2000 date  conversion 
problem  of  computers”,  and  agenda 
item  180, 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Economic  Community  of  Central African  States,”  will 
be taken up this afternoon at 3 p.m. 

The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

28 


