United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
34th plenary meeting
Monday, 16 October 2000, 10 a.m.
New York

A/55/PV.34
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 7
Notification by the Secretary-General under
Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the
United Nations
Note by the Secretary-General (A/55/366)
The  President:  As  members  are aware, 
in
accordance with the provisions of Article 12, paragraph
2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  with  the
consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-General
is mandated to notify the General Assembly of matters
relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security  that  are  being  dealt  with  by  the  Security
Council  and  of  matters  with  which  the  Council  has
ceased to deal.
In  this  connection,  the  General  Assembly  has
before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General  issued  as
document A/55/366.
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of that
document?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 16
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and
other elections
(a) Election of seven members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/55/379)
The  President:  Pursuant  to  General  Assembly
decision  42/450  of  17  December  1987,  the  Assembly
elects  the  members  of  the  Committee  for  Programme
and  Coordination  upon 
the
Economic and Social Council.
their  nomination  by 
The  Assembly  has  before  it  document  A/55/379,
which  contains  the  nominations  by  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Committee
that  will  occur  as  a  result  of  the  expiration  on  31
December 2000 of the terms of office of the Bahamas,
France,  Mexico,  the  Russian  Federation,  Uganda,  the
United States of America and Zambia.
Those  States  are  eligible  for 
immediate  re-
election.
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that  after
1  January  2001  the  following  States  will  still  be
members  of  the  Committee:  Argentina,  Bangladesh,
Benin,  Brazil,  Cameroon,  China,  the  Comoros,  Cuba,
Egypt,  Gabon,  Germany, 
Islamic
Republic  of  Iran,  Italy,  Japan,  Mauritania,  Pakistan,
Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the
Republic of Moldova, San Marino, Ukraine, the United
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,
Indonesia, 
the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-69189 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.34
Uruguay and Zimbabwe. Therefore, those 27 States are
not eligible in this election.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the
following States have been nominated by the Economic
and Social Council.
The  two  African  States  for  two  vacancies  are
Botswana  and  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania.  The
one  Eastern  European  State  for  one  vacancy  is  the
Russian  Federation.  The  two  Latin  American  and
Caribbean  States  for  two  vacancies  are  the  Bahamas
and  Mexico.  The  two  Western  European  and  other
States  for  two  vacancies  are  France  and  the  United
States of America.
In  accordance  with  rule 92  of  the  rules  of
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  I  should  like  to
recall  paragraph  16  of  decision  34/401,  whereby  the
practice  of  dispensing  with 
the  secret  ballot  for
elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation
specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that
basis?
It was so decided.
The President: The  number  of States  nominated
from  among  the  African  States,  the  Eastern  European
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and
the  Western  European  and  other  States  is  equal  to  the
number of seats to be filled in each of those groups.
May I therefore take it that the  Assembly  wishes
to declare those States nominated by the Economic and
Social  Council  from  among  the  African  States,  the
Eastern  European  States,  the  Latin  American  and
Caribbean  States  and  the  Western  European  and  other
States  —  namely,  the  Bahamas,  Botswana,  France,
Mexico,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  United  Republic
of  Tanzania  and  the  United  States  of  America  —
elected members of the Committee for Programme and
Coordination  for  a  three-year  term  beginning  on  1
January 2001?
The  President:  I  congratulate  the  States  that
have  been  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for
Programme and Coordination.
We have thus concluded our consideration of sub-
item (a) of agenda item 16.
(b) Election of seventeen members of the United
Nations Commission on International Trade
Law
The President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now
turn  to  the  election  of  17  members  of  the  United
Nations  Commission  on  International  Trade  Law  to
replace those members whose term of office expires on
24 June 200l.
The 17 outgoing  members are  Algeria, Australia,
Botswana,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  China,  Egypt,
Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Nigeria, the
Russian  Federation,  Singapore 
the  United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
and 
Those  members  are  eligible  for  immediate  re-
election.
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that  as  of  25
June  2001  the  following  States  will  continue  to  be
represented  on 
the  Commission:  Argentina  and
Uruguay  alternating  for  one  seat,  Austria,  Burkina
Faso,  Colombia,  Fiji,  Honduras,  Hungary,  India,  the
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Italy,  Kenya,  Lithuania,
Paraguay,  Romania,  Spain, 
the  Sudan,  Thailand,
Uganda and the United States of America.
Therefore, those 20 States are not eligible.
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  I  should  like  to
recall  paragraph  16  decision  34/401,  whereby  the
practice  of  dispensing  with 
the  secret  ballot  for
elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation
specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that
basis?
It was so decided.
It was so decided.
The President: I shall now read the names of the
candidates endorsed by the regional groups.
2
For the five seats from among the African States,
the  five  endorsed  candidates  are  Benin,  Cameroon,
Morocco, Rwanda and Sierra Leone.
For the three seats  from  among the  Asian  States,
the  three  endorsed  candidates  are  China,  Japan  and
Singapore.
For  the 
two  seats  from  among 
the  Eastern
European  States,  the  two  endorsed  candidates  are  the
Russian Federation and The former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia.
For the two seats from among the Latin American
and Caribbean  States,  the  two endorsed  candidates  are
Brazil and Mexico.
For  the  five  seats  from  among  the  Western
European  and  other  States, 
five  endorsed
candidates  are  Canada,  France,  Germany,  Sweden  and
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern
Ireland.
the 
Since  the  number  of  candidates  endorsed  by  the
African  States, the  Asian  States, the  Eastern  European
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and
the  Western  European  and  other  States  corresponds  to
the number of seats to be filled in each group, I declare
those  candidates  elected  for  a  six-year  term  beginning
on 25 June 2001.
I  congratulate  the  following  States  which  have
been  elected  members  of 
the  United  Nations
Commission on International Trade Law for a six-year
term  beginning  on  25  June  2001:  Benin,  Brazil,
Cameroon,  Canada,  China,  France,  Germany,  Japan,
Mexico,  Morocco,  the  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sweden, The former Yugoslav
Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  United  Kingdom  of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
This  concludes  our  consideration  of  sub-item  (b)
of agenda item 16.
A/55/PV.34
Agenda item 17
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs
and other appointments
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee on
Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/55/424)
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  of  the  report
contained  in  document  A/55/424,  the  Fifth  Committee
recommends  that  the  General  Assembly  appoint  Mr.
Wu  Gang  of  China  as  a  member  of  the  Committee  on
Contributions  for  a  term  of  office  beginning  on  16
October 2000 and ending on 31 December 2002.
May I  take it that it is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly
to appoint the person recommended?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  Assembly  has 
thus
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item
(b) of agenda item 17.
Programme of work
The President: I wish to inform members that at
the  request  of  the  parties  concerned,  consideration  of
agenda  item  36,  entitled  “Bethlehem  2000”,  originally
scheduled for this morning, is postponed to a later date
to be announced.
The meeting rose at 10.15 a.m.
3
