
A/55/PV.44
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Fifty-fifth session 

44th plenary meeting 
Monday, 30 October, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland) 
















This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

00-71555 (E) 
*0071555* 
  The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 
Agenda item 34 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea  
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/55/61, 
A/55/386)
  Report on the work of the United Nations 
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea at its first 
meeting (A/55/274)


  Draft resolutions (A/55/L.10 and Corr. 1, 
A/55/L.11)

The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 
Assembly  resolution  51/204,  of  17  December  1996,  I 
call  on  the  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the Law of the Sea, Mr. Chandrasekhara Rao. 
Mr.  Rao  (International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 

the  Sea):  It  is  an  honour  to  address  the  Millennium 
General Assembly in connection with the discussion of 
the item entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea”. 

election as President of the General Assembly. 

I  regret  to  inform  the Assembly  of  the  death,  in 
Beijing,  on  10  October  2000,  of  Judge  Lihai  Zhao. 
Judge  Zhao  had  been  a  member  of  our  Tribunal  since 
October 1996. His term was due to expire in September 

I  extend  to  you,  Sir,  our  congratulations  on  your 

to 
is  grateful 
2002. Steps are being taken to fill the vacancy created 
by  his  death,  in  accordance  with  the  Statute  of  the 
Tribunal. 

I am glad to report that the official opening of the 
headquarters  building  of  the  Tribunal  in  the  Free  and 
Hanseatic  City of  Hamburg took  place on  3 July 2000 
in  the  presence  of  several  high  dignitaries,  including 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  Tribunal 
the  Federal 
Republic of Germany and the Free and Hanseatic City 
of Hamburg for their efforts in erecting the magnificent 
new  headquarters  building.  It  is  a  matter  of  special 
satisfaction  that the  Federal  Republic of  Germany  and 
the  Tribunal  concluded,  on  18  October  2000,  an 
agreement on the occupancy and use of the premises of 
the tribunal. We hope to operate from the new building 
very  soon.  However,  negotiations  with  regard  to  the 
Headquarters Agreement have not been concluded. It is 
also our hope that we will soon reach agreement in this 
matter. 
During this year the Tribunal heard the Camouco

case between Panama and France. Panama brought the 
case  to  the  Tribunal  on  17  January  2000,  and  the 
Tribunal  was  able  to  deliver  its  judgement  within  a 
period  of  three  weeks  thereafter.  This  case  has  once 
again demonstrated the Tribunal’s ability to bring about 
dispute  settlement  without  unnecessary  delay  or 
expense. 

Speaking  on  the  occasion  of  the  official  opening 
of the headquarters building of the Tribunal, Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  observed  that  the  Tribunal  was 

A/55/PV.44 

“the  keystone”  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea, that it was  
“the  central  forum  available — to  States, 
to 
certain  international  organizations  and  even  to 
some corporations — for resolving disputes about 
how  the  Convention  should  be  interpreted  and 
applied” 
and that it had  
“already  built  a  reputation  among  international 
lawyers  as  a  modern  court  that  can  respond 
quickly.” (SG/SM/7477)  
the 
formed 
We  are  thankful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
support for the Tribunal. It is also very encouraging to 
note  that  the  draft  resolution  under  consideration 
underlines  the  Tribunal’s  important  role  and  authority 
concerning  the  interpretation  and  application  of  the 
Convention. 
I  wish  to  bring  to  the  Assembly’s  attention  the 

fact  that  under  the  Convention  the  Tribunal  can  offer 
flexible  mechanisms  for  the  settlement  of  disputes. 
Parties may choose between having a dispute heard by 
the  full  Tribunal,  which  includes  all  its  judges,  and 
having a dispute heard by one of its special chambers. 
The  Tribunal  has 
following  special 
chambers  for  dealing  with  particular  categories  of 
disputes:  the  Chamber  of  Summary  Procedure,  the 
Chamber  for  Fisheries  Disputes  and  the  Chamber  for 
Marine  Environment  Disputes.  It  may  form  other 
special chambers, depending upon need. 

  Mr. Patricio (Mozambique), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 


The  Tribunal  is  also  required  to  form  an  ad  hoc 
chamber  to  deal  with  particular  disputes  submitted  to 
it, if the parties so request. The composition of such an 
ad  hoc  chamber  is  required  to  be  determined  by  the 
Tribunal,  with  the  approval  of  the  parties. This  option 
would  be  of  particular  interest  to  parties  that  are 
considering arbitration. The costs of an ad hoc chamber 
are met from the general budget of the Tribunal and are 
not  borne  by  the  parties  to  the  case.  Parties  also  have 
the  option  of  choosing  ad  hoc  judges  on  their  behalf. 
And a judgement given by any of the special chambers 
of  the  Tribunal  shall  be  considered  as  having  been 
rendered  by  the  Tribunal.  Some  States  have  shown 
interest in ad hoc chambers. 
to  note 
that 
to 
rendered  by 
tribunal  referred 
in  article  287  of 
The  rule  of  law  in  international  relations  cannot 

be  maintained  unless 
international  disputes  are 
resolved by peaceful means. It is equally important that 
judgements 
international  courts  or 
tribunals be implemented in  good  faith  and in  time  by 
States and other parties to international adjudication. It 
is  encouraging 
the  United  Nations 
Millennium  Declaration  found  it  appropriate  to  call 
upon  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure 
compliance  with  the  decisions  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, in compliance with the Charter of the 
United Nations, in cases to which they are parties. This 
exhortation  is  equally  relevant  in  respect  of  decisions 
of  all  international  courts  or  tribunals,  whether  within 
the framework of the United Nations system or outside 
it.  We  are  very  happy  to  see  that  the  draft  resolution 
notes  the obligations of  parties to  cases  before a  court 
or  a 
the 
Convention  to  ensure  prompt  compliance  with  the 
decisions rendered by such court or tribunal. 

Not  many  States  parties  to  the  Convention  have 
filed  declarations  as  regards  choice  of  compulsory 
procedures  for  the  settlement  of  disputes  under  article 
287  of  the  Convention.  Only  25  States  parties  have 
filed  such  declarations. It is  satisfying  to  note that  the 
draft  resolution  under  consideration  calls  upon  States 
parties to the Convention to consider making a written 
declaration choosing from the means for the settlement 
of disputes set out in article 287. 

The  establishment  of  new  tribunals  in  recent 
years  is  indeed  a  positive  development,  since  such 
bodies fulfil complementary needs. The United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea offers States a wide 
choice among several procedures for dispute settlement 
entailing binding decisions. Those forums are of equal 
standing and effect. The effect of more tribunals being 
available to litigants is that more disputes have come to 
be resolved by parties by means of their choice. There 
is  also  the  additional,  but  in  no  way  less  important, 
factor  that  several  of  the  newly  created  tribunals  are 
also accessible to non-State entities. 

The financial situation of the Tribunal remains far 
from  satisfactory. I regret to inform  the Assembly  that 
as  many  as  35  States  parties  to  the  Convention  have 
never  paid 
their  assessed  contributions.  Timely 
payments  of  contributions  have  an  important  bearing 
on the ability of our Tribunal to discharge its functions 
effectively. I thank the sponsors of the draft resolution 
for inviting the General Assembly to make an appeal to 
2 




A/55/PV.44
in 
to 
fund. 
disputes 
connection  with 
those  delegations 
States  parties  to  the  Convention  to  pay  their  assessed 
contributions to the Tribunal in full and on time. 
The  establishment  of  trust  funds  with  a  view  to 

to  States  for  costs 
providing  financial  assistance 
incurred 
before 
international adjudicative forums is not a new concept. 
The availability of such funds would serve as a device 
to  overcome  financial  impediments  to  the  judicial 
settlement  of  disputes  and 
to  promote  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  We  welcome  in  this  regard  the 
decision  of  the  Tenth  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to  the 
Convention to recommend to the General Assembly the 
establishment  of  a  trust  fund,  to  be  financed  through 
voluntary  contributions,  for  the  purpose  of  providing 
financial  assistance  to  States  in  order  to  help  them  in 
proceedings before our Tribunal. I wish to thank again 
the  sponsors  of  draft  resolution A/55/L.10  for  inviting 
the  Assembly  to  request  the  Secretary-General  to 
I  convey  my 
establish  such  a  voluntary 
appreciation  also 
that  have 
announced contributions to the proposed fund. 

There  has  not  been  much  progress  in  the  matter 
of  ratification  of  the Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and 
Immunities  of  the  Tribunal.  Since  I  addressed  the 
Assembly on 22 November 1999, only two more States 
have  ratified  the Agreement,  making  the  total  number 
of  ratifications  four.  As  members  are  aware,  for  the 
Agreement  to  enter  into  force,  at  least  10  instruments 
of  ratification  or  accession  need  to  be  deposited  with 
the  Secretary-General.  Here  too,  we  welcome  the 
provision  of  the  draft  resolution  calling  upon  States 
that have not done so to consider ratifying or acceding 
to the Agreement. 

In  accordance  with 
General Assembly resolution 51/6 of 24 October 1996, 
I now call on the Secretary-General of the International 
Seabed Authority, Mr. Satya N. Nandan. 
Mr.  Nandan  (International  Seabed  Authority):  I 

wish  to  express  the  appreciation  of  the  International 
Seabed Authority to delegations  which have expressed 
their  support  for  the  work  of  the  Authority.  I  also 
express  appreciation  for  the  various  references  to  the 
Authority  in  draft  resolution A/55/L.10,  which  is  now 
before  the  Assembly.  In  particular,  I  would  like  to 
emphasize  the  importance  of  paragraph  1  of  the  draft 
resolution,  which  calls  upon  all  States  that  have  not 
done, 
the  goal  of  universal 
participation,  to  become  parties  to  the  United  Nations 
The  Acting  President:
to  achieve 
in  order 
to 
to 
them 
ratified 
the  Law  of 
the  Sea  and 
the  adoption  of 
to  become  parties 
the  definitive  regime  created  by 
Convention  on 
the 
Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of 
the Convention. In that regard, I would like to note that 
there  remain  some  35  States  which,  despite  being 
parties  to  the  Convention,  have  not  yet  completed  the 
necessary  procedural  steps  to  become  parties  to  the 
Part-XI  Agreement.  Many  of 
the 
Convention  before  the Agreement  was  adopted,  and  it 
is therefore necessary for them to complete the internal 
procedures 
the  additional 
Agreement. 
By  paragraph  12  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 

Assembly  would  welcome 
the 
Regulations  on  Prospecting  for  Polymetallic  Nodules 
in the international seabed area. Indeed, the adoption of 
the  Regulations  by  the  Assembly  of  the  Authority  on 
13  July  2000  was  the  most  important  legislative 
achievement  of the Authority to date. The  Regulations 
elaborate  upon  and  give  effect  to  Annex  III  of  the 
Convention and the Agreement for the implementation 
of  Part  XI  of  the  Convention.  They  provide  the 
mechanism  for  implementation  of  the  provisions  of 
Part  XI  and  Annex  III  and  are  therefore  a  critical 
element  of 
the 
Convention  and the  1994 Agreement. The  Regulations 
establish a standard form of contract for exploration for 
polymetallic  nodules  as  well  as  standard  terms  and 
conditions for such contracts.  

Now that the Regulations have been adopted, the 
Authority is in a position to issue the first set of seven 
licences  or  contracts  for  exclusive  exploration  for 
polymetallic  nodules  by  seven  applicants  who  were 
registered  as  pioneer  investors  by  the  Preparatory 
Commission. The plans of work submitted by the seven 
registered  pioneer  investors  were  approved  by  the 
Council of the Authority in August 1997, thus bringing 
those investors from the interim regime in resolution II 
of the Conference into the definitive regime created by 
the Convention and the 1994 Agreement. The plans of 
work  were  approved  by  the  Council  on  the  basis  that, 
as  soon  as  possible  following  the  adoption  of  the 
Regulations,  the  pioneer  investors  would  enter  into 
contracts with the Authority. 
I wish to inform the Assembly that, in accordance 

with  that  understanding,  immediately  following  the 
adoption  of  the  Regulations,  and  given  the  long  delay 
in  proceeding  to  the  contract  stage,  I  submitted  draft 
contracts  for  exploration  to  each  of  the  registered 
pioneer  investors  and  invited  them  to  review  the  draft 


3 

A/55/PV.44 

in 
its 
the 
third 
the  work  of 
Those  who  have  followed 
contracts  and  to  update  the  programmes  of  work  that 
they  had  submitted  in  1997.  It  is  my  hope  that  these 
contracts  can  be  concluded  in  the  very  near  future  so 
that  a  report  can  be  made  to  the  next  session  of  the 
Authority  on  the  progress  of  exploration  under  the 
contracts. 

The  final  comment  I  wish  to  make  on  draft 
resolution  A/55/L.10  is  in  relation  to  paragraph  14, 
which calls upon States which have not already done so 
to ratify or accede to the Protocol on the Privileges and 
Immunities of the Authority. The Protocol is of benefit 
to representatives of  member States  who participate in 
meetings  convened  by  the  Authority,  as  it  deals  with 
the  immunities  and  privileges  of  such  representatives 
on  their  journeys  to  and  from  the  meetings  as  well  as 
while  they  are  in  the  territory  of  the  host  country.  I 
would  urge  all  member  States  to  consider  acceding  to 
the Protocol at the earliest opportunity.  

the 
Authority  will  be  aware  that  in  June  this  year  the 
Authority  convened 
series  of 
international  workshops  on  issues  relating  to  deep 
seabed  mining.  The  subject  of  this  year’s  workshop 
was mineral resources other than polymetallic nodules, 
including hydrothermal polymetallic sulphides, cobalt-
rich  crusts  and  gas  hydrates.  I  am  very  pleased  to 
report  that  the  workshop  was  even  more  successful 
than 
the  previous  workshops,  which  were  on 
environmental  issues  associated  with  exploration  and 
on  deep  seabed  mining  technology.  A  very  large 
number  of  experts  participated in  the  workshop, along 
with representatives of member States, members of the 
Legal  and  Technical  Commission  and  representatives 
of the community of non-governmental organizations. I 
believe 
in 
broadening  the  international  community’s  knowledge 
of the resources of the deep seabed and in highlighting 
the  potential  mineral  wealth  of  the  oceans. While  it  is 
clear  that  much  work  needs  to  be  done  to  unlock  this 
potential,  it  is  equally  clear  that  the  Authority  has  an 
important  role  to  play  both  as  a  global  repository  of 
data and information and as a catalyst for collaborative 
research at the international level. 
The Authority’s next workshop, to be convened in 

2001,  will  deal  with 
the  standardization  of  data 
collection and evaluation of information obtained from 
research  and  exploratory  activities  undertaken  in  the 
deep  seabed,  both  in  respect  of  mineral  resources  and 
the  workshop  was  extremely  useful 
in respect of protection and preservation of the marine 
environment. 

I would like to take this opportunity once again to 
urge those  member States that have not yet done so to 
pay  their  contributions  to  the  administrative  budget  of 
the Authority  in  full  and  on  time.  I  am  pleased  to  say 
that  the  response  to  previous  requests  both  by  the 
Assembly  of  the  Authority  and  by  this  Assembly  has 
been  encouraging  and  that  the  majority  of  member 
States have fulfilled their obligations promptly. This is 
important,  because  it  has  in  turn  helped  the Authority 
to  manage  its  finances  in  a  responsible  and  efficient 
manner,  to  the  extent  that  this  year  I  was  able  to 
present  a  budget  for  the  financial  period  2001-2002 
which  involved  no  increase  in  expenditure  in  real 
terms.  I  am  grateful  to  all  member  States  for  their 
cooperation in this regard, and I would once again urge 
those  who  are  in  arrears,  including  former  provisional 
members  of  the  Authority,  to  pay  their  outstanding 
contributions  in  full  and  as  soon  as  possible  to  enable 
the  Authority  to  continue  its  work  in  an  efficient  and 
effective manner. 

I would also like to repeat the call I made during 
last  year’s  debate  for  all  Member  States  to  consider 
seriously  their  participation  in  the  meetings  of  the 
the  Agreement 
Authority.  The  Convention  and 
establish  a  very  high 
the  quorum 
necessary  for  the  convening  of  the  Assembly  and  the 
Council; in the case of the Assembly it is half the total 
membership  of  the Authority.  It is apparent, therefore, 
that  without  the  presence  of  members  at  the  meetings 
of  the  Authority  its  ability  to  take  decisions  will  be 
affected.  For  its  part,  recognizing  the  burden  imposed 
on  Member  States,  particularly  smaller  States,  of 
travelling  to  meetings,  the Authority  has  done  its  best 
to  streamline  the  calendar  of  meetings  so  that,  for 
example,  there  will  be  only  one  two-week  meeting  in 
2001. Accordingly, the seventh session of the Authority 
will be held from 2 to 13 July 2001. 
I  would  like  to  express  appreciation  to  the 

Secretary-General 
in 
document A/55/61, and to congratulate my friends and 
colleagues  in  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the 
Law of the Sea on their fine work. As usual, the report 
is comprehensive, and, indeed, very useful. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  the  new 
Open-ended  Informal  Consultative  Process,  the  first 
meeting  of  which  took  place  in  May  2000.  The 
threshold  for 
contained 
for  his 
report, 
4 




A/55/PV.44
the 
freely 
reinforce 
organizations — to 
The  process  would 
Informal  Consultative  Process  was  developed,  among 
other reasons, to provide a more inclusive forum for all 
those interested in oceans and the law of the sea — that 
is,  States, 
international  organizations  and  non-
governmental 
discuss 
developments relating to the oceans in a manner which 
promotes  an  integrated  approach  to  the  oceans  in  the 
spirit  of  the  unified  and  comprehensive  nature  of  the 
Convention.  

role  and 
responsibilities  assumed  by  the  General  Assembly  in 
resolution  49/28  as  the  global  institution  having  the 
competence  to  undertake  an  annual  review  of  overall 
developments relating to the oceans and the law of the 
sea and  would help to avoid a proliferation of forums, 
sectoral  or  otherwise,  which  would  detract  from  the 
responsibilities of the General Assembly. 

I  commend  the  Co-Chairpersons  of  the  Informal 
Consultative  Process,  Neroni  Slade  of  Samoa  and 
Mr. Alan  Simcock  of  the  United  Kingdom,  for  their 
excellent  work,  and  to  thank  them  for  their  report, 
contained in document A/55/274. While I consider that 
the  process  was  extremely  useful,  I  also  believe  that 
some  of  the  procedures  followed  might  be  improved 
upon to better achieve the objectives established by the 
General Assembly. 

Many  important  subject  areas  were  addressed  in 
the  meeting  and the  discussions  were constructive  and 
wide-ranging. 
the 
participation of a broad cross-section of representatives 
from  a  number  of  the  specialized  agencies  and  other 
international  organizations  and  bodies,  as  well  as 
representatives of the non-governmental organizations. 
The  problem,  however,  is  how  best  to  reflect  the 
discussions in a report. The procedure followed at this 
first meeting seemed to lead to a situation in which the 
meeting as a  whole became engaged in the drafting of 
the  report.  Given  the  short  time  available  for  that 
exercise,  it  necessarily  created  problems.  In  the  end, 
we  were  still drafting  the  Co-Chairperson’s report late 
into the evening, after the interpreters had left.  

is 
commendable,  the  procedure  was  not  very  helpful.  In 
the  first  place,  apart  from  the  cumbersome  nature  of 
the  process,  it  did  not  reflect  the  wide-ranging  nature 
of  the  debate  and  the  breadth  of  the  subject  matter. 
With so many different views expressed, many parts of 
the 
lowest  common 
for  a  perfect 
report  merely 
particularly 
appreciated 
the  desire 
reflect 
While 
report 
I 
the 
for 
that 
I  hope 
the  procedure  and  allowing 
International  Seabed  Authority  and 
denominator.  Perhaps  consideration  might  be  given  to 
streamlining 
the  Co-
Chairpersons  to  produce  a  summary  report  on  their 
own responsibility,  with the help of the Secretariat, on 
the basis of the discussion and debate during the week. 

This is not an unusual procedure. It was followed 
from  1983 to 1986  in  the  Preparatory  Commission  for 
the 
the 
International Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  and  the 
same  procedure  continues  to  be  followed 
in  the 
Assembly  and  Council  of  the  Authority,  where  the 
Chairman’s  statement  at  the  end  of  each  session  is  a 
summary  of  the  discussions  and  proposals  made  and 
records  all  the  important  legislative  and  substantive 
issues. The procedure is also followed at the Meetings 
of States Parties to the  Convention. This  approach  has 
the  merit  of  saving  a  lot  of  time,  as  well  as  of 
highlighting the key issues which, in the opinion of the 
Co-Chairpersons, might be useful for the consideration 
of the General Assembly. 

these  observations  will  not  be 
construed  in  any  way  as  a  criticism  of  the  process, 
which  was  highly  successful.  They  are  intended  as  a 
constructive  contribution  to  the  development  of  the 
process,  which  has  already  been  very  useful  and 
constructive  and  which,  as  most  Members  know,  I 
strongly support. 

to  comment  briefly  on  draft 
resolution  A/55/L.11,  relating  to  large-scale  pelagic 
drift-net  fishing,  unauthorized  fishing  in  zones  of 
national jurisdiction and on the high seas, fisheries by-
catch  and  discards,  and  other  developments.  There 
have  been 
fisheries 
management  practices  in  recent  times.  Most  fisheries 
management  organizations  predate  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development, Agenda 
21  and  the  Agreement  for  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions  of 
to 
straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, 
as well as the 1982 Convention itself. 

to  fisheries 
management is reflected in new fisheries arrangements, 
in the light of the reality of international fisheries, with 
their  problems  of  over-capacity  and  ever-diminishing 
fish stocks. It is with great satisfaction, therefore, that I 
note the  progress and the  status of  the  United  Nations 
fish stocks Agreement. With 28 ratifications out of the 
required  30,  we  can  confidently  expect  this  important 
important  developments 
the  1982  Convention 
The  evolution 
the  approach 
I  would 
relating 
like 
in 
in 


5 

A/55/PV.44 

two 
least 
instrument,  which  is  an  essential  complement  to  the 
1982  Convention  as  it  relates  to  the  conservation  and 
management  of  fisheries  resources,  to  enter  into  force 
in the very near future. 

Already  the  fish  stocks  Agreement  has  had  a 
profound  effect.  It  has  become  the  reference  point  for 
the  review  of  fisheries  management  organizations 
worldwide.  It  has  been  used  as  the  basis  for  the 
establishment  of  at 
important  regional 
fisheries  management  organizations — in  the  western 
and  central  Pacific  Ocean  and  the  south-east  Atlantic 
Ocean.  It  has  also  been  used  as  the  basis  for  a  review 
of  the  structure  and  mandates  of  several  existing 
regional fisheries management organizations, including 
some which were established before the adoption of the 
1982  Convention.  In  this  regard,  impressive  work  has 
been  carried  out  under  the  auspices  of  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of 
the  United  Nations, 
particularly  in  relation  to  combating  the  problem  of 
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. 

I wish to commend the International Tribunal for 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  the  work  it  has  done  over  the 
past  year  and  for  the  great  contribution  it  has  already 
made to ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the 
system 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
established under part XV of the Convention. In all of 
the  cases  it  has  dealt  with  so  far  the  Tribunal  has 
shown  an  impressive  ability  to  respond  quickly  to 
applications  and  to  bring  about  dispute  settlement 
without unnecessary delay. 

I  should  also  like  to  add  the  condolences  of  the 
Authority to those that have already been expressed on 
the  untimely  demise  of  Judge  Zhao  Lihai.  I  have 
already sent a message to his family in Beijing.  
May  I  conclude  by  taking  this  opportunity  once 

again to thank all of those who spoke earlier in support 
of  the  Authority.  I  look  forward  to  the  continued  and 
constructive  participation  of  Member  States  in  the 
Authority’s future work. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/55/L.10  and  corrigendum  1  and  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.11.  

Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind  delegations 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
for 
the 
to 
reservations  on 
Turkey  supports 
international  efforts 
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Uykur  (Turkey):  With  reference  to  the  two 

draft resolutions before  us  on the agenda  item  entitled 
“Oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea”,  Turkey  will  vote 
against the one contained in document A/55/L.10. The 
reason  for  my  delegation’s  negative  vote  is  that  some 
of  the  elements  contained  in  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  that  had  prevented 
Turkey  from  approving  the  Convention  are retained in 
this draft resolution. 

to 
establish  a  regime  for  the  sea  that  is  based  on  the 
principle  of  equity  and  is  acceptable  to  all  States. 
However,  the  Convention  does  not  make  adequate 
provisions  for  special  geographical  situations  and, 
consequently,  is  not  able  to  establish  an  acceptable 
balance between conflicting interests. 
Furthermore, the Convention  makes no provision 

for 
specific  clauses. 
registering 
Although  we  agree  with  the  Convention  in  its  general 
intent  and  most  of  its  provisions,  we  are  unable  to 
become  party 
serious 
shortcomings. 

This  being  the  case,  we  cannot  support  a  draft 
resolution  that  calls  upon  States  to  become  Parties  to 
the  Convention  on 
to 
harmonize their national legislation with its provisions. 

Regarding  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Large-
scale  pelagic  drift-net  fishing,  unauthorized  fishing  in 
zones  of  national  jurisdiction  and  on  the  high  seas, 
fisheries 
other 
developments”,  contained  in  document  A/55/L.11,  we 
would  like  to  state  that  we  welcome  the  efforts  aimed 
at  achieving  the  sustainable  use  and  management  of 
fisheries,  as  well  as  the  establishment  of  regional 
organizations and arrangements. 

Nevertheless,  we  are  unable  to  give  our  consent 
to certain elements in the draft resolution, in particular 
the context in which the Convention on the Law of the 
Sea is referred to. In this respect, we cannot accept the 
reference  made  to  the  Convention  in  connection  with 
the  rights  and  duties  of  coastal  States  in  zones  under 
their  national  jurisdiction,  and  this  reference  cannot 
have  any  effect  upon  these  States’  rights  as  far  as  the 
question of the delimitation of such zones is concerned. 
It  is  our  view  that  those  States,  while  wishing  to 
it  owing 
the  Law  of 
the  Sea  and 
to 
these 
and 
by-catch 
and 
discards, 
6 




A/55/PV.44
the 
the 
foster 
facilitate  and 
instruments  that  fall  outside  the  framework  of  the 
United Nations and to their relationship to agreements 
that  have  not  yet  entered  into  force.  We  feel  that  the 
General Assembly is not the appropriate forum for this 
type of statement. 

As  far  as  operative  paragraph  19  is  concerned, 
Mexico  would  like  to  reiterate  that  all  activities 
relating  to  fisheries  should  be  in  accordance  with  the 
international  instruments  that  are  in  force  and  are 
applicable,  such  as  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the  Code  of  Conduct  for 
Responsible Fisheries. 

With regard to operative paragraph 26,  we regret 
the  inclusion  in  the  title  the  reference  to  “illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing”.  As  the  Members 
of  this  Organization  are  aware,  this  issue  is  in  the 
course of discussion in other international forums. The 
Mexican  delegation  understands  that  the  treatment  of 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  at  the  next 
General Assembly will be limited to an analysis of how 
to 
implementation  of 
agreements  that  may  be  reached  at  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 
and in no way can the Assembly replace that forum for 
decision-making on substantive aspects of this issue. 
Ms.  Di  Felice  (Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  Venezuelan  delegation  will  abstain  in  the  vote  on 
draft  resolution  A/55/L.10,  entitled  “Oceans  and  the 
law  of  the  sea”.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  would 
like  to  point  out  that  we  have  reservations  concerning 
statements  contained  in  various  parts  of  the  draft,  in 
particular  in  the  fourth  preambular  paragraph  and  in 
operative  paragraph  3,  relating  to  the  operation  of  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  In 
particular, Venezuela, as a country that is not a Party to 
the Convention, believes that we are not able to accept 
or oppose  the  provisions  of the  Convention  as  long  as 
we have not explicitly acceded to them. 

the 
international  efforts 
to  promote  cooperation  and 
coordination among all States on matters related to the 
ocean  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  Nevertheless,  we  must 
abstain for the reasons I have just mentioned. 

Mr.  Alabrune  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  is  honoured  to  speak  on  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.11  on  behalf  of  the  Member  States  of  the 
European  Union,  the  countries  of  Central  and  Eastern 
Europe  associated  with  the  Union,  Bulgaria,  Czech 
The  Venezuelan 
delegation 
supports 
legal 
framework 
international 
strengthen 
for 
intergovernmental  cooperation,  will  comply  only  with 
those  international  treaties  to  which  they  are  parties, 
and with the principles emanating therefrom; and their 
respective 
rights  will  not  be  affected  by  any 
international convention to which they are not parties. 
Mr.  Albin  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.10 entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea”, as 
a demonstration of our firm support for the regime set 
out  in  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  and  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  promote  greater  understanding  of  marine 
and ocean issues. 

Nevertheless,  we  wish  to  formulate  one  or  two 
comments  on  certain  elements  contained  in  the  draft 
resolution.  In  operative  paragraph  17,  we  believe  that 
the  reference  to  the  10-year  time  period  contained  in 
article  4  of  annex  II  to  the  Convention  is,  without 
prejudice to the decisions adopted in this respect by the 
third  meeting  of  the  States  Parties  to  the  Convention, 
including  the  possibility  of  reviewing  that  time  period 
in light of the circumstances. 

that 
establishment  of  the  voluntary  trust  funds,  referred  to 
in  operative  paragraphs  9,  18  and  20  of  the  draft 
resolution, do not affect the possibility of taking up, in 
the meetings of the States Parties to the Convention on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  issues  that  gave  rise  to  its 
establishment  or  of  analysing  a  possible  modification 
of its modalities. 

to  operative  paragraph  41,  our 
understanding  is  that  the  organization  of  the  second 
meeting of the Consultative Process on marine science, 
piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea  will  not  affect  the 
rights of States to draw the meeting’s attention to other 
issues. 

In  addition,  my  delegation  will  abstain  on  the 
vote  on  draft  resolution  A/55/L.11,  entitled  “Large-
scale  pelagic  drift-net  fishing,  unauthorized  fishing  in 
zones  of  national  jurisdiction  and  on  the  high  seas, 
fisheries 
other 
developments”.  Despite  the  efforts  carried  out  to 
achieve  consensus,  this  draft  resolution  contains  a 
series  of  elements  that  prevent  my  delegation  from 
supporting  it.  We  regret  the  inclusion  of  the  fifth  and 
sixth preambular paragraphs. We believe inappropriate 
the  formulation  of  value  judgements  with  regard  to 
to  underscore 
With  regard 
We  would 
the  fact 
like 
by-catch 
and 
discards, 
and 


7 

A/55/PV.44 

Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, 
Romania,  Slovakia  and  Slovenia,  as  well  as  on  behalf 
of  the  associated  countries  of  Cyprus  and  Malta,  and 
two  other  States, 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  and 
Monaco. 

We  acknowledge  that  draft  resolution A/55/L.11, 
submitted  under  agenda  item  34  (b),  contains  a  very 
great  number  of  useful  provisions.  It  is  with  regret, 
therefore,  that  we  have  decided  to  request  that  a  vote 
on  the  text  be  taken  in  the Assembly  and  that  we  will 
abstain in the vote. 

This  year  we  were  unable  to  participate  in  the 
consensus on the draft resolution, first of all because of 
the reference in the draft to the Framework Agreement 
for  the  Conservation  of  Living  Marine  Resources  in 
High  Seas  of  the  South-east  Pacific,  better  known  as 
the  Galapagos  Agreement.  This  Agreement  contains 
several provisions that cause problems of compatibility 
with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea. In particular the provisions of the Agreement that 
provide  for  the  possibility  of  the  parties,  outside  the 
limited  circumstances  set  forth  in  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
Convention,  to  board,  inspect  and  escort  ships  found 
on the high seas. 

In addition we would like to draw attention to the 
importance  we  attach  to  international  cooperation  for 
the  conservation  and  management  of  living  marine 
resources.  We  are  engaged  in  discussions  in  several 
forums, 
Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  Oceans,  where  we  stress  the 
need 
to  strengthen  the  role  of  regional  fisheries 
organizations  and  the  need  to  create  new  regional 
organizations  of  this  kind  in  order  to  ensure  the 
conservation  and  management  of  those  resources  on 
the basis of international law. Furthermore, we actively 
support  all efforts  under  way  at  the international  level 
to combat illegal, unauthorized and unreported fishing. 

the  use  of 
misinterpretations  of  international  law  in  the  creation 
of  regional  fishing  organizations.  In  particular,  we  are 
unsure  as  to  the  legality  of  some  of  these  recently 
created  regional  fisheries  organizations  as  regards 
certain  fundamental principles,  such  as the  equality  of 
rights and obligations of States on the high seas and the 
fact that these organizations must be open to all States 
having  a  real  interest  in  fisheries,  as  well  as  the 
freedom to fish on the high seas, which comes with the 
obligation to cooperate. 
However,  we  cannot  condone 
the  Open-Ended 
in  particular 

Nonetheless,  we  very  much  hope  that  it  will  be 
possible  to  once  again  have  consensus  on  this  subject 
in the future.  

Mr. Vázquez  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
delegation  of  Ecuador  would  like  to  refer  to  the  draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/55/L.11,  entitled 
“Large-scale  pelagic  drift-net  fishing,  unauthorized 
fishing in zones of national jurisdiction and on the high 
seas, 
fisheries  by-catch  and  discards,  and  other 
developments”.  The  delegation  of  Ecuador  would  like 
to  state  that  we  attach  great  importance  to  the  matters 
dealt with in this draft resolution. This draft resolution 
establishes,  we  feel,  an  adequate  balance  between  the 
various  different  positions  of  delegations  regarding 
these  matters.  We  also  feel  that  this  draft  resolution 
raises various points of interest to developing countries 
that,  like  Ecuador,  are  convinced  of  the  need  to 
strengthen  international  cooperation  in order to  ensure 
the  preservation  and  sustainable  use  of  living  marine 
resources. 

In  the  draft  resolution,  among  other  points  of 
interest, note is taken of an important new development 
in this area: the adoption of the Framework Agreement 
for  the  Conservation  of  Living  Marine  Resources  in 
High Seas of the South-east Pacific, also known as the 
Galapagos  Agreement.  The  central  objective  of  this 
agreement 
living  marine 
resources by means of international cooperation and in 
complete  conformity  with 
law 
regarding the sea. 

the draft resolution contained in document A/55/L.11. 

speaker in explanation of vote before the vote. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  decisions  on  two 
draft  resolutions.  We  first  turn  to  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.10  and  Corrigendum  1,  entitled  “Oceans  and 
the law of the sea”. 

Before  proceeding  to  take  action  on  the  draft 
resolution,  I  would  like  to  announce  that  since  the 
introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries  have  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.10  and  Corrigendum  1:  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Austria,  Dominica,  Haiti,  Jamaica,  Kenya,  Lebanon, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines, Senegal, Panama and the Bahamas. 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
For these reasons, Ecuador will vote in favour of 
A recorded vote has been requested. 
international 
is 
the  preservation  of 
the 
8 




A/55/PV.44
  A recorded vote was taken. 

In favour: 

Arab 
Barbados, 
Jamahiriya, 
Bangladesh, 
Algeria,  Andorra, Angola, Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, 
Bahrain, 
Belarus, 
Belgium,  Belize,  Bolivia,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Cambodia,  Cameroon, 
Canada,  Chile,  China,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Ireland,  Israel,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho, 
Libyan 
Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of),  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  South 
Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname, 
Sweden,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tonga, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Tanzania,  United  States  of  America,  Uruguay, 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
the 
Against: 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Turkey. 
Abstaining: 
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela. 
  Draft resolution A/55/L.10 and Corr.1 was 
adopted by 143 votes to 2, with 4 abstentions 
(resolution 55/7). 




[Subsequently, 
the  delegations  of  Guatemala, 
Italy  and  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  advised  the 
Secretariat  that  they  had  intended  to  vote  in 
favour.] 

The Acting President: We turn  next  to the draft 
resolution  A/55/L.11,  entitled “Large-scale  pelagic 
drift-net  fishing,  unauthorized  fishing  in  zones  of 
national  jurisdiction  and  on  the  high  seas,  fisheries 
by-catch and discards, and other developments”. 

Before  proceeding  to  take  action  on  the  draft 
resolution,  I  would  like  to  announce  that  since  the 
publication  of 
the  following 
countries  have  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.11: Belize. 


In favour: 
A recorded vote has been requested. 
  A recorded vote was taken. 
the  draft  resolution, 

Brunei 
Bahamas, 
Australia, 
Darussalam, 
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Armenia, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize,  Bolivia, 
Brazil, 
Cambodia, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile,  China,  Colombia, 
Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Guyana,  Haiti, 
India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of), 
Israel,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lesotho,  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives, 
Marshall 
Islands,  Mauritius,  Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Mongolia,  Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  New 
Zealand,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
Togo,  Tonga,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  United  States  of America, 
Uruguay,  Venezuela,  Viet  Nam,  Yemen,  Zambia, 
Zimbabwe. 
9 

A/55/PV.44 

Abstaining: 

Andorra,  Austria,  Belgium,  Bulgaria,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia, 
Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece, 
Guinea,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan, 
Kazakhstan,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic 
of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  San 
Marino,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland. 
  Draft resolution A/55/L.11 was adopted 
by 103 votes to none, with 44 abstentions 
(resolution 55/8). 

The Acting President: I  shall  now  call  on those 

representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  explanation  of 
vote  on  the  resolution  just  adopted.  May  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 10 
minutes and should be  made by delegations from their 
seats. 
Mr.  Maquieira  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

delegation  of  Chile,  on  the  occasion  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  consideration  of  agenda  item  34,  “Oceans 
and the law of the sea”, would like to state its position 
concerning  the  resolution  just  adopted  under  agenda 
item  34 (b),  entitled  “Large-scale  pelagic  drift-net 
fishing,  unauthorized  fishing  in  zones  of  national 
jurisdiction and on the high seas, fisheries by-catch and 
discards, and other developments”. 
this 

resolution  on 
large-scale  pelagic  drift-net  fishing, 
because  of  the  harmful  effects  of  such  fishing  on  the 
living  marine  resources  in  the  southern  oceans  and 
seas.  Despite  its  ongoing  support  for  these  resolutions 
as  a  whole,  in  recent  years  Chile  has  had  some 
reservations  concerning  certain  paragraphs  of  this 
resolution  which primarily call for endorsement of the 
Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and 
Management  of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly 
Migratory  Fish  Stocks,  also  known  as  the  New  York 
Agreement. 

Chile  considers  that  this  Agreement  does  not 
provide  sufficient  protection  for  the  interests  of  the 
coastal  State  in  the  contiguous  high  seas,  as  set out  in 
traditionally  supported 
Our  country  has 
fisheries 
article  116  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  and  in  other  provisions  of  that  same 
Convention,  which  would  allow  interference  by  third 
States in the exclusive economic zone. Our country has 
therefore  opted,  for  the  time  being,  not  to  accede  to 
this international Agreement. 

For these reasons, and on the basis of article 117 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  sets 
out,  among  other  things,  the  duty  of  all  States  to 
cooperate  with  each  other  in  taking  such  measures  as 
may  be  necessary  for  the  conservation  of  the  living 
resources  of  the  high  seas,  Chile  has  acceded  to  the 
Framework Agreement  for  the  Conservation  of  Living 
Marine  Resources  in  High  Seas  of  the  South-east 
Pacific, also known as the Galápagos Agreement. That 
Agreement puts in place mechanisms for coastal States 
and  high-seas 
to  establish  conservation 
systems for the straddling stocks and highly  migratory 
species  found  within  its  scope  of  application.  This 
Agreement  is  fully  compatible  with  the  provisions  of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
which, as the Assembly is aware, imposes an obligation 
upon  States  to  cooperate  among  themselves  in  the 
regulation of high-seas fishing. 

For these reasons, our delegation was surprised to 
learn  that  the  European  Union  had  requested  that  a 
recorded  vote  be  taken  on  the  draft  because  it  wished 
to abstain. Its justification for the request  was that the 
Galápagos Agreement had compatibility problems with 
the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  The  parties  to 
this  Agreement  have  circulated  a  statement,  which  I 
will  not  delve  into  now,  but  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  invite  the  European  Union  to  exchange 
views  with 
the  Galápagos 
Agreement on the statements made here this morning. 
Mr.  Bocalandro (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):

The delegation of Argentina would like to comment on 
draft resolution A/55/L.11, which was just adopted and 
in whose favour we voted. 

The  Argentine  Republic  would  like  to  point  out 
that we understand that the expression “other entities”, 
which  appears 
this 
resolution, refers to the entities listed in article 305 of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
Mr.  Longva  (Norway):  Norway  voted  in  favour 

of 
the  draft 
in  document 
A/55/L.11. We strongly regret that it was impossible to 
adopt  that  draft  by  consensus,  as  has  been  the  case  in 
in  operative  paragraph  2  of 
resolution  contained 
the  States  parties 
to 
10 




A/55/PV.44
are 
shortcomings 
years.  There 
previous 
and 
unsatisfactory  elements  in  the  resolution.  We  agree 
with the European Union that certain provisions of the 
Framework Agreement  for  the  Conservation  of  Living 
Marine  Resources  in  High  Seas  of  the  South-east 
Pacific, the  so-called  Galápagos Agreement,  gives rise 
to  questions  of  compatibility  with  the  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea. 

In  its  operative  part,  the  resolution  affirms  the 
need  to  strengthen  the  international  legal  framework 
for international cooperation in the management of fish 
stocks  and  in  combating  unauthorized  fishing  as  well 
as  illegal,  unregulated  and  unreported  fishing  in  a 
manner  consistent  with  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea and the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement. 

We  have  consistently  advocated  that  these  are 
indeed the  key instruments  of international law  in  this 
field and we cannot accept agreements or state practice 
that are not compatible with them. Furthermore, we do 
not think that it is sufficient to reduce discards through 
the  development  and  use  of  selective  fishing  gear  and 
techniques.  The  practice  of  discards  should  be 
prohibited,  as  it  has  been  under  Norwegian  fisheries 
legislation.  

In our view, however, the positive elements of the 
resolution  this  year  outweigh  the  negative.  Notably, 
this  year’s  resolution  not  only  addresses  isolated 
problems  that  affect  the  world’s  fisheries,  but  also 
takes  a  more  comprehensive  approach  in  focusing  on 
international cooperation in relevant forums to combat 
illegal,  unregulated  and  unreported  fishing  in  general. 
Most  importantly,  the  draft  resolution  contains  core 
provisions  on  the  1995  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks 
Agreement  and  affirmations  of  the  central  role  that 
regional  and  subregional  fisheries  conservation  and 
management  organizations  and  arrangements  have  in 
intergovernmental  cooperation  on 
the  sustainable 
management of marine living resources. 

As  one  of  the  early  ratifiers  of  the  1995  United 
Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement,  Norway  was 
particularly  pleased  to  welcome  the  conclusion  of 
successful  negotiations  on  the  establishment  of  new 
regional 
fisheries  conservation  and  management 
organizations 
the 
Western  and  Central  Pacific.  It  was  of  particular 
importance  that  these  were  negotiated  in  accordance 
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
the  South-East  Atlantic  and 
in 
that 
the  resolution  we  have 
the  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks 
We  sincerely  hope  that  it  will  be  possible  to 
Convention  and 
Agreement. 

return to consensus on this subject in the future. 
Mrs. Álvarez Núñez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  delegation  of  Cuba  wishes  to  explain  its  vote  in 
favour of resolution 55/7 on oceans and the law of the 
sea. 

My  country  is  firmly  committed  to  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea as the legal 
framework within which all activities related to oceans 
and  seas  should  be  carried  out.  The  Cuban  delegation 
regrets 
just  adopted 
includes inappropriate language in operative paragraph 
39,  in  which  the  Secretary-General  is  requested  to 
continue  to  carry  out  the  responsibilities  entrusted  to 
him  in  the  Convention  and  related  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly,  including  resolutions  49/28  and 
52/26,  to  ensure  that  appropriate  resources  are  made 
available to the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law 
of the Sea for the performance of such responsibilities 
under the approved budget for the Organization. 

The  reference  to  the  financing  of  activities  to  be 
undertaken  by  the  Division  for  Ocean Affairs  and  the 
Law of the Sea runs counter to rule 153 of the General 
Assembly’s rules of procedure, which clearly indicates 
the responsibility of the Fifth Committee in approving 
resolutions with budgetary implications. 
The President returned to the Chair. 

Similarly,  operative  paragraph  39  of  resolution 

55/7  ignores  the  current  budgetary  procedures,  in 
particular  the  existence  of  a  contingency  fund  of 
approximately  $16  million,  as  noted  in  part  VI  of 
General  Assembly 
resolution  54/251,  which  was 
earmarked  precisely  for  the  financing  of  additional 
activities during the biennium.  

Operative paragraph 39 of resolution 55/7 reflects 
attempts  to  impose  a  zero-nominal-growth  policy  on 
the  budget  of  this  Organization.  This  policy  has 
resulted 
instability  and 
unpredictability  in  the  work  being  done  and  the 
fulfilment of mandates by this Organization. 
Mr. Wee (Singapore): Singapore voted in support 

of  resolution  55/8,  because  we  agree  that  it  contains 
many  useful  and  constructive  elements  that  encourage 
introduction  of 
in 
the 


11 

A/55/PV.44 

to 
from 
them 
arising 
regional 
implications 
these  agreements  by 
responsible  fishing  practices  and  sustainable  fisheries-
resources management.  

However,  Singapore  would  like  to  place  on 
record  its  position  on  references  contained  in  the 
resolution 
to  certain  agreements  made  by  some 
regional  fisheries  arrangements.  This  is  because  the 
legal 
are  not 
sufficiently  clear.  As  we  were  not  privy 
the 
negotiations  leading  to  these  agreements,  we  cannot, 
without  closer  scrutiny,  be  in  a  position to judge  what 
the  parties  intended  by  specific  provisions  of  such 
agreements. 

The  adoption  of  resolution  55/8  today  must  be 
without  prejudice  to  the  requirement  that  both  the 
terms  of 
fisheries 
arrangements  and  the  way  they  are  implemented  must 
be  consistent  with 
the  applicable  principles  of 
international law, in particular the 1982 United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
Mr. Seki (Japan): On resolution 55/8 on fisheries, 

which  we  have  just  adopted,  we  have  all  made  efforts 
to  achieve  solutions 
illegal,  unregulated  and 
unreported  fishing,  by-catches,  discards  and  other 
outstanding 
the 
conclusions  contained  in  the  paragraphs  on  these 
matters. 
fifth 

preambular paragraph and in other relevant preambular 
paragraphs,  consensus  was  not  achieved. 
Japan 
appreciates  the  fact  that  the  Chairman  of  the  informal 
negotiations  on  this  resolution  did  everything  possible 
to establish such a consensus, but since that has proved 
impossible at this time, Japan abstained in the voting. 
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 

the  General Assembly  to  conclude its  consideration  of 
agenda item 34? 

the  second  part  of 
  It was so decided. 
agrees  with 
problems. 
However, 
to 
Japan 
in 
the 
Agenda item 177 
Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization 
Note by the Secretary-General (A/55/433)








Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Nuclear-Test-Ban 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for 
Draft decision (A/55/L.5)

The President: I give the floor to the Executive-

Secretary  of 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
to introduce his report. 
Mr. Hoffmann  (Preparatory  Commission  for  the 

Treaty 
Comprehensive 
Organization):  This  is  the  first  occasion  on  which  I 
have  had  the  honour  to  address  the  General Assembly 
under  the  new  agenda  item  “Cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission  for 
the 
Treaty 
Organization”.  At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express 
my appreciation to all Member States for affording me 
this opportunity. 

On  10  September  1996  the  General  Assembly 
adopted  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT) by 158 votes to 3 with 5 abstentions. With the 
adoption  of  the  CTBT,  one  of  the  longest  treaty 
negotiations 
the  history  of  arms  control  and 
disarmament was brought to a successful end. 

A  few  months  ago,  on  15  June,  the  General 
Assembly  adopted  the  Agreement  to  Regulate  the 
Relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization.  Article  IV  of 
the agreement provides that: 
for 
in 
the  Secretary-General  of 
informed  of 
through 
“The  Commission  shall ...  keep  the  United 

its  activities,  and  may 
Nations 
submit 
the 
United Nations reports thereon on a regular or ad 
hoc  basis  to  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  concerned.”  (resolution  54/280,  annex, 
article IV, para. 1)
My  report  on 
the  work  of 
in  document  A/55/433. 
in  1999  has  been  circulated  by 
the  Preparatory 

the 
Commission 
Secretary-General 
In  my 
statement  today  I  should  like  to  inform  the  General 
Assembly  about  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations and the Commission, the Commission’s recent 
activities  to  prepare  for  entry  into  force  of  the  CTBT 
and the status of adherence to the Treaty. 

With the adoption of the relationship Agreement, 
the  Commission  became  a  new  member  of  the  United 
Nations  family.  Although  it  remains  an  autonomous 
organization,  the  Commission  wishes  to  contribute  to 
the goals of the United Nations system, the success of 
12 




A/55/PV.44
the  UNDP 
which  is  based  on  the  complementary  inputs  of  its 
many  members.  In  implementation  of  the  relationship 
agreement,  the  Commission  will  establish  a  liaison 
office at United Nations Headquarters with effect from 
tomorrow. This office will represent the interests of the 
Commission  in  New  York  and  will  serve  those  States 
signatories  of  the  CTBT  that  are  not  represented  in 
Vienna. 

The  relationship  Agreement  makes  provision  for 
the use of the United Nations laissez-passer by officials 
of the Commission, and we look forward to concluding 
the necessary implementing arrangement for this in the 
near  future.  In  addition,  the  Agreement  provides  for 
close  cooperation  and  coordination  between  the  two 
Organizations.  The  Commission  has  consequently 
expressed its interest in participating in the work of the 
Administrative  Committee  on  Coordination.  An 
agreement  is  also  being  negotiated  with  the  United 
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which will 
set  out  a  framework  for 
to  provide 
operational support services to the Commission. 

The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
bans all nuclear test explosions, for military as well as 
for  civilian  purposes.  It  has  assumed  a  pivotal  role  in 
the 
the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
its 
verification 
the  proliferation  of 
weapons-grade  fissionable  material,  the  CTBT  and  its 
verification 
the  prevention  of 
explosive testing of nuclear devices. By putting an end 
to testing, the CTBT impedes the development of ever 
more  sophisticated  and  qualitatively  new  nuclear 
weapons.  The  CTBT  is  expected  to  stop  vertical  as 
well  as  horizontal  nuclear  proliferation.  Thus,  the 
Treaty strengthens and enhances the process of nuclear 
disarmament. 

Successful implementation  of the  CTBT  depends 
on  the  effectiveness  of  its  worldwide  verification 
system so that each party can be assured that all other 
parties  will  adhere  to  the  Treaty  or  at  least  that  any 
violation  of  it  will  be  detected.  The  International 
Monitoring  System  (IMS) 
is  a  network  of  170 
seismological, 60 infrasound, 11  hydroacoustic and 80 
radionuclide  stations,  supported  by  16  radionuclide 
laboratories. It will be capable of registering vibrations 
underground,  in  the  sea  and  in  the  air,  as  well  as 
detecting  traces  of  radionuclides  released  into  the 
atmosphere  by  a  nuclear  explosion.  The  stations  will 
transmit  a  stream  of  data  generated  by  these  four 
regime.  While 
(NPT)  and 
regime  address 
focus  on 
regime 
system 
to 
satellite 
communications 
complementary  technologies,  in  near  real  time,  via  a 
global 
the 
International Data Centre in Vienna, where all the data 
will be processed. All data, raw and processed, will be 
made available to States parties for their final analysis. 
Ambiguous  events  will  be  subject  to  consultation  and 
clarification. As a final verification measure, an on-site 
inspection may be requested. 

The  global  verification  regime  of  the  CTBT  has 
to  be  operational  at  the  Treaty’s  entry  into  force.  I 
should  now  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly  what  the 
Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  has  been  doing  to 
assist  the  Commission  in  establishing  the  regime.  The 
Secretariat  started  work  at  the  Vienna  International 
Centre  on  17  March  1997  with  a  very  small  staff  of 
nine. After 42 months’ existence, it has become a fully 
fledged  international  secretariat  comprising  248  staff 
members  from  70  countries.  Since  the  focus  of  the 
Commission’s responsibilities is technical, the majority 
of  the  staff  members  in  the  Professional  category  are 
scientists. 

The  Secretariat  is  building  up  the  International 
Monitoring  System  according  to  a  schedule  of  work 
determined  by 
the  Commission.  To  date,  some 
$58 million have been budgeted for capital investment 
in the International Monitoring System. This covers the 
costs  of  site  surveys  necessary  to  select  the  most 
appropriate location  for each  station, the purchase and 
installation  of  equipment  and  the  final  certification  of 
facilities. It represents approximately 40 per cent of the 
total  capital 
the 
International  Monitoring  System.  The  Division 
working on this system has been working very hard to 
lay  the  groundwork  for  the  network.  To  date  about 
60 per  cent  of 
the  IMS  site  surveys  have  been 
completed,  and  approximately  20  per  cent  of  the 
stations have been installed and are sending data to the 
International  Data  Centre.  We  are  also  paying  special 
attention to the certification of IMS stations, and three 
IMS  seismic  stations — in  Canada,  Norway  and  the 
United States — have been certified. 

Since  21  February  2000  the  International  Data 
Centre  (IDC)  has  been  sending  IMS  data  and  its 
products on a test basis to States signatories. Currently 
more  than  40  States  have  submitted  the  information 
required  to  establish  a  secure  signatory  account,  and 
they are able to access the data and products. 
investment  required 
to  complete 


13 

A/55/PV.44 

to 
to 
In 
the 
related 
on-site 
area  of 
inspections, 
radionuclide 
low-resolution 

The  core  of  our  Global  Communications 
Infrastructure  (GCI)  was  put  in  place  in  1999,  when 
global  satellite  coverage  was  established  with  the 
installation  of  four  GCI  hubs  and  the  infrastructure  to 
link  these  hubs  to  the  International  Data  Centre  in 
Vienna.  This  year  an  additional  hub  was  established. 
GCI  satellite  terminals  have  been  installed  at  37  IMS 
stations, national data centres and development sites. 

the 
Commission has made good progress in the elaboration 
of a draft on-site inspection operational manual, which 
is being treated as  a  priority  task. Steady progress  has 
also  been  made  in  the  procurement  of  passive  seismic 
equipment 
the  Seismic  Aftershock 
Monitoring System (SAMS), as well as of initial items 
of  handheld 
survey 
equipment  for  testing  purposes.  The  Secretariat  has 
also initiated the  process  for the procurement  of  items 
related 
still  and  video  photography,  visual 
observation and position finding. 

Confidence-building  measures,  another  element 
of  the  global  verification  regime,  are  of  a  voluntary 
nature.  The  Preparatory  Commission  has  agreed  to 
establish  a  database  on  chemical  explosions  for  the 
purpose  of  creating  the  basic  technical  conditions  for 
the  implementation  of  confidence-building  measures 
after the Treaty enters into force. 

In  accordance  with  article  XIV,  the  Treaty  will 
enter  into  force  after  it  has  been  ratified  by  the  44 
States 
the  Treaty.  Another 
important aspect of the Commission’s work is therefore 
to promote the signature and ratification of the CTBT. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  since  its  opening  for 
signature  and  ratification  on  24  September  1996  the 
Treaty  has  been  signed  by  160  countries.  To  date,  66 
countries have also ratified the Treaty; they include 30 
of  the  44  States  listed  in  annex  2  to  the Treaty  whose 
ratification is needed for it to enter into force. 
Following  the  article  XIV  Conference  convened 

by  the  Secretary-General  in  October  last  year  —  the 
Conference  on  Facilitating  the  Entry  into  Force  of  the 
CTBT  —  members  of  the  Preparatory  Commission 
have  continued  to  make  serious  efforts  to  sustain  the 
momentum  that the  Conference created. To this end,  a 
wide range of activities, in the form of coordinated and 
unilateral  initiatives,  has  been  undertaken  to  advance 
the  universality  of  the Treaty  and  to  promote  its  early 
entry into force. 
in  annex  2 
listed 
to 
for 
the 
to 
that 
The 
significant 
to  express 
the  CTBT.  I  wish 
the  CTBT  and  welcomed 

The  commitment  of  the  international  community 
to  bring  the  Treaty  into  force  was  clearly  reflected  at 
the  2000  NPT  Review  Conference,  which  affirmed 
support 
final 
declaration adopted at the article XIV Conference. It is 
particularly 
the  NPT  Review 
Conference  agreed  on  the  importance  and  urgency  of 
signature  and  ratification,  without  delay  and  without 
conditions,  and 
in  accordance  with  constitutional 
processes,  to  achieve  the  early  entry  into  force  of  the 
CTBT, as well as on a moratorium on nuclear-weapon-
test explosions or any other nuclear explosions pending 
its entry into force. 

recent  Millennium  Summit,  at  which 
facilities  were  made  available  for  States  to  sign  and 
ratify multilateral treaties deposited with the Secretary-
General, provided an excellent opportunity to promote 
adherence 
the 
appreciation  of  the  Commission  for  the  Secretary-
General’s initiative  in  this regard.  During the  Summit, 
five  States  signed  the  Treaty  and  two  deposited  their 
instruments of ratification. 

Thus  far,  the  brief  history  of  the  CTBT  can  be 
considered  to  be  one  of  success:  the  international 
community firmly supports the Treaty; its Organization 
is well established; and even before its entry into force, 
the verification regime has proved itself a reliable and 
effective  system.  The  early  entry  into  force  of  the 
Treaty remains an important political challenge. I wish 
to take this opportunity to encourage all States to take 
the necessary steps to ensure that the CTBT enters into 
force  soon,  so 
its 
verification regime  can be  brought  into  effect to  make 
our world a safer and more secure place for generations 
to come. 

The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Mexico  to  introduce  the  draft  decision  in  document 
A/55/L.5. 

Mr.  Albin  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Mexican  delegation  has  the  honour  of  introducing  the 
draft  decision 
entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”. 

completely 
prohibiting nuclear tests  was for  many  years a priority 
objective of Mexico’s foreign policy. The Government 
the 
of  Mexico  signed 
in  document  A/55/L.5, 
the  Treaty  convinced 
the  components  of 
conclusion 
a  Treaty 
that  all 
The 
that 
for 
of 
14 




A/55/PV.44
in 
receive 
the  broadest  possible  support 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for 
It is with this in mind that Mexico introduces the 

draft  decision  contained 
in  document  A/55/L.5, 
convinced that greater cooperation between the United 
Nations  and 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
will  strengthen  the  United  Nations  and  contribute  to 
the  objectives  of  non-proliferation  and  nuclear 
disarmament. We therefore hope that the draft decision 
will 
from 
Member States and will be adopted without a vote. 
Miss  Aragon  (Philippines):  Our  travel  on  the 

road  to  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT) has been interesting. We have had some bumps 
and  turns,  but  we  have  remained  true  to  our  cause.  A 
while  back  on  that  road  we  encountered  what  seemed 
to  be  an  impassable  roadblock.  But  we  were  able  to 
prevent the CTBT text from becoming a mere fixture in 
the archives of the Conference on Disarmament and to 
breathe  life  into  this  text.  In  1996,  through  the 
determined  efforts  of  several  States  led  by  Australia 
and  Mexico,  the  text  made  the  trip  from  Geneva  to 
New York. 

In  the  years  that  followed,  we  actively  sought  to 
establish  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
Organization  (CTBTO),  while  at  the  same  time  trying 
to  bring  universality  to  the Treaty.  While  the  numbers 
have  been  encouraging,  our  efforts  at  universality  had 
an extra challenge or another  bump  in the road  — the 
ratification  or  accession  of  the  rest  of  the  45 Annex  2 
States.  But  we  did  go  farther  down  the  road  when  we 
met last year in Vienna for the Conference to facilitate 
the early entry into force of the CTBT. Under the able 
presidency  of  Mr.  Masahiko  Koumura  of  Japan,  we 
reiterated  our  common  commitment  and  desire  to  see 
the CTBT enter into force. 

The end of the road is still far away, because for 
the  Philippines  that  end  is  the  total  elimination  of 
nuclear weapons. But more immediately, we must stay 
on the road towards the entry into force of the CTBT. 

the  right  direction.  This 
resolution is proof of that. Other proof is the gentleman 
who  has been quietly  organizing  the  CTBTO and  who 
shared  his  thoughts  with  us this  morning, Ambassador 
Wolfgang Hoffmann of Germany. 

Even  though  we  have  not  yet  reached  that 
milestone when we can celebrate the entry into force of 
the CTBT, today’s decision is important and is one that 
I believe will bring us closer to that milestone. 
We  are  going 
in 
to  carry  out 
the  chair  of 
important  step 
its  mandate  with 
the  United  Nations  and 
cessation  of 
testing  would  prevent  qualitative 
improvements  of  nuclear  weapons  and  put  an  end  to 
the development of new types of nuclear weapons. This 
is  an 
the  process  of  nuclear 
disarmament. Consistent with the great importance that 
Mexico  attaches  to  the  work  of  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO), 
the  Preparatory 
Mexico  assumed 
Commission for the CTBTO during the second half of 
this year. 

We believe that a closer relationship between the 
Preparatory Commission and the United Nations opens 
up  possibilities  of  a  broad  agenda  of  cooperation.  We 
must  make  the  most  of  them. The  active  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations  will  mean  that the  CTBTO  will  be 
able 
the  greatest 
efficiency and transparency. 
The  Agreement  to  Regulate  the  Relationship 

between 
the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  CTBTO,  approved  on  15  June 
2000,  states  that,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter,  the 
United  Nations  is  the  principal  Organization  dealing 
with  matters  relating 
international  peace  and 
security  and  acknowledges  that  the  activities  of  the 
Commission  performed  pursuant  to  the  Treaty  will 
contribute  to  the  realization  of  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter. 

Through  this Agreement,  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Commission  recognize  the  need  to  collaborate  in 
order  to  achieve  their  common  objectives,  and,  with  a 
view  to  facilitating  the  effective  exercise  of  their 
responsibilities, agree to cooperate closely, consult and 
maintain  a  close  working  relationship  on  matters  of 
mutual  interest  and  concern.  To  this  end,  the  United 
Nations and the Commission have agreed to cooperate 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  their  respective 
constituent 
by 
Mr. Wolfgang  Hoffmann,  Executive  Secretary  of  the 
Preparatory Commission, in his valuable presentation. 

The  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  must 
support  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear  Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT)  as an  indispensable element  in the  framework 
supporting 
the  multilateral  nuclear  disarmament 
agenda.  We  emphasize  that  in  the  Final  Document  of 
the last Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
all Member States are urged to continue to make every 
effort to ensure the early entry into force of the CTBT. 
to 
instruments, 
as 
underscored 


15 

A/55/PV.44 

Mr.  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 

The  final  nuclear  tests  of  the  last  millennium 
were  all  conducted  in  our  part  of  the  world.  It  is  the 
hope of my country that these tests were the last for all 
time. 

The  CTBT  is  an  important  part  of  our  collective 
efforts to achieve nuclear disarmament. Taken together 
with the other steps we have taken, the CTBT is crucial 
in  preventing  proliferation  and  will  put  in  place  a 
verification  system  that  we  will  one  day  need  when 
agreement  is  finally  reached  on  ridding  the  world  of 
nuclear weapons. 

France speaking on behalf of the European Union. 

Mr.  Bossiere  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
the  honour  to  address  this Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
European  Union.  The  Central  and  Eastern  European 
countries  associated  with  the  European  Union  — 
Bulgaria, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Hungary, 
Latvia,  Lithuania,  Poland,  Romania,  Slovakia  and 
Slovenia — and the associated countries Cyprus, Malta 
and Turkey,  as  well  as  Iceland  a  European  Free Trade 
Association  [EFTA]  country  that  is  a  member  of  the 
European  Economic  Area,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement. 
Allow me first to say how delighted we are at the 

successful  conclusion  of 
the  bilateral  agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization  (CTBTO).  This 
gives  the  General Assembly  an  opportunity  in  plenary 
to  deal  with  the  progress  made  on  achieving  the  early 
entry into force of the Treaty. 

The importance and the urgency of continuing the 
process of signing and ratifying this Treaty in order to 
permit  the  speedy  entry  into  force  of  the  Treaty  was 
recalled 
the  Review 
Conference  on  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  This  is  a  priority  of  the 
European  Union.  No  less  than  160  States  have  signed 
this  basic  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
instrument.  We  call  upon  all  States  that  have  not  yet 
done so, particularly those that appear on the list of the 
44  States  whose  ratification  is  necessary  for  the  entry 
into force of the Treaty, to sign and ratify the CTBT as 
soon  as  possible.  In  this  respect,  we  congratulate 
Bangladesh, Chile, Gabon, Iceland, Kiribati, Lithuania, 
the  Maldives,  Mexico,  Morocco, 
the  Russian 
Federation,  Turkey  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates  on 
final  document  of 
the 
in 
All 
The  conclusion  of 
the  ratification  of  the  Treaty  since  the  last  session  of 
the General Assembly. 

the  European  Union  Member  States, 
including those that appear on the list of the 44 States 
whose ratification  is  necessary  for the  entry into  force 
of  the Treaty,  have  signed  and  ratified  the  CTBT. The 
European  Union  has  spared  no  effort  to  ensure  the 
prompt entry into  force  of the Treaty  and its  universal 
scope. On 29 July 1999, the European Union adopted a 
common position in pursuit of these objectives. At the 
Conference held in Vienna last year, pursuant to article 
14  of  the  CTBT,  the  countries  that  had  signed  and 
ratified  the  Treaty  reaffirmed  their  resolve  to  work  to 
ensure  that  the  Treaty  is  ratified  by  all  and  rapidly 
entered into force. 

the  bilateral  agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization  will  make  it 
possible  for  the  Secretariat  to  establish  the  parameters 
of the  Preparatory  Commission  for the  CTBTO  and to 
strengthen its activities in international  forums. I  wish 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the  European 
Union’s  hope  that  the draft agreement  with  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme  will  also  be  quickly 
concluded  and  that  a  draft  will  be  submitted  to  the 
Preparatory Commission in due course. 

The  European  Union  pays  tribute  to  the  work 
done  by 
the  entire 
Secretariat,  as  well  by  the  Preparatory  Commission. 
The  European  Union  particularly  acknowledges  the 
progress  made in installing the  monitoring system. We 
hope  that this  momentum  will  continue and  that every 
effort  will  be  made  to  establish  the  stations.  With 
respect  to  the  programme  budget,  we  welcome  the 
information  communicated  to  us  by  the  Executive 
Secretary,  according 
to  which  91  per  cent  of 
contributions have already been paid. This confirms the 
high level of commitment of States. 

The  European  Union  hopes  that  the  General 
Assembly  will  fully  support  the  efforts  made  by  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
in  the  area  of  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  The 
Union  hopes  in  particular  that  Member  States  will 
support  the  implementation  of  the  bilateral  agreement 
just  concluded  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization. 

Finally,  the  member  States  of  the  Union  draw 
attention  to  the  fact  that  they  support  the  initiative  to 
the  Executive  Secretary  and 
16 




A/55/PV.44
Completion  of 
the  CTBT  negotiations, 
this  plenary  item  makes 
the  Executive  Secretary  of 
convene  another  conference  on  article  14  of  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  in  autumn 
2001. 
Mr.  Luck  (Australia):  Allow  me,  through  you, 

Mr.  President,  to  extend  my  delegation’s  appreciation 
to 
the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO),  Mr.  Wolfgang 
Hoffmann,  for  the  report  on  the  activities  of  the 
Preparatory Commission during 1999. We welcome the 
contribution 
to  a  better 
understanding of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty (CTBT) among all States. 

in 
September 1996, fulfilled a key objective identified by 
the  Principles  and  Objectives  of  the  1995  Review  and 
Extension  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  as 
being  important  to  the  full  realization  and  effective 
implementation of article VI of the NPT. 

While it is disappointing that the CTBT is not yet 
formally  in  force,  it  is  in  provisional  operation;  and 
that  is  to  be  welcomed.  With  160  signatories  and  66 
ratifications,  and  a  growing  verification  infrastructure, 
the  Treaty 
firmly  established  as  a  powerful 
international  norm  against  further  nuclear  testing.  I 
agree very much with Mr. Hoffmann’s remarks on that 
point. 

Australia,  which  played  a  major  role  in  bringing 
the Treaty  to  the  United  Nations  General Assembly  in 
1996,  will  continue 
to  work  actively  with  other 
countries to secure early entry into force of the Treaty. 
We  recently  made  a  further  round  of  diplomatic 
representations  to  countries  of  the Asia-Pacific  region 
and  to  countries  in  the  group  of  44  States  whose 
ratification is required for entry into force. Australia is 
also active  in  the Vienna process to organize  a second 
CTBT  article  XIV  conference  on  facilitating 
the 
Treaty’s early entry into force. We were pleased to take 
the lead in introducing the CTBT draft resolution under 
consideration this year in the First Committee. 

Progress in  signatures and  ratifications  has  made 
an  important  contribution  to  maintaining  the  strength 
and  momentum  of  the Treaty. A  further  key  factor  has 
been  the  successful  establishment  of  the  CTBTO’s 
Preparatory  Commission  and  its  Provisional Technical 
Secretariat (PTS) in Vienna. We should be in no doubt 
that  the  establishment  of  the  Preparatory  Commission 
is 
for 
the 
is  a  major  effort 
landmark  achievement 
international  data  centre 
was  a 
for  nuclear  non-
proliferation  and  disarmament.  The  setting  up  of  the 
Preparatory  Commission  and  the  significant  financial 
investment  inherent  in  its  work  send  a  powerful 
message to those still outside the CTBT that the global 
non-testing norm is here to stay. 

The  Treaty’s  International  Monitoring  System 
(IMS) 
international 
community.  When  completed  it  will  consist  of  170 
seismological, 60 infrasound, 11  hydroacoustic and 80 
radionuclide  stations  supported  by  16  radionuclide 
laboratories.  A  global  communications  infrastructure 
and  an 
in  Vienna  will 
complete  the  IMS.  Countries  will  also  be  establishing 
their own national data centres to enable them to reach 
conclusions  about  international  compliance  with  the 
test  ban.  Obviously,  this  system  requires  a  significant 
investment, but it is an investment fully justified by the 
security  benefit  of  assurance  of  detection  of  nuclear-
test explosions anywhere in the world. 

We  welcome  the  good  progress  made  by  the 
Preparatory Commission and the Provisional Technical 
Secretariat on establishing the International Monitoring 
System, and we look forward to further development of 
this and other aspects of CTBT verification so that the 
Treaty’s verification system will be ready at entry into 
force.  Obviously,  the  Preparatory  Commission  must 
continue  to  receive  adequate  resources  in  order  to  be 
able to maintain the necessary rate of progress. 

Australia  will  host  21  IMS  stations,  the  third 
largest  number  of  stations  in  any  country.  We  are 
pleased  to  report  that  work  on  these  stations  is  at  an 
advanced  stage,  with  several  stations  already  close  to 
being  certified  as  meeting  CTBT  standards.  We 
encourage 
International 
Monitoring System stations to continue to work closely 
with  the  Preparatory  Commission  to  ensure  timely 
completion  of  their  stations.  Along  with  the  System, 
the  possibility  of  on-site  inspections  to  investigate 
serious 
a 
fundamental element of CTBT verification. Agreement 
on  effective  and  practical  procedures 
for  such 
inspections  have  proven  more  elusive  than  we  might 
have  hoped.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  the  active 
contribution of all States signatories in the forthcoming 
elaboration  process  for  the  on-site  inspection  manual 
so that this document may be ready as soon as possible. 
non-compliance 
countries 
concerns 
about 
all 
hosting 
is 


17 

A/55/PV.44 

tests 
support 
through 
that 
in 
include  an 
the  work  of 
The  creation  of  an 
Australia has long recognized that a universal and 

verifiable  ban  on  nuclear 
is  an  essential 
component  of  regional  and  international  peace  and 
security, and would be a decisive step towards the goal 
of  the  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons.  The  wide 
support  for  the  CTBT  and  the  substantial  progress 
made on the Treaty’s verification show that a verifiable 
nuclear-test  ban is  now  within  sight  of  attainment. We 
take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our  appreciation  for 
the work of the Preparatory Commission and to assure 
it of our continued strong support. 

Mr.  Smith  (United  States  of  America):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  its  support  for  the  important  work  of  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization in implementing 
the  requirements  of  the  Treaty.  The  United  States  has 
demonstrated 
active 
participation 
the  Preparatory 
Commission. 

international  verification 
regime,  which  is  the  prime  task  of  the  Preparatory 
Commission, will be a major step forward. That regime 
will 
International  Monitoring  System 
consisting  of  a  global  network  of  seismological, 
radionuclide 
an 
international  data  centre.  It  will  play  a  key  role  in 
monitoring the Treaty. 

The  United  States  urges  all  countries  that  have 
signed or ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty to meet their obligations to support this effort. 

fully 
supports  the  statement  just  made  by  France  on  behalf 
of the European Union.  

I  would  like  to  thank Ambassador  Hoffmann  for 
his  excellent  report  on  the  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission  for 
Treaty 
the 
Comprehensive 
Organization.  Austria 
the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) is an 
important  instrument  in  the  effort  to  advance  arms 
control  and  nuclear  disarmament  by  banning  all 
nuclear tests and other nuclear explosions. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that  since  the Treaty  was 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  and  opened  for 
signature  in  September  1996,  160  States  have  signed 
and 66 have ratified it. Thirty of those countries are on 
Nuclear-Test-Ban 
firmly  believes 
Ms.  Schneebauer
(Austria):  Austria 
infrasound 
and 
sensors, 
and 
for 
its 
that 
of 
that 
leadership 
it  can  enter 
the  Executive 
into  force  before 
the  list  of  the  44  key  States  whose  ratification  is, 
according  to  article  XIV  of  the  CTBT,  a  prerequisite 
for the Treaty’s entry into force. While we would have 
wished the ratification process to proceed more swiftly, 
we  must  remain  realistic  and  take  stock  of  what  has 
already been achieved. We remain confident that in the 
course  of  the  next  month  the  number  of  signatory  and 
ratifying  States  will  steadily  increase.  We  especially 
call upon the 14 key States to sign and ratify the Treaty 
so 
its  fifth 
anniversary, in September 2001. 

Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
high  appreciation  for  the  work  accomplished  over  the 
past three and a half years by the Provisional Technical 
Secretariat  of  the  Preparatory  Commission,  under  the 
able 
Secretary, 
Mr. Wolfgang  Hoffmann. They  are  striving  hard  to  set 
up the global verification system so that it will be fully 
functional  at  the  time  of  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
CTBT. Given the complexity of their tasks, much work 
still  needs  to  be  done  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the 
Treaty. In view of the remarkable progress achieved, I 
am  confident  that  the  remaining  problems  will  be 
solved if both the Provisional Technical Secretariat and 
the members of the Preparatory Commission unite their 
efforts and their expertise. 
Mr.  Cheng  Jingye (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I 

wish first of all to thank the Executive Secretary of the 
the  Comprehensive 
Preparatory  Commission 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO), 
Mr. Wolfgang  Hoffmann,  for  his  introduction  of  the 
work  of  that  organization  during  the  past  year.  The 
international community concluded the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  after  a  great  deal  of 
work  and  hard  negotiations  over  many  years.  The 
Treaty constitutes an important step towards the goal of 
the  complete  prohibition  and  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  is  an  important  achievement  in  the  arms 
control and disarmament sphere. It is of epoch-making 
significance  in  the  process  of  nuclear  disarmament. 
Since its adoption, it has been signed by 160 countries 
and  ratified  by  more  than  60,  which  shows  that  the 
international community supports and trusts the Treaty. 

Over  the  past  four  years,  preparations  for  the 
CTBTO  have  been  proceeding  apace,  and  a  great  deal 
of  progress  has  been  achieved.  We  pay  tribute  to 
Mr. Wolfgang  Hoffmann,  who  heads  the  Provisional 
Technical  Secretariat,  for  the  positive  contribution  he 
made  to the Treaty  negotiations, and to all  others  who 
for 
18 




A/55/PV.44
and 
to  fulfil 
to 
strengthen 
China  has 
always 
favoured 
the 
to 
the  work  of 
the  CTBTO  will 
Enhancing  cooperation  between 
are  contributing 
the  Preparatory 
Commission.  The  Commission  has  been  assigned  a 
noble  task.  It  is  playing  an  important  role  in  the 
strengthening of international peace and security and in 
promoting the process of disarmament. 
the  United 

Nations 
the 
relationship  between  the  two  organizations,  in  turn 
making the international community more aware of the 
importance  of  the  CTBTO  and  thus  helping  that 
organization  better 
its  historic  mission. 
Although  important  progress  has  been  made  in  the 
preparatory  work,  we  also  note  some  problems.  Some 
of  the  big  Powers  have  refused  to  ratify  the  Treaty, 
which  has  a  serious  negative  impact  on  its  ultimate 
entry into force. There is still room for improvement in 
terms  of  universal  participation  in  the  preparatory 
process. 

complete 
prohibition  and  total  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons, 
and has always taken a positive approach to the CTBT. 
China  was  among  the  first  to  sign  the  Treaty  and  has 
played  an  active  part  in  the  preparatory  work  for  the 
CTBTO.  The  Chinese  Government  has  submitted  the 
Treaty 
for 
ratification;  that  body  will  consider  the  question  of 
ratification in line with my country’s legal procedures. 

We  urge  countries  that  have  not  yet  signed  or 
ratified the Treaty to do so at an early date so that the 
Treaty can enter  into  force  and can attain  universality. 
We  also  hope 
that  States  parties  will  fully  and 
faithfully meet their Treaty obligations so that the aims 
of the CTBT can be attained at an early date. 
Mr.  Cappagli  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

My  thanks  go  to  the  Executive  Secretary  of  the 
the  Comprehensive 
Preparatory  Commission 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO), 
Mr. Wolfgang Hoffmann, for his presentation. 
its 

satisfaction  at 
the 
Relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization.  Argentina 
stresses 
the 
international  community’s  goals  of 
the  complete 
prohibition  of  nuclear  tests  and  of  the  creation  of  an 
international 
the 
International  Data  Centre. In  that regard, in  December 
the  National  People’s  Congress 
its  ongoing  active  commitment 
The  Argentine  Government 
expresses 
to  Regulate 
the  Agreement 
verification 
system 
through 
for 
for 
to 
1999  my  country  signed  an  agreement  with 
the 
Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  of  the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty Organization on undertaking activities related to 
the Treaty’s international monitoring facilities. 

At the national level, Argentina has contributed to 
the  design  and  installation  of  monitoring  stations  as 
part  of  the  International  Monitoring  System.  That 
reflects our goodwill and our readiness to facilitate the 
installation of such facilities. 
My  country  stresses  its  political  support  for  the 

entry  into  force  of  the  Treaty.  At  the  same  time,  we 
express  our  concern  about  increases  in  the  budget  of 
the  CTBTO,  which  entails  increased  contributions  by 
every country.  

We  wish  to  highlight  the  upcoming  regional 
workshop  on  international  cooperation  and  national 
implementation  and  ratification  procedures,  to  take 
place at Lima, Peru, from 29 November to 1 December. 
It  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  an  analysis  of  the 
international  monitoring  process,  and  will  add  further 
momentum towards the entry into force of the Treaty. 
Mr.  McDougall  (Canada):  This  is  a  landmark 

occasion — the first time an Executive Secretary of the 
Provisional 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO) has appeared before the General Assembly of 
the United Nations. Canada salutes the achievements of 
the  organization  and 
leadership  of  Wolfgang 
Hoffmann.  We  also  welcome  the  growing,  mutually 
beneficial  cooperation  between  the  organization  and 
the United Nations system. 

The  Canadian  national  statement  to  the  First 
Committee this year noted that the CTBT has now been 
signed  by  160  countries  and  ratified  by  63;  that  there 
has  been  no  testing  for  over  two  years;  that  the 
CTBTO’s  surveillance  and  verification  network  is 
under construction; that there is a de facto moratorium 
on  testing  in  effect  among  the  five  nuclear-weapon 
States  that  is  respected  by  all  of  them;  and  that  the 
political  cost  of  tests,  the  bar  against  any  further 
demonstrations  of  weapons 
capable  of  human 
extinction, is surely higher than it has ever been and is 
rising. 

Canada  wants  that  political  cost  to  be,  and  to  be 
seen to be, simply prohibitive. We want the bar against 
tests to be decisive; we want no more tests ever again. 
Secretariat 
Technical 
the 
for 


19 

A/55/PV.44 

for  a 
second  conference, 
That  is  why  we  pressed  for  the  Treaty’s  provision  for 
sustained  pressure  for  ratification,  why  we  will  join 
nations  planning 
in 
accordance  with  the  Treaty,  here  in  New  York  next 
year,  to  promote  early  entry  into  force,  and  why  we 
appeal directly  to  the  14  Governments  whose  required 
assent for entry into force is still outstanding. 

The CTBTO’s verification network heard the last 
nuclear  tests  on  earth.  It  heard  the  explosions  which 
sank  the  Kursk  —  may  the  souls  of  its  crew  rest  in 
peace.  We  should  make  no  mistake:  big  explosions, 
anywhere  on  earth,  are  no  longer  secret.  Today’s  is  a 
monitored  moratorium  on  nuclear  tests  —  something 
new and strong in the world.  

The  CTBTO  is  a  vital  part  of  the  essential 
infrastructure  for  a  world  free  from  nuclear  arms.  We 
are pleased to have this occasion to hail its progress. 

the debate on this item.  

A/55/L.5. 

decision A/55/L.5. 

draft decision A/55/L.5? 
The draft decision was adopted. 

The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 

the  General Assembly  to  conclude its  consideration  of 
agenda item 177? 


The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
We  shall  now  proceed  to  consider  draft  decision 
The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
It was so decided. 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/55/368) 
Draft resolution (A/55/L.17) 
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Agenda item 24 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference



Malaysia to introduce draft resolution A/55/L.17. 
Mr.  Hasmy  (Malaysia):  I  wish  at  the  outset  to 

thank the Secretary-General for his report. Speaking in 
Malaysia’s  capacity  as  the  current  Chairman  of  the 
Islamic Group at the United Nations in New York, I am 
pleased  to  note  that  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
The  OIC, 
in  view  of 
their  cooperation 
founded  31  years  ago,  aims 
this  item  indicates  a  welcome  deepening  of  relations 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC) 
through  high-level 
contacts, regular consultations and technical meetings.  

The  report  notes  that  the  OIC  has  participated 
actively  in  the  meetings  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
subsidiary  organs  and  has  entered  into  cooperation 
agreements  with  various  United  Nations  subsidiary 
organs.  We  are  gratified  that  the  Secretary-General 
encourages the United Nations and the OIC to continue 
to  strengthen 
the 
increasingly  important  role  played  by  the  OIC  in  the 
international  arena,  in  particular  with  respect  to  the 
implementation of the objectives of the United Nations 
in  the  areas  of  security,  disarmament,  decolonization, 
human  rights,  economic  development  and  technical 
cooperation. 

to 
strengthen  unity  and  solidarity  among  the  Islamic 
community and to forge greater cooperation among its 
members,  encompassing  all  areas.  The  OIC,  which 
today  comprises  56  member  States  and  4  observer 
States,  covers  a  vast  geographical  area  and  a  large 
population dispersed over four continents. It represents 
a  rich  diversity  of  cultures  and  political  systems  that 
share  the  common  heritage  of  Islam.  With  the  active 
support of its members, the Organization has been able 
to fulfil its role as an important international institution 
serving  the  cause  of  global  peace  and  security  and 
striving  to  work  for  a  better  future  for  the  Muslim 
community and humanity as a whole. 

In July this year the twenty-seventh session of the 
Islamic  Conference  of  Foreign  Ministers  (ICFM)  was 
held  in  Kuala  Lumpur,  Malaysia.  The  ICFM  is  the 
second main policy-making organ of the OIC, the first 
being 
the  Islamic  Summit  Conference.  The  next 
summit  meeting  will  be  held  in  Doha,  Qatar,  from  12 
to  14  November  this  year.  The  foreign  ministers 
meeting  in  Kuala  Lumpur  considered  international 
developments  and  their  impact  on  the  Islamic  States 
with  a  view  to  defining  common  positions  on  global 
political  and  economic  issues. They  also  reviewed  the 
socio-economic  situation in the Islamic  world, as  well 
as  economic  relations  with  non-member  States.  They 
took stock of the activities of Islamic institutions set up 
to  expand  economic  and  commercial  cooperation 
among  member  States,  and  approved  joint  plans  of 
action  for  the  progress  and  social  uplift  of  their 
peoples.  The  Kuala  Lumpur  meeting  also  discussed 
20 




A/55/PV.44
are 
that 
treatment 
cooperation  in  cultural  matters  among  member  States, 
with  special  attention  to  the  promotion  of  Islamic 
civilization  and  culture,  as  well  as  to  the  needs  of 
Islamic  minorities  in  various  parts  of  the  world. 
Several resolutions  were adopted at the Kuala Lumpur 
meeting,  representing  the  positions  of  the  Islamic 
community  on  matters  pertaining  to  global  peace  and 
security, social justice, trade and development. 

The foreign ministers also considered, as a major 
theme, the important issue of globalization, particularly 
the  continuing  unsatisfactory  situation  with  regard  to 
the globalization of trade and the crippling debt burden 
of  the  developing  countries.  They  also  considered  the 
situation  in  Palestine  and  the  Middle  East,  Kosovo, 
Afghanistan, Kashmir and Somalia, among other areas. 
It  took  a  hard  look  at  the  structural  distortions  and 
discriminatory 
currently 
undermining  the  international  system,  and  made  a 
number of constructive recommendations. 

The OIC Foreign Ministers also meet annually at 
the  United  Nations  in  September  to  coordinate  their 
positions  on  various  issues  on  the  United  Nations 
agenda.  

The  OIC  has  amply  demonstrated  that  it  is  an 
instrument  in  the  service  of  peace,  development  and 
solidarity  among the  world’s peoples. We  are  gratified 
that 
the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  has 
acknowledged the positive role played by the OIC and 
has 
to  be  an 
important  partner  of  the  United  Nations.  The  member 
States  of  the  OIC  firmly  believe  that  the  United 
Nations  is  well-placed  to  bridge  the  gap  between  the 
Islamic  countries  and  the  rest  of  the  international 
community  through  its  mechanisms  of  dialogue  and 
cooperation. 

Under  agenda  item,  I  have  the  honour, on  behalf 
of  the  States  members  of  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference, 
introduce  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.17. The preambular part of the draft resolution 
recalls 
the  General 
Assembly  and  recognizes  the  cooperation  between  the 
two organizations, including that initiated by resolution 
3369 (XXX) of 10 October 1975, by which the General 
Assembly  decided  to  invite  the  OIC  to  participate  in 
the  sessions  and  the  work  of  the  Assembly  in  the 
capacity of observer. The draft resolution spells out the 
reasons  for,  as  well  as  the  benefits  of,  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
the  Organization 
long  considered 
resolutions  of 
the  previous 
to 
like 
to  make 
elaborate  on 
Let  me  now 
the  meeting  of 
recommendations  of 
the  following  correction 
A  new  preambular  paragraph, 
the  Islamic  Conference  in  their  endeavours  to  pursue 
their common ideals and goals — namely, the quest for 
peace  and  the  promotion  of  genuine  development  for 
the benefit of  all countries  and peoples, as  well  as the 
promotion of human security. 

the  ninth, 
welcomes the results of the general meeting of the two 
organizations  and  their  relevant  agencies,  subsidiary 
organs, and specialized and affiliated institutions, held 
in  Vienna  from  11  to  13  July  2000,  pursuant  to 
resolution 54/7, adopted last year. 
Before elaborating on the operative paragraphs, I 

should 
to 
operative paragraph 6,  where “preventing” in the third 
line  should  be  replaced  by  “preventive”,  so  that  the 
phrase will now read “in the field of peace-making and 
preventive diplomacy”. 

the  operative 
paragraphs.  The  draft  resolution,  inter  alia,  takes  note 
with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General 
of  the  United  Nations;  takes  note  of  the  conclusions 
and 
the 
organizations  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations 
system  and  the  OIC  and  its  subsidiary  institutions; 
notes  with  satisfaction  the  active  participation  of  the 
OIC  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  towards  the 
realization of the purposes and principles of the United 
Nations  Charter;  welcomes 
the  strengthening  of 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  in  areas  of 
common  concern,  including  in  the  field  of  peace-
making  and  preventive  diplomacy,  and  their  close 
cooperation  in  their  continuing  search  for  peace  and 
lasting  solution 
in  Afghanistan; 
welcomes  the  increasing  information  exchange  and 
coordination  and  periodic  meetings  between  their  two 
Secretaries-General  and 
to  deepen 
further  cooperation  in  priority  areas  of  interest  in  the 
political, 
fields; 
expresses appreciation to the United Nations Secretary-
General  for  his  efforts  in  this  regard,  and  urges  the 
United Nations and its specialized agencies to provide 
increased technical and other forms of assistance to the 
OIC  and  its  subsidiary  agencies;  and  requests  the 
Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at 
its  fifty-sixth  session  on  the  state  of  cooperation 
between the two organizations. 

I  trust  that  the Assembly  will  fully  support  draft 
resolution A/55/L.17,  which  I  submit  on  behalf  of  the 
their  officials 
the  conflict 
economic, 
to 
social 
and 
cultural 


21 

A/55/PV.44 

(spoke 
to  find 
between 
(Senegal) 
deepening 
Mr.  Ka
cooperation 
The  Organization  of 
the  many  challenges 
the  point  of  becoming  a 
OIC  member  States  for  the  Assembly’s  consideration 
and unanimous adoption. 
in  French): 

Consideration of the agenda item entitled “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
the  Islamic  Conference”  is  of  special  importance  for 
my  delegation,  since it  is  a  high  point  in our  dialogue 
to  define  the  framework  of  a  mutually  advantageous 
the  right  collective 
in  order 
partnership 
responses 
to 
facing  both 
organizations. 

the  Islamic  Conference 
(OIC) comprises some 50 member States, representing 
a  fifth  of  the  world’s  population,  and  this  near-
universality  gives 
the  OIC  global  duties  and 
obligations.  It  is  therefore  natural  that  it  shares  the 
purposes and principles, as well as the concerns, of the 
United Nations, which explains the importance that the 
States members of the OIC, which are also Members of 
the United Nations, attach to strengthening, expanding 
and 
two 
organizations.  Over  the  years  this  cooperation  has 
reached 
living  reality 
encompassing  complementary  activities  in  our  quest 
for  solutions  to  crises  and  conflicts  that  beset  the 
Islamic  Ummah  in  broad  areas,  such  as  development, 
the  environment,  refugees  and  the  dialogue  among 
civilizations. 

One  priority  of  the  OIC,  clearly,  is  to  find 
solutions  to  crises  that  beset  certain  countries  or 
regions  and  are  of  great  concern  to  the  international 
community. Whether the crisis concerns the problem of 
the Middle East, and  more specifically the question of 
Palestine, which was the reason for the creation of the 
OIC,  or  the  question  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Kosovo, Somalia, Jammu and Kashmir, Afghanistan or 
Sierra  Leone, 
Islamic 
Conference  is  deeply  committed  to  finding  a  lasting 
political  solution,  working  hand  in  hand  with  the 
United Nations. 

Among  these  crises,  the  question  of  Palestine  is 
today  of  the  highest  priority.  My  country,  Senegal, 
which holds the chairmanship of the Committee on the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People,  and  which  is  also  a  member  of  the  Special 
Committee 
the 
Occupied Arab  Territories,  can  attest  to  the  vitality  of 
the  relationship  and  the  pre-eminent  role  of  the  OIC 
to  Investigate  Israeli  Practices 
the  Organization  of 
the 
the 
in 
the 
relevant 
resolutions 
and  the  United  Nations  in  finding  a  satisfactory 
solution  to  this  central  question  of  the  Israeli-Arab 
conflict. 

Recently,  following  the  provocative  visit  paid  to 
the Al-Haram Al-Sharif sanctuary by Mr. Ariel Sharon, 
the  head  of  the  Likud  Party,  and  following  the  deadly 
violence  that  this  visit  triggered  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  both  organizations  worked  in 
close  cooperation  to  resume  the  tenth  emergency 
special session in order to explore and implement ways 
to  reduce  tension  and  put  the  peace  process  back  on 
track. 

The  Special  Committee  on  Palestine,  which  I 
chair,  has  also  reacted  to  these  events  by  adopting,  at 
the  meeting  held  on  10  October,  a  declaration  that 
reaffirmed  the  ongoing  responsibility  of  the  United 
Nations for all aspects of the settlement of the question 
of  Palestine,  including  Jerusalem,  in  accordance  with 
the 
agreements, 
and 
international law. 

Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization of the Islamic  Conference (OIC)  extends 
also  to  the  promotion  of  international  peace  and 
security  in  conflict  zones,  particularly  in Afghanistan, 
Somalia, 
and 
Herzegovina, Jammu  and  Kashmir  and,  more recently, 
in  Kosovo  and  Sierra  Leone.  In  these  various  crises, 
the  member  States  of  the  OIC  have  associated  their 
initiatives with those of the United Nations in order to 
restore peace, provide humanitarian assistance and help 
in the post-conflict peace-building. 

It is within the context of this cooperation that the 
two  organizations  continue  above  all  to  harmonize 
their  activities  so  as  to  implement  the  10  priorities 
defined 
of 
representatives  of  the  secretariats  of  United  Nations 
and OIC bodies and agencies. This meeting was held in 
Vienna from 11 to 13 July 2000, pursuant to Assembly 
resolution  54/7.  These  priorities  include  science  and 
technology, 
to 
refugees,  food  security  and  agriculture,  education, 
human 
environment,  health  and 
population.  This  expanded,  multiform  and  diversified 
cooperation  might  even  provide  a  model  for  the 
expansion of relations between the United Nations and 
other organizations. 
I  remain  convinced  that  following  the  ninth 

summit  of  the  OIC  to  be  held  next  month  in  the 
trade  and  development,  assistance 
Tajikistan,  Azerbaijan, 
general  meeting 
resources, 
Bosnia 
recent 
the 
the 
by 
22 




A/55/PV.44
this 
I  cannot  conclude 
fraternal  country  of  Qatar,  cooperation  between  the 
OIC  and 
the  United  Nations  will  make  further 
progress,  in  an  international  context  in  which  both  of 
these  international  organizations  will  be  increasingly 
called upon to promote the well-being of the peoples of 
their member States. 

In  conclusion  I  wish  to  stress  that  today’s  world 
is  facing  many  serious  challenges,  and,  in  order  to 
address  them,  the  resolve  and  combined  efforts  of  the 
various  actors  in  international  affairs  are  required. 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OIC 
is  definitely  one  way  of  meeting  those  challenges  and 
of establishing the bases for peace and development in 
the world. 

For  these  reasons,  my  delegation  calls  for  the 
adoption,  by  consensus,  of  draft  resolution  A/55/L.17 
that is before us. 

statement  without 
conveying  heartfelt  congratulations  to  my  brother,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mokhtar  Lamani,  for  the  outstanding 
work  he  does  to  strengthen  cooperation  between  the 
OIC  and  the  United  Nations,  for  the  pre-eminent  role 
he  plays  and  for  the  devotion  he  has  shown  to  the 
Islamic Ummah. 
Mr.  Al-Heid  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

item  on 
Today  we  are  discussing 
the 
cooperation  between 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC).  The 
report of the Secretary-General contained in document 
A/55/368,  which  is  before  us,  sheds  light  on  the 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations.  In  this 
context I would like to extend my profound gratitude to 
His Excellency, the Secretary-General, for his report. 

The  developments  that  have  taken  place  in  the 
area of cooperation between the United Nations and the 
OIC  at  various  levels  during  the  past  period,  as 
reviewed  by  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  confirm 
the  belief  of 
two 
organizations  in  the  scope  of  their  cooperation,  their 
commitment  to  international  and  regional  causes  and 
their  shouldering  of  responsibilities.  The  Government 
of Saudi Arabia welcomes the continuing consultations 
between  the representatives of the  United  Nations and 
the  OIC.  Carried  out  through  the  meetings  of  the 
Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the OIC, 
these  consultations 
review  all  matters  of  great 
importance  in  the  political,  economic  and  cultural 
fields  and  all  matters  of  great  interest  to  the  member 
the  United  Nations  and 
representatives  of 
the  agenda 
the 
the 
the  OIC  and  provides  a  summary  of 
States of the two organizations. In addition, we believe 
that the various mechanisms for these consultations are 
the  right  channels  for  conveying  the  concerns  of  the 
member  States  of  the  OIC,  so  as  to  find  solutions  to 
common  issues  such  as  peace,  disarmament,  self-
determination,  the  question  of  Palestine,  the  questions 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Kosovo,  Afghanistan  and 
Somalia,  and  other  issues  relating  to  global  peace  and 
security that require intensifying the efforts of the two 
organizations,  on  the  one  hand,  and  those  of  the 
international community on the other. 

While  cooperation  is  important  in  the  political 
field,  it  is  also  important  in  the  fields  of  social  and 
economic  development.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  reviews  the  meetings  of  the  United  Nations 
and 
the 
participation  that  the  OIC  would  like  to  see  from  the 
various organizations in the United Nations system, in 
particular  from  the  United  Nations  main  specialized 
agencies.  In  order  to  guarantee  that  the  peoples  of  the 
member  States  of  the  OIC  reach  a  technical  level  that 
allows them to keep up with recent developments while 
remaining  true  to  the  tolerant  teachings  of  Islam,  the 
OIC wishes to increase this cooperation, particularly in 
the fields of agriculture, industry, finance and scientific 
and technical know-how. 

In  this  context  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
constructive  role  that  member  States  of  the  OIC  have 
played 
increase  and  develop 
cooperation  among  them,  in  order  to  make  further 
progress  in  development  and  to  establish  a  more  just 
economic  system.  In  addition,  these  member  States 
have made a special effort to exchange experiences and 
coordinate  their  positions  so  as  to  achieve  the  main 
goals of peace, security and justice, in accordance with 
the United Nations Charter. 

In conclusion my delegation would like to launch 
an  appeal  to  the  host  country  to  take  a  positive 
approach and treat the mission of the OIC in New York 
on  the  same  and  equal  footing  as  other  observer 
missions, so that it may carry out its work of increasing 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  other 
regional organizations. 

Mr. Ahmad (Pakistan): The General Assembly is 
today reviewing the report of the Secretary-General on 
cooperation  between 
the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  in 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  efforts 
to 
in 


23 

A/55/PV.44 

the 
and 
the  Organization  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
Islamic  Conference 
promoting  their  shared  goals  of  international  peace, 
security and development. 

We note with satisfaction that the United Nations 
and  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  have 
maintained  close  coordination  during  the  past  year  on 
important political issues, including the question of the 
Middle East and of Palestine, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
the  situation  in  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan,  Somalia  and  the  situation  relating  to 
Nagorny Karabakh. 
Periodic  dialogue  at  the  level  of  the  Secretaries-

General  of  the  two  organizations  on  peacemaking 
efforts  in  the  Middle  East,  Kosovo  and  the  Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia is an important step forward.  
On  Afghanistan,  joint  initiatives  by  the  United 

Nations 
Islamic 
Conference  have  been  extremely  useful  in  promoting 
the  prospects  of  a  lasting  solution  to  the  conflict. 
Cooperation on this issue must be further strengthened. 
There  is  now  a  need  for  sustained  and  effective 

the 
cooperation  between 
Organization  of 
the 
towards 
resolving  some  of  the  most  protracted  conflicts.  The 
Jammu  and  Kashmir  dispute  between  India  and 
Pakistan is one of them. Unfortunately, no progress has 
been  registered  on  this  issue  despite  the  fact  that  it 
remains  on  the  agendas  of  both  organizations  and  has 
the potential of endangering global peace and security. 
It  is  a  matter  of  satisfaction  that  cooperation 

between 
the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  is  expanding 
on  a  wide  range  of  socio-economic  issues.  These 
include 
and 
development,  technical  cooperation  among  Islamic 
countries,  assistance  to  refugees,  food  security  and 
agriculture,  education  and  eradication  of  illiteracy, 
investment  mechanisms  and  joint  ventures,  human 
resource  development, 
and 
population,  and  development  of  arts  and  crafts  and 
promotion  of  heritage.  Efforts  should  be  made  to 
diversify  cooperation  in  these  and  other  related  fields 
for the collective benefit of the Member States. 

In  our  statements  on  the  subject  during  the  last 
two  years,  we  have  been  expressing  concern  over  the 
fact  that  the  Permanent  Observer  Mission  of  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  which  has 
been  functioning  in  New  York  for  more  than  two 
the  United  Nations 
environment,  health 
technology, 
science 
system 
trade 
and 
and 
to 
like 
promoting 
immunities 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
that  cooperation  between 
decades,  has  not  been  accorded  formal  recognition  by 
the  host  Government.  Despite  the  concerns  expressed 
by  a  large  number  of  delegations,  very  little  progress 
has  been  achieved  in  this  regard,  which  hampers  the 
organization’s  effective  functioning,  which  includes 
matters  pertaining  to  cooperation  and  coordination 
with  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies.  We  once 
again  urge  the  host  Government  to  accord  the  OIC 
Observer  Mission 
the  necessary  privileges  and 
immunities,  as  envisaged  in Article  105  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  the  relevant  provisions  of  the 
United  Nations  Headquarters Agreement  with  the  host 
country.  This  need  has  been  recognized  by 
the 
Government  of  Switzerland,  as  it  has  accorded  the 
necessary  privileges  and 
the  OIC 
Observer Mission in Geneva, facilitating its interaction 
with  the  United  Nations  and  the  specialized  agencies 
based in that country. 
to  express  our 

the  United 
confidence 
Nations  system  and  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference  will  continue  to  grow  in  the  years  ahead. 
For  its  part,  Pakistan  will  continue  to  contribute 
towards 
and 
coordination between these two organizations. 
Mr. Kolby (Norway): At the outset, I  would like 

to  commend  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Chairman  of  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic Conference (OIC) for their commitment to the 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  and  their 
efforts  to  extend  it  to  new  fields  of  common  interest. 
We welcome the report of the Secretary-General on the 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OIC. 

As  the  problems  that  we  all  must  confront  have 
become  more  global,  the  importance  of  multilateral 
negotiations and agreements has increased. This is also 
the case for the role of regional organizations. Norway 
believes 
an 
important  tool  for  promoting  the  principles  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  consider  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference  a  vital  partner  for  the  United 
Nations  because  of  its  broad  regional  influence.  We 
also  recognize  that  the  importance  of  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
the Islamic Conference reaches far beyond the Islamic 
world. 

Norway  fully  supports  the  cooperation  between 
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  and  the 
these  organizations 
cooperation 
constitute 
greater 
that 
24 




A/55/PV.44
rights 
human 
to  promote 
disarmament, 
fundamental 
the  Chairman  of 
the  Islamic  Conference,  and 
United Nations in their common search for solutions to 
global  problems  related  to  international  peace  and 
self-determination, 
security, 
decolonization, 
and 
economic, social and technical development. 

We welcome the increasing efforts being made by 
the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic 
Conference 
international  peace  and 
security.  Noting  the  positive  developments  in  the 
Maghreb,  we  encourage  the  two  organizations  to 
continue  strengthening  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
peacemaking  and  preventive  diplomacy.  The  periodic 
high-level  meetings  between  the  Secretary-General  of 
the 
the  United  Nations  and 
Organization  of 
the 
regular  contact,  at  the  level  of  the  Department  of 
Political  Affairs  and  the  Permanent  Observer  Mission 
of the OIC to the United Nations, are important in this 
regard. 

We particularly encourage the United Nations and 
the  OIC  to  renew  their  efforts  to  seek  a  negotiated 
solution  to  the  conflict  in Afghanistan. Two  rounds  of 
indirect  talks  with  the  United  Front  and  the  Taliban 
were  convened  earlier 
the  OIC’s 
Committee  for Afghanistan. They  were  chaired  by  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  were  a  commendable 
initiative.  Those  meetings,  held  in  Jeddah  at  the 
headquarters  of 
important 
contribution  to  the  work  for  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region. 

OIC and the United Nations in the Balkans. 

Cooperation  between  specialized  agencies  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  OIC  and  its  subsidiary  bodies 
and  specialized  and  affiliated  institutions  serves  to 
extend  dialogue  to  new  areas.  We  are  pleased  to  note 
that  a  general  meeting  on  cooperation  between 
representatives of the secretariats of the United Nations 
system and the OIC and its specialized institutions was 
held  in  Vienna  in  July  of  this  year.  This  meeting  also 
considered proposals for enhancing the mechanisms of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  system  and 
OIC  and  its  institutions.  We  note  that  there  are 
cooperation  and 
information  exchanges  between 
United  Nations  agencies,  such  as 
the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
International  Labour  Organization  and 
the  World 
Norway also encourages cooperation between the 
the  OIC,  constitute  an 
this  year  by 
on 
to 
Islam 
regard 
Population 
Conference 
especially  with 
The  Islamic  commentaries  on 
Health  Organization,  and  the  OIC  with  a  view  to 
enhancing social and economic development. 

The memorandum of understanding signed by the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  and  the  OIC  on  2 
October 1998 constituted an important follow-up to the 
International 
and 
Development  in  Cairo.  We  welcome  the  steps  taken 
towards  further  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action, 
and 
reproductive  health,  Islam  and  the  status  of  women, 
and Islam and population and development. 
Norway  notes  with  appreciation  that  agencies  of 

the  United  Nations,  such  as 
the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  and 
the  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  are  working 
together with the OIC in areas of common interest. We 
are  also  aware  of  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the 
OIC. We encourage such dialogues. 

the  Universal 
Declaration  are  a  valuable  contribution  to  a  mutual 
understanding  of  our  joint  commitment.  Let  me  also 
take  this  opportunity  not  just  to  stress  the  importance 
of freedom of religion and belief, but also to highlight 
the role that religious communities can play — also at 
the  non-governmental  level  —  in  seeking  solutions  to 
conflict. The Oslo Coalition, established in accordance 
with  the  mandate  of  the  Oslo  Conference  on  Freedom 
of  Religion  and  Belief,  is  working  together  with 
religious  and  confessional  groups 
this 
agenda. 

Let  me  call  attention  to  two  further  issues: 
women’s rights  and the right to education. As  Norway 
stated  at  the  Cairo  Conference,  women’s  education  is 
the  single  most  important  path  to  higher  economic 
growth  and  lower  infant  mortality.  We  are  pleased  to 
note  that  the  education  of  girls  and  women  is  now 
included  in  the  cooperation  programmes  between  a 
large  number  of  United  Nations  and  OIC  institutions 
and agencies. 

In  closing,  Norway  wishes  again  to  express  its 
appreciation for the commitment of the United Nations 
and the OIC in developing the cooperation between the 
two  organizations.  We  hope 
this  working 
relationship  will  be  developed  further  in  the  years  to 
come. 
to  pursue 
that 


25 

A/55/PV.44 

to 
and 
and 
informative 
self-determination 
the  Secretary-General 
report 
Mr.  Hosseinian  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At 

to  convey  my  delegation’s 
the  outset,  allow  me 
for 
the 
appreciation 
entitled 
comprehensive 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference”,  contained  in 
document A/55/368. 

This  report  gives  evidence  that,  during  the  past 
decade,  the  process  of  consultation  and  cooperation 
between the two organizations in their common search 
for  solutions  to  world  crises  in  various  areas  — 
international  peace  and  security,  peacemaking  efforts, 
disarmament, 
fundamental 
human rights — has been constantly strengthened. 

Among  major  issues  of  mutual  concern  to  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  and  the 
United Nations, the following, for my delegation, stand 
out  most  prominently  and  I  would  like  to  touch  upon 
them.  

War  and  fratricide  in Afghanistan  have  persisted 
for  more  than  two  decades.  The  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran has suffered more than any other country from the 
adverse  consequences  of  chaos  and  instability 
in 
Afghanistan.  Obviously,  a 
joint  effort  aimed  at 
resolving  the continued  crisis in Afghanistan is  one  of 
the  priorities  of  the  OIC  that  also  figures  notably  on 
the agenda of the United Nations.  

In  this  respect,  the  initiative  of  the  Chairman  of 
the  eighth  OIC  Summit,  President  Khatami  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  in  bringing  warring  Afghan 
parties  to  the  negotiating  table,  has  provided  yet 
another opportunity to both organizations to act jointly 
with a view to putting an end to the protracted conflict 
in  Afghanistan.  The  OIC  Committee  for  Afghanistan, 
in  a  meeting  with  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations  in  March  2000,  emphasized,  among  other 
things, the central role of the United Nations in dealing 
with the Afghan crisis and the need for the OIC to play 
a complementary role in an effort to use, in an efficient 
manner, the potentials of the Islamic  world in order to 
end the sufferings of the Afghan people. Authorized by 
the  Secretary-General,  his  Personal  Representative 
played an active role in conducting the first and second 
round  of  negotiations  between  the  two Afghan  parties 
at Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. We hope that the continuation 
of  close  cooperation  and  coordination,  worked  out 
between  the  two  Organizations,  results  in  bringing 
about peace in Afghanistan.  
including 
the 
in  developing 
agenda  on  dialogue 

The OIC has played a major role in promoting the 
United  Nations Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations. 
The  draft  global 
among 
civilizations, which was adopted by the twenty-seventh 
session of the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, 
held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in June 2000, provides 
a propitious basis  for the  OIC  member  States to begin 
negotiating  with  other  groups  within 
the  United 
Nations  in  order  to  facilitate  its  adoption  next  year. 
Meanwhile,  the  OIC  ad  hoc  committee  on  dialogue 
among civilizations, chaired by the Islamic Republic of 
Iran, held two meetings at United Nations headquarters 
on  19  September  and  17  October  2000.  The  ad  hoc 
committee  also  assisted 
the  draft 
resolution  on  the  United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue 
among  Civilizations.  The  consideration  of  this  draft 
resolution by the General Assembly is scheduled for 13 
November 2000. 

The question of stability and peace in the Middle 
East  through  full  restoration  of  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people, 
rights  of  self-
determination,  return  of  refugees  to  their  homes  and 
the  establishment  of  a  sovereign  State  of  Palestine,  is 
still a matter of high priority and major concern on the 
agendas  of  both  organizations.  In  this  regard,  my 
the  continuing 
Government  strongly  believes 
consultations  and  cooperation  between 
two 
organizations could contribute to the full realization of 
the Palestinians’ rights and the restoration of a just and 
genuine peace and long-lasting security in the region. 

Fortunately,  during  the  past  two  years,  new 
avenues  for  a  better  and  strengthened  cooperation 
between  the  OIC  and  the  United  Nations  system  have 
been  explored.  Significant  progress  in  this  field  has 
been  made  through  widespread  cooperation  between 
the  OIC  and  its  subsidiary  bodies  and  the  United 
Nations 
and  Cultural 
Organization  (UNESCO).  The  two  organizations  have 
jointly planned, financed and implemented activities in 
the  eradication  of  poverty,  basic  education  — 
especially  girl’s  education  —  capacity-building  in  the 
field  of  information,  communications  technology  and 
cultural  heritage.  UNESCO and the  OIC  are preparing 
jointly to organize the United Nations Year of Dialogue 
among  Civilizations  and  the  issue  of  cultural  dialogue 
in  the  year  2001.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to  the 
same  achievements  in  cooperation  between  the  OIC 
and 
agencies, 
Educational, 
specialized 
Scientific 
pertinent 
the 
other 
that 
the 
26 




A/55/PV.44
social, 
cultural 
to 
confident 
that  draft 
in  seeking  solutions 
organizations,  programmes  and  departments  of  the 
United Nations. 

Undoubtedly, the issues of common interest to the 
two organizations could not be confined to what I have 
attempted  to  elaborate  here. There  exist  more  areas  of 
common interest that need to be further developed. We 
are 
resolution  A/55/L.17, 
introduced  by  the  Ambassador  of  Malaysia,  serves  as 
another  basis  for  promoting  in  the  coming  year  joint 
activities  which  fall  within  the  common  purpose  of 
to  ensure 
both  organizations,  whose  goals  are 
international  cooperation 
to 
international 
and 
economic, 
humanitarian problems. 

In  the  last  month  of  the  three-year  tenure  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  as  the  Chair  of  the  Eighth 
Summit  of  the  OIC,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
country’s  deep  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  both  the 
Secretariat  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Permanent 
Observer  Mission  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference 
the  United  Nations,  particularly 
Ambassador  Lamani,  for  their  tireless  efforts  and  the 
commendable  job  they  did  in  close  cooperation  and 
coordination  with  my  delegation,  as  well  as  holding 
various meetings of the OIC. 
Mr. Alkhal (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): It gives me 

pleasure  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  agenda 
item 24, “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference”. I wish to 
thank  you,  Sir,  for  guiding  the  work  of  the  Assembly 
ably and with diplomatic tact. 

It  has  been  proved  that  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  is  of  great 
importance  in  international  affairs.  Since  its  creation 
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  has 
been  an 
for 
cooperation  and  solidarity  among  its  member  States. 
We  are  convinced  that  the  OIC  will  gain  an  effective 
role in international affairs with time.  

regional 
organizations  which  can  contribute  to  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  and  can  play  an  effective  role  in  the 
political,  economic,  social,  cultural  and 
technical 
fields. International problems that are of interest to the 
two  organizations,  such  as  international  peace  and 
security,  disarmament,  the  right  to  self-determination, 
decolonization,  basic  human  rights  and  economic  and 
technological development, are all areas in which both 
important  and 
irreplaceable 
is  one  of 
The  OIC 
the 
largest 
forum 
to 
and 
heritage 
common 
the  benefit  of 
then.  This  attests 
organizations can  make progress. Among its  members, 
the  OIC  has  many  people  living  in  various  continents 
of  the  world  within  an  enormous  geographical  area. 
The  common  denominator  among  its  members  is 
culture, 
interests.  Our 
organization  now  has  great  political  expertise  due  to 
the  diversity  of  our  culture  and  the  heritage  of  our 
membership. That is why our organization could be an 
important  and  effective  instrument  for  peace,  stability 
and security throughout the world. 

On  10  October  1975  the  United  Nations  decided 
to  invite  the  OIC  to  participate  as  an  observer  in  its 
sessions  and  in  its  subsidiary  bodies.  That  is  why  the 
agenda  item  now  before  us  for  consideration  was 
included  for the  first  time  on  the  agenda  of the thirty-
fifth  General  Assembly  session  in  1980.  Given  the 
importance  of  this  cooperation,  the  General Assembly 
considered  this  item  and  has  done  so  every  session 
since 
this 
cooperation  for  us  all  in  order  to  try  to  attain  our 
common  ideals  and  principles:  to  see  a  better  world; 
build  economic development  among  all  peoples  of  the 
world;  provide  for  collective  security  and  strengthen 
this security; and try to implement Chapter VIII of the 
United  Nations  Charter,  which  deals  with  the  role  of 
regional organizations in the area of international peace 
and security and stability. 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 

his report on this item, in which he encourages the OIC 
to  continue  its  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in 
international  affairs.  To  make 
this  cooperation 
consistent  and  effective,  Qatar  welcomes  periodic 
high-level  contacts  between  the  Secretary-General  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Secretary  General  of  the 
OIC.  We  also  welcome  bilateral  contacts  between  the 
two organizations at all levels. I do not need to provide 
further  clarifications  about 
this  aspect  —  my 
delegation is convinced that the General Assembly will 
be  able to  give  total  support  to the draft resolution  on 
this  item.  I  appeal  to  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations to adopt it by consensus as proof of solidarity 
with the Muslim world. 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  recall  that  Qatar  will  be 
hosting the Ninth Islamic Summit, in Doha from 12 to 
14  November  2000.  We  take  this  opportunity  to 
welcome to the Presidents of the Islamic States in their 
second  homeland.  We  are  convinced  of  the  increasing 
role  that  can  be  played  by  our  Islamic  organization  in 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in  order  to 


27 

A/55/PV.44 

into 
the  United  Nations  and 
implement  resolutions  on  peace  and  security  and 
development,  and  to  find  solutions  for  problems  in 
Asia and Africa, including the problem of Afghanistan, 
that  could  benefit  from  our  presence.  May  God  guide 
us  at  that  Conference  to  give  impetus  to  our  joint 
Islamic endeavours to resolve problems such as that of 
Al-Quds  Al-Sharif,  which  at  present  threatens  world 
peace and security. 

Mr.  Patricio  (Mozambique),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 
Mr.  Chowdhury  (Bangladesh):  We  welcome  the 

report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic 
Conference.  We  find  the  report  comprehensive  and 
structured  to  reflect  the  essence  of  the  cooperation 
between the two organizations. 
The  Bangladesh  delegation  fully  supports  the 

cooperation  between 
the 
Organization  of the Islamic  Conference (OIC). We  are 
encouraged  to  see  that  it  has  grown  from  strength  to 
strength  and  expanded 
the  vital  areas  of 
peacemaking  and  conflict  resolution,  as  well  as  being 
in  the  realms  of  crucial  issues  of  socio-economic 
development.  We  are  particularly  happy  that  the  rich 
experience of the United Nations has been employed in 
the common search for solutions to global problems. 
that  peace  and 

development  should  go  hand  in  hand.  Today,  conflict 
resolution 
through 
cooperation  with  organizations  that  are  relevant  and 
hold  important  stakes  at  both  the  international  and 
regional  levels.  We  are  enthused  by  the  ongoing 
consultations  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  on 
peacemaking  efforts 
in 
Afghanistan, the Middle East, Kosovo and the Federal 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  The  visible  role  of  this 
cooperation  in  Afghanistan  is  to  our  satisfaction  and 
we sincerely wish it success. 
We are happy to endorse the agreement on the 10 

priority  areas  of  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  OIC  and  its  specialized  institutions. 
The  setting  up  of 
the 
appropriate  way  to  discuss  the  issues,  and  we  are 
heartened  to  note  that  the  general  meeting  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and 
their 
specialized  institutions  have  succeeded  in  reaching 
agreement on wide-ranging programmes of cooperative 
Bangladesh  strongly  believes 
joint  working  groups 
the  OIC  and 
the  situation 
increasingly 
approached 
relating 
to 
is 
it 
through 
trading  opportunities 
if  a  full  progress  report  on 
activities  for  the  period  2000  and  2001.  We  would 
appreciate 
these 
programme  activities  could  be  prepared  for  our 
consideration in future. We wish to underscore that, as 
a guiding principle, such programmes should be drawn 
up  in  a  way  that  they  benefit  the  highest  number  of 
people of the OIC countries. 

While we support the cooperative activities in all 
the  identified  areas,  we  would  like  to  limit  our 
comments to only a few.  
International  trade  remains  an  important  engine 

of  growth  in  the  age  of  globalization.  We  believe  that 
expanding 
increased 
market  access  for  export  of  goods  from  developing 
countries  and  improving  their  supply  capacity  are 
important  areas  for  consideration  in  sectoral  meetings 
in priority areas of cooperation. 

Bangladesh  believes  that  capacity-building  in 
science and technology in developing countries should 
continue to be  a  priority issue.  In  this regard,  we  note 
with  satisfaction  the  identified  programmes  in  the 
common  sphere  of  activities  of  the  United  Nations 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO)  and 
the 
Islamic  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization  (ISESCO).  We  would  like  to  emphasize 
the  vast  scope 
for  expansion  of  scientific  and 
technological  cooperation  among  the  OIC  member 
States,  which  may  be 
into  account  while 
elaborating projects in future. 

We also recognize the growing scope of technical 
cooperation  among  the  developing  counties.  Relevant 
organizations  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations 
system and of the OIC should contribute to the transfer 
of  technology  and  capacity  building  in  the  relevant 
fields. 

We  commend  the  OIC’s  ongoing  cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA) 
epitomized  by  the  signing  of  the  memorandum  of 
understanding  for  cooperation.  Bangladesh  attaches 
high 
the 
development  of  a  model  curriculum  for  population 
education, 
the  OIC 
countries.  We  also  believe  that  there  should  be  more 
exchanges  among  the  OIC  countries  in  the  field  of 
population  and  reproductive  health.  Recent  successes 
in  some  of  the  OIC  member  States  could  be  emulated 
in  others 
through  appropriate  programmes,  with 
training  and  workshops 
the  activities  relating 
importance 
taken 
to 
to 
in 
is 
28 




A/55/PV.44
levels.  Given 
the  magnitude  of 
The  Acting  President: 
issue  of  poverty  eradication, 
technical  and  financial  assistance  from  the  United 
Nations system. 

Before  closing, allow  me to  make  a  few remarks 
on 
the 
to  which 
Bangladesh always attaches very high importance. The 
poverty situation in many of the OIC countries remains 
a cause for concern. We have come to accept today that 
in  fighting  poverty  there  is  a  need  for  a  broader  and 
comprehensive  strategy  at  the  local,  national  and 
international 
the 
problem,  the  most  sensible  approach  would  be  to 
coordinate action among the actors, both governmental 
and  non-governmental,  at  all 
levels.  Some  non-
governmental  organizations  have  received  worldwide 
acclaim  for  their  work  in  eradicating  poverty  in  a 
number  of  countries.  Valuable  experience  such  as  this 
is  worth  sharing  through  joint  programmes  of  the 
United Nations and the OIC. 

Bangladesh  wholeheartedly  supports  the  draft 
resolution  on  this  subject  contained  in  document 
A/55/L.17, and will support its consensus adoption. 

In  accordance  with 
General  Assembly  resolution  3369  (XXX)  of  10 
October  1975,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference. 

Islamic 
(Organization  of 
Conference):  I  welcome  the  opportunity,  and  consider 
it  a  privilege,  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on 
agenda  item  24,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference”.  A  review  of  the  status  of  cooperation 
between  our  two  organizations  has  now  become  a 
regular  feature  of  the  deliberations  of  the  annual 
sessions  of  this  body.  I  bring  the  Assembly  greetings 
from Mr. Laraki, Secretary General of the Organization 
of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC),  and  his  best  wishes 
for the success of all its endeavours at this session. 

Since  this  is  the  first  time  that  the  OIC  has 
addressed  the  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
present  session, I  take this  opportunity to  congratulate 
you,  Mr.  President,  and  through  you,  your  colleagues 
in  the Bureau, on  your election  to  your  high  offices. I 
know  that  under  your  capable  hands,  Sir,  the  work  of 
the  Assembly  will  be  very  ably  directed.  I  also  join 
other delegations in paying tribute to your predecessor, 
Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab. 
Mr.  Lamani 
the 
its  part 
the  Secretariat  for 

We  have  read  with  interest  the  report  of  the 
Secretary  General,  contained  in  document  A/55/368. 
We  commend 
in  the 
preparation  of  the  report,  which,  as  before,  includes 
contributions  from  other  organizations  of  the  United 
Nations  system.  The  report  in  large  part  details  the 
status  of implementation  of programmes  and activities 
in  priority  areas  of  cooperation  jointly  developed  by 
our two organizations and by our respective specialized 
agencies  and  institutions  during  the  period  under 
review. The progress of implementation, as reported, is 
encouraging  and,  with  regard  to  the  OIC  and  its 
specialized  and  affiliated  institutions,  I  assure  the 
Assembly  of  our  collective  and  continued  enthusiasm 
and  dedication  to  the  tasks  that  are  being  jointly 
pursued. 

Without  in  any  way  belittling  the  relevance  or 
importance of  the report,  we  note,  however, that  some 
United  Nations  agencies  have  considered  it  useful  to 
take  advantage  of  the  opportunity  to  describe  their 
activities  with  the  OIC  and  its  institutions  undertaken 
in years prior to the period under review, and that a few 
have  gone  on  to  report  on  their  regular  activities  in 
OIC  member States outside of the scope of the United 
Nations/OIC  cooperation  framework.  I  express  the 
hope  that,  in  the  interest  of  clarity  and  accuracy,  the 
agencies  concerned  will  find  it  desirable  to  report  on 
actual  activities  undertaken  with  the  OIC  and  its 
institutions  and  implemented  during  the  periods  under 
review. With this observation, I once again express my 
appreciation  to  the  Secretariat  for  the  useful  and 
informative material presented in the report. 
Agam, 
Permanent 

in  his  capacity  as 
Representative  of  Malaysia, 
Chairman  of 
Islamic  Group,  has  graciously 
introduced the draft resolution on cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic 
Conference.  It  is  before  the  Assembly  in  document 
A/55/L.17.  I  take  the  liberty  of  drawing  attention  to 
three  of  the  thirteen  operative  paragraphs,  because  of 
their significance. 

organizations to: 

First,  operative  paragraph  4  requests  our  two 
“continue  to  cooperate  in  their  common  search 
to  global  problems,  such  as 
for  solutions 
to  international  peace  and 
questions  relating 
security, 
self-determination, 
decolonization,  fundamental  human rights,  social 
disarmament, 
Ambassador 
Hasmy 
the 


29 

A/55/PV.44 

and 
technical 
economic 
development 
and 
cooperation”. 

In compliance with the Assembly’s resolutions in 
previous  years,  contacts  and  interactions  between  the 
United Nations and the OIC have been maintained, and 
they  will  continue  to  be  strengthened  through  the 
Islamic Group and a number of OIC contact groups and 
committees  at  the  United  Nations.  The  Permanent 
Observer Missions of the OIC to the United Nations in 
New  York  and  in  Geneva  are  actively  participating  in 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  and  other  United 
Nations  organs  in  the  capacity  of  observers  and  are 
serving as channels of communication and consultation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OIC  and  its 
specialized  and  affiliated  institutions  in  all  matters  of 
our  common  concern.  We  look  forward  to  further 
strengthening this cooperation in the future. 

Secondly,  operative  paragraph  6  refers  in  the 
latter  part  to  the  close  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations in continuing to search for a peaceful and 
lasting  solution  to  the  conflict  in  Afghanistan.  As  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  reflects  in  paragraph  6, 
recent  developments  on  the  issue  involved  an  OIC 
initiative  to  convene  two  rounds  of  indirect  talks  with 
the  United  Front  and 
the  OIC 
the  participation  of 
headquarters 
Mr. Francesc  Vendrell, 
Secretary-General’s 
Personal Representative for Afghanistan. The efforts of 
the  OIC  regarding  Afghanistan  will  continue  to  be 
complementary to and in support of the central role of 
the  United  Nations  until  such  time  as  a  peaceful  and 
credible resolution of the Afghan conflict is reached. 
focuses  on 

cooperation  and  coordination  between 
two 
organizations  in  the  political,  economic,  social  and 
cultural  fields.  Encompassing  these  fields  are  the 
current  complementary  roles  of  our  two  organizations 
in  promoting  a  dialogue  among  civilizations. The idea 
was  initiated  within  the  framework  of  the  OIC,  which 
is 
in 
commemorating  2001  as  the  Year  of  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations.  We  express  the  hope  that  these  efforts 
will  lead  to  better  understanding  among  peoples  of 
different  cultures,  ethnicity  and 
in  all 
countries of the world. 

At this stage I draw attention to the fact that none 
of the operative paragraphs in the draft resolution have 
additional financial implications, so I express the hope 
Thirdly,  operative  paragraph  11 
in  Jeddah,  with 
the 
the  United  Nations 
collaborating  with 
the  Taliban  at 
religions 
the 
salute 
the  hope 
collaboration.  We 
that  it  will  attract  the  General  Assembly’s  unanimous 
approval. 

Before  closing,  I  wish  to  take  the  liberty  of 
speaking of the forthcoming change of executive heads 
in  an  important  subsidiary  organ  of  the  General 
Assembly  —  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
(UNFPA),  with  which  the  OIC  and  some  of  its 
specialized  and  affiliated  institutions  have  enjoyed 
fruitful 
the  outgoing 
Executive  Director,  Dr.  Nafis  Sadik,  for  her  superior 
abilities,  leadership  and  invaluable  contribution  to  the 
development  of 
the  Fund  and  especially  for  her 
unstinting support of the OIC and UNFPA cooperation 
in  areas  of  common  interest.  We  wish  her  a  pleasant 
and  well-deserved  retirement  and  a  long  life  full  of 
happy  memories,  success  and  fulfilment  in  all  her 
future pursuits and undertakings. 

We  are  gratified  that  in  Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  the 
Executive  Director  designate,  the  Secretary-General 
has identified a lady of great professional competence. 
Ms.  Obaid’s  support  of  OIC-UNFPA  cooperation  is 
well  known,  and  we  express 
this 
cooperation will be further enhanced during her tenure 
of  office.  It  is  equally  gratifying  to  note  that  both  the 
outgoing  and  incoming  Executive  Directors  are  from 
OIC  member  States,  so  their  achievements  have  not 
only  spelled  pride  and  delight  for  Pakistan  and  Saudi 
Arabia,  but  have  also  brought  honour  to  the  OIC,  and 
we are delighted and grateful. 

I  would  conclude  on  a  note  of  hope  and 
expectation  about  future  cooperation  between  our  two 
organizations in all areas in which the best interests of 
our common member States can be served. We are both 
embarked on the journey to peace and progress, and we 
must 
those  very 
considerations  and  principles  that  have  characterized 
our  past  collaboration  and  that  will  be  needed  even 
more  for  our  future  destination:  the  global  village  of 
the new millennium. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  

resolution A/55/L.17. 

draft resolution A/55/L.17? 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
resolution  A/55/L.17  was 
to  be  guided  by 
continue 
adopted 
that 
Draft 
(resolution 55/9). 
30 




A/55/PV.44
I 
call 
on 
the 
Since 
regard 
since  we 
Islamic  Conference”, 
The  Acting  President: 

the 
representative  of  Armenia  for  an  explanation  of 
position after adoption of the draft resolution. I remind 
delegations  that  such  explanations  are  limited  to  10 
minutes and should be  made by delegations from their 
seats. 

Mr.  Akopian  (Armenia):  Armenia  joined  the 
consensus on the draft resolution entitled “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
the 
the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  as  one 
of  the  most  important  and  influential  international 
organizations,  created  to  apply  the  great  humanistic 
values  revealed  in  the  Holy  Koran  to  the  political 
realities  of  today.  The  OIC  has  proved  to  be  entirely 
dedicated  to  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter, and it is no surprise that it is highly respected 
by  the  international  community  and  that  its  voice  is 
always listened to attentively. 

report  of 
the  Secretary-General 
mentions  in  paragraph  3  the  problem  of  Nagorny 
Karabakh, I  would like to  share  some  concerns in this 
regard.  For  nearly  a  decade 
the  OIC  has  been 
addressing the issue of the Nagorny Karabakh conflict, 
adopting resolutions on the matter. Of course, the OIC 
is free to consider any issue that affects the interest of a 
member State. But it becomes  more and  more obvious 
that those who introduce this issue into the OIC agenda 
and propose unbalanced and one-sided resolutions thus 
try  to  present  the  conflict  also  as  a  religious  one 
between  Christian  Armenia  and  Muslim  Azerbaijan, 
whereas  in  reality  the  true  and  only  nature  of  the 
conflict is in depriving a people under alien domination 
of its legitimate right of self-determination, the right of 
which  the  OIC  is  a  longtime  supporter.  As  for  the 
Armenian  side,  it  has  always  refrained  from  using  the 
religious  factor,  considering  it  unacceptable  to  exploit 
religion  for  purely  political  reasons.  Such  a  step  will 
only  aggravate  the  situation,  giving  it  a  completely 
different and extremely dangerous dimension. 

The  OIC  is  an  organization  in  which  Armenia 
cannot present its position and defend its case. But we 
know  that  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  OIC 
member  States do  not  have full information  about  and 
complete understanding of the conflict and have to rely 
on  whatever  is  presented  by  interested  sides.  Several 
years ago we invited the OIC Secretary General to visit 
Armenia  and  Nagorny  Karabakh  or 
to  send  a 
delegation  on  his  behalf  to  get  an  idea  also  about  our 




the  conflict.  Unfortunately, 
vision  of 
that  never 
happened.  Had  it  happened,  not  only  would  the  OIC 
resolutions  have  had  more  balanced  and 
tolerant 
language,  but  probably  the  OIC  itself  would  have 
engaged  more  positively  and  would  have  helped  to 
create an atmosphere of mutual confidence between the 
conflicting sides. 

The  Holy  Koran  says  that  the  Almighty  created 
different  nations  so  that  they  might  know  each  other. 
The President of Iran has developed that profound and 
meaningful  Koranic  verse  into  the  great  idea  of  a 
dialogue  among  civilizations.  That  idea  has  been 
welcomed  and  supported  by  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
our  sincere  wish  to  see  the  region  of  the  southern 
Caucasus,  where  two  great  civilizations  meet,  be  a 
good  example  of  that  dialogue.  We  believe  that  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  will  help  turn 
that wish into reality. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 

speaker in explanation of position after the adoption of 
the draft resolution. 

to conclude its consideration of agenda item 24? 


May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the Assembly 
It was so decided. 
Agenda item 25 
Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
League of Arab States 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/55/401)

  Draft resolution A/55/L.18 



The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  Iraq  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.18. 

Mr.  Hasan  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  my 
capacity as Chairman of the Arab Group for the month 
of  October,  I  would  like  on  behalf  of  the  Arab 
delegations  that  are  members  of  the  League  of  Arab 
States  (LAS)  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/55/L.18 
under  item  25  of  our  agenda,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab 
States”. 

The League of Arab States was established at the 
same  time  as  the  United  Nations,  in  March  1945.  We 
are  proud  of  the  close  links  that  exist  between  the 


31 

A/55/PV.44 

at 
its 
forty-eighth 
session 
to 
the 
there 
there 
is 
real  need 
is  an  urgent  need 
the  United  Nations  and 
United  Nations  and  the  League  of Arab  States,  which 
represent  a  tangible  example  of  the  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations referred to in Chapter VIII of the Charter. 
Such  relations  and  links  have  developed  positively 
since  the  General  Assembly  adopted  a  consensus 
decision 
ensure 
two  organizations.  This 
cooperation  between 
relationship  covers  widely  varying  kinds  of  joint 
cooperation. 

In  the  two  organizations  we  examine  issues 
related  to  international  peace  and  security.  Given  the 
current  events  taking  place  in  the  occupied  Arab 
territories, 
to  enhance  our 
cooperation  and  to  strengthen  the  participation  of  the 
United Nations so that it  may play an effective role in 
ending  the  aggression  perpetrated  by  the  racist  forces 
of  the  Israeli  occupiers  against  the  Palestinian  people. 
to  enhance 
Similarly, 
cooperation  between 
the 
League  of  Arab  States 
in  economic,  social  and 
development areas so there can be greater development 
in  Arab  countries  and  so  we  can  achieve  the  shared 
goals of the two organizations. 

The  preamble  of  the  draft  resolution  before  us 
contains  paragraphs  that  emphasize  the  desire  of  both 
organizations  to  consolidate  the  bonds  of  cooperation 
between 
that 
cooperation  for  the  purpose  of  achieving  the  goals  of 
both organizations. 

In  operative  paragraph  3  the  draft  resolution 
expresses  its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  follow-up  action  taken  by  him  to  implement  the 
proposals 
between 
representatives of the secretariats of the United Nations 
and  other  organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system 
and  the  General  Secretariat  of  the  League  of  Arab 
States and its specialized organizations. 

efforts 
economic, 
social, 
administrative fields. 
The  draft  resolution  reaffirms  the  importance  of 

holding 
the  next  general  meeting  on  cooperation 
between  the  representatives  of  the  secretariats  of 
organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system  and  the 
General Secretariat of the League of Arab States and its 
specialized organizations during 2001. 
The  draft  resolution  also  calls  for  continued 
the  political, 
and 
cultural 
to  enhance  cooperation 
in  all  areas  and 
the  meetings 
humanitarian, 
to  enhance 
adopted 
them 
at 
in 
is 
representative  of 
The  Acting  President: 

In  conclusion  I  would  like,  on  behalf  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States,  to  call  upon  the  General 
Assembly  —  which 
the 
international  community  —  to  support  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab 
States.  We  ask  that  the  draft  resolution  be  adopted  by 
consensus. 

In  accordance  with 
General Assembly  resolution  477  (V),  of  1  November 
1950,  I  now  call  on  the  Observer  for  the  League  of 
Arab States. 

Mr. Hassouna (League of Arab States) (spoke in 
Arabic):  Allow  me,  at  the  outset,  to  express  to  the 
President our sincere congratulations on his election to 
the  presidency  of the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

A few days ago, the world observed the fifty-fifth 
anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations 
on  24  October  1945.  That  anniversary  recalls  the 
expectations  and  hopes  placed  in  the  Organization  by 
the peoples of the world. At the same time, it highlights 
the huge gap between the state of affairs existing at the 
time  the  Organization  was  established  and  the  current 
circumstances  at  the  beginning  of  a  new  millennium 
that  presents  new  and  serious  threats.  As  the  first 
regional  organization  established  in  1945  under  the 
new  world  order  imposed  by  the  Second  World  War, 
the  League  of  Arab  States  now  enters 
the  new 
millennium,  while  welcoming  its  growing  role  as  a 
partner of the United Nations in various administrative, 
legal, cultural, social, economic and political areas. 

We consider  the  United  Nations  as  a  melting  pot 
in  which all regional and international efforts coalesce 
to realize mankind’s hopes and ambitions. The League 
of Arab States has always expressed its keen interest in 
consolidating  its  cooperation  and  in  coordinating  its 
activities  with  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  find 
solutions  to  questions  relating  to  peace,  security  and 
development.  The  legal  frame  of  reference  for  that 
cooperation  is  found  not  only  in  the  provisions  of  the 
respective charters of the two organizations, but also in 
a  new 
the 
reaffirmation,  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  of  8 
September  2000,  of  the  need  to  promote  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VIII  of 
the Charter of the United Nations. 
reference  provided  by 
frame  of 
32 




A/55/PV.44
the 

I  turn  now  to  areas  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States.  Here, 
I pay particular tribute to the Secretary-General for the 
comprehensive  way  in  which  his  report  (A/55/401) 
covers  the  cooperation  that  has  taken  place  since  the 
fifty-fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
report  outlines  consultations  and  exchanges  of 
information  between  the  two  organizations  at  various 
levels,  and  follow-up  action  on  proposals  agreed  to  at 
general  meetings  between  organizations  of  the  United 
Nations  system  and the  League of Arab  States. In that 
connection,  I  stress 
importance  of  continued 
consultations  between  the  Secretaries-General  of  the 
United  Nations  and  of  the  League of Arab  States on  a 
variety  of  Arab  and  international  questions.  This  has 
contributed  to  the  containment  and  settlement  of  a 
number of crises. 
I also hail the productive cooperation between the 

League  of  Arab  States  and 
the  United  Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP) since the signing on 
22  September  1999  of  a  cooperation  agreement 
between the League and UNDP and the implementation 
of  that  agreement  in  the  field  of  public  administration 
and  in  the  social,  economic,  environmental,  cultural, 
information and human development areas. 

instances  of 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  during  the 
period  under  review  was  the  May  2000  sectoral 
meeting on youth and employment between the United 
Nations and the League of Arab States. The outcome of 
that meeting has both social and economic implications 
for the Arab region. I wish also to note that the League 
of  Arab  States  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Commission  for  Western  Asia  (ESCWA)  have  jointly 
organized  and  convened  a  number  of  successful 
regional  meetings,  notably  several  relating  to  the 
question  of  Arab  women.  The  importance  that  the 
League of Arab States attaches to the role of women is 
reflected  in  the  convening  in  November  2000,  with 
United  Nations  participation,  of  the  first  summit  of 
Arab  women  on  the  theme  of  present  challenges  and 
future  prospects;  it  will  focus  on  the  role  of  Arab 
women  and  their  history  in  society-building  and  in 
meeting the challenges facing the Arab nation. 

I express the pride and pleasure of the League of 
Arab  States  at  the  fact  that  two  Arab  women  were 
recently  appointed  to  senior  United  Nations  posts,  as 
the  Executive  Director  of 
the  United  Nations 
the  most 
important 
Among 
just, 
its 
siege  of 
that  Israel, 
its  practices  and 
to  bring  about  a 
Population  Fund  and  as  the  Regional  Director  of  the 
UNDP Regional Bureau for Arab States. 

The  Assembly’s  consideration  today  of  the  draft 
resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States  does  not  take  place  in 
isolation  from  the  efforts  of  the  two  international 
organizations 
lasting  and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East on the basis of 
the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
resolutions of international legality.  
In  that  context,  heads  of  State  or  Government  of 

Arab  States,  at  the  conclusion  of  the  special  Arab 
summit  held  at  Cairo  on  21  and  22  October  2000, 
affirmed 
the  occupying  Power,  bears 
responsibility  for  having  returned  the  region  to  a 
climate  of  tension  and  violence  through  its  acts  of 
aggression, 
the 
Palestinians,  all  of  which  constitute  a  breach  of  its 
obligations  under 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention 
relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of 
War, of 12 August 1949, and a flagrant violation of the 
rules  of  international  law,  and  which  have  damaged 
efforts to build peace in the region. 

The  Arab  leaders  reaffirmed  that  peace  must  be 
just  and  comprehensive  if  it  is  to  be  lasting.  They 
reaffirmed  that  the  Arab  approach  to  peace  demands 
that 
through 
compliance  with  international  law,  and  in  particular 
with  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and 
338 (1973) and General Assembly resolution 194 (III), 
relating  to  the  right  of  return  and  compensation  for 
Palestinian  refugees,  along  with  all  other  relevant 
international resolutions and the principles of the peace 
process,  first  and  foremost  the  principle  of  land  for 
peace. 

While welcoming the increased role of the United 
Nations in salvaging and reviving the peace process on 
all  tracks,  the  League  of  Arab  States  calls  upon  the 
Organization 
the 
implementation  of  the  resolutions  it  has  adopted  over 
the  years  on  the  question  of  Palestine,  the  question  of 
the Middle East and the question of Al-Quds Al-Sharif. 
That  would  sustain  the  Organization’s  credibility  and 
would  legally,  morally  and  politically  obligate  all 
States to implement those resolutions. 

We  reaffirm  in  conclusion  that  the  League  of 
Arab States, which has long enjoyed observer status in 
the United Nations and  which has cooperated  with the 
Israel  manifest  equal  commitment 
to  work 
to 
bring 
about 


33 

A/55/PV.44 

that 
adopted 
resolution  A/55/L.18  was 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
Organization  on  a  variety  of  programmes, 
looks 
forward  to  the  consolidation  and  deepening  of  that 
cooperation.  The  League  hopes  that  our  common 
objectives  will  be  attained  through  such  cooperation. 
We  are  confident 
the  Assembly’s  consensus 
adoption of the draft resolution before it today  will be 
a  strong  motivation  to  promote  and  vitalize  that 
cooperation for the benefit of both organizations. 

speaker in the debate on this item. 
The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 

resolution  A/55/L.18.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 
Assembly decides to adopt the draft resolution? 

Draft 
(resolution 55/10).
The  Acting  President:  Before  calling  on  the 

delegation wishing to speak in explanation of position, 
I remind delegations that statements in explanations of 
vote or position are limited to 10 minutes. 
Mr.  Shacham  (Israel):  The  delegation  of  Israel 

has  joined  the  consensus  on  a  resolution  on  this  item 
for  the  seventh  time  in  a  row.  In  doing  so,  we  are 
guided  by 
to  make  peace  with  our 
neighbours, all of which are members of the League of 
Arab  States.  Israel  supports  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  various  regional  organizations, 
including  the  League  of  Arab  States.  Indeed,  such 
cooperation  is  based  on  the  provisions  of  the  United 
Nations Charter. 
This  is  the  first  resolution  on  an  issue  related  to 

the Middle East to be adopted by the General Assembly 
at  its  fifty-fifth  session.  We  are  pleased  that  the 
resolution  was  adopted  by  consensus.  In  joining  the 
consensus,  we  would like  to demonstrate to all  parties 
our  willingness 
in 
international forums, and to stress the need to exercise 
restraint both in the language of draft resolutions to be 
submitted  and  in  all  related  statements.  We  cannot 
restore  confidence  and  trust  in  the  Middle  East  by 
engaging  in  polemics  in  our  debates  in  New  York. 
Peacemaking is by its very nature a bilateral endeavour 
between  the  parties,  and  controversial  rhetoric  offered 
in international forums is surely counterproductive. 

this  debate 
regarding cooperation between the United Nations and 
a regional organization was exploited by one speaker to 
direct attacks against a Member State and to promote a 
to  forgo  unnecessary  discord 
is  unfortunate,  however, 
the  desire 
that 
It 
reconciliation  with 
partisan political perspective. The latest summit of the 
leaders  of  Arab  League  States  was  mentioned  in  this 
debate;  had  it  not  been  mentioned,  it  would  not  have 
been necessary for the Israeli delegation to reiterate its 
view  of  the  decisions  taken  at  that  summit.  Israeli 
utterly  rejected  the  language  of  threats  used  at  the 
recent  Cairo  summit,  and  condemned  the  call  for 
continued violence against it. The decisions of the Arab 
summit  in  Cairo  placed  responsibility  for  the  recent 
events  and  for  the  damage  to  the  peace  process 
exclusively upon Israel in a distortion of reality and in 
disregard  for  Israel’s  far-reaching  readiness  to  move 
towards  an agreement. At  Camp  David recently, Israel 
made courageous and far-reaching proposals in order to 
achieve  a peace  agreement  with the  Palestinians  and a 
historic 
the  Arab  world. 
Regrettably,  Chairman  Arafat  and  the  Palestinians  did 
not  respond  in  any  way  to  these  proposals;  instead, 
they  plunged  the  region  into  a  whirlpool  of  violence 
and bloodshed. 

Israel  calls  upon  the  Palestinians  to  honour  their 
commitments  to  halt  the  violence  and  incitement, 
immediately  restore  calm  and  order  and  prevent  an 
additional  escalation  of  the  violence.  Israel  stresses 
for  peace  while 
that 
security 
uncompromisingly 
its 
interests,  and 
foster 
reconciliation between it and the Arab world, but not at 
any price and not under pressure of violence.  
Furthermore,  Israel  felt  that  the  decisions  of  the 

Arab  summit,  which  called  for  a  freeze  on 
the 
multilateral  talks  and  cooperation  with  Israel,  are 
disappointing  and  run  counter  to  the  decisions  of  the 
Madrid  Conference,  which  established  two  tracks — 
bilateral and multilateral — side by side. The existence 
of  channels  of  communication  between  the  parties  is 
particularly important in times of tension and we regret 
the  decisions  adopted  by  the  Arab  summit  against 
normalization  of  relations  between  Arab  States  and 
Israel.  It  is  our  view  that  these  decisions  do  not  assist 
but, 
to  establish  a 
rather,  hinder 
comprehensive  and 
in  our  region. 
Nevertheless,  Israel  will  not  be  dissuaded  from  its 
determination  to  move  forward  and  will  continue  to 
strive to achieve real peace. 

speaker in explanation of vote.  
The  Acting  President: We  have  heard  the  only 
the  efforts 
lasting  peace 
to 
defending 
it  will  continue 
vital 
to  act 
continues 
strive 
to 
it 
34 




A/55/PV.44
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the Assembly 

to conclude its consideration of agenda item 25? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President: In view of the lateness of 

the  hour,  I  would  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
remaining  items  on  the  agenda  for  this  morning, 
namely, 
global 
partnerships”,  and  agenda  item  183,  “Peace,  security 
and  reunification  on  the  Korean  Peninsula”,  will  be 
taken up tomorrow morning as the first two items.  

The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m. 
“Towards 
agenda 
item 
173, 


35 
