
A/55/PV.52
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Fifty-fifth session 

52nd plenary meeting 
Monday, 6 November 2000, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland) 














This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

00-72996 (E) 
*0072996* 
  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mungra 
(Suriname), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 
Agenda item 3 (continued)
Credentials of representatives to the fifty-fifth session 
of the General Assembly 
  (b)  Report of the Credentials Committee 

the 
the  Credentials  Committee 
“The General Assembly, 
Having  considered 
  First report of the Credentials Committee
  (A/55/537 and Corr.1) 

The  Acting  President:  The  draft  resolution 

recommended  by 
in 
paragraph 13  of  its  first  report  (A/55/537)  reads  as 
follows: 




the 
Credentials  Committee  and  the  recommendation 
contained therein, 

Committee.” 

We shall now take action on the recommendation 
of  the  Credentials  Committee  as  set  out  in  paragraph 
13 of its first report. 

the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  who  wishes  to  speak  in  explanation 
of vote or position before the Assembly takes action on 
the draft resolution. 

the  representative  of 
the  Credentials 
the  report  of 
I  call  on 
report  of 
Approves 












like 
to  express 
those  parts  of 
the  first  report  of 
Mr.  Hamzehei  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  My 

its  reservations 
delegation  would 
the 
regarding 
Credentials  Committee  (A/55/537  and  Corr.1)  that 
relate  to  the  credentials  of  Israel.  In  line  with  the 
position of the Government of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran  on  this  issue,  my  delegation  wishes  to  dissociate 
itself  from  the  parts  of  the  report  that  refer  to  the 
approval of the credentials of Israel. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Credentials 
Committee  adopted  the  draft  resolution  recommended 
in paragraph 13 of its report without a vote. May I take 
it that the General Assembly to do the same? 

  The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
55/16). 
The Acting  President:  We  have  thus  concluded 


this stage of our consideration of agenda item 3. 

Agenda item 14 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
  Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
report of the Agency (A/55/284 and Corr.1) 
  Draft resolution (A/55/L.25) 
  Amendment (A/55/L.26) 


The  Acting  President:  I  invite  the  Director 

General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency, 
Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  to  present  the  report  of  the 
Agency for the year 1999. 

A/55/PV.52 

provide 
Nuclear 
technologies 
the  protection  of 
Mr.  ElBaradei  (International  Atomic  Energy 

Agency): The  Millennium  Summit  in  early  September 
focused  the  attention  of  the  world  on  a  number  of 
objectives  for  the  new  millennium:  the  establishment 
of enduring world peace, the eradication of poverty, the 
fight  against  disease  and 
the 
environment.  In  the  efforts  to  realize  these  objectives, 
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) plays 
a  modest  but  essential  role.  I  will  speak  briefly  today 
about  the  three  fundamental  functions  of  the  Agency: 
our role as a catalyst for the development and transfer 
of peaceful nuclear technologies, our efforts to prevent 
the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  to  move 
towards  nuclear  disarmament,  and  our  work  to  build 
and maintain a global nuclear safety regime. 
preferred 

solutions —  and  sometimes  the  only  solutions  —  to 
many  economic  and  social  problems.  The  IAEA,  in 
accordance  with its statute, serves as a catalyst for the 
development and transfer of those technologies. 

In  1999,  nuclear  power  supplied  roughly  one 
sixth of global electricity. Trends vary by region: some 
countries  are  phasing  out  nuclear  power  plants,  while 
others  have  embarked  on  new  construction  or 
innovative research and development. While the future 
of  nuclear  power  remains  uncertain,  it  is  clear  that 
certain factors  will be crucial to that future: the safety 
of  facility  operations;  the  demonstrated  feasibility  of 
safe  and  environmentally  sound  radioactive-waste 
to  make  nuclear  power 
disposal; 
economically  competitive; 
for 
environmentally  clean  sources  of  energy;  and  public 
acceptance.  Projections  of  global  energy  demand, 
which  take  into  account  the  development  needs  of 
developing  countries  and  the  predicted  increase  in 
population  by  two  billion  people  over  the  next  two 
decades, led the World Energy Council to conclude that 
a total reliance on fossil fuels and large  hydroelectric 
facilities 
the  current 
position  of  nuclear  power  needs  to  be  stabilized,  with 
the possibility of future expansion. 

In  that  context,  the  Agency’s  role  is  to  help 
ensure  that  the  nuclear  power  option  remains  open,  a 
process that requires ensuring a fair hearing for nuclear 
power  in  the  comparative  energy  assessment  debate, 
preserving  nuclear  expertise  as  fewer  young  people 
science  careers  and,  above  all, 
pursue  nuclear 
developing 
cycle 
technologies.  
is  not  sustainable,  and  that 
the  growing  need 
innovative 
the 
ability 
reactor 
and 
fuel 
the 
related 
research 
additional 
determine  what 
to  applications  other 

To  be  successful,  innovative  reactor  and  fuel 
cycle  technologies  must be inherently  safe  in terms  of 
operation  and  waste  disposal,  proliferation  resistant, 
cost  effective  and  adaptable  to  different  applications 
and  energy  needs.  The  Agency  intends  to  establish  a 
task  force  on  innovative  reactors  later  this  year  to 
assess 
technology  and  energy  demands  of 
prospective users, consider existing efforts in this area 
and 
and 
development  should  be  encouraged  to  meet  the  needs 
of  member  States.  Naturally,  we  will  work  in  close 
cooperation  with  other  national  and  multinational 
initiatives in this area. 
A  major part of  the Agency’s  nuclear  technology 

activities  are 
than 
electricity  generation.  Agency-coordinated  research 
projects  supported  by  our 
research  and  service 
laboratories focus on the use of nuclear techniques and 
radioisotopes  to,  inter  alia,  increase  food  production, 
fight  disease,  manage  water  resources  and  protect  the 
terrestrial  and  marine  environments.  In  the  food  and 
agriculture  area,  for  example, 
insect  sterilization 
techniques have produced significant gains in livestock 
production  and  fruit  production;  radiation-induced 
mutations have been used to produce crops with greater 
yield and higher quality; and direct food irradiation has 
been  employed  to  preserve  freshness  and  eliminate 
disease-causing organisms. 

With each year, new nuclear techniques related to 
human  health  are  developed.  This  year  the  Agency’s 
programme  of  assistance  and  coordination  placed 
significant  emphasis  on  the  validation  of  new  nuclear 
tools  for  diagnosing  drug-resistant  strains  of  malaria 
and tuberculosis. Other work was related to diagnostic 
procedures  in  support  of  medical  applications  ranging 
from  paediatrics  to  cardiology  and  the  use  of  stable 
isotopes  in  malnutrition  studies  to  track  the  intake  of 
vitamins and other nutrients. 

The management of water resources is an area of 
increasing  worldwide  concern.  Today,  more  than  one 
billion  people  are  without  access  to  clean  water,  and 
about  two  thirds  of  the  global  community  will  face 
clean  water  shortages  by  2025.  In  addition  to  projects 
on  desalination  techniques,  the  Agency  has  supported 
extensive  member  State  use  of  isotope  hydrology  to 
plot  groundwater  aquifers 
for  sustainable  water 
resource  management.  We  also  have  begun  to  support 
member  States’  exploration  of  the  use  of  advanced 
2 




A/55/PV.52
to 
cooperation 
to  promote 
to  decontaminate  and 
electron-beam  accelerators 
disinfect waste water and drinking water. 

Other  Agency  projects  focus  on  an  array  of 
environmental  analysis  and  clean-up  techniques.  For 
example,  the  use  of  ionizing  radiation  to  clean  flue 
gases from coal-fired plants — a technology catalysed 
by the Agency  — is now being demonstrated or under 
development  in  Bulgaria,  China,  Japan  and  Poland. 
Another  important  recent  initiative  is  the  Agency’s 
coordination  of  efforts  to  develop  nuclear  techniques 
for  the  detection  of  anti-personnel  landmines,  which 
continue  to  maim  civilians  in  regions  where  conflict 
took place in the past. 
In  each of these  areas of  nuclear application,  the 

Agency  seeks 
the  development  and 
application of techniques that serve the priorities of its 
member  States,  with  a  focus  on  the  special  needs  of 
developing countries. Where  nuclear technology is the 
most  effective  means  of  addressing  a  given  problem, 
and  where  the  recipient  country  has  the  necessary 
infrastructure,  the Agency  ensures  that  the  technology 
is  transferred  safely  and  efficiently.  In  1999,  our 
technical 
to 
approximately  $64  million,  with  more 
than  850 
projects. The  IAEA  annual  report  for  1999,  which  the 
Assembly  has  before  it,  provides  a  more  detailed 
discussion of these and other Agency achievements. 

The  Agency’s  safeguards  system  is  designed  to 
provide  assurance  that  nuclear  material  and  facilities 
are  used  exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes.  In  recent 
years, we have strengthened our safeguards capabilities 
to  enable  us  to  provide  assurances  not  only  that 
declared  nuclear  material  has  not  been  diverted  for 
non-peaceful  purposes,  but,  equally  importantly,  that 
no undeclared nuclear  material or activities exist. This 
comprehensive  assurance,  however,  can  be  provided 
only for States that have in force both a comprehensive 
safeguards  agreement  with 
the 
complementary additional protocol. The Agency is also 
currently  developing  “integrated  safeguards”  —  the 
optimum 
safeguards 
measures  with  those  of  the  additional  protocol  to 
ensure a system that is cost-efficient while achieving a 
high degree of effectiveness. 

Earlier this  year, the sixth Review  Conference of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  was  convened  here  in  New 
York.  The  Final  Document  of 
the  Conference 
the  Agency  and 
combination  of 
programme 
traditional 
amounted 
are 
protocol 
numbers 
the  11  States 
the  Treaty  have  yet 
recognized IAEA safeguards as an essential component 
of  the  non-proliferation  regime,  and  endorsed  the 
strengthened  safeguards  measures  of  the  additional 
protocol.  However,  the  same  document  noted  that  51 
States  parties 
to  bring 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  into  force.  The 
additional 
similarly 
that  had  additional 
disappointing: 
protocols  approved  in  the  past  year  bring  the  total  to 
55, but so far only 17 of these have entered into force. 
I appeal to all States that have not done so to conclude 
and  bring  into  force  their  respective  comprehensive 
safeguards agreements and additional protocols. 

Since  December  1998,  the  Agency  has  been 
unable  to  implement  its  mandate  in  Iraq  under  United 
Nations  Security  Council  resolution  687  (1991)  and 
related  resolutions.  As  a  result,  we  cannot  at  present 
provide  any  assurance  that  Iraq  is  in  compliance  with 
its  obligations  under  those  resolutions.  In  January  of 
this  year,  with  the  cooperation  of  the Iraqi  authorities, 
we  carried  out  an 
inspection  under  Iraq’s  NPT 
safeguards  agreement.  Our  inspectors  were  able  to 
verify 
the  presence  of  nuclear  material  under 
safeguards in Iraq. To be  sure, this  inspection  was  not 
designed  to  be,  nor  could  it  serve  as  a  substitute  for, 
the  monitoring  and  verification  activities  mandated 
under  the  Security  Council  resolution.  The  Agency 
must  return  to  Iraq  if  we  are  to  provide  the  enhanced 
assurances  sought  by 
the  Security  Council.  We 
continue to maintain an operational plan and capability 
that  would  allow  us  to  resume  our  activities  at  short 
notice.  Provided  that  we  could  verify  that  Iraq’s  past 
and  present  nuclear  activities  have  not  changed  since 
December  1998,  the Agency  could  move  forward  to  a 
full  implementation  of  its  ongoing  monitoring  and 
verification plan. 
The Agency also remains unable to verify that all 

nuclear  material 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  been 
declared.  Fully  assessing 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s 
initial 
safeguards  declaration  will  require  a  series  of Agency 
activities to be undertaken with the full cooperation of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Given that 
the  entire  verification  process  may  take  between  three 
and 
should  begin 
immediately, if the light water reactor project provided 
for  in  the  Framework  Agreement  between  the  United 
States  of  America  and 
the  Democratic  People’s 
the  accuracy  of 
those  activities 
four  years, 
safeguards 
subject 
to 
in 


3 

A/55/PV.52 

to 
in 
to  provide 
the  Agency 
Republic of Korea is to proceed as scheduled. With the 
recent  positive  developments  in  the  Korean  peninsula, 
it is my hope that the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  will  soon  be  ready 
to  commence  active 
cooperation  with 
that  end.  The 
normalization  of  relations  between  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and the Agency would also 
help  us 
important  safety  advice  and 
expertise related to the light water reactor project. 

In keeping with the General Conference mandate, 
I  have  continued  my  consultations  with  the  States  of 
the  Middle  East  region  regarding  the  application  of 
full-scope  safeguards  to  all  nuclear  activities  in  the 
Middle East, and the development of model agreements 
that would contribute to the establishment of a nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  in  that  region.  Regrettably,  little 
progress  has  been  achieved  so  far.  Needless  to  say,  I 
will  continue  to  use  all  available  means  within  my 
authority  to  move  that  mandate  forward.  Movement 
towards  an  overall  settlement 
the  region  will 
certainly  boost  my  ability  to  make  progress.  At  this 
year’s  General  Conference,  I  was  asked  to  make 
arrangements to convene a forum in which participants 
from the Middle East and other interested parties could 
meet  to  learn  from  the  experience  of  other  regions, 
including in the area of confidence-building relevant to 
the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone. 
The Agency  secretariat  continues  to  consult  with 

the  Russian  Federation  and  the  United  States  of 
America  on  methods  of  verifying  nuclear  materials 
programmes.  These 
excess 
verifications  must  be 
the 
international  community  that  the  material  has  been 
irreversibly  removed  from  military  application.  In 
September,  the  United  States  of  America  and  Russia 
also  signed  a  bilateral  plutonium  management  and 
disposition  agreement.  This  new  agreement  commits 
each  party  to  the  withdrawal  of  34  tons  of  weapons-
grade  plutonium  from  its  weapons  programme  and  to 
early  consultations  aimed  at  concluding  an  agreement 
with the IAEA  to allow Agency  verification  measures. 
I  welcome  this  agreement  as  a  further  step  towards 
nuclear arms control. 
The  third  major  area  of  Agency  activity  is  

safety  —  nuclear  safety,  radiation  safety  and  waste 
safety.  While  safety 
is  a  national  responsibility, 
international  cooperation  on  safety-related  matters  has 
proved  to  be  indispensable.  The  continuing  positive 
results  of  international  collaboration  leading  towards 
their  military 
to  assure 
sufficient 
to 
safety 
agreed 
standards 
internationally 
safety  upgrades  at  nuclear  installations  in  Eastern 
Europe is an important case in point. 

The  international  safety  regime  consists  of  three 
major  components:  international  conventions,  a  body 
of 
and 
mechanisms for applying these standards. Conventions 
in  the  safety  area  aim  to  establish  binding  norms  that 
cover activities across the entire fuel cycle. To date, the 
Agency  has  developed  conventions  that  cover  the 
safety  of  power  reactors,  radioactive  waste  and  spent 
fuel  management,  early  notification  and  assistance  in 
case  of  a  nuclear  accident  and  physical  security.  The 
Agency  continues  to  identify  areas  in  which  binding 
norms  are  needed,  such  as  in  the  safety  of  research 
reactors and of fuel cycle facilities. 

The Agency has also made significant progress in 
the  past  several  years  on  updating  its  body  of  safety 
standards;  nearly  80  new  or  revised  standards  will  be 
produced in total. To be effective, these standards must 
be  comprehensive,  internationally  agreed  upon  and 
subject to regular peer review. In my view, once agreed 
upon, these standards must be uniformly applied by all 
States,  as  is  the  case  in  the  aviation  field,  which  is 
under  the  auspices  of  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization (ICAO). 
Agency  safety  services,  such  as  our  operational 

reactor 
reviews  and 
regulatory reviews, also continue to make a significant 
contribution  to  promoting  a  global  nuclear  safety 
culture through peer review and information exchange. 

The Agency also continues  to  focus  international 
attention  on  the  threats  to  public  health  arising  from 
so-called orphan radioactive sources — that is, sources 
that  are  no  longer  under  the  control  of  national 
authorities. In the past year, assistance was provided to 
several  Member  States.  Regrettably,  five  people  died 
during  this  same  period  in  Thailand  and  Egypt  as  the 
result  of  accidents  involving  radiation  sources.  We 
have  worked  extensively  to  strengthen  the  ability  of 
Member  States 
to  such  emergencies, 
focusing  on  infrastructure  upgrades,  the  development 
of  national  registries  of  radioactive  sources,  and  the 
enhancement  of  regulatory  structures.  In  addition,  we 
have  intensified  education,  training,  and  information 
exchange  among  regulators,  users  and  manufacturers, 
and  we  recently  circulated  to  all  States  and  relevant 
international  organizations  a  Code  of  Conduct  on  the 
safety  assessments,  design 
to  respond 
4 




A/55/PV.52
and 
feasible 
Safety  and  Security  of  Radiation  Sources  and 
Radioactive Materials. 

But perhaps one of the most pivotal issues in the 
current debate over nuclear technology is the safety of 
managing  spent  fuel  and  radioactive  waste.  While 
experts  are  confident  that  geological  disposal  is  safe, 
technologically 
environmentally 
responsible,  the  public  at  large  remains  skeptical,  and 
the  volume  of  high-level  waste  continues  to  build.  A 
number of countries are engaged in geological disposal 
projects.  Research  is  also  active  on  waste  disposal 
methods  that  are  reversible,  to  allow  retrieval  of  the 
waste  at  a  later  date,  if  desired.  Researchers  are  also 
focusing  on  waste  transmutation  and  other  techniques 
to  reduce  the  activity  or  volume  of  long-lived  waste. 
The  Agency  continues  to  maintain  international  focus 
on  the  waste  issue  in  order  to  accelerate  progress 
towards  demonstrated  solutions  and  to  bridge  the  gap 
in perception between technical experts and the public 
at large. 

The foregoing review of portions of the Agency’s 
programme  makes  it  clear  that  the  scope  of  IAEA 
activities  continues  to  grow  —  whether  that  growth  is 
occasioned  by  a  new  assignment  for  verification  of 
nuclear  arms  control  measures,  a 
request  by  a 
developing  country  for  help  with  water  resource 
management, or the need for safety assistance at a fuel 
cycle facility. But in a continuing environment of zero 
real  growth  budget,  which  the Agency  has  adhered  to 
for  over  a  decade,  some  of  these  priority  demands 
cannot  be  accommodated,  or  can  be  accommodated 
only  through  an  increasing  and  excessive  reliance  on 
extra-budgetary  resources  —  a  reliance  which  has  a 
negative  impact  on  our  ability  to  implement  our 
programmes  with 
the  expected  effectiveness  and 
efficiency. 

I  should  also  mention  that  the Agency  is  finding 
it  increasingly  difficult  to  recruit  and  keep  qualified 
staff.  Given  our  need  for  highly  specialized  technical 
personnel 
resources, 
recruitment  and retention is especially problematic  for 
scientific staff, as well as in fields such as information 
technology.  This  situation  will  only  continue 
to 
intensify  as  United  Nations  salaries  and  conditions  of 
employment  continue  to  lose  their  competitiveness 
with the private and public sectors. 

The Common Service must become more flexible 
in order to respond to the needs of its organizations and 
limited  pool  of 
and 
the 
the 
to 
strategy 
improve 
approach 
results-based 
their  reform  efforts 
support 
in  human  resources 
management.  In  that  respect,  the  proposal  by  the 
Secretary-General,  on  behalf  of  all  heads  of  United 
Nations  system  organizations,  for  a  review  of  the 
International  Civil  Service  Commission  deserves 
serious  consideration,  with 
the  ultimate  aim  of 
strengthening 
international  civil  service  and 
restoring the competitiveness of the Common System. 

We  have  continued  to  look  for  ways  to  meet  the 
growing demands on Agency resources. We are using a 
five-year  medium-term 
the 
implementation  and  evaluation  of  our 
planning, 
activities.  Our  new 
to 
and  budgeting 
programming 
focuses  more  on  
outcomes  — 
the  real  changes  produced  for  our 
Member States — than on outputs, such as the number 
of  meetings or publications, to ensure a  more rigorous 
prioritization. An emphasis on a “one-house” approach 
to  all  our  activities  ensures  better  coordination  of  our 
diverse  programmes,  better  use  of  our  resources  and  a 
more streamlined secretariat structure. 

In conclusion, let me say that the IAEA continues 
to  play  a  key  role  in  ensuring  that  the  benefits  of 
nuclear  technology  are  shared  globally,  that  peaceful 
nuclear  activities  are  conducted  safely,  and  that  the 
international  community  is  provided  with  a  credible 
framework  for  curbing  nuclear-weapon  proliferation 
and  moving  towards  nuclear  disarmament.  Naturally, 
our  ability  to  continue  to  carry  out  these  functions 
effectively depends on Members’ political commitment 
and  financial  support,  which  I  hope  and  trust  will 
continue to be forthcoming. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing 
my sincere appreciation to the Government of Austria, 
which continues to be a generous and gracious host to 
the International Atomic Energy Agency. 

The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  Nigeria  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/55/L.25. 

Mr.  Mbanefo  (Nigeria):  Allow  me  at  the  outset 
to  express appreciation to the  Director  General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA). It is noteworthy that under his 
leadership, the Agency has continued to fulfil its three 
major  mandates,  namely  to  serve  as  a  catalyst  for  the 
development  and  transfer  of  technology,  a  recognized 
authority  in  nuclear  safety,  and  an  instrument  for  the 
verification of nuclear non-proliferation. 


5 

A/55/PV.52 

to 
in 
in 
in 
Nigeria 
reaffirmed 
importance 
large  measure 
attaches  great 
its  contribution 
its  capacity  as  Chairman  of 
I  am  particularly  delighted  to  note  that  these 

efforts  have  served 
to  meet 
humanity’s global objectives of freedom from fear and 
freedom  from  want  —  the  major  challenges  facing  it. 
In  this  connection,  I  also  note  with  satisfaction  the 
confidence placed in the Agency in the Final Document 
of  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
which 
to  sustainable 
development, non-proliferation and safety. 

the 
objectives  of  the  Agency  and  has  demonstrated  on 
several occasions its political commitment and support 
for  international  peace  and  security  and  global  non-
proliferation  efforts,  especially 
those  directed  at 
curbing the spread of nuclear weapons and all forms of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  These  objectives 
informed  its  decision  to  become  a  member  of  the 
Agency in 1964. Nigeria is therefore most honoured to 
introduce, 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  draft 
resolution A/55/L.25, on the report of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency. 
The  draft  resolution  before  us  is  a  reflection  of 

the 
the  report 
important 
presented  by  the  Director  General  and  the  relevant 
resolutions  adopted  mainly  by  consensus  at  the  forty-
fourth session of the General Conference of the IAEA. 
I  should  therefore  like  to  briefly  highlight  the  main 
contents of this draft. 

The  text  has  18  preambular  paragraphs  and  14 
operative paragraphs and reiterates the importance that 
Member States attach to the agreement reached on the 
amendment  of  article  VI  of  the  statute.  It  seeks 
expansion  of 
the  Board  of 
Governors  from  35  to  43  members.  Draft  resolution 
A/55/L.25  dedicates  an  operative  paragraph 
to 
encouraging all States members of the IAEA that have 
not  yet  ratified  this  amendment  to  do  so.  Similarly,  a 
paragraph  is  devoted  to  the  amendment  of  Article 
XIV.A  of  the  statute,  which  provides  for  biennial 
budgeting  by  the  Agency  and  urges  those  Member 
States that have yet to ratify this amendment to do so. 
increasing 

relevance  of 
the 
safeguards agreements, especially as they have a direct 
bearing  on  verification  and  confidence-building  in 
general; and, particularly, to the need for the Agency to 
the  non-proliferation  regime; 
The  draft  draws  attention 
issues  raised  earlier 
the  membership  of 
the 
to 
to 
to 
for 
the 
the 
text 
Iraq, 
regard 
stresses 
the  need 
importance  of 
maintain  and  strengthen  the  effectiveness  and  cost-
efficiency  of  the  integrated  safeguards  system,  in 
conformity  with  the  statute  of  the  Agency.  It  further 
stresses 
the  Model  Additional 
Protocol approved on 15 May 1997. 

The draft resolution also reiterates the concern of 
the  international  community  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
energy  with 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and Iraq. It expresses concern about 
the  Agency’s  inability  to  verify  the  correctness  and 
completeness  of  the  initial  declaration  of  nuclear 
material by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
and,  therefore,  about  the  inability  to  conclude  that 
there  has  been  no  diversion  of  nuclear  material  in  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  It  calls  upon 
that  country  to  fully  comply  with  its  safeguards 
agreement with the Agency. With regard to inspections 
in 
full 
implementation of all Security Council resolutions and 
for  providing  the  necessary  access  to  enable  the 
Agency to carry out its mandate. 

Attention is also drawn to the entry into force on 
24 October 1996 of the Convention on Nuclear Safety 
and  notes  with  satisfaction  the  outcome  of  the  first 
review  meeting  of 
the  contracting  parties  to  the 
Convention. It looks forward to safety improvements in 
areas that are found deficient. With respect to the Joint 
Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management 
and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management, it 
appeals to States that have not yet become parties to do 
so. 

The  draft  resolution  under  consideration  is  a 
product of strenuous work. The consensus was reached 
after  consideration  of  many  proposals  made  by 
different delegations in Vienna. In this regard,  Nigeria 
has  taken  cognizance  of  the  genuine  contributions  of 
all  delegations,  which  facilitated  the  achievement  of 
this transparent  and  balanced  text.  Undoubtedly  it is  a 
factual  and  accurate  representation  of  the  main  issues 
dealt  with  by  the  Agency  during  the  period  under 
review. At this juncture, let me express appreciation to 
the sponsors of this draft resolution and particularly to 
the  two  Vice-Chairmen  of  the  Board  of  Governors, 
Austria and Poland. 

I  would  equally  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
for the support and cooperation received in Vienna and 
here 
the 
in  New  York  from 
the  secretariats  of 
6 




A/55/PV.52
International Atomic Energy Agency and of the United 
Nations. 

The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Egypt to introduce the amendment to 
draft  resolution  A/55/L.25,  contained  in  document 
A/55/L.26. 
Mr.  Aboulgheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

would like at the outset to express  warm thanks to the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his 
excellent  presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the 
Agency  for  1999.  It  also  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
congratulate  him  on  his  distinct  contribution  to  the 
development  of  the  programmes  and  activities  of  the 
Agency  during  the  past  three  years.  This  contribution 
has been reflected in the increasing role played by the 
Agency  in  the  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  energy 
in  various  fields  in  the  service  of  humanity,  and  in 
improving the relevant infrastructure. 

The  delegation  of  Egypt  presented  to  the  forty-
fourth session of the General Conference of the IAEA a 
comprehensive  review  of  all  the  fields  in  which  it  is 
cooperating with the Agency and of the role that we are 
trying  to  play  at  both  the  regional  and  international 
levels  within  the  framework  of  the Agency’s  own  role 
and programmes. From this perspective I would like to 
address  a  number  of  topics  to  which  Egypt  attaches 
particular importance. 

The  Agency  is  playing  a  prominent  role  in 
drawing  up  technical  criteria  to  ensure  the  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy and in contributing to technical 
cooperation  programmes 
the  use  of 
nuclear  technology  in  a  number  of  countries.  This, 
however,  should  not 
ignore  another 
important  aspect  of  the  Agency’s  work,  which  stems 
from its responsibility as one of the main pillars of the 
non-proliferation regime. 

Egypt attaches great importance to the attainment 
of  the  objectives  of  non-proliferation  and  to  ensuring 
nuclear disarmament  all over  the  world. We  think  that 
in order to achieve progress in this respect, particularly 
in  the  Middle  East  region,  this  issue  should  be 
considered on  an  urgent basis,  because of its  potential 
positive  impact  on  stability  in  the  region  as  a  whole. 
Within  the  framework  of  these  efforts,  Egypt  has 
sought  since  1974  to  establish  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
zone  in  the  Middle  East.  Since  1980  the  General 
Assembly has made an appeal for the creation of such a 
that  promote 
lead  us 
to 
resolutions  adopted  by 
zone  under  a  series  of 
consensus. 

In response to this unanimous show of support by 
the  international  community  for  the  establishment  of 
such  a  zone,  in April  1990  President  Mohamed  Hosni 
Mubarak called for the establishment of a Middle East 
zone  free  from  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  This 
initiative  was  an  extension  and  a  natural  development 
of  Egypt’s  constant  call  for  the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East. 
In  support  of  these  efforts,  and  because  of  the 

importance  of  this  subject,  Egypt,  through  the  IAEA, 
has  called  year  after  year  for  the  comprehensive 
safeguards  system  of  the  Agency  to  be  applied  to  all 
nuclear facilities in the Middle East. These efforts and 
appeals are not simply an Egyptian or an Arab demand; 
they  are  an  international  endeavour  in  which  all  other 
countries,  regardless  of  their  various  alliances  and 
orientations,  join  us.  The  international  community 
expressed  its  position  through  the  consensus  adoption 
of the Final Document of the Sixth Review Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which was held in 2000. 

The  document  welcomed  the  admission  of  all 
countries  of  the  Middle  East,  except  for  Israel,  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT).  It  stressed  the  importance  of  Israel’s  adhesion 
to the Treaty and of subjecting all its nuclear facilities 
to  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)’s 
comprehensive  safeguards  in  order  to  attain  the  ideal 
objective,  that  of  ensuring  universal  adhesion  to  this 
Treaty in the Middle East. 

Thus,  last  week,  the  First  Committee  adopted  a 
resolution  under  item  76  concerning  the  danger  of 
nuclear proliferation in the Middle East. The resolution 
was  adopted  by  a  majority  of  139  votes;  operative 
paragraph  2  stressed 
Israel’s 
adhesion  to the  NPT. It  mentioned Israel  by  name  and 
called upon that country to subject its nuclear facilities 
to the IAEA comprehensive safeguards system. I would 
like  to  point  out  that  my  statement  does  not  represent 
an attack on Israel; nor is it a criticism, although Israel 
imagines  it  as  such  and  reiterates  that  view  in  its 
statements  before  the international body; rather, it is  a 
call  for  a  comprehensive  and  lasting  peace  based  on 
firm foundations. We think that it is high time for Israel 
to  act  positively  in  this  connection  and  to  respond  to 
the  international  will  by  joining  the  NPT  and  by 
importance  of 
the 


7 

A/55/PV.52 

all 
for 
the 
role 
aimed 
efforts 
support 
protocol 
verification 
in  urging  countries 
subjecting  its  nuclear  facilities  to  the  comprehensive 
safeguards system of the Agency. It should also give up 
its old-fashioned doctrine of deterrence. 

Nonetheless, Egypt  will enthusiastically continue 
to work towards ensuring the application of the IAEA’s 
comprehensive  safeguards  in  the  Middle  East,  without 
exception.  We 
at 
strengthening  the  safeguards  system,  because  it  is  the 
main  international  mechanism  for  verification.  The 
IAEA is working to develop and support the safeguards 
system  through  the  adoption  in  May  1997  of  an 
additional  model 
safeguards 
agreements  —  I  mean  the  93  +  2  system  —  which 
Egypt  supports  —  a  system  which  provides 
the 
necessary  legal  basis  for  developing  the  Agency’s 
ability  to  detect  undeclared  nuclear  activities  and 
nuclear  materials.  We  think  that  the  Agency  plays  an 
important 
to  sign  and 
implement  the  comprehensive  safeguards  agreements 
in  accordance  with  article  III,  paragraph  1  of  the 
Treaty, which is the basis for ensuring that the Agency 
verify that nuclear materials are not diverted from their 
declared  activities.  Moreover,  this  is  the  gist  of  the 
carried 
IAEA’s 
in 
accordance with the non-proliferation regime. 

I  would  like  to  reaffirm  that  any  renunciation  of 
our  responsibilities  or  our  commitment  to  apply  the 
comprehensive  safeguards  system  will  have  negative 
and  dangerous  consequences  on  the  credibility  of  the 
safeguards  system  as  a  whole  and  the  pioneering  role 
played by the Agency in this respect. 

Therefore, the Egyptian delegation has introduced 
an  amendment  to  operative  paragraph  5  of  the  draft 
resolution  concerning 
IAEA, 
contained  in  document  A/55/L.26.  Our  amendment 
stresses  the  integrated  role  played  by  the  Agency  in 
carrying out safeguards activities and the importance of 
the  comprehensive  safeguards  system,  to  say  nothing 
about 
those 
safeguards. 

Mr.  Albin  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Mexican delegation wishes to express its thanks to the 
Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his 
introduction  of 
the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for 1999. 

Mexico  wishes  to  state  its  satisfaction  with  the 
positive results of the Sixth Review  Conference of the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
the  additional  protocols  concerning 
the  report  on 
the  work  of 
report  of 
activities, 
out 
the 
the 
is 
is 
for 
the 
The 
functions 
importance 
community 
fulfilment  of 
improved  fulfilment  of 
the 
is  of  particular 
(NPT) carried out this year. There can be no doubt that 
the adoption by consensus of the final document by the 
States  Parties  to  the  Treaty  is  one  of  the  outstanding 
events  in  the  field  of  disarmament  and  nuclear  non-
proliferation.  Of  particular 
the 
international 
unambiguous 
commitment of the nuclear-weapons States to eliminate 
totally their nuclear arsenals,  with a view to achieving 
nuclear disarmament. 
Bearing  in  mind  that  one  of  the  International 

Atomic  Energy  Agency’s  main 
the 
application  of  verification  measures  on  nuclear 
materials  and  equipment, 
this 
commitment 
importance.  Our 
satisfaction  with  the  success  of  the  NPT  Review 
Conference  also  extends  to  our  recognition  of  the 
important  role  played  by  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  in  the  application  of  safeguards,  non-
proliferation,  technical  cooperation  and  the  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy. Mexico will continue to support 
this work of the Agency in those sectors. 

the  verification 
responsibilities  that  the  international  community  has 
entrusted 
requires  a  strengthened 
safeguards system. Mexico is satisfied at the increasing 
number of countries  which have acceded to the Model 
Additional  Protocol  to  the Agreements  between  States 
and  the  IAEA  for  the  application  of  safeguards.  At 
present, Mexico is carrying out an internal consultation 
process 
to  facilitate  a  decision  on  our  country’s 
accession to the Model Additional Protocol. 

Last year saw an increase in the cooperation links 
between  Mexico  and  the  Agency.  Under  the  project 
entitled 
of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management”,  Mexico’s  nuclear  sector,  headed  by  the 
Energy  Ministry,  has  begun  to  formulate  a  national 
radioactive waste policy that meets the current needs of 
the  sector  and  Mexico’s  international  commitments. 
With IAEA support, Mexico’s national nuclear research 
institute  is  carrying  out  work  to  rehabilitate  the  site 
currently  occupied  by  the  radioactive  waste  storage 
centre. This is a priority activity of the national nuclear 
sector. 

With  regard  to  regional  cooperation  activities, 
Mexico  has  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to  collaborate 
with  Latin  America  by  being  the  first  country  of  the 
region 
the  Regional  Cooperative 
Arrangements  for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear  Science 
“Improvement 
IAEA 
ratify 
the 
to 
to 
8 




A/55/PV.52
interested  countries 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  expresses 
and  Technology  in  Latin  America  (ARCAL).  We 
express  our  satisfaction  at  the  support  given  by  the 
IAEA  to  this  programme.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
implementation  of  regional  cooperation  agreements 
will  work  to  the  benefit  of  the  Agency’s  general 
objectives.  We  urge  the  other  States  members  of  this 
mechanism  to  ratify  the  Agreement  and  to  apply, 
within  this  framework,  the  criteria  that  have  been 
proposed  by  the Agency’s  Board  of  Governors  as  part 
of the IAEA’s new technical cooperation strategy. 

In  the  area of  nuclear  safety,  we look  forward to 
renewed  efforts  by  States  to  promote  a  universal 
culture  of  nuclear  safety  to  include  the  promotion  of 
binding  legal  instruments  and  safety  standards  and 
measures to apply these instruments and standards. We 
encourage  all 
to  work  for  a 
framework  of  understanding  to  ease  the  concerns  of 
States  that  find  their  national  security  affected  by  the 
passage  of  ships  carrying  radioactive  nuclear  waste. 
Although  work  has  begun  in  this  field,  much  ground 
remains to be covered. 

its 
gratitude to the Director General and secretariat of the 
IAEA  for  their  efforts  to  comply  fully  with  the 
mandates  entrusted  to  them  by  the  States  members  of 
the  Agency.  We  are  aware  that  the  success  of  their 
work  depends,  in  addition  to  the  political  support  of 
States,  on  adequate  financing.  In  this  connection,  we 
encourage 
financial 
to  meet 
commitments to the Agency on time. 
Mr.  Bossière  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

the  honour  to  address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union. The countries of Central and Eastern 
Europe  associated  with  the  European  Union  —  the 
Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Romania 
and  Slovakia  —  and  the  associated  countries  Cyprus 
and  Turkey,  as  well  as  Liechtenstein  and  Norway  in 
their capacity as countries of the European Free Trade 
Association  members  of 
the  European  Economic 
Space, join in this statement.. 

At the outset, on behalf of the European Union, I 
wish  to  congratulate  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr. 
Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his  work  over  the  past  year. 
The  Union  has  leant  its  full  support  to  initiatives  to 
enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  Agency,  with  regard 
both  to  its  programmes  and  activities  and  to  its 
management. 
all  States 
their 
In 
for  a 
to 
complete 
the  costs 
to 
the  Agency 
through 
system  of 
implemented 
to  prepare  a 
the  necessary 
reduced  volume  of 
this  connection,  we  emphasize 

The  European  Union  supports  the  work  of  the 
Agency,  undertaken  in  accordance  with  the  resolution 
adopted  at  the  forty-second  session  of  its  General 
Conference, 
integrated 
safeguards. We pay tribute to the desire of the Director 
General 
conceptual 
framework  for  the  implementation  of  this  programme 
by  the  year  2001.  This  system  is  designed  to  avoid 
redundancy  and  useless  overlap  in  measures  provided 
for  in  the  traditional  guarantees  and  in  those  of  the 
enhanced  system.  It  should  allow 
the  yield  and 
effectiveness of these safeguards to be improved, while 
reducing 
the 
progressive  spread  of  these  enhancement  measures  in 
States parties. 
that  new 

measures are not  merely additional steps to be applied 
in  a  mechanical  and  systematic  manner.  We  welcome 
the efforts of the secretariat to identify effectiveness in 
the  context  of  budgetary  neutrality,  as  well  as  the 
possibilities 
routine 
inspections  from  which  States  that  have  signed  and 
satisfactorily 
the  Additional  Protocol 
should eventually benefit. 

The European Union attaches great importance to 
respect  for  the  agreements  entered  into  under  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT).  It  continues  to  be  concerned  by  the  fact  that, 
despite efforts undertaken by the IAEA, practically no 
progress  has  been  made  since  1994  to  implement  the 
Agency’s  safeguards  Agreement  with  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, in particular with regard to 
verification  of  the  initial  declaration.  Once  again,  the 
European  Union  urges  to  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  fully  to  respect  its  safeguards 
Agreement and to cooperate  with the Director General 
as  soon  as  possible.  I  should  also  like  to  express  the 
hope that recent developments in relations between the 
two countries of the Korean peninsula will also help to 
resolve such issues. 

The situation in Iraq is also a matter of concern to 
the  European  Union,  since, over  nine  months  after the 
adoption of Security Council resolution 1284 (1999) of 
17  December  1999,  monitoring  has  yet  to  resume  in 
Iraq.  We  call  on  Iraq  fully  to  cooperate  with  the  new 
Commission  and  with  the  IAEA.  We  insist  that  Iraq 
comply fully with all Security Council resolutions that 
concern  it;  at  the  appropriate  time,  provide  the  IAEA 
with  the  access  necessary  to  enable  the  Agency  to 


9 

A/55/PV.52 

in 
the 
the 
(1999); 
and 
give 
1284 
full  support 
implement  its  mandate,  which  was  reconfirmed  in 
resolution 
unreserved 
cooperation  to  the  Agency  with  a  view  to  updating  a 
technically  coherent  picture  of  its  clandestine  nuclear 
programme,  as  prepared  in  1998.  Although  a  routine 
inspection  in  January  made  it  possible  effectively  to 
monitor  the  physical  inventory  of  nuclear  material,  in 
accordance  with  the  safeguards  Agreement  signed  by 
Iraq under the NPT, such monitoring cannot replace the 
activities  to  be  undertaken  by  the Agency  pursuant  to 
the relevant Security Council resolutions. 

The  European  Union  is  gratified  that  the  IAEA 
has  used  this  time  to  maintain  its  capacity  to  resume 
inspections.  Moreover,  we  welcome  the  work  of  Mr. 
Hans Blix at the head of the new Commission and will 
lend  him  our 
implementing  all 
provisions of resolution 1284 (1999). 

Improved  control  of  the  risks  of  proliferation  is 
essential to the maintenance of international peace and 
security. Meeting the requirements of non-proliferation 
and  security,  as  well  as  those  of  nuclear  safety,  will 
contribute  to  establishing  the  climate  of  confidence 
that  is  necessary  to  develop  the  peaceful  uses  of  the 
atom.  Safety  must  be  a  constant  concern  and 
continually 
in  all  areas.  One  cannot 
emphasize  enough  the  sole  responsibility  of  States 
engaged  in  nuclear  activities  of  any  kind  to  their  own 
population, 
international 
community. 
to 

emphasize 
the  Convention  on 
Nuclear Safety and the Joint Convention on the Safety 
of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on  the  Safety  of 
Radioactive  Waste  Management.  The  regular  holding 
of review  meetings by the contracting parties supports 
a  more  evenly  shared  culture  of  safety  throughout  the 
world.  We  wish  to  ask  all  States  to  ensure  that  they 
ratify these Conventions and to speed up the entry into 
force  of  the  Joint  Convention.  With  regard  to  the 
Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety,  we  await  with  interest 
the  report  of  the  second  review  meeting  in  the  hope 
that  improvements  will  be  made  in  the  area  of  safety, 
particularly  in  all  domains  where  the  first  review 
meeting noted that such improvements could be made. 

It  remains  necessary  to  make  an  effort  to  ensure 
that  safety  reaches  internationally  acceptable  levels  in 
all  nuclear  installations.  To  achieve  this,  cooperation 
on  the  part  of  all  is  necessary.  The  European  Union 
The  European  Union  would  also 
their  neighbours  and 
importance  of 
improved 
like 
information 
regulations, 
also  welcomes  the  key  role  that  the  Agency  plays  in 
this  crucial  area  by  providing  States  with  support  for 
national 
and  necessary 
assistance  to  States  that  so  request.  Moreover,  the 
publishing of documents — the Safety Series — makes 
it  possible  for  there  to  be  more  cohesive  and  stricter 
practices. In  particular, the  Operational  Safety  Review 
Team  (OSART),  the  International  Regulatory  Review 
Team  (IRRT)  and  the  Integrated  Safety Assessment  of 
Research  Reactors  (INSARR)  are  making  important 
contributions in this area. 

The  European  Union  would  particularly  like  to 
reiterate  to  the  Agency  its  support  for  its  activities  in 
the  area  of  radiation  source  safety  and  the  security  of 
radioactive material. A code at good practices would be 
a good idea in order to rectify the lacks in this area, in 
which  major  shortcomings  in  the  management  of 
sources have resulted in serious radiological accidents. 
This past May and June the Agency carried out a wide-
ranging  air  reconnaissance  operation  in  order  to  find 
radioactive  sources  that  had  been  abandoned  in  the 
Republic of Georgia.  

Since its establishment, the Agency’s mission has 
been to provide assistance and aid to member States for 
the  development  of  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear 
energy,  the  third  pillar  of  the  Agency’s  role.  The 
Review  Conference of the Parties to the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation  Treaty  also  clearly  acknowledges  the 
importance  of  the  work  of  the  IAEA  as  the  principal 
international  organization  relating  to  the  transfer  of 
technology. As  with  all  other  activities  of  the Agency, 
this  depends  upon  economic  situations  and 
the 
resultant  budget  constraints.  It  must  be  conducted 
rigorously,  guided  by 
for 
maximum  effectiveness  and  considered  more  as  a  sort 
of  catalysing  element  than  as  a  permanent  form  of 
subsidy. 

The  European  Union  has  had  numerous 
opportunities  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  Agency, 
particularly  under 
the  Agency’s 
Director  General,  Mr.  ElBaradei,  to  eliminate  any 
laxity  in  managing  technical  cooperation.  We  firmly 
believe, however, that the IAEA cannot act in isolation. 
The simultaneous commitment of recipient States is of 
paramount importance, both in the financial area and in 
follow-up. In this respect, we fully support the concept 
of  model  projects  and 
implementation.  The 
European Union appreciates, in particular, the attention 
that  the IAEA  has  given to the  establishment, in  those 
the  constant  concern 
the  guidance  of 
their 
10 




A/55/PV.52
in 
in 
1999 
Fund,  which 
The  European  Union  will  continue 
countries  that  receive  technical  cooperation,  when 
necessary, of legislation and rigorous regulation in the 
area  of  radiation  protection  and  safety,  as  well  as  of 
authorities  that  can  ensure  that  such  legislation  is 
respected. 

We  also  welcome  the  drawing  up  of  measures  to 
reinforce  technical  cooperation  within  the  context  of 
the  overall  economic  activities  of  recipient  countries 
and  their  congruity  with  the  guidelines  adopted  in  the 
sectors  to  which  it  is  connected.  The  European  Union 
also  recommends  the  regular  review  of  how  a  project 
has been carried out and an assessment of its results.  

The  high  level  of  voluntary  contributions  from 
member States of the European Union to the Technical 
Cooperation 
reached 
approximately  40  per  cent  of  the  pledges  collected, 
shows  the  vigorous  support  that  the  European  Union 
gives to the Technical Cooperation Programme. 
to  fully 

cooperate  with  its  partners  to  achieve  the  goals  of  the 
Technical  Cooperation  Fund.  It  considers  that  the 
technical assistance provided by the Agency should be 
fully  brought 
line  with  national  development 
programmes  and  that it  is  up to  the  recipient  States to 
ensure  this.  Moreover,  the  recipient  countries  must 
make a significant contribution in order to demonstrate 
the  importance  that  the  States  themselves  attach  to 
these  projects.  We  note  with 
the 
Programme’s  recoverable  expenditures  were  largely 
underpaid last year and call upon all recipient States to 
meet  their  financial  obligations  and  repay  their  loans 
fully  and  on  time.  The  European  Union  also  believes 
that  it  is  in  the  interest  of  recipient  States  and  of  the 
Agency to ensure good coordination between activities 
of  technical  cooperation  of  the  Agency  and  those  of 
other  organizations,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  synergy 
and avoiding overlap. 

My  statement  has  highlighted  the  diversity  and 
the  richness  of  Agency  activities.  Moreover,  we  have 
pointed  out  the  increase  in  costs  caused  by  the  broad 
responsibilities  that  it  must  meet.  We  encourage  the 
Director General and his teams to continue their efforts 
to find ways to make savings at the management level, 
to identify priority tasks and to eliminate overlap  with 
a  view  to  reducing  the  dependency  of  the  Agency  on 
extra-budgetary  financing.  In  particular,  the  necessary 
reinforcement  of  safeguards  will  probably  entail 
additional  expenditures  during  its  initial  phase.  It 
regret 
that 
that 
the 
of 
importance 
to 
non-proliferation 
The  European  Union  notes 
would  preferable  for  that  financing  to  be  carried  out 
from the regular budget and for each State to  make an 
equitable  contribution  in  keeping  with  its  means  but 
without  any  excessive  discount  to  such  activities, 
which are in the interests of all. 
it  attaches 

fundamental 
the  content  of  IAEA 
programmes,  for  which  it  pays  approximately  34  per 
cent  of  the  regular  budget.  On  this  essential  point  of 
programmes  and  budgets,  we  have  welcomed  with 
interest  the  new  step  proposed  by  the  Agency  in 
preparing activities for the 2002-2003 biennium. 

In conclusion, the Agency has earned the trust of 
the  international  community  as  a  competent  authority 
in monitoring respect for safeguard agreements relating 
to 
nuclear  weapons. 
Simultaneously,  it  is  playing  an  essential  role  in 
promoting the safe utilization of nuclear techniques for 
peaceful  purposes  in  member  States  that  have  chosen 
to use such techniques.  

Similarly, the European Union and the associated 
States that have joined in this statement reiterate to the 
Agency  their  support  and  firm  will  to  continue  to 
participate energetically in its activities. 

the  European  Union  has 
supported the initiation of negotiations on and the rapid 
conclusion  of,  a  multilateral 
treaty 
prohibiting 
the  production  of  fissile  material  for 
nuclear  weapons  or  other  explosive  nuclear  devices. 
The  European  Union  is  ready  to  entrust  a  monitoring 
role  to  the  Agency  within  the  framework  of  such  a 
treaty. 
Mr.  Moura  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  delegations  of  the  countries  of  the 
Southern  Cone  Common  Market  (MERCOSUR)  — 
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay — and of the 
associated countries, Bolivia and Chile, I would like to 
express  our  satisfaction  with  the  report  introduced  by 
the  Director  General  of 
the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  We  reaffirm  our  permanent 
the 
active 
international 
non-
proliferation,  nuclear  disarmament  and  the  promotion 
of the peaceful uses of atomic energy, guaranteeing the 
right of all States to research, produce and use nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes. 
the  objectives  of 
For  several  years 
community  with 
international 
commitment 
regard 
to 
to 


11 

A/55/PV.52 

In 
improving 
this  connection,  we  regard 

the  Agency’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  as  being  of  great 
importance.  In  particular,  on  the  basis  of  our  own 
experience  as  recipient  countries  and  in  some  cases 
exporters  of  nuclear  materials  and  energy,  we  support 
the  actions  to  guarantee  the  exchange  of  materials, 
equipment  and  technology  for  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear energy. 

In our statement at the last session of the General 
Assembly,  we  urged  the  Agency,  with  regard  to 
verification,  to  give  the  highest  priority  to  the  true 
integration  of  safeguards  measures,  and  not  merely  to 
their  increase.  The  countries  of  MERCOSUR  and 
Bolivia  and  Chile  reiterate  their  commitment  to  the 
new  concept  of 
the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  of  safeguards,  since  safeguards  play  a 
clear  function  of  transparency  and  mutual  confidence 
amongst countries. 

However,  we  would  like  to  refer  to  the  formula 
for financing safeguards adopted at the Agency’s recent 
General  Conference,  which  will  involve  a  greater 
contribution  for  the  countries  of  our  region.  The 
countries  of  MERCOSUR  and  Bolivia  and  Chile  will 
encourage  the  periodic  assessment  of  the  costs  of  the 
safeguards  and  when  necessary  propose  adjustments 
with  a  view  to  achieving  the  highest  level  of  cost-
benefit  in  their  implementation  in  the  light  of  the 
economic development of member countries. 

We  would  also  encourage  the  Secretariat  to 
introduce greater efficiency in the use of the resources 
allocated  to  safeguards.  In  addition,  we  consider  that 
the  application  of  the  Additional  Protocol  should  be 
neutral with respect to the cost of safeguards. 

The Agency also has special responsibilities with 
regard  to  the  promotion  of  technical  cooperation,  for 
which  it  must  have  sufficient  human  and  financial 
resources, with a proper balance between its promotion 
and regulatory activities. 
the  consideration  of  future 

programmes and budgets of the Agency, we support the 
position that there should be strict compliance with the 
zero real growth policy. 

We believe that the Agency’s activities should be 
carried  out  on  the  basis  of  transparency  and  the 
implementation  of  internationally  accepted  standards 
of nuclear safety and the physical protection of nuclear 
materials. 
With  regard 
to 
the  environment, 

Nuclear  safety  is  also  of  special  importance  in 
connection with the dissemination of information about 
the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  among  the  public 
in  our  countries  and  its  acceptance  by  public  opinion. 
We believe that the use of nuclear energy in our region 
is closely linked with the adoption and implementation 
increase 
of  adequate  safety  measures  which  will 
reliability  and  respect  for 
thus 
guaranteeing  greater  acceptance  of  nuclear  energy  by 
our peoples. 

The  transportation  of  nuclear  waste  by  sea  is  a 
source  of  constant  concern,  because  of  the  possible 
dangers to the health of the coastal peoples and for the 
environment of the transit countries. In this context, we 
emphasize the need for cooperation and coordination in 
the  relevant  forums  with  a  view  to  strengthening  the 
norms regulating the transport of such waste by sea. 

Lastly,  we  wish  to  underline  the  role  of  the 
Agency  as  a  promoter  of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy and as a central protagonist of the international 
regime for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
Mrs. Aragon (Philippines): Nuclear power holds 

the  promise  of  safe  and  affordable  energy,  as  well  as 
improved  agricultural  productivity,  safer  foods  and 
drinking  water,  and  better  human  health  for 
the 
continued growth and progress of our globalized world. 
At  the  same  time,  nuclear  power  still  bears  the 
potential for massive terror and destruction. 
In  all  these  instances,  the  International  Atomic 

Energy  Agency 
important  and 
challenging  role.  We  would  like  to  thank  the  Agency 
for its report, a report that succeeded in painting a clear 
picture of what the Agency has done and intends to do 
in  carrying  out  this  role.  It  is  a  significant  and 
challenging  role  that  the Agency  has  carried  out  quite 
well.  The  Philippines  notes  with  satisfaction 
the 
continuing  efforts  of  the IAEA in  advancing  the  cause 
the  application  of 
of  non-proliferation,  safety 
nuclear 
in 
support  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  atomic  energy,  which 
are preconditions to enhancing world peace and safety. 
With  the  successful  conclusion  of  the  2000  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the Agency’s 
work in implementing the safeguards provisions of the 
NPT becomes even more important. 

comprehensive 
It  is  in  this  context  that  we  welcome  the  two 
safeguards  agreements  and  eight 
technical  cooperation 
(IAEA)  plays  an 
technology  and 
in 
12 




A/55/PV.52
its  contribution,  which  has  helped 
Additional  Protocols  that  have  been  signed  during  the 
past  year,  and  the  progress  achieved  in  developing 
integrated  safeguards  approaches  for  various  types  of 
nuclear  facilities.  The  Philippines  likewise  welcomes 
the  high  technical  cooperation  implementation  rate,  as 
well  as  the  Agency’s  efforts  to  update  and  foster 
national implementation of safety standards. 

The Agency’s activities to ensure and promote the 
safe use of nuclear energy are particularly important to 
those of us in Asia. While there has been no significant 
increase in the number of nuclear power plants in other 
parts  of  the  world,  in Asia  planning  for  the  expansion 
of  nuclear  power  continues,  and  the  use  of  nuclear 
power  is  likely  to  grow  over  the  short  term.  We  are 
confident  that  the  Agency  will  ensure  that  the  growth 
of  nuclear power  generation in our region  is both  safe 
and peaceful. 
In the area of peace and stability, the Agency has 

also  made 
in 
achieving dramatic progress in opening up channels of 
communication  and  in  broadening  the  dialogue  in 
north-east  Asia.  While  there  is  much  to  be  done,  the 
Philippines believes that what has been achieved so far 
has been in no small measure because of the dedicated 
and committed work of the Agency. 

Even  though  the  IAEA  has  already  done  much, 
there  is  still  more  work  ahead  for  it.  The  Philippines 
welcomes  and  supports  the  request  made  by  member 
States  during  the  forty-ninth  regular  session  of  the 
General  Conference  last  year  for  the  Agency  to  help 
countries  assess  the  role  of  nuclear  power  in  the  light 
of  global  environmental  challenges  and  energy  needs. 
We  are  glad  that  there  was  agreement  that  such 
assistance should include facilitating access to relevant 
information  about  the  importance  of  nuclear  power  in 
achieving  sustainable  development 
in  developing 
countries and in mitigating greenhouse gas emissions. 

the  Philippines  gives 
particular  importance  to  the  marine  environment.  We 
continue  to  support  the  Agency’s  efforts  to  monitor 
marine 
the  marine 
environment  in  cooperation  with  other  United  Nations 
agencies.  The  Agency 
is  helping  develop  and 
accumulate  knowledge  that  could  provide  a  basis  for 
the  rapid  assessment  of  the  impact  of  any  possible 
future  releases  from  accidents  that  might  occur  at 
coastal nuclear facilities or nuclear waste sites, or from 
the  ocean  transport  of  spent  fuel  or  high  level  waste. 
radioactive  contamination  of 
archipelago, 
As 
an 
to 
introduce 
the  decision 
The  Agency  has  also  used  new  remote  measurement 
systems, with which it has confirmed that global fallout 
from atmospheric bomb testing is still the main source 
of anthropogenic radionuclides in the oceans, although 
levels have declined substantially. 

The  Agency  has  not  let  the  dynamic  changes  in 
the  world  go  by  without  seeking  to  reform  itself.  The 
Philippines welcomes its efforts to adopt measures that 
would  make  it  better  understand  the  needs  of  member 
States  and  to  ensure  a  more  efficient  and  effective 
response  to  them.  We  believe  that  the  Agency  is 
moving in the right direction  with its new approach to 
the programme and budget formulation process, as well 
as  with 
results-based 
programming  to  the  fullest  extent  possible  for  the 
2002-2003 biennium. 

In  this  regard,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  that, 
in  view  of  the  numerous  demands  placed  upon  the 
Agency,  the  limitations  imposed  by  its  budget  and  the 
need  to  preserve  IAEA  efficiency,  it  is  imperative  to 
pursue greater care in maintaining the delicate balance 
between its regulatory and promotional activities while 
discharging its mission. 

In  today’s  dynamic  and  interdependent  world, 
many  different  and  useful  ways  are  being  found  to 
peacefully  use  and apply  nuclear energy. Although the 
Agency  was  a  child  of  the  cold  war,  it  has  grown  and 
matured,  and  we  are  confident  that  it  will  be  able  to 
successfully face today’s many and diverse challenges. 

is  with  great 
pleasure  that  the  Ukrainian  delegation  takes  part  once 
more 
the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA)  this  time 
for  1999.  I  would 
thank  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of  the 
report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to 
the  General  Assembly.  The  main  developments  in  the 
Agency’s  activities  during 
the  current  year  are 
highlighted in the report and the statement made by the 
Director  General.  Ukraine  feels  it  is  important  to 
underscore  that  the  Agency’s  work  has  promoted 
further  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  in  accordance 
with  articles  1  and  2  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). 

The  NPT  2000  Review  Conference  once  again 
stressed the need to unite efforts worldwide in curbing 
the nuclear arms race and further promote international 
security  by  universally  adhering  to  the Treaty.  Having 
Mr.  Krokhmal  (Ukraine):  It 
the  annual  debate  on 
the  work  of 
in 
like 
to 


13 

A/55/PV.52 

to 
signed  a  protocol  additional 
the  Safeguards 
Agreement  on  15  August  this  year,  Ukraine  took  the 
next logical step to move towards the goals of the NPT 
and  the  Safeguards  Agreement.  We  believe  it  will 
contribute  to  making  further  progress  towards  the 
universal  application  of  the  safeguards  regime,  given 
the level of nuclear activity in Ukraine. 

We  reiterate  the  significant  role  that  the  Agency 
plays  in  assuring  the  fulfilment  of  obligations  by 
member  States  under  article  3  of  the  Treaty.  We  call 
upon all members of the Agency that have not done so 
to  sign  a  protocol  additional  to  their  Safeguards 
Agreement as soon as possible. 

The application of the highest safety standards in 
terms  of  design  and  operation  of  peaceful  nuclear 
installations  is  yet  another  major  responsibility  of  the 
Agency. In the last decade the Agency has extensively 
developed  and  promoted  nuclear  safety  standards  and 
has  carried  out  multidimensional  tasks,  ranging  from 
facilitating  national  legislative  processes  to  promoting 
reliable  technologies,  good  regulatory  practices  and 
staff  training  in  member  States.  We  commend  the 
Agency for organizing the First Review Meeting of the 
Contracting  Parties  to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear 
Safety,  in  April  1999,  which  we  believe  will  help 
improve safety performance among member States. 

I  would  like  to  draw  the Assembly’s  attention  to 
the  historic decision by  the Government of  Ukraine to 
close  by  15  December  2000  the  Chernobyl  nuclear 
power  plant.  We  consider 
this  step  a  valuable 
contribution  by  Ukraine  to  mitigating  and  minimizing 
the Chernobyl disaster, despite the fact that the closure 
of 
the  Chernobyl  station  presents  a  number  of 
challenging  problems,  with  a  new  range  of  socio-
economic ramifications for my country.  

As  a  follow-up  to  the  Director  General’s  recent 
visit  to  Ukraine,  another  step  was  taken  towards 
promoting  safety  within 
the 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  for  the  2001-2003 
cycle. Two additional projects have been agreed upon: 
support  for  the  decommissioning  of  the  Chernobyl 
nuclear  power  plant 
characterization, 
management  and  physical  protection  of  radioactive 
material from the shelter at the Chernobyl station. This 
is  an  example  of  how  the  coordinating  role  of  the 
Agency in international cooperation helps in a practical 
way  to  resolve  problems  of  major  concern  to  the 
international 
achieved 
community.  Ukraine  has 
framework  of 
and 
the 
the 
to 
importance 
Illicit  Trafficking 
supporting  efforts 
terrorism.  Ukraine,  as  a  party 
considerable progress in improving its safety record, as 
well  as  in  establishing  a  recognized  legislative  and 
regulatory base. 

I  would  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  in  the 
year 2000 Ukraine ratified the Joint Convention on the 
Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of 
Radioactive  Waste  Management,  and  has  acceded  to 
the  Joint  Protocol  Relating  to  the  Application  of  the 
Vienna  Convention  on  Civil  Liability  for  Nuclear 
Damage  and  the  Paris  Convention  on  Third  Party 
Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy. 

The Agency’s  efforts  against  illicit  trafficking  in 
nuclear  materials  and  other  radioactive  sources  are 
widely  acknowledged.  We  attach 
to 
cooperating with the Agency under the Programme for 
Preventing  and  Combating 
in 
Nuclear  Material,  and  to  exchanging  information  with 
the Agency’s  illicit  trafficking  database.  Ukraine  joins 
other  States 
to  draft  an 
international  convention  on  the  suppression  of  acts  of 
nuclear 
the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material,  supports 
the  draft  resolution  calling  on 
countries  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accede  to  the 
Convention in order to strengthen our efforts to combat 
illicit 
in  nuclear  materials  and  other 
radioactive sources. 

The  technical  cooperation  pillar  of  the Agency’s 
activities  can  hardly  be  overestimated.  The  report  of 
the  Agency  to  the  2000  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons proves that the Agency is meeting its 
commitments  under  article  IV  of  the  Treaty.  Ukraine 
believes 
technical 
cooperation in the nuclear field indeed provides for the 
development  of  Member  States 
the 
contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace,  health  and 
prosperity throughout the world.  

the 
Ukrainian  delegation  welcomes 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  year  1999.  As  a  traditional  co-
sponsor of the draft resolution on the Agency’s report, 
my  delegation  remains  committed  to  the  Agency’s 
goals.  We  believe  that  this  year’s  draft  resolution  will 
reflect  in  a  balanced  and  comprehensive  manner  the 
support of the international community for the work of 
the Agency. 
comments 
the  report  of 
the  Agency’s  productive 
conclusion,  with 
in 
terms  of 
In 
these 
in 
trafficking 
that 
14 




A/55/PV.52
the 
IAEA, 
has 
for 
now 
In  its  overview, 
rest,  while  giving  due  consideration 
Mr.  Punj  (India):  The  Indian  delegation  has 

taken  note  of  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  presented  by  the  Agency’s 
Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei.  As  a 
founding  member  of  the  Agency,  India  continues  to 
play  an  active  role  in  the  work  of  the  IAEA.  We  are 
particularly happy that the mechanism of the Scientific 
Forum,  held  to  coincide  with  the  annual  General 
Conference 
been 
of 
institutionalized. 

the  annual  report  makes  a 
reference  to  the  Medium-Term  Strategy,  which  was 
developed in 1999 to form the basis for the formulation 
of  programme  proposals  for  the  period  2001-2005.  In 
this  regard,  India  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the 
IAEA  was  created  with 
the  main  objective  of 
accelerating  and  enlarging  the  contribution  of  atomic 
energy  to  peace,  health  and  prosperity  throughout  the 
world.  This  is  the  central  pillar  on  which  the  Agency 
should 
to 
safeguards  measures  to  prevent  the  use  of  Agency 
assistance for military purposes and to safety standards 
for  the  protection  of  health  and  the  minimization  of 
danger to life and property.  
Safety  and  safeguards  are  indeed  important  and 

necessary 
and 
accelerating  the  contribution  of  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes.  However,  they  should  not  become 
activities  that  overshadow  the  peaceful  uses  of  atomic 
energy.  Primacy  must  be  accorded  to  technology. This 
is  the  only  way  we  can  faithfully  interpret  the  time-
tested Statute of the Agency. 

Our  delegation  supports  the  priority  assigned  to 
the  potential  role  of  nuclear  energy  in  sustainable 
development in the Medium-Term Strategy, which is in 
line with the recommendations of the Scientific Forum 
held during the 1999 General Conference of the IAEA. 
The  Agency  programme  should  include  the  role  of 
innovative  nuclear 
in 
promoting  sustainable development. We  appreciate the 
Director  General’s  efforts  in  trying  to  establish  a  task 
force  for  that  purpose. We  feel  strongly  that  it  will  be 
worthwhile  for  the Agency  to  support  this  programme 
as part of the regular programme of the Agency. 

In  the  context  of  the  sustainability  of  nuclear 
power,  it  is  appropriate  for  the Agency  to  address  the 
issue  of  various  nuclear 
fuel  cycle  options.  A 
discussion by experts on the merits and problems of the 
reactors  and 
fuel  cycles 
enlarging 
activities 
support 
in 
technical, 
closed  fuel  cycle  versus  the  open  fuel  cycle  with  its 
associated 
financial  and  environmental 
aspects  could  form  a  meaningful  part  of  the  Medium-
Term  Strategy.  In  view  of  our 
limited  uranium 
resources  and  in  order  to  ensure  long-term  energy 
security, India has opted for a closed nuclear fuel cycle 
policy involving a fast breeder reactor programme and 
thorium  utilization  and  associated  fuel  reprocessing 
and  refabrication  plants.  A  closed  fuel  cycle  is  also 
important for the safe management of the environment, 
as it greatly reduces the quantity of high-level wastes.  

Recognizing the importance of the role of nuclear 
energy, especially in developing countries, India, along 
with  the  Group  of  77,  has  been  requesting  a  nuclear 
technology review along the lines of the nuclear safety 
review, and to have it discussed as part of the dedicated 
agenda in the Board and in the General Conference. We 
are  happy  that  the  Director  General  has  heeded  our 
request  and  has  also  appointed  standing  advisory 
groups  for  nuclear  energy  and  nuclear  science  and 
applications. 
Even  in  countries  that  are  currently  witnessing  a 

slow-down 
their  nuclear  power  development 
programmes,  it  is  likely  that  a  reversal  will  occur  due 
to  two  factors.  First,  there  has  been  a  substantial 
increase  in  oil  prices,  and,  secondly,  there  is  the 
commitment to the Kyoto Protocol. For a large country 
like  India,  with  its  need  to  increase  its  per  capita 
electricity  consumption  substantially,  rapid  growth  in 
nuclear  electricity  generation  capacity 
is  of  vital 
importance. 

In  India  our  strong  policy  emphasis  on  nuclear 
power  is  based  on  the  operation  of  nuclear  power 
plants  in  a  safe  and  reliable  manner.  The  Atomic 
Energy Regulatory Board of India stringently monitors 
all activities in this regard. It is a matter of satisfaction 
that  since  the  last  General Assembly,  two  more  state-
of-the-art,  indigenously  designed  power  reactor  units 
have reached criticality — one unit in Karnataka State 
and another in Rajasthan State. Another reactor unit is 
due  to  reach  criticality  shortly.  Construction  work  on 
the 
indigenously  designed  500  megawatt 
pressurised  heavy-water  reactor  units  at  Tarapur  is  in 
full  swing.  The  preparation  of  the  detailed  project 
report  for  the  construction  of  two  1,000  megawatt 
VVER 
technical 
cooperation  with  Russia  began  in  April  1999  and  is 
expected 
to  be  completed  next  year.  Site-related 
activities have already commenced. 
at  Kudankulam, 
reactors 
two 
in 


15 

A/55/PV.52 

the 
to  provide 
The  capability 
ecological  degradation 

technology 
resources for our nuclear programme has been derived 
mainly  from  our  strong  research  and  development 
programme. India’s efforts in developing the advanced 
heavy  water  reactor,  which  will  facilitate  thorium 
utilization,  go  towards  developing  innovative  reactor 
and fuel cycle designs for the sustainable development 
of  nuclear  energy.  The  growth  in  installed  power 
generation  capacity  will,  of  course,  continue  with 
plants  using  state-of-the-art-design  thermal  and  fast 
reactors with an emphasis on improved safety.  

In  this  context,  we  appreciate  the  initiative  of 
President  Putin,  announced  at  the  recent  Millennium 
Summit,  by  which  he  recognized  that  the  most  rapid 
energy-production growth in the next century will take 
place in the developing countries. He has also said that 
to  diminish 
caused  by 
greenhouse gases and to save global fossil reserves for 
non-electricity  uses  by  present  and  future  generations 
there  is  a  need  to  develop  new  nuclear  technologies 
which are also proliferation-resistant.  

The  IAEA,  with  its  comprehensive  membership 
covering almost the entire world, and, more important, 
the  developing  Member  States,  have  a  collective 
responsibility  to  find  technological  solutions  to  such 
problems.  For  its  part,  India,  as  always,  strongly 
supports  those  efforts  and  will  actively  participate  in 
such initiatives.  

Our  research  and  development  programme  has 
continued  to  lay  emphasis  on  areas  such  as  medicine, 
agriculture and industry. Some work in those areas has 
also  been  taken  up  under  the  aegis  of  the  Regional 
Cooperation  Agreement  programme  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific. As a founder member of that programme, India 
is a strong supporter of the programme and has hosted 
several  events,  including  the  meeting  of  national 
coordinators of the Agreement early this year.  

India  has  consistently  supported  the  technical 
cooperation  activities  of  the  Agency  and  pays  its 
annual contribution to the Technical Cooperation Fund 
regularly  and  in  full.  We  are  concerned  that  there  is  a 
widening 
actual 
contributions,  and  we  urge  all  member  States, 
especially  the  major  donor  countries,  similarly  to 
pledge and pay in full.  

Simultaneously,  the  Agency  should  orient  its 
technical cooperation programmes in such a  way as to 
promote  self-reliance  among  developing  countries 
between 
pledges 
and 
gap 
a 
under 
human 
resources 
development 
rather  than  reliance  on  developed  countries.  We  have 
called  on  the Agency  to  identify  centres  of  excellence 
for 
the 
programme  of  technical  cooperation  for  developing 
countries,  and  have  offered  our  training  facilities  to 
scientists  and  engineers  from  developing  countries.  In 
that  regard,  in  a  signal  event,  India  this  year  signed  a 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  with  the  IAEA  on 
cooperation  in  connection  with  the  Agency’s  regional 
and  inter-regional  training  events,  and  with  individual 
and  group  fellowship  training  programmes  carried  out 
as  part  of  the  technical  cooperation  activities  of  the 
IAEA.  The  Memorandum  of  Understanding  is  an 
important milestone in our relationship with the IAEA, 
and  it  formalizes  our  longstanding  offer  to  make  the 
Bhabha  Atomic  Research  Centre 
centre  of 
excellence/regional  resource  unit  under  the  Agency’s 
programme  of  technical  cooperation  for  developing 
countries. 
There  is  a  need  to  see  an  improvement  in  the 

quality of the implementation of safeguards. Much has 
changed  in  technology  since  1971,  when  the  new 
inspection  regime  was  put  in  place.  This  should  be 
reflected  in  the  quality  and  quantity  of  inspection 
efforts,  with  corresponding  reductions  in  cost.  The 
argument  that  increases  in  safeguards  need  to  be 
accommodated 
are 
mandatory requirements under agreements, as required 
under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT),  raises  the  question  of  the  differences 
between  statutory  activities  and  mandatory  activities. 
With promotion being the primary statutory aim of the 
IAEA,  we  wonder  why  only  5.9  per  cent  of  the  IAEA 
budget  goes  for  an  important  activity  such  as  nuclear 
power. On the other hand, there seems to be no holding 
back  of  resources  for  safeguards  activities,  with  a  call 
now  for  the  extrabudgetary  contribution  also  to  be 
incorporated  into  the  regular  budget.  Such  actions 
would further hurt promotional activities.  

We  reiterate  our  appreciation  of  the  Agency’s 
efforts to prevent illicit trafficking in nuclear materials. 
Yet  in  our  neighbourhood,  clandestine  acquisition  of 
sensitive  technology  and  materials  is  known  to  have 
occurred.  Preventing  this  requires  the  commitment  of 
States  members  of  the  Agency.  Both  on  the  issue  of 
physical  protection  measures  and  on  export  controls, 
India  follows  a  stringent  law-based  system,  which  is 
borne out by its exemplary record.  
automatically 
because 
they 
16 




A/55/PV.52
for 
through 
to  express  our  appreciation 

As  we  move  into  the  new  millennium,  it  is  time 
to  pause,  to  rethink  our  strategies  and  to  examine  our 
options.  We  need  a  fresh  look  at  the  importance  of 
nuclear  power,  brushing  aside  the  shroud  of  prejudice 
and  apprehension.  Let  us  pool  our  collective  wisdom 
and  scientific  knowledge  and  work  together  under  the 
aegis  of  the  IAEA  to  address  the  challenges  of  global 
development 
the  deployment  of  nuclear 
technologies, overcoming the barriers that stand in the 
way.  In  that  context,  a  welcome  step  was  the  industry 
forum  organized  by  the  Agency  in  January  this  year 
with the aim of harmonizing and focusing promotional 
efforts being  made by the private sector, Governments 
and  intergovernmental  organizations  in  the  field  of 
nuclear power.  
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 

would  like  to  thank  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, for his comprehensive report 
on  the  work  and  activities  of  the Agency  in  1999.  We 
wish  also 
the 
outstanding  performance  of  the  Agency  under  his 
leadership.  
On  the  occasion  of  the  fifty-fifth  anniversary  of 

the  United  Nations,  and 
the 
Millennium  Assembly,  it  is  appropriate  to  reflect  on 
some of the main achievements of the IAEA and on the 
challenges 
community 
regarding its work. In May this year, the 2000 Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  for  the  first 
time  in  15  years,  adopted  a  consensus  report  on  the 
review of the Treaty over the past five years, which set 
an agenda for the next review period, until 2005. It was 
particularly  significant  that  the  Conference  reaffirmed 
that the IAEA was the competent authority responsible 
for  verifying  and  assuring  compliance  with 
its 
safeguards  agreements  with  individual  States.  The 
implementation of a new integrated optimal safeguards 
system  should  therefore  take  place  as  a  matter  of 
urgency.  Although  the  Agency  is  in  the  process  of 
developing such a system, it will require fresh thinking 
to  integrate  the  rigid,  highly  quantitative  elements  of 
the  old  system  into  a  new,  flexible,  non-mechanical, 
qualitative  approach,  as  allowed  by  the  additional 
protocols.  

It is often said that safety and security are gained 
at a cost. It is certainly not any different when referring 
to  the  safeguards  system.  The  entry  into  force  of 
the  context  of 
international 
in 
facing 
the 
the 
regime, 
non-proliferation 
additional  protocols  will  no  doubt  further  increase  the 
Agency’s  burden,  as  will  the  outcome  of  the  trilateral 
initiative  among  the  Agency,  the  United  States  of 
America and the Russian Federation.  
Since  all  of  these  activities  are  important  for 

strengthening 
an 
innovative solution for the safeguards budget will have 
to  be  found  soon.  Such  a  solution  should  take  into 
consideration  the  abolishment  of  shielding  the  burden 
on  the  developing  countries  should  not  be  increased 
further.  It  is  South  Africa’s  sincere  hope  that  the 
significant  concession  made  by 
the  developing 
countries in September this year will be balanced by a 
long-term  political  and  financial  commitment  by  the 
donor countries to the Technical Cooperation Fund that 
will  be  able  to  fulfil  the  real  and  urgent  needs  of  the 
developing States members of the IAEA. 

The primary function of the IAEA is to encourage 
and  assist  in  research,  development  and  the  practical 
application  of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful  purposes 
throughout  the  world.  South  Africa  commends  the 
Agency  for  the  initiatives  and  activities  undertaken 
during the past year in this field. In particular, we wish 
to  mention  the  role  of  the  IAEA  in  assisting  South 
Africa  in  the  review  of  the  technical  and  economic 
feasibility, safety and nuclear non-proliferation aspects 
of  the  pebble  bed  modular  reactor.  The  Agency’s 
report,  following  its  investigations,  will  inform  our 
further  decision-making  process  on 
the  possible 
expansion of nuclear power generation in South Africa. 

South Africa considers the Agency’s assistance to 
developing  countries,  under  its  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme to be very important. In this connection, it 
is  significant  to  recall  that  the  Final  Document  of  the 
2000  Review  Conference  of  the  States  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  accentuated  the  continued  relevance  of  the 
programme.  The  Conference  also  welcomed 
the 
Agency’s  new  strategy  for 
technical  cooperation, 
which  seeks  to promote  socio-economic impact  within 
its core competencies by integrating its assistance into 
the  national  development  programme  of  each  country 
with  a  view 
through 
expanding  partnerships  in  development,  model  project 
standards  and 
the  use  of  country  programme 
frameworks  and  thematic  plans.  In  the  case  of  South 
Africa, the Technical Cooperation Programme has been 
significantly  increased  due  to  a  number  of  successful 
proposals  for  the  1999-2000  cycle,  while  existing 
to  ensuring  sustainability 


17 

A/55/PV.52 

projects are delivering outstanding results. Our country 
programme  framework  has  also  been  completed  and 
submitted to the Agency. 

In  a  regional  context,  the  application  of  nuclear 
technology  has  in  many  instances  brought  viable 
solutions to some of the problems the African continent 
faces.  Africa  has  greatly  succeeded  in  tailoring  a 
communal  approach  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
science  through  the  work  and  activities  of  the African 
Regional  Cooperative  Agreement 
for  Research, 
Development  and Training  Related to  Nuclear  Science 
and Technology. In this regard, I also wish to extend a 
word  of  appreciation  to  the  IAEA  for  its  involvement 
with that organization. 

Although  South Africa  is  pleased  that  an  interim 
solution  for  the  funding  of  technical  cooperation 
projects  has  been  found,  we  continue  to  believe  that 
this  solution  should  be  considered  only  temporary. 
Contributions  from  major  donor  countries  will  still  be 
required,  and  South  Africa  urges  these  countries  to 
fulfil their obligations in full and on time to ensure the 
successful implementation of this important function of 
the Agency. The  challenge  of  securing  an  assured  and 
predictable  basis  for  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund 
lies ahead. It will continue to be an important issue for 
developing  countries  members  of  the  IAEA  in  the 
coming years. 

Another 
the  Agency’s 
programme  is  nuclear,  radiation  and  waste  safety. 
Environmental  considerations,  safety  operations  and 
waste  management  practices  in  particular  are  issues 
that  are  growing  in  significance  and  increasingly 
imperatives, 
becoming  people’s 
subjects 
and 
technological challenges. The  future of  nuclear  energy 
as  a  source  of  electricity  production  is  very  much 
dependent  on  the  safe  operation  of  nuclear  facilities 
and  on  the  obtaining  of  acceptable  solutions  —  in  the 
minds of decision-makers and the public — for the safe 
management  and  disposal  of  nuclear  waste.  The 
guidance  provided  and  the  activities  conducted  by  the 
IAEA  with  member States in  this  field  during the  past 
year  should  be  commended.  In  this  regard,  South 
Africa  welcomes the IAEA Action Plan,  developed to, 
inter  alia,  achieve  better  control  infrastructures  and 
better information exchange among role players as well 
as intensified education and training. 
sensitive  Government  debate 
important  aspect  of 
issues,  business 
for 
issue 
important  role 
radioactive  waste  management  and 
The 2000 Scientific Forum, held during the IAEA 

General  Conference,  played  an 
in 
bringing  to  the  attention  of  Governments  some  of  the 
most  important  scientific  and  technical  issues  in  the 
field  of 
in 
promoting awareness of the international dimension of 
current  developments.  The  South  African  approach  to 
this 
is  a  comprehensive  one.  A  national 
radioactive  waste  management  policy  and  strategy  are 
currently  under  development.  This  will  pave  the  way 
for  signature  and  ratification  of  the  Joint  Convention 
on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  the 
Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. 

In  our  view,  the  Agency  is  succeeding  in  the 
fulfilment  of  its  mandate.  The  Director  General’s 
report demonstrates clearly that all important aspects in 
the  field  of  nuclear  technology  are  currently  being 
covered by the Agency. We congratulate the Agency on 
addressing its objective in this way and look forward to 
our continued cooperation with the IAEA in the year to 
come. 

Finally,  as  a  traditional  sponsor  of  the  annual 
General Assembly draft resolution on the report of the 
Agency,  my  delegation  hopes  that  the  draft  resolution 
will  be  finalized  with  a  view  to  its  adoption  by  the 
Assembly  as  soon  as  possible. To this end,  we  call  on 
all  delegations 
the  maximum  flexibility, 
bearing  in  mind  the  successful  outcome  of  the  2000 
NPT Review Conference and the recent IAEA General 
Conference. 
Mr.  Galuška  (Czech  Republic):  As  the  Czech 

Republic has aligned itself with the position presented 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  associated 
countries by the head of the French delegation, I would 
like  only  to  touch  upon  some  of  the  topics  that  are  of 
particular importance to my country. 
The  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  are 

inseparably  connected 
implementation  of 
safeguards  and  the  improvement  of  the  safeguards 
system  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA).  To  demonstrate  its  full  commitment  to  the 
principles  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  the  Czech  Republic  signed 
the Additional Protocol to Safeguards Agreement on 28 
September  1999, 
the  proper 
amendments  to  the  relevant  domestic  legal  act  have 
been  drafted.  These  will  be  presented  to  the  Czech 
Government  this  year,  with  the  understanding  that  the 
to  show 
since 
to 
the 
and 
then 
18 




A/55/PV.52
together  with 
Czech Parliament  will act on them not later than early 
2001. Thus, the Czech Republic will be ready to ratify 
and implement the Additional Protocol in the very near 
future. 
The  Czech  Republic  considers  the  consistent 

implementation  of  safeguards, 
the 
physical  protection  of  nuclear  materials  —  not  only 
during  international  transport,  but  also  with  respect  to 
all  operations  related  to  nuclear  material  handling  in 
the country’s territory — to be the pillars of the system 
for preventing the illegal trade in nuclear materials and 
of the struggle against nuclear terrorism. 

We  welcomed,  and  supported  from  the  very 
beginning,  the  activities  aimed  at  a  review  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material,  and  positively  viewed  the  informal  open-
ended  expert  meeting  initiated  by  the  IAEA  Director 
General.  The  Czech  Republic  is  convinced  that  with 
the  close  cooperation  with  Member  States,  positive 
results  can  be  reached  in  terms  of  deepening  and 
strengthening the Convention. 

Nuclear-power  generation  constitutes  the  main 
part of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy in the Czech 
Republic.  At  the  beginning  of  this  year,  the  Czech 
Government approved the country’s new energy policy 
strategy, which envisages further use of nuclear energy 
for  electricity  generation,  thus  enabling  a  desirable 
diversification  of  energy  sources  and,  consequently,  a 
substantial  reduction  of  carbon  dioxide  emissions  on 
the  one  hand  and  of  the  exploitation  of  the  Czech 
Republic’s limited fossil fuel deposits on the other. 

At the same time, the Czech Government believes 
that  the  highest  possible  level  of  nuclear  safety  and 
radiation  protection  is  the  necessary  precondition  for 
the use of nuclear-power-generating facilities. To make 
this  aim  feasible,  the  Czech  legislative  and  regulatory 
framework has been profoundly reformed over the past 
few  years.  The  recodified  legislation  reflects  our 
experience  with  the  more  than  50  reactor-years  of 
operation  of  the  Dukovany  nuclear  power  plant’s  four 
units, current international practices — including IAEA 
recommendations  —  and,  not  least,  the  latest  findings 
of science and research. The Czech Republic therefore 
has  modern 
the  State’s 
regulatory  authority  —  the  State  Office  for  Nuclear 
Safety — is granted sufficient independence, resources 
and competencies to secure the highest level of nuclear 
legislation  under  which 
fully 
recognizes 
The  Czech  Republic 
It  goes  without  saying 
safety  and  radiation  protection  with  respect  to  all 
relevant activities. 

the 
international dimension of nuclear safety and radiation 
protection  issues.  Through  the  mechanism  of  expert 
missions organized by the IAEA,  we have received an 
independent review of the licensing process applied by 
the  State  Office  for  Nuclear  Safety  in  the  case  of  the 
Temelin nuclear power plant, as well as an assessment 
of  the  plant’s  readiness  for  the  start-up  phase.  The 
experts  stated  in  their  final  reports  that  the  Czech 
Republic  has  a 
regulatory  and 
legislative  framework  in  place  and  that  the  licensing 
process  is  run  in  line  with  the  world’s  best  practices. 
They  also took  a positive  view  of  the Temelin  nuclear 
power plant’s readiness for start-up. 

the  partial 
recommendations  of  the  missions  were  immediately 
implemented.  The  conclusions  of  both  missions,  as 
well  as  those  of  the  more  than  10  other  missions  that 
have  taken  place  at  the  nuclear  power  plant  over  the 
past  10  years,  are  publicly  available  and  give  a  clear 
overview  of  the  efforts  of  the  licence  holder  and  the 
responsible  governmental  authorities  to  ensure  the 
highest  achievable  level  of  nuclear  safety  for  the 
facility. 

Having  said  that,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  the 
Czech  authorities  have  always  been  ready  and  willing 
to  engage  in  a  broad-based  dialogue  on  cross-border 
aspects  of  the  safety  of  the  Temelin  nuclear  power 
plant, including the environmental ones. We have never 
failed to provide honest answers to questions posed in 
bilateral  dialogues,  and  we  do  so  over  and  above  our 
international  legal  commitments,  both  multilateral  and 
bilateral. 
The  Czech  Republic  has  been  involved  in  the 

IAEA 
technical  cooperation  programme  for  many 
years. The  basic  strategy  of the  country’s  involvement 
is  to  balance 
technical  assistance 
received  under  the  Programme  with  the  assistance 
provided  by  our  country  to  other  Member  States. 
Specifically,  the  Czech  Republic  has  been  increasing 
both  voluntary  financial  contributions  and  in-kind 
assistance to selected national or regional projects. 

Between  1998  and  2000,  the  Czech  Government 
allocated $200,000 to a project in Ukraine, the purpose 
of which is to install a new system for non-destructive 
inspection  of  VVER-1000  reactor  vessels,  and,  more 
firmly  defined 
that  all 
the  volume  of 


19 

A/55/PV.52 

leadership 
in  promoting 
recently,  $100,000  to  a  two-year  programme  to  assist 
the  nuclear  regulatory  authority  of  Armenia  in  the 
assessment  of  the  integrity  of  the  Medzamor  nuclear 
power plant’s primary circuit. We believe that a similar 
attitude on the part of other countries could, in view of 
the zero-growth situation of the Agency’s budget, help 
to expand the activities under the Programme. 

At  the  end  of  my  intervention,  I  would  like  to 
express the Czech Republic’s high esteem for the IAEA 
Director General, Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, and for his 
personal  involvement  and  the  management  skills  he 
uses  in  leading  the  Agency.  I  wish  also  to  express 
appreciation  for  the  results  the  IAEA  has  achieved 
under  his 
international 
cooperation in the field of the peaceful uses of nuclear 
energy. 

Mr.  Hoang  Chi Trung  (Viet  Nam):  It  is  a  great 
honour for me to deliver this statement on behalf of the 
delegation  of  the  Socialist  Republic  of  Viet  Nam.  At 
the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his 
comprehensive report to the General Assembly and for 
the outstanding performance that he and his staff have 
registered in the last year. 

Viet  Nam  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work 
of the IAEA in promoting cooperation among Member 
States in the field of the peaceful uses of the atom. As a 
developing country, Viet Nam has focused its efforts on 
expanding  its  cooperative  activities  with  the  Agency 
itself  as  well  as  with  other  Member  States  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Agency.  Over  the  last  20  years  of  its 
membership,  Viet  Nam  has  been  fortunate  enough  to 
enjoy 
the 
Agency.  We  have  received  generous  assistance  from 
the  Agency  and  from  a  good  number  of  developed 
countries  which  are  more  advanced 
in  nuclear 
technology and applications. 

to 
express  our  deep  gratitude  to  the  experts  of  various 
nationalities,  and  to  the  international  community  in 
general, for the generous assistance they have provided 
and the hard work they have done in the area of nuclear 
applications  for  health,  agriculture  and  safety.  We  are 
particularly  grateful  that  hundreds  of  our  experts  have 
had  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  training 
courses organized by the Agency in the past few years. 
the  excellent  cooperation  promoted  by 
this  occasion,  my  delegation  wishes 

On 
to 
interest 
The  ongoing 

technical  cooperation  activities 
carried out by the Agency to promote the peaceful uses 
of  nuclear  energy  are  of  keen 
the 
Vietnamese Government. Nuclear energy has been well 
established  as 
the  cleanest,  most  environmentally 
friendly and most efficient means of energy generation. 
The  development  of  nuclear  energy  will  further 
enhance  the  sustainable  economic  development  of 
many  developing  countries.  It  is  our  firm  belief  that 
greater financial support and technical expertise should 
be allocated to efforts to assist developing countries in 
sharing in the benefits and uses of nuclear energy. 

Viet Nam supports the work of the Agency in the 
field  of  verifying  and  monitoring  compliance  with  the 
safeguards  agreements  signed  by  Member  States  in 
accordance  with  the  Agency’s  Statute  and  safeguards 
system. At the same time, we wish to underline that the 
utmost effort should be made to ensure that verification 
activities  are  fully  impartial  and  do  not  violate  the 
national sovereignty of States. The verification officers 
must comply fully with the verification regulations and 
guidelines  as  well as  with the  agreements entered into 
by Member States with the Agency. 

As regards the draft resolution entitled “Report of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency”, contained in 
document A/55/L.25, our delegation finds that the draft 
this  year  is  more  balanced  and  captures  the  general 
views  of  Member  States.  Our  delegation,  therefore, 
will  vote  in  favour  of  this  draft  resolution,  if  there  is 
still a need for a vote to be taken. 

In conclusion, we wish to add that Viet Nam will 
continue  to  do  its  best  to  further  its  cooperation  with 
the Agency and other member countries to achieve the 
objectives and goals of the IAEA. 
Mr. Dausá Céspedes (Cuba) (spoke in  Spanish): 

I begin by expressing my delegation’s sincere thanks to 
the  Director  General  of 
the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for 
his introduction of the Agency’s annual report. 

Cuba attaches great importance to the work of the 
IAEA. Over the years our country has had a significant 
technical cooperation programme  with the IAEA,  with 
excellent  results 
the  fields  of  human  health, 
agriculture and industry and in other fields. 

Within  the  framework  of  the  programme  of 
Regional Cooperative Arrangements for the Promotion 
of  Nuclear  Science  and  Technology  in  Latin  America 
in 
20 




A/55/PV.52
that 
this 
can 
the 
The 
there 
consider 
administer 
contributions 
of 
technical 
imbalance  between 
is  an 
categories 
and 
and the  Caribbean  (ARCAL)  many  projects  have  been 
carried  out,  solving  concrete  problems  in  our  region. 
This  programme  is  the  proper  framework  for  nuclear 
cooperation between the Latin American and Caribbean 
cooperation 
countries.  We 
programme 
very 
efficiently  —  and  even  greater  contributions  than  are 
currently being received from the IAEA. 

Despite  the  considerable  results  achieved,  the 
Agency  faces  many  challenges.  We  believe  that  at 
present 
two 
the 
IAEA’s  work. 
fundamental 
Cooperation 
assistance  have  not 
benefited  from  the  same  vigour  and  integrity  as  the 
safeguard activities. The trend towards a real decline in 
financing  for  technical  cooperation  activities  fails  to 
respond to the growing needs of developing countries. 
These  activities  must  not  only  be  maintained,  but 
strengthened and diversified. 

IAEA  must  maintain  an  ever-growing, 
predictable  and  secure  fund  for  technical  cooperation. 
This  can  be  achieved  only 
through  a  genuine 
commitment  by  all  member  States,  and  especially  the 
developed  countries,  which  can  and  must  provide 
greater  financial  and 
is 
unfortunate  that  the  value  of  the  IAEA  Technical 
Cooperation  Fund  has  been  frozen  for 
the  next 
biennium at $73 million, despite the imperative need to 
increase  it.  Cuba  advocates  maintaining  a  proper 
balance  between 
the  cooperation  activities  and 
safeguards activities of the IAEA. The latter should be 
made  part  of  an  effective  and  efficient  system,  and 
should  not  become  an  excessive burden  for the  poorer 
countries. 

At  the  most  recent  General  Conference  of  the 
IAEA the system of protection with regard to financing 
Agency 
eliminated.  While 
acknowledging the responsibility  of  all  member  States 
to  finance  safeguards,  this  system,  which  functioned 
for  more  than  30  years,  took  into  account  certain 
political and financial elements to determine countries’ 
level 
greater 
participation  was  requested  of  States 
in  a  better 
position  to  bear  the  relevant  financial  burden.  The 
elimination of this protective system has  meant that in 
practice a larger budgetary  burden is being  transferred 
to countries less able to bear it. 
contributions.  Accordingly, 
technological  support.  It 
safeguards 
was 
of 
to 
improvement  by 
installations  and  arsenals 

As regards safeguards, the question of the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is 
becoming  almost  unavoidable,  particularly  when  so 
much has been said and written as a result of the Sixth 
Review  Conference, held this year. Cuba’s position on 
the Treaty is well known. We believe that its provisions 
are fundamentally discriminatory and selective, as they 
legitimize  the  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  by  a 
select  club  of  countries.  The  nuclear  Powers 
legitimized by the NPT are not even obliged to submit 
their  nuclear 
to  IAEA 
the  Treaty  prohibit  vertical 
safeguards.  Nor  does 
proliferation of nuclear weapons, and it makes possible 
their  continuous  qualitative 
the 
nuclear Powers recognized under the Treaty. These are 
the  basic  reasons  why  Cuba  has  not  yet  signed  or 
ratified the NPT. 

Although  it  is  not  a  party  to  the  NPT,  Cuba  has 
entered  into  safeguards  agreements  with  the  IAEA 
regarding  all  our  nuclear  installations,  and  we  strictly 
comply with them. In October 1999, when the Director 
General of the IAEA visited our country, we signed the 
Protocol  additional 
the  Safeguards  Agreements 
between  Cuba  and  the  Agency,  thereby  becoming  the 
first non-signatory of the NPT to sign such a protocol. 

As  part  of  the  ironclad  economic,  trade  and 
financial  blockade  imposed  on  Cuba  for  more  than  40 
years  now  by  the  United  States  Government,  our 
programme  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  has 
been  and  continues  to  be  the  subject  of  various 
activities  designed  to  prevent  this  programme  from 
making progress. As is well known, in 1996 the United 
infamous  Helms-
States  Government  adopted 
Burton  Act,  which, 
the 
completion  and  operation  of  any  nuclear  facilities  in 
Cuba,  without  regard  to  whether  they  are  engaged  in 
the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy,  will  be  considered 
an  act  of  aggression  demanding  an  appropriate 
response  from  the  United  States.  Other  current  United 
States laws spell out actions to boycott in various ways 
the  Cuban  nuclear  programme  and, 
in  particular, 
technical  cooperation  between  our  country  and  the 
IAEA. Such laws even go so far as to order a reduction 
in the level of assistance provided by the United States 
to  third  countries  by  the  same  amount  as  these 
countries’ 
nuclear 
programme. 
its  strong  rejection  of  such 

discriminatory  activities,  which  clearly  run  counter  to 
inter  alia,  asserts 
Cuba  reiterates 
the  Cuban 
contribution 
that 
the 
to 


21 

A/55/PV.52 

that 
Cuba  regrets 
the  Statute  of  the  IAEA.  Despite  these  activities,  our 
country will continue to develop its nuclear programme 
for  peaceful  purposes  in  a  completely  transparent 
manner and to work tirelessly for nuclear disarmament 
and the total elimination of nuclear weapons. 

the  draft 
in  recent  years 
resolution  on  the  report  of  the  IAEA  has  had  to  be 
adopted by a vote. This is the sole case in the General 
Assembly in which such a resolution is not adopted by 
consensus. This cycle of confrontation must end. There 
never should have been such a confrontation regarding 
this  draft  resolution.  It  is  necessary  to  restore  the 
practice  —  which  for  various  reasons  was  ignored  for 
several years — of including in the text only questions 
that  enjoy  the  support  of  all  delegations.  This  would 
make  it  possible  for  the  General  Assembly  to  give  a 
clear  signal  of  unity  and  support  for  the  work  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  Cuba  reiterates 
that  it  stands  ready  to  contribute  to  efforts  to  achieve 
this objective. 

Mr.  Wulf  (United  States  of  America):  I  extend 
my  thanks  to  Director  General  ElBaradei  for  his 
excellent  report  on  the  work  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) during the past  year. I 
would  also  ask  him,  on  behalf  of  the  United  States 
delegation, to convey to all of his staff our appreciation 
of  their  hard  work  and  dedication  in  pursuit  of  the 
many activities the Director General described to us in 
his statement. 

Among the strengths which the IAEA brings to its 
portfolio  is  its  ability  to  change  over  time.  In  our 
evolving  world,  the  needs  and  priorities  of  States  are 
constantly  changing.  To  meet  these  needs  effectively, 
the  IAEA  must  also  constantly  adapt,  initiating  or 
modifying  its  programme  of  work  to  respond  to  the 
demands  of  its  member  States.  Over  the  past  decade 
these  demands  have  escalated  dramatically.  And  the 
IAEA  has  responded  —  through  expanded  work  in 
hydrology,  new  initiatives  in  landmine  detection,  a 
comprehensive  work  plan  on  orphan  nuclear  sources 
and extensive efforts to strengthen safeguards, to name 
only a  few  examples. This ability  to adapt and  change 
is  crucial  to  the Agency’s  long-term  effectiveness  and 
relevance. Yet change, as we all know, can be difficult 
for  any  organization.  Hence 
the  more 
commendable that this international organization,  with 
its  diverse  programme  and  staff,  is  able  to  meet  the 
needs for change as well as it does. 
is  all 
it 
into 
the 
to  complete 
the  world  community 
Commitment  must  go  hand 

Commitment to its goals is central to the success 
of  any  institution.  The  fact  that  the  IAEA  is  widely 
regarded  as  one  of  the  most  effective  and  successful 
international  organizations  is  due  in  no  small  measure 
to  the  strong  commitment  of  its  staff  to  the  Agency’s 
work.  Whether  in  nuclear  cooperation,  nuclear  safety 
or  verification,  the  dedication  of  the  men  and  women 
in the IAEA Secretariat to getting the job done is clear. 
Many  staff  members  routinely  and  willingly  put  in 
the  evenings  and  on 
extra  hours,  working 
weekends 
task  at  hand.  This 
commitment  means  that  nuclear  cooperation  helps  to 
support  the  health  and  nutrition  of  people  throughout 
the  world,  that  this  cooperation  can  proceed  under 
strict  and  effective  international  safety  measures  and 
that  the  risk  of  illicit  use  of  nuclear  materials  is 
effectively constrained. 

in  hand  with 
competence  to  assure  sound  performance.  The  quality 
of  the  IAEA’s  programmes  clearly  reflects  the  many 
skills which the Secretariat staff brings to its work. The 
fact 
repeatedly  and 
consistently  has  turned  to  the  IAEA  as  a  means  to 
manage  intractable  problems  —  from  the  Chernobyl 
disaster to the nuclear challenges posed by Iraq and the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — reflects the 
confidence of many States that the Agency will provide 
a  reliable  means  by  which 
these 
problems. 

the 
commitment  and  competence  of  its  staff  have  long 
been  hallmarks  of  the  IAEA.  Over  its  many  years  of 
service to the international community, the importance 
of the Agency’s work has been widely recognized. For 
example, earlier this year the central role of the Agency 
in  nuclear  issues  was  repeatedly  underscored  in  the 
Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the 
parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). 
The  Conference  recognized  many  of 
the  diverse 
aspects  of  the Agency’s  work,  as  well  as  many  of  the 
new initiatives that it is pursuing. Among these, as the 
Director General noted, is the role the IAEA could play 
in support of the disarmament objectives of the NPT by 
helping  to  assure  the  international  community  that  the 
removal  of  excess  fissile  materials  from  nuclear 
weapons is proceeding. This would help meet the Final 
Document’s  call  for  irreversibility  by  all  nuclear- 
weapon  States  and,  in  particular,  the  call  to  complete 
and  implement  the  Trilateral  Initiative.  The  United 
to  adapt  and  change  and 
The  ability 
that 
to  respond 
to 
22 




A/55/PV.52
in 
for 
that 
to  continue 
to  carry  out 
the  IAEA  are  very  close 
the  Director  General’s  statement 
to 
such 
remaining  minor 
States,  Russia  and 
framework 
agreement  on 
legal 
the 
verification,  and  we  hope 
the 
differences can be readily resolved. 

As  the  IAEA  works  to  deal  with  this  and  the 
many other important issues before it, let us all keep in 
mind 
the 
Agency’s  ability 
these 
functions  effectively  depends  on  States’  political 
commitment and financial support. All IAEA members 
are,  of  course,  concerned  that  the  Agency  pursue  its 
programmes 
the  most  cost-effective  manner 
possible. At  the  same  time,  we  remain  mindful  of  the 
call  by  the  2000  NPT  Review  Conference  to  provide 
the Agency  with  the resources it  needs  to do its  work. 
Preserving  the  strength  and  effectiveness  of  this  vital 
international organization clearly serves the needs of us 
all. 

Finally,  the  United  States  is  pleased  to  add  its 
name  to  the  list  of  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  on 
the  report  of  the  International Atomic  Energy Agency. 
We support the present text, as agreed by consensus in 
Vienna. 
Mr. Sun Joun-yung  (Republic  of  Korea): Allow 

me  to  begin  by  expressing  my  delegation’s  sincere 
of 
appreciation 
the  Director  General 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
Mr. ElBaradei,  for  his  comprehensive  report  and  for 
the  remarkable  work  he  and  his  staff  have  done  over 
the past year. 
Since its creation four decades ago, the IAEA has 

contributed  significantly  to  strengthening  the  global 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  by  implementing  the 
safeguards  provisions  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  other 
international agreements. At the same time, the Agency 
has  promoted  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  for  the 
economic and social development of humankind. 
Let  me  now  comment  on  some  of  the  Agency’s 

activities  to  which  my  Government  attaches  great 
importance.  The  Agency 
fostering 
international  cooperation  to  enhance  the  development 
of peaceful nuclear technologies and their applications 
to  meet  energy  demands  and  other  human  needs.  Its 
activities  extend  beyond  nuclear  power  to  cover  non-
power applications in such diverse areas as agriculture, 
health and water resources management. 
been 
has 
to 
In 
industry 
to  promote 
the  nuclear 
technologies, 
is  faced  with 

The  use  of  nuclear  energy  has  benefited  the 
international  community  to  a  degree  unparalleled  in 
history,  but  not  without  undesirable  consequences. 
Presently 
the 
challenges of ensuring public acceptance and economic 
competitiveness.  We  therefore  share  the  view  that  the 
future  of  nuclear  energy  may  depend  heavily  on  the 
successful  development  of  safe,  innovative  reactors 
and  fuel  cycle 
including  small  and 
medium-sized reactors. 

the  Republic  of  Korea  has 
this  regard, 
completed  the  concept  design  of  a  330-megawatt 
small-sized  reactor,  called  SMART.  Our  experience  in 
developing  SMART  will  greatly  assist  the  Agency’s 
plans 
the  development  of  small  and 
medium-sized  reactors  in  the  future.  My  country  is 
fully disposed to share its knowledge and experience in 
nuclear  technology  research  and  development  within 
the  framework  of  the  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme. 

Nuclear safety is of paramount importance in the 
use  of  nuclear  energy.  While  sharing  the  view  that 
every  country  should  maintain  the  highest  possible 
level  of  nuclear  safety 
through  rigorous  national 
measures,  we 
international 
cooperation  on  safety-related  matters  is  indispensable. 
On  the  one  hand,  each  country  should  take  concrete 
steps  to  relieve  public  concern  about  the  operational 
safety  of  nuclear  power  plants  and  the  disposal  of 
radioactive  waste.  On  the  other,  the  IAEA  should 
further  promote  international  cooperation  to  create  a 
set of rules and standards for nuclear safety.  

For many years, my Government has made every 
effort  to  instil  a  nuclear-safety  culture  within  society 
aimed 
acceptance.  My 
Government  is  undertaking  procedures  to  ratify  the 
Joint  Convention  on 
the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel 
Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management  in  the  near  future.  We  also  hope  for  a 
speedy  conclusion  of  the  international  discussions 
concerning  the  safety  of  radioactive  sources  and  the 
safe transport of radioactive materials. 

The  IAEA  safeguards  system  constitutes  an 
indispensable 
the  nuclear  non-
proliferation  regime.  My  Government  has  therefore 
consistently supported the IAEA’s efforts to strengthen 
its  safeguards  system.  In  particular,  we  welcome  the 
adoption  by 
the  Model  Additional 
component  of 
the  IAEA  of 
cultivating 
believe 
public 
also 
that 
at 


23 

A/55/PV.52 

inspection  system  since  1997, 
the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
Protocol  in  May  1997.  The  Protocol  will  significantly 
enhance 
the 
safeguards  regime,  while  ensuring  the  absence  of 
undeclared  nuclear  material  and  activities.  My 
Government  signed  the  Additional  Protocol  in  June 
1999  and  is  currently  undertaking  domestic  measures 
to ratify it next year. My delegation wishes to underline 
the  importance  of  the  universal  application  of  the 
Additional Protocol.  

We look forward to a timely establishment by the 
IAEA  of  an  integrated  safeguards  system.  Meanwhile, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  has  been  implementing  its  own 
national 
in  close 
cooperation with the IAEA. 

Since 1993, the General Conference of the IAEA 
has adopted resolutions on the nuclear issue relating to 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The 
resolution  adopted  at  the  forty-fourth  session  of  the 
General Conference of the Agency, inter alia, urges the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  come  into 
full compliance with its safeguards Agreement with the 
IAEA. We commend the continued impartial efforts of 
the  Agency  to  resolve  this  issue  and  look  forward  to 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  full 
safeguards  Agreement.  As 
compliance  with 
reflected 
22 
September  2000,  we  welcome  the  recent  positive 
developments  in  North-East  Asia  and  hope  that  they 
will provide a good opportunity to resolve outstanding 
issues,  including  the  nuclear  issue  relating  to  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  successful  outcome 
of  the  2000  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
which  set  a  pragmatic  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament  agenda  for  the  next  five  years.  We  are 
pleased  to  note  that  the  Conference  reaffirmed  the 
IAEA’s  role  as  the  primary  facilitator  of  technical 
cooperation  and  nuclear  safety  and  as  a  guardian  of 
nuclear  non-proliferation.  My  Government 
looks 
forward  to  the  full  implementation  of  the  benchmarks 
contained in the Final Document. 

In order to cope with the challenges faced by the 
nuclear  industry,  we  need  a  large  pool  of  committed 
young  professionals  with  high  morals, 
technical 
competence and a strong belief in the peaceful uses of 
nuclear energy. As part of the effort to develop such a 
pool, the Republic of Korea will host the second Youth 
resolution  GC(44)/RES/26 
its 
of 
in 
of 
I 
Japan, 
offer  my 
Mr.  Kobayashi
(Japan):  On  behalf  of 
Nuclear  Congress  in  2002,  following  the  first  held  in 
Slovakia  last  April.  This  Congress  will  serve  as  a 
forum  for  the  young  generation  to  understand  and 
exchange views on the importance of nuclear energy.  

In  closing,  my  delegation  would  like  to  reassert 
the  firm  commitment  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  to  the 
objectives  of  the  IAEA  and  its  strong  support  for  the 
work of the Agency. 

the 
Government 
heartfelt 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Ibrahim  Othman  of  the  Syrian 
Arab  Republic  for  the  excellent  manner  in  which  he 
conducted his presidency of the General Conference of 
the International Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA) at  its 
forty-fourth  session.  My 
thanks  go  as  well 
to 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of 
the 
IAEA,  for  his  thorough  presentation  of  the  IAEA 
report. I also extend my Government’s welcome to the 
Republic of Tajikistan, the Republic of Azerbaijan and 
the  Central  African  Republic,  which  have  newly 
become members of the IAEA.  

Japan  greatly  appreciates  the  IAEA’s  role  in 
fostering  and  strengthening  international  cooperation 
towards  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy,  nuclear 
safety  and  nuclear  non-proliferation.  In  order  for  the 
IAEA  to  continue  fulfilling  its  universal  role,  Japan 
hopes  that  the  amendments  to  article  VI  of  the  IAEA 
statute  concerning  the  enlargement  of  the  membership 
of the Board of Governors, as approved by the General 
Conference last year, will become effective promptly. 
Japan  will  continue  to  cooperate  fully  with  the 

IAEA in the area of the peaceful use of nuclear energy. 
Building  on  the  experiences  it  has  gained  thus  far  in 
this  important  field,  the  Government  of  Japan  is 
currently  finalizing  its  long-term  plan  for  research, 
development  and  utilization  of  nuclear  energy,  which 
outlines  its  basic  policy  and  long-term  vision  to  fully 
utilize  the  multifaceted  potential  of  nuclear  power. 
Strictly  observing  the  principles  of  peaceful  use  and 
safety,  my  Government  remains  committed  to  the 
advancement  of  nuclear-power  generation  and  the 
establishment  of  a  nuclear  fuel  cycle.  In  doing  so, 
Japan  will  continue  to  attach  great  importance  to 
transparency  in  its  nuclear  activities  and  intends  to 
keep  the  international  community,  through  relevant 
international  organizations, 
IAEA, 
informed  of  its  policies,  as  well  as  of  the  situation 
regarding the use of plutonium. 
including 
the 
24 




A/55/PV.52
The  people  of 

As  my  delegation  mentioned in  the debate  in  the 
Fourth  Committee  under  agenda  item  82,  “Effects  of 
atomic radiation”, Japan’s policy of promoting the safe 
and  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  extends 
to 
international  cooperation,  both  bilaterally  as  well  as 
through  the  IAEA  and  other  competent  international 
organizations.  As  the  only  country  to  have  suffered  a 
nuclear  attack,  and  as  a  country  that  has  long  been 
committed to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, Japan 
is  determined  to  use  its  wealth  of  experience  for  the 
greater benefit of humankind. 

Japan  attaches  particular  importance  to  assisting 
the  people  affected  by  the  accident  at  Chernobyl,  and 
has  contributed  to  the  Chernobyl  Shelter  Fund.  In 
addition,  as  the  current  chair  of  the  Group  of  Seven 
Nuclear  Safety  Working  Group,  Japan  has  worked  to 
coordinate  the  views  of  its  members  in  such  areas  as 
the  development  of  alternative  sources  of  electric 
power and the creation of employment opportunities in 
the wake of the Chernobyl plant closure. 

the  Semipalatinsk  region  of 
Kazakhstan  are  also  a  focus  of  concern.  Last  year  the 
Government of Japan, together with the United Nations 
Development  Programme 
the 
Tokyo  International  Conference  on  Semipalatinsk,  at 
which  it  announced  that  it  would  extend  bilateral 
official  development  assistance  in  the  medical  field. 
Based on an agreement it reached with the Government 
of  Kazakhstan  in  March  this  year,  it  will  provide 
medical  equipment  and 
to 
improve the health standards of people in the region. It 
also decided, in conjunction with the UNDP, to extend 
assistance for the economic rehabilitation of the region 
through the human development Fund and the Fund to 
assist women in developing countries. 

Allow me to briefly highlight some aspects of the 
activities of  the IAEA  that  we  deem  to  be  particularly 
important.  The  IAEA  plays  an  important  role  in  the 
area of nuclear non-proliferation through its safeguards 
system.  The  international  community  must  further 
strengthen its efforts to promote the universalization of 
the  Additional  Protocol 
the  IAEA  Safeguards 
Agreements,  which  in  our  view  is  an  integral  part  of 
the safeguards system. From this point of view, we are 
very  satisfied  with  the  adoption  this  year  of  IAEA 
resolution  GC(44)/RES/19, 
the 
Effectiveness  and  Improving  the  Efficiency  of  the 
Safeguards  System  and  Application  of  the  Model 
Protocol,” which includes a plan of action to bring the 
technical  cooperation 
(UNDP),  convened 
“Strengthening 
to 
In  order 
to  promote 
contributions 
extra-budgetary 
the  conclusion  of 
the  Additional  Protocol. 
safeguards  agreements  and  additional  protocols  into 
force.  We  call  on  the  Director  General  as  well  as  the 
Board  of  Governors  and  member  States  to  implement 
this plan promptly. 

the 
Additional  Protocol,  the  Government  of  Japan  intends 
to  make 
the 
Secretariat of the IAEA. We would also like to express 
our  readiness  to  host,  together  with  the  IAEA,  a 
workshop  for  the Asia-Pacific  region  next  year  on  the 
universalization of the Additional Protocol. We believe 
the  workshop  will  provide 
that  have 
concluded the Additional Protocol  with an opportunity 
to  offer  their  expertise  to  help  the  countries  that  have 
not  yet  done  so  to  understand  the  significance  of 
concluding 
Japan  will 
vigorously  continue  its  efforts,  in  cooperation  with  all 
like-minded  member  States  as  well  as  with  the  IAEA, 
to make the Additional Protocol universal. 

Japan welcomes the positive developments on the 
Korean  peninsula  that  the  world  has  been  witnessing 
recently. Less than a week ago in this very Hall, a draft 
resolution  jointly  presented  by  the  delegations  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and 
the 
Republic  of  Korea  was  adopted  by  consensus.  Japan 
was  pleased to  sponsor the  draft resolution, and  hopes 
that  it  will  prove  to  be  yet  another  milestone  in  the 
process  of  reconciliation  and  cooperation  between  the 
two Koreas.  
In  light  of  these  positive  developments,  it  is  all 

the  more 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea to fully cooperate with the IAEA in 
the  implementation  of  its  safeguards  agreement,  so  as 
to further strengthen the atmosphere of cooperation and 
reconciliation.  We  strongly  hope  that  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  respond  positively  to 
IAEA  resolution  GC(44)/RES/26,  “Implementation  of 
the Agreement between the Agency and the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  for  the  Application  of 
Safeguards in Connection with the Treaty on the Non-
proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.”  Japan,  for  its  part, 
has  been  actively  participating 
light-water 
reactor  project  of 
the  Korean  Peninsula  Energy 
Development  Organization,  which  has  an  important 
role  to  play  in  promoting  IAEA  activities  on  the 
Korean peninsula. 
important  for 
to 
the  States 
in 
the 


25 

A/55/PV.52 

to 
nuclear 
international 
non-proliferation 
We  are  particularly  grateful 

In  concluding,  I  reiterate  my  Government’s 
strong commitment to and support for the activities of 
the IAEA. 
Mr. Soeriaatmadja (Indonesia): On behalf of the 

Indonesian delegation, it is a pleasure for me to express 
our sincere appreciation to the Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his  introduction  of  the 
Agency’s  report  and  the  comprehensive  statement 
highlighting its role and activities. The period covered 
by  the report  has confirmed that the  Director  General, 
with  professionalism  and  dedication,  has 
further 
strengthened  the  role  of  the  IAEA  in  the  field  of 
nuclear energy.  

the  Director 
General for drawing our attention to the Agency’s three 
main  areas  of  functions  —  as  a  modality  for  the 
transfer of nuclear technology for peaceful purposes, as 
the  recognized  authority  supporting  intergovernmental 
efforts  to  strengthen  nuclear  safety  around  the  world 
and  as an indispensable  instrument  in  moving  forward 
the 
and 
disarmament  agenda.  Indonesia  welcomes  this  unified 
approach,  based  on  the  three  pillars  of  technology, 
safety and verification. 

It is now universally recognized that the IAEA is 
the  international  community’s  principal  modality  for 
the utilization of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. 
Among  its  most  important aspects  is the  generation  of 
electricity  to  meet  the  growing  energy  demands of  the 
future.  For  reasons  of  energy  security,  countries  with 
limited  fossil  fuel  resources  should  be  encouraged  to 
diversify  their  energy  supply  systems  to  include  both 
renewable  and  non-renewable  sources  in  ensuring 
national  development  on  a  sustainable  basis.  In  the 
context  of  these  considerations  and  the  goals  of  the 
Kyoto 
our 
commendation  for  its  efforts  in  providing  information 
and  training  on  the  potential  role  of  nuclear  power 
under the Clean Development Mechanism. 

In  this  regard  as  well,  collective  efforts  with  the 
assistance  of  the  Agency  should  be  made  towards 
appropriate  technical  solutions  in  providing  safe  and 
reliable  energy  at  affordable  rates,  especially  for  the 
developing  countries.  Again,  we  are  grateful  to  the 
Agency for its assistance in introducing nuclear power 
through the use of small and medium-size reactors as a 
viable option to generate electricity. 
the  Agency 
Protocol, 
deserves 
on 
26 


over 
such 
an 
progress 
in 
jurisdiction 
level  of  nuclear 
Ensuring  a  high 
the  widely  held  view 

In  this  regard  I  draw  attention  to  the  meeting 
between  our  President,  His  Excellency  Abdurrahman 
Wahid,  and  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA  in 
December  last  year.  At  that  meeting  the  President 
affirmed  his  support  for  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
technology  in  meeting  the  basic  needs  of  the  people. 
The President also stressed that his Government has an 
open mind towards the utilization of nuclear energy as 
an alternative source in the future. 

safety 
throughout  the  world  is  of  primary  importance  to 
Indonesia. Safety aspects must be taken into account at 
an  early  stage  in  the  design  of  nuclear  facilities.  We 
agree  with 
that,  while 
responsibility  for  the  safe  design,  construction  and 
operation  of  a  nuclear  installation  rests  with  the  State 
having 
installation, 
cooperation  among  States  is  needed  to  ensure  that 
internationally  accepted levels of  nuclear  safety  are in 
place  everywhere.  While  noteworthy  advances  have 
been  made,  much  still  remains  to  be  done.  It  is 
important that the contracting parties to the Convention 
on  Nuclear  Safety  at  the  next  Review  Meeting  make 
substantial 
safety 
improvements.  In 
this  context,  Indonesia  recently 
promulgated  two  regulations,  one  on  nuclear  and 
radiation  safety  and  the  other  on  nuclear  energy 
utilization, intended to facilitate implementation of the 
New 
for 
Protection  against  Ionizing  Radiation  and  for  the 
Safety of Radiation Sources. 
further 

strengthening of the non-proliferation regime and for a 
world free from the dangers posed by nuclear weapons, 
Indonesia  has  signed  the  Additional  Protocol  to  the 
Safeguards Agreement with the IAEA. I should like to 
point  out  in  this  regard  that  Indonesia  is  among  the 
first few countries to have ratified and implemented the 
Protocol. This is in recognition of the Agency’s critical 
role  in  safeguarding  nuclear  materials  and  facilities  to 
prevent  their  theft  or  diversion  for  military  purposes, 
which  calls  for  the  universal  conclusion  of Additional 
Protocols. 
actively 

participated  in  the  Association  of  South-East  Asian 
Nations 
the 
implementation  of 
the  South-East  Asia  Nuclear- 
Weapon-Free  Zone  Treaty,  held  in  Bangkok  this  year, 
the  ASEAN 
and  proposed 
International  Basic  Safety  Standards 
the  establishment  of 
continuing  quest 
(ASEAN)-IAEA 
workshop 
level, 
Indonesia 
requiring 
At 
the 
regional 
for 
the 
In 
its 
areas 


A/55/PV.52
in 
in 
in 
efforts 
As 
human 
reactor 
far  as 
various 
technical 
in  order 
technology 
developing 
the  Treaty.  It 
the  capacity  of 
to  comply  with 
the  nuclear  reactor 
its 
scientific-technical 
the 
safeguards  system 
requirements  stipulated 
is  our 
expectation that the  proposed  safeguards system  could 
make a significant contribution to further strengthening 
mutual 
trust  and  confidence  among  members  of 
ASEAN  and  also  reinforce  provisions  concerning 
programmes for safeguards. 

research 
is 
concerned, our scientists and engineers in the National 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (BATAN)  have  successfully 
increased 
in 
Bandung.  Another  research  reactor  was  inaugurated 
last  June  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Indonesia.  These  complex  undertakings  have  been 
successfully  carried  out  by  our  own  engineers  after 
participating 
cooperation 
programmes initiated by the IAEA, for which we thank 
the Agency. 

The Technical  Cooperation  Programme  is  one  of 
the  most  valuable  components  of 
the  activities 
undertaken  by  the  IAEA.  It  has  greatly  benefited 
resource 
Indonesia 
capabilities, 
and 
supportive  infrastructure  deemed  important  for  our 
national  priorities  in  areas  such  as  health,  industry, 
agriculture,  livestock  production  and  environment. We 
have  already  expressed  our  willingness  to  share  our 
expertise  and  scientific  facilities  and  exchange  our 
experiences  with  other  developing  countries.  The 
Programme’s  consummation,  however,  will  depend  on 
the  Agency’s 
to  promote  South-South 
cooperation  in  addition  to  the  existing  North-South 
framework. In this context, we appeal to the Agency to 
further  continue 
the  possibility  of 
introducing  new  and  innovative  programmes  for  the 
developing countries. 

the  support 
extended by the Agency to Indonesia’s Nuclear Energy 
Control  Board  in  convening  two  regional  workshops, 
the  first  on  “Strengthening  National  Capabilities  to 
Respond to Radiological Emergencies” and the second 
on  “The  Development  of  a  Legal  Framework 
Governing 
of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management  and  the  Safe  Transport  of  Radioactive 
Material”.  In  our  view,  the  holding  of  these  two 
workshops  was  timely  and  appropriate  for  the  Asia-
Pacific  region,  as  they  contributed  not  only  to  an 
awareness  of  the  problems  involved,  but  also  to 
developing the region’s own capabilities in responding 
We  also  gratefully  acknowledge 
to  explore 
facilities 
the 
Safety 
to 
has 
and 
including 
improving 
successfully 
in  development”, 
to  any  radiological  emergencies.  We  look  forward  to 
such  activities  in  the  future  on  various  aspects  of 
radiation  safety  and  safeguards tailored to  the  specific 
needs of our region. 

It  should  be  emphasized  that  such  cooperative 
activities  implemented  through  effective  programmes 
would  contribute  significantly 
the 
scientific,  technological  and  regulatory  capabilities  of 
the developing countries. My delegation  welcomes the 
Technical  Cooperation  Strategy  and  the  concept  of 
“partner 
the  country 
programme  framework  and  thematic  planning  through 
the application of Model Project criteria. The adoption 
of these approaches by the Agency is in full conformity 
with  the  policy  and  strategy  of  the  Government  of 
Indonesia  in  giving  a  sharper  focus  on  and  greater 
emphasis  to  the  advantages  for  the  end-users  and  the 
socio-economic  impact  of  science  and  technology, 
rather  than  on  the  output  generated  solely  by  research 
and  development.  Accordingly,  our  National  Atomic 
Energy  Agency 
developed 
partnerships  with  various  ministries,  provincial 
governments,  academic  institutions,  non-governmental 
organizations 
the 
development  and  application  of  nuclear techniques  for 
the  improvement  of  our  people’s  welfare  and  well-
being. 
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  that 

Indonesia  has  greatly  benefited  from  the  assistance 
received  from  the Agency. We  look  forward  to  further 
intensified 
the  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme  and  in  the  framework  of 
regional cooperative agreements. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on this item today. The remaining 
speakers will be heard tomorrow morning. 

I  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  who  wishes  to  speak  in 
exercise of the right of reply. 

in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the 
second intervention and should be made by delegations 
from their seats. 

(Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea): The  delegation of the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea wishes to exercise its right 
May  I  remind  members 
Mr.  Hong  Je  Ryong 
that  statements 
the  private 
cooperation 
through 
sector 
for 


27 

A/55/PV.52 

of  reply  with  regard  to  the  references  to  the  so-called 
nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  by  the  Director 
General  of  the  IAEA  and  by  some  countries  in  their 
statements. 

As is well known, the nuclear issue on the Korean 
peninsula is not an issue to be discussed at the United 
Nations.  The  nuclear  issues  is  a  political  and  military 
issue to be resolved bilaterally between the Democratic 
Republic of Korea and the United States in light of its 
origin,  as  well  as  in  view  of  its  nature.  The  nuclear 
issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  will  be  resolved  when 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea-United 
States  Agreed  Framework  is  fully  implemented.  It  is 
therefore  unfair  and  biased  to  request  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  implement  this  or  that 
provision at the United Nations. This kind of approach 
will  not  help  resolve  the  issue.  If  countries  are  truly 
interested 
should 
encourage  and  promote  the  implementation  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea-United  States 
Agreed Framework.  

Let me also briefly respond to the statement made 
by  the  South  Korean  representative.  The  reference  to  


resolving 
issue, 
in 
this 
they 
the  nuclear  issue  by  the  South  Korean  side,  which 
knows  much  better  than  others  that  the  issue  is  to  be 
resolved between the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  and  the  United  States,  gives  rise  to  much 
suspicion  on  our  part. We  hope  that  the  South  Korean 
side  will  give  up  its  notion  of  confrontation  if  it  is 
sincere  in  its  intention  to  achieve  confidence  and 
reconciliation  on 
the  Korean  peninsula.  We  also 
deplore  the  double-faced  approach  of  Japan  to  this 
issue  and  strongly  urge  Japan  to  settle  the  issue  of  its 
past  crimes  against  the  Korean  people  as  quickly  as 
possible before talking about this issue. 


Programme of work 


The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  remind 
today’s  Journal, 
delegations 
agenda item 44, “Global implications of the year 2000 
date  conversion  problem  of  computers”,  will  not  be 
taken up tomorrow morning, and is postponed to a later 
date to be announced soon.  

The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 
that,  as  reflected 
in 
28 


