United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
13th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 13 September 2000, 3 p.m.
New York

A/55/PV.13
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Tonino  Picula,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of the Republic of Croatia.
Mr.  Picula  (Croatia):  Year  after  year,  we  gather
under  this  universal  roof  to  join  our  minds  and
resources in order to  make the  world a safer and  more
prosperous  place  (cid:151)  or,  at  least,  one  a  little  less
burdened  with  all  the  troubles  we  have  been  trying  to
resolve  for  decades  but  have  so  far  not  succeeded  in
eradicating.  Never  before  have  we  assembled  in  such
numbers and extent in the span of just a few weeks (cid:151)
first  the  religious  leaders,  then  the  Parliamentarians,
then  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  and,  finally,
the representatives to the General Assembly at its fifty-
fifth  session.  Let  us  hope  that  this  unprecedented
congregation will not remain just a tribute to the dawn
of  the  twenty-first  century,  but  will  emerge  as  a
foundation  for  a  better  United  Nations  and  a  better
world it has to serve.
When  our  heads  of  State  met  at  the  Millennium
Summit earlier this month, they unanimously agreed on
the importance of  the  United  Nations  for  our  common
future.  To  say  that  the  United  Nations  is  the  only
Organization  that  brings  together  all  the  countries  of
the  world  would  be  stating  the  obvious,  but  we  must
never underestimate the simple fact that this is the only
global  Organization  with  universal  membership  and
comprehensive  scope  that  indeed  belongs  to  all  of
us (cid:151) to all the peoples of the world. This is where the
ultimate 
lies.
Unfortunately,  we  have  too  often  failed  to  recognize
this.
the  United  Nations 
strength  of 
Some  haunting  facts  should not be  forgotten:  the
fact  that  1  billion  people  in  this  world  of  ours  live  on
less than $1 a day; the fact that 1 billion people do not
have  access  to  clean  water;  the  fact  that  the  last  time
the  number  of  Security  Council  members  was
expanded was nearly four decades ago, at a time when
the overall United Nations membership was almost half
of its current size.
The  United  Nations  must  amount  to  more  than  a
resolution or a decision, a plenary meeting or informal
consultations. We all have to work together, to spare no
effort  to  make  the  Organization  more  proficient,  more
effective  and  fully  at  the  disposal  of  all  its  Member
States.  That  is  why  Croatia  welcomes  the  millennium
report of the Secretary-General and shares his views on
the  need  for  action  to  adapt  the  functioning  of  the
Organization  to  the  challenges  of  the  new  century.
There  is  a  growing  need  and  plenty  of  room  for
improvement 
efficiency,
transparency,  equality  and  good  governance.  There  is
no  room  for  excuses  or  for  delaying  reforms  any
further. The time for reform is now.
along 
of 
the 
lines 
Croatia  has  been  an  active  Member  of 
the
Organization  since  its  international  recognition  as  a
sovereign State in the early 1990s. At that time, in spite
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-64082 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.13
of all our activities, Croatia was primarily the object of
numerous peacekeeping operations and endless debates
within the  Security  Council. Today,  Croatia is  a  major
generator  of  peace  and  stability  in  South-East  Europe,
an  active promoter  and  facilitator  of  democracy  in  the
region,  a  reliable  partner  and  a  member  of  numerous
regional  organizations  and  initiatives.  We  have  not
forgotten  the  difficult  years  when  Croatia  was  on  the
receiving  end  of  United  Nations  activities.  Today,  we
stand ready to put our expertise gained in peacekeeping
and other fields to the service of peace and democracy.
The  experience  of  the  homeland  war,  as  well  as
the  lessons  learned  during  peacekeeping  operations  in
Croatia,  have  served  us  well 
in  Croatia(cid:146)s  active
engagement 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping
mission  in  Sierra  Leone.  We  are  ready  to  expand  our
role  in  peacekeeping  and  to  actively  participate  in  its
conceptual  development.  Croatia  welcomes  and  will
carefully  study  the  recently  published  report  of  the
Secretary-General  on  the  reform  of  peace  operations
and the recommendations proposed.
in 
Unfortunately, the number of incidents with tragic
consequences involving members of peace missions all
over  the  world  is  constantly  increasing.  Just  few  days
ago, three members of the Office of the United Nations
High  Commissioner 
in
Atambua  in  West  Timor  were  brutally  killed.  One  of
them was Pero (cid:138)imund(cid:158)a, a citizen of Croatia. I would
like  to  use  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  him
personally  and  to  all  peacekeepers  whose  tireless
efforts  cost  them  their  lives  in  performing  their  noble
tasks in the line of duty.
for  Refugees 
(UNHCR) 
Croatia  is  currently  a  member  of  the  Economic
and  Social  Council,  the  central  body  of  the  United
Nations. The increasing development of the Council as
a forum for policy dialogue, together with its follow-up
dimension  of 
the  major  world  conferences,  adds
important value to its work and puts a heavy workload
on its members.
Croatia(cid:146)s  international  responsibilities  start  with
those towards the region of South-East  Europe.  At  the
January  elections,  citizens  of  Croatia  demonstrated
their  strong  commitment  to  democratic  values,  respect
for  human  and  minority  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and
economic  reforms.  They  opted  for  broad  changes  that
will  bring  them  into  the  mainstream  of  the  European
integration processes.
2
The  new  Croatian  Government  is  well  aware  of
all  the  responsibilities  it  has  undertaken  and  all  the
opportunities  that  are  arising.  We  firmly  believe  that
Croatia(cid:146)s  leading  role  as  a  contributor  to  peace  and
security  in  the  region  of  South-East  Europe  will
considerably  contribute  to  turning  this  part  of  Europe
into an area of peace and prosperity.
that,  as 
its  primary  goals, 
In  February,  the  Croatian  Government  adopted  a
programme 
stresses
democratic  values,  respect  for  human  and  minority
rights,  the  return  of  refugees  and  displaced  persons,
good-neighbourly  relations  and  integration  into  the
European  Union  and 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty
Organization.  The  new  Government  is  determined  to
fulfil  all  Croatia(cid:146)s  ongoing  international  commitments
and to assume new ones, if the need arises.
The  elections  in  Croatia  at  the  beginning  of  this
year  resulted  in  important  changes.  They  provided  for
an  increased  level  of  human  rights  protection  and
media freedom, as well as the acceleration of the return
process.  Important  legislative  revisions  in  the  field  of
the  return  of  refugees  have  opened  the  door  for  the
unimpeded return of all Croatian citizens, regardless of
their ethnicity and without condition of reciprocity. All
the  citizens  of  Croatia  stand  equal  before  the  law  in
terms of the reconstruction of their houses and all other
return-related  rights.  The  Government  of  Croatia  will
do its best to fully implement those laws.
Croatia  is  mindful  of  the  fact  that  the  return  of
refugees represents a necessary prerequisite for lasting
stability in the region. In order to accelerate the process
of  return,  the  Croatian  Government,  in  cooperation
with UNHCR, has prepared a special return project for
16,500  persons,  tailored  to  their  needs.  The  necessary
arrangements for the return of refugees to both Croatia
and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  are  to  be  made  through
central institutions  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  in  line
with  the  new  Croatian  policy  towards  that  country.
Additionally, to speed up the process of two-way return
with  Republika  Srpska,  the  former  Prime  Minister  of
the  Republika  Srpska  and  I  have  signed  a  joint
declaration on the facilitation of the return of refugees.
Through  this  document,  we  have  committed  ourselves
to  enabling  the return of  2,000  people  from  each  side,
as  well  as  to  exchanging  information  and  adjusting
procedures  in  that  regard.  I  can  proudly  say  that  real
progress in the return process has been achieved.
At the same time, I have to stress that the number
of  returns  to  Croatia  by  far  exceeds  the  number  of
returns  of  Croats 
to  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.
Additional  efforts  have  to  be  invested  to  speed  up  the
return  process  of  Croats  and  all  others  to  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina. All the refugees have the right to return,
but  they  also  have  a  right  to  stay  in  the  areas  where
they presently reside. For all those Bosnian Croats who
wish to stay in Croatia, we have to provide appropriate
help in finding new housing facilities.
The  success  of  the  return  of  refugees  does  not
depend  solely on political and  legal  parameters.  It  has
to  be  accompanied  by  the  development  of  the  State
economy  and  the  local  economy.  The  return  process
must  be  sustained  by  job  opportunities,  small-  and
medium-size  enterprises,  strengthening  of  the  social
fabric  and  adequate  schools  and  health  institutions,  as
well  as  better  living  conditions  generally.  Otherwise,
we shall just turn returnees into economic migrants and
they will be on the road once again.
Not  a  small  part  of  legislative  changes  relates  to
the protection of human and minority rights in Croatia.
The  Croatian  Government  is  of  the  opinion  that  the
necessary  preconditions  have  been  met  for  excluding
Croatia  from  the  omnibus  resolutions  on  the  situation
of  human  rights  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  the
Republic  of  Croatia  and  the  Federal  Republic  of
Yugoslavia,  which  have  been  adopted  by  both  the
General  Assembly  and  the  Commission  on  Human
Rights,  and  for  the  exclusion  of  Croatia  from  the
mandate  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  derived  from  the
Commission(cid:146)s resolution.
Important recognition of the progress Croatia has
made  in  respecting  fundamental  values  of  democracy,
human  rights  and  rule  of  law  came  recently  from  the
Council  of  Europe.  The  Monitoring  Committee  of  its
Parliamentary  Assembly  concluded  last  Friday  that
Croatia  has  honoured  its  obligations  and  most  of  its
commitments undertaken at the time of its accession to
the  Council  of  Europe  in  1996.  Consequently,  we
expect  that  the  monitoring  procedure  will  be  formally
closed  at  the  plenary  session  of  the  Parliamentary
Assembly, at the end of this month.
For  the  Croatian  Government,  cooperation  with
the  International  Tribunal 
in  The  Hague  remains
primarily  a  legal  issue,  not  a  political  one.  The
Croatian  State  Parliament  adopted  the  Declaration  on
Cooperation  with  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal
A/55/PV.13
(ICTY) 
the  Former  Yugoslavia 
for 
in  April,
unambiguously  affirming  its  support  for  the  Tribunal,
and  this  important  document  remains  a  framework  for
Croatia(cid:146)s  policy  towards  the  ICTY.  It  is  our  firm
position that the guilt for the crimes committed must be
individualized:  no  nation  can  be  held  collectively
responsible for the crimes committed by war criminals
claiming  to  act  in  its  name.  In  order  to  improve  the
quality of cooperation  with the ICTY,  the  Government
Council  for  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  has  been
constituted  and  close  working  relations  with 
the
Tribunal established.
and 
that 
equality 
stipulated 
Promotion  of  good  relations  with  its  neighbours
is  Croatia(cid:146)s  high-priority  goal.  In  its  programme,  the
Croatian  Government  clearly 
its
relations  with  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  are  based  on
good-neighbourliness, 
transparency.
Croatia  will  continue  to  cooperate  with  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  and  the  international  community  in  the
implementation  of 
the  Dayton  Agreement,  which
remains  the  foundation  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina(cid:146)s
self-sustainability and the guarantee of the preservation
of the national interests of its three constituent peoples.
Croatia(cid:146)s policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina rests
on full respect for the independence and sovereignty of
that country.
for 
the  care 
the  Croatian  people 
Croatia sees this as the only  way to a prosperous
in  Bosnia  and
future 
remains  our
Herzegovina, 
constitutional  obligation.  Croatia  will  continue 
to
support  Croats  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  but  it
foresees doing this in a transparent way, in accordance
with  the  Dayton  Agreement  and  with  a  clear  Euro-
Atlantic orientation.
for  whom 
Transparent financing of the  Croatian  component
of 
the  Federation  Army 
the  Standing
Committee on Military Matters is only one of the steps
aimed at enhancing the central institutions and concrete
proof  of  the  new  Croatian  policy  towards  Croats  in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
through 
The  relations  between  Croatia  and  Serbia  cannot
be regarded outside the framework of the international
isolation  of  the  Milosević  regime.  Croatia  is  not
questioning 
the
normalization  process  with  the  Federal  Republic  of
Yugoslavia, but its dynamics and substance will depend
on the democratization of Serbia, which remains one of
the  necessary 
and
international 
conditions 
the  need 
continue 
for 
all 
at 
to 
3
A/55/PV.13
in 
economic stability in the region. Croatia hopes that the
forthcoming  elections 
the  Federal  Republic  of
Yugoslavia will be conducted in a democratic way that
reflects  the  true  will  of  the  people  and  that  they  will
result in democratic changes.  Bearing in  mind the  fact
that  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in
Europe  has  been  denied  an  opportunity  to  monitor  the
elections  means  that  the  elections  could  lose  their
international credibility.  Still,  Croatia  wants to believe
that Serbia will find a way to end the present situation
and join the  mainstream  of  the  political  and  economic
integration  process  in  the  region  and  Europe  as  a
whole.
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  cannot  automatically  continue
the  membership  of  the  former  State  in  the  United
Nations,  and  therefore,  that  it  should  do  what  other
successor States have done (cid:151) apply for membership as
the fifth successor. Moreover, the four successor States
are  of  the  opinion  that  the  current  practice  in  the
United  Nations  should  reflect  the  above-mentioned
resolutions  and  be  more  consistent  in  that  regard.
Therefore,  we  call  for  immediate  implementation  of
those  resolutions  and  emphasize  once  again 
the
importance  of  resolving  the  question  of  succession,
despite the rejection by the present Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia regime.
Croatia  supports  democratic  developments  in  the
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Montenegro.  An 
open,
democratic,  multi-ethnic,  stable  and  economically
viable  Montenegro  is  in  the  interest  of  Croatia  and  of
the region at large. In the course of this year a number
of  meetings  have  been  held  between  the  Croatian  and
Montenegrin  officials  at  various  levels,  including  the
highest  level.  Two  border  crossings  between  Croatia
and Montenegro are operating without impediment, and
further  steps  for  enhanced  cooperation,  especially
economic ones, are under way. Croatia will continue to
support the process of democratization that has already
began  in  Montenegro  and  help  in  its  opening  towards
Europe, 
the
international community.
the  efforts  of 
line  with 
firmly 
in 
that  efforts  of 
Croatia  remains  seriously  concerned  about  the
present  situation  in  Kosovo  and  continued  violence,
whose  victims  are  both  Albanians  and  the  Serbs.  We
hope 
the  United  Nations  Interim
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK)  forces
and  civilian  administration  will  be  successful 
in
bringing  peace  and  stability  to  the  region,  as  well  as
facilitating preconditions for the return of refugees.
One  issue,  however,  stands  out  in  regard  to  the
stability  and  lasting  security  of  the  whole  region.  It  is
the  question  of  succession  of  States  created  after  the
dissolution of the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia.
in 
An important aspect of the succession problem is
the question of membership of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia 
and  other
international  organizations.  The  four  successor  States
are  of  the  opinion  that  this  must  be  resolved  in  line
with the already existing Security Council and General
Assembly  resolutions.  That  means  that  the  Federal
the  United  Nations 
4
performance 
in  Prevlaka, 
of  Montenegro 
There are  still a  small  number of  United  Nations
military  observers  within  the  international  borders  of
Croatia.  Their 
the
southernmost  part  of  my  country,  has  considerably
contributed  to  the  lasting  solution  to  this  problem,
which  is  definitely  one  of  security,  not  one  of  a
territorial nature. Since 1992, Croatia has accepted the
United Nations mandate on Prevlaka, with the last six-
month  extension  on  15  July  this  year.  The  steady
normalization  of  relations  between  Croatia  and  the
democratic  Government 
has
considerably improved the situation on the ground and
should  serve  as  a  bedrock  for  a  lasting  solution  for
Prevlaka. In approaching the Prevlaka issue one has to
respect  existing 
international  borders,  as  well  as
legitimate security concerns, land ownership rights and
the need for economic cooperation and development in
the region.
The 
is  an
inseparable  part  of  the  overall  European  stability
architecture.  Being  at 
time  a  Central
European,  Mediterranean,  Danubian  and  South-East
European  country,  Croatia  plays  an  active  role  in
several  regional  initiatives  that  serve  as  a  foundation
for  stabilization,  cooperation  and  development  in  our
part  of  the  world.  Let  me  mention  in  this  regard  the
Central  European  Initiative,  one  of  the  oldest  regional
initiatives,  and 
the
newest.
stability  of  South-East  Europe 
the  Adriatic-Ionian  Initiative, 
the  same 
its 
During 
chairmanship  of 
the  Working
Community  of  the  Danube  Region  this  year,  Croatia
will host the traditional Conference of the heads of the
regional  Governments  as  well  as  the  Economic  and
Cultural  Forum.  Alpe  Adria  is  another  subregional
initiative 
in  which  Croatia  plays  an  active  role.
Croatia(cid:146)s  role  as  an  active  observer  in  the  South-East
Europe  Cooperation  Initiative  additionally  emphasizes
our  intention  to  contribute  to  regional  security  and
stability.
and 
From 
rights, 
human 
the  very  outset,  Croatia  has  actively
engaged  in  the  creation  and  implementation  of  the
Stability  Pact  for  South-Eastern  Europe. This  strategic
process  represents  a  comprehensive  approach  towards
the  region  in  which  the  concept  of  stability  includes
democratization 
economic
development and security issues. Croatia has presented
several project proposals to all three working tables of
the  Stability  Pact,  the  construction  of  the  Adriatic-
Ionian highway being the most important of them. The
construction  of  this  highway,  stretching  along  the
coastline  from  the  Italian  to  the  Greek  border,  would
mean a significant improvement in road travel between
the  countries  of  the  region,  and  would  also  bring
economic  development  to  the  very  part  of  the  region
that most dearly needs it.
I have the satisfaction of informing the Assembly
that  at  the  beginning  of  this  week  Croatia  hosted  the
parliamentary  summit  of  the  Stability  Pact,  which  had
complete  success 
in  strengthening 
important
parliamentary dimensions of the Pact.
the 
The Stability Pact also serves as a mechanism for
facilitating  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  the  North
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  membership
prospects  for  all  those  countries  of  South-East  Europe
that  wish  to  pursue  this  path.  Croatia  is  one  of  them.
Full  integration  into  the  EU  and  NATO  is  the  priority
strategic objective of Croatian foreign policy.
span  of 
institutional 
stabilization 
In  a  brief 
relations  with 
six  months  Croatia(cid:146)s
international  position  regarding  the  European  Union
has  thoroughly  changed.  It  has  gone  from  being  a
country  with  no 
the
European  Union  to  a  country  awaiting  the  start  of
association
negotiations  on  a 
agreement  and,  consequently,  candidacy 
for  EU
membership. Croatia is very pleased with the results of
the 
whose
recommendations  helped  us  to  prepare  the  start  of  the
the  stabilization  and  association
negotiations  on 
agreement.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the  European
Commission  high  representative(cid:146)s  statements  that  this
generation  of  agreements  will  be  tailored  according  to
the present needs and achievements of the stabilization
and  association  process  countries,  and  that  countries(cid:146)
consultative 
force, 
joint 
and 
task 
A/55/PV.13
further  progress  towards  European  Union  membership
will be assessed on their individual merits.
and 
In  late  November  Croatia  will  host  a  summit  of
the  European  Union  member  States 
the
stabilization  and  association  process  countries  (cid:151)
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Macedonia. We
feel privileged to host such a historic meeting, one that
will  signify  the  importance  that  the  European  Union
attaches  to  the  region  within  the  framework  of  the
Union(cid:146)s enlargement process. At the top of the Zagreb
summit(cid:146)s  agenda  will  be  the  issue  of  opening  EU
prospects to the region and the countries of South-East
Europe.  This  is  firmly  in  line  with  the  policy  of
creating  one  Europe  without  walls  or  curtains  of
division. We see the arrival of the EU heads of State or
Government 
to  Croatia(cid:146)s
democratic achievements and a harbinger of our status
of country associated with the European Union.
to  Zagreb  as  a 
tribute 
In May Croatia entered the Partnership for Peace.
This provided Croatia with an opportunity to contribute
more  actively  to  the  peace  and  security  of  the  region
and  to  strengthen  its  democracy  and  stability  at  the
same 
the
substantial  reconstruction  and  modernization  of  its
armed  forces,  aiming  to  meet  all  NATO  requirements
as well as democratic standards.
In  parallel,  Croatia  has  begun 
time. 
as 
such 
organizations, 
Croatia  continues  its  active  engagement  in  the
pivotal  European 
the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE)  and  the  Council  of  Europe.  It  has  achieved
significant progress in working together with the OSCE
on the improvement of security in the Danubian region
through  the  engagement  of  OSCE  civilian  police
monitors 
fields  of
cooperation,  such  as  the  improvement  of  democratic
standards in Croatia.
there,  as  well  as 
in  other 
World peace does not depend solely on peace and
security  in  Europe.  It  is  with  concern  that  we  look  at
the  ongoing  threat  of  new  crises  on  the  African
continent,  where 
tremendous  amounts  of  human
resources  and  money  are  feeding  the  war  machines,
instead  of  serving  to  fuel  development.  The  cause  of
our  special  concern  lies  in  the  fact  that  many  armed
conflicts  in  Africa  erupt  encouraged  by  and  with  the
participation  of  neighbouring  countries,  often  using
foreign  mercenaries  who  sometimes  come  even  from
countries.  Croatia 
Eastern  European 
the
implementation  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement
sees 
5
A/55/PV.13
principles,  as  well  as  of 
the
Organization  of  African  Unity  and  other,  subregional
organizations,  as  an  important  element  in  the  political
developments in that part of the world.
the  principles  of 
These  organizations  undertake  commendable
efforts  in  order  to  establish  mechanisms  for  conflict
prevention,  as  well  as  to  find  the  ways  to  end  the
ongoing crises. These efforts include the establishment
of  their  own  peacekeeping  forces.  In  this  regard,
Croatia  welcomes  the  determination  of  the  African
countries  to  solve  their  problems  regionally  and  with
support from the United Nations.
The situation in the Middle East continues to shift
between  the  brink  of  war  and  the  brink  of  peace.  The
peace process between the Israeli and Palestinian sides
must be maintained, and all of us should spare no effort
to extend assistance and support to the accomplishment
of  this  paramount  task.  From  its  own  experience,
Croatia  is  well  aware  of  how  important  it  is  to
strengthen  the  peace  process through  Security  Council
and  General  Assembly  resolutions  that  are  supportive
of it, both in language and in political substance. Thus,
Croatia  advocates  that  forthcoming  resolutions  on  the
Middle East reflect all the aspects of the ongoing peace
process,  serving  as  an 
its
successful completion.
impetus  for 
important 
landmines,  with 
Croatia  is  a  country  highly  contaminated  by
antipersonnel 
about  1  million
landmines  scattered  over  many  parts  of  its  territory.
Their presence  poses  serious  obstacle  to  the  economic
development  of  the  country,  and  even  more  so  to  the
return  of  people  to  their  homes.  The  mine-clearing
process is under way, but it has to be intensified if real
progress  is  to  be  seen  anytime  soon.  Many  of  the
ongoing  activities  are  performed  in  cooperation  with
donor  countries,  to  which  we  extend  our  sincere
gratitude;  but  maximum  efforts  have  to  be  made  to
eliminate  this  evil  completely  and  for  good.  In  this
connection,  Croatia  calls  for  further 
international
assistance  so as  to  enable  the  unimpeded  development
of the country at large.
Let  me briefly address the  issue  of the reform  of
the  Security  Council.  Croatia  holds  the  view  that  the
present  structure  and  functioning  of 
the  Security
Council  does  not  properly  reflect 
the  reality  of
international relations in the twenty-first century, or the
need 
support
the  number  of  permanent  and  non-
increasing 
for  universal  democratization.  We 
6
permanent  seats  in  the  Council,  taking  into  account
equitable  geographical  distribution 
as
contributions  to  the  United  Nations  budget.  However,
reform  must  go  beyond  the  sole  issue  of  membership
enlargement. The Council(cid:146)s methods of work should be
made more transparent, in particular regarding informal
consultations,  which  have  proved  to  be  anything  but
informal.
as  well 
The  subject  of  greatest  concern  is  that,  with  the
advent  of  globalization,  the  number  of  people  that  are
marginalized  and  strongly  affected  by  its  negative
effects is growing. Therefore, we have to minimize the
negative impacts of globalization and, at the same time,
make its benefits available to all.
to 
at 
the 
aimed 
efforts 
institutions. 
through  multilateral 
the  countries  with  economies 
The  effects  of  globalization  on  the  international
for  enhanced
economy  are  significant  and  call 
In
cooperation 
addition 
avoiding
marginalization and at ensuring full integration into the
world  economy, 
in
transition face challenges associated  with  privatization
and structural and macroeconomic reforms. In the case
of  Croatia  there  is  an  additional  challenge,  that  of  the
post-war  recovery.  In  such  circumstances,  our  pivotal
goal  is  to  consolidate  economic  recovery  and  create
conditions  for  sound  and  sustainable  economic  and
social  development.  Our  overall  economic  programme
and  policy  measures  are  designed  to  support  further
economic stability, with stable prices and low inflation,
concurrent  economic  growth,  a 
rate  of
employment and more exports.
faster 
foreign 
To  attract 
investments 
that  are  so
important  for  the  ongoing  process  of  development,  a
new  Investment  Law  has  been  adopted.  Constructive
economic cooperation on bilateral, regional and global
levels remains Croatia(cid:146)s firm goal. Croatia has recently
signed  the  Protocol  of  Accession  to  the  World  Trade
Organization  (WTO)  and,  within  a  few  months,  once
the  process  of  ratification  is  completed,  Croatia  will
become a full member of the WTO.
facing 
The  challenges 
the  Organization  are
numerous. Answers will have to be found for questions
regarding  how  to  renew  the  structure  and  mandates  of
the  main  United  Nations  bodies,  how  to  ensure  better
management  and  mobilization  of  new  resources,  how
to  define  new  forms  of  partnership,  both  with  the
private 
non-governmental
organizations, how to make cooperation more effective
sector 
with 
and 
and,  above  all,  how  to  turn  the  United  Nations  into  a
result-based  Organization.  Croatia  believes 
the
potentials  of  the  United  Nations  and  considers  that  it
will  be  made  truly  efficient  if  we  (cid:151)  the  Member
States (cid:151) accept our responsibilities towards it.
in 
Croatia 
to  work 
is  ready 
together  with  all
international  actors  in  searching  for  the  right  answers
to the challenges that lie ahead. Stability and prosperity
of the world will become possible only if we never stop
looking  for  ways 
them.  Croatia  will
continue to use its best efforts to preserve  the  positive
trends in its general  achievements  and to  contribute to
European and world stability.
improve 
to 
to 
In 
allow  me 
conclusion, 
congratulate
Mr. Theo-Ben  Gurirab, 
the  Foreign  Minister  of
Namibia and the President of the fifty-fourth session of
the  Assembly,  on  his  dedicated  work  and  on  the  great
skills  with  which  he  performed  his  demanding  job.  I
would  also  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,
Foreign  Minister  of  Finland,  on  his  election  as
President  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  and  to  wish  him  all
success in his future work.
Finally, I would like to express the hope that this
Millennium  Assembly  will result  in  new  commitments
that will bring progress in responding to the challenges
of the new century.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Belgium, His Excellency, Mr. Louis
Michel.
(spoke 
(Belgium) 
Mr.  Michel
in  French):
Mr. President,  I  should  first  of  all  like  to  congratulate
you on your election to the Presidency of the fifty-fifth
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  wish  you  every
success  in  this 
is  both  difficult  and
inspiring.
task  which 
Allow me to include in this tribute the Secretary-
General  who  has  a  crucial 
in  promoting
international  cooperation  for  peace,  security,  justice
and development in the world.
role 
I fully associate  myself  with the  speech  made by
my French colleague, Mr. Hubert Vedrine, on behalf of
the  European  Union.  His  declaration  covered  quite
broadly  European concerns regarding different regions
of the world and the crises they continue to experience.
Like my European colleagues, I will confine myself to
repeating  the  encouragements  of  the  European  Union
A/55/PV.13
for  the  Israelis  and  Palestinians  to  seize  this  historic
opportunity  now  within  their  reach  to  conclude  a
framework agreement in the coming weeks.
The new century is a blank page. It depends on us
and  on  our  Organization  to  provide  the  appropriate
answers  to  the  challenges  inherited  from  the  past
century.  The  Heads  of  State  and  Government  who
gathered here for the Millennium Summit set forth the
objectives that will mobilize our energy for the coming
years.  I  will  only  mention 
three  of  our  highest
priorities.
is 
countries 
First,  world  peace.  This 
the  primary
responsibility  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  therefore
essential  to  bring  the  ongoing  reforms  to  a  successful
conclusion and to improve the  Council(cid:146)s legitimacy as
well  as  its  representative  character.  To  adapt  the
Security  Council  to  the  evolution  of  the  world  is  the
primary  condition  for  its  ability  to  respond  to  our
expectations. Belgium coordinates a group of ten small
and  medium-sized 
for
constructive  compromise 
the
enlargement of the Security Council, the creation of ten
new  seats,  five  permanent  and  five  non-permanent,
with an equitable geographical distribution, seems to us
to be  a path  worth  exploring.  As  for  the  right  of  veto,
we  have  put  forward  a  number  of  concrete  and
moderate  proposals  seeking  a  voluntary  and  partial
limitation  to  the  right  of  veto.  Such  a  reform,  a
balanced  one  along  these  lines  and  responding  to  the
wishes  of  most  Member  States  can,  and  should  make
significant progress in the months to come.
the  quest 
formulas.  Regarding 
in 
sustainable 
development. 
Secondly, 
of 
the  elimination  of  poverty  and
attainment 
The
globalization  of  the  economy  must  proceed  hand  in
hand  with  job  creation  and  economic  take-off  in  the
poorest regions as  well  as  with  universally  recognized
social  and  environmental  norms.  There  is  no  more
denying 
in
development, 
lack  of  good  governance  and
disregard  for  human  rights  are  factors  which  create
instability, both within States and among States in their
international relations.
inequalities,  differences 
that  great 
the 
rights.  For  us 
Thirdly, the defence and promotion of democracy
and  human 
requires  equal
participation  of  men  and  women  in  public  life  and
decision-making, as  well as the  fight  against all  forms
of racism,  intolerance,  discrimination  and  xenophobia.
this 
7
A/55/PV.13
Serious violations of human rights and universal values
must therefore never be allowed to go unpunished.
This  also  implies  a  permanent  quest  for  the
conditions, modalities and terms that underlie common
human  values.  Democracy  (cid:151)  and  on  this  at  least  we
should  all  agree  (cid:151)  is  much  more  than  a  statement  of
fact  regarding  an  established  balance  of  power  or  an
arithmetic  majority.  It  is  a  political  morality  that
includes loyal electoral behaviour. It is respect for, and
encouragement  of  the  open  expression  of  differing
points  of  view.  It  is  a  frame  of  mind  based  on  a  lofty
and optimistic conception of the human being.
I  say  this  because,  even  at  home  in  our  old
European  democracies  which  one  would  consider  safe
and  sheltered,  we  see  reappearing  the  vile  spectre  of
rejection  of  differences,  exclusion  and  xenophobic  or
slanderous prejudice.
European  parties  are  again  raising  and  exalting
what  is  most  sordid  and  most  barbarous  in  human
nature. Saying nothing or resigning oneself to this fact
is  tantamount  to  trivializing  the  phenomenon  and
trivialization means corruption of the spirit.
I say this also because we must recognize that our
political systems, in theory well equipped to withstand
such assaults, unfortunately tend all too often to give in
to 
the
specious  invocation  of  so-called  higher  demands  of
realpolitik.
to  minimalize 
them  under 
temptation 
the 
It  is  not  my  purpose  here  to  allege  some  moral
superiority but simply to remind ourselves that history
always  exacts  a  price  when  one  refuses  to  learn  from
its lessons.
Belgium  has  participated  over  the  past  decade  in
numerous  peacekeeping  operations  under  the  auspices
of  the  United  Nations,  among  others  in  Somalia,
Rwanda and in the Balkans.
Reviewing  these  experiences,  the  Belgian  Senate
issued  a  detailed  report  in  December  1997  containing
recommendations  that  prefigure,  to  some  extent,  the
recommendations  contained  in  the  Brahimi  report.  I
will point out a few aspects on which there is complete
convergence between the two reports.
First,  United  Nations  forces  must  be  prepared  to
confront  the  worst  case  scenario.  The  Blue  Helmets
must be trained, equipped and commanded for such an
eventuality.
8
Secondly, these forces must have at their disposal
all  relevant  information,  as  well  as  the  capacity  to
analyse  such  information  in  terms  of  strategy  and
tactics,  so  they  must  be  able  to  rely  on  an  effective
intelligence capability.
for 
Thirdly, 
surprised 
to  hear  me  plead 
troop-contributing  countries  must  be
closely involved in the preparation of the mandates and
in  the  management  of  operations.  The  Assembly  will
not  be 
the
recommendations  formulated  in  the  Brahimi  report  to
receive wide support of all Member States. I hope that
all actors concerned (cid:151) the Member States, the Security
Council 
their
determination  and  their  will  to  extend  reforms  to  all
levels and bodies of the Organization. I pledge the full
support  of 
to  Deputy
Secretary-General Louise FrØchette, who is responsible
for their implementation.
the  Belgian  Government 
the  Secretariat  (cid:151) 
and 
prove 
I would also like to point out that, in our opinion,
the  conclusions  of  the  Brahimi  report  cannot  be
dissociated from other discussions to be held during the
fifty-fifth session, specifically those on the revision  of
the  scale  of  assessments  for  peacekeeping  budgets.  In
this regard as well, Member States will have to keep an
open  mind  in  order  to  set  up  an  equitable  system  of
financial  burden  sharing  that  is  adapted  to  the  current
shape of the world.
Another sensitive question manifests itself clearly
in  the  light  of  recent  experiences,  namely  the  proper
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  relation  to  regional
organizations,  and  indeed  even  in  relation  to  the
initiatives  of  neighbouring  States  in  a  conflict  zone.
Lessons to be learned from the Yugoslav crisis are not
the same as those that can be drawn from recent crises,
particularly  those  in  Africa.  The  goal  in  this  regard  is
not to deny the merits of the regional approach. On the
contrary,  Belgium  supports  the  creation  of  regional
rapid reaction forces in the service of peacekeeping, as
was  underlined  one  week  ago  by  our  Prime  Minister,
Guy Verhofstadt, before this very body.
inaction  on  behalf  of 
It  has  to  do  more  with  highlighting  the  fact  that
the  merits  of  the  regional  approach  clearly  can  never
justify 
international
community  or  some  sort  of  oratory  diplomacy  that
passes  off  solving  problems  to  regional  bodies  and
organizations  or  to  temporary  coalitions.  The  Security
Council,  as  the  supreme  authority  in  matters  of  peace
and  security,  must  be  able  to  play  its  role,  although  it
the 
should  certainly  be  possible  to  refer  some  tasks  to
regional institutions most able to take action.
the  necessary  material  support  of  the  international
community, the peace process is doomed to fail.
A/55/PV.13
I  would 
like 
to  make  one 
last  observation
regarding preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping. The
arsenal  at  the  disposal  of  the  United  Nations  is  not
limited  to  sending  troops.  Other  means  are  available
and, moreover, have been used repeatedly during recent
years.  I  am  referring  to  sanctions,  and  in  particular  to
economic  sanctions.  This  type  of  coercive  measure,  if
applied  by  the  Security  Council  in  accordance  to  the
Charter, can indeed produce the results envisaged when
their  use  is  well  targeted  and  limited  in  time  or  when
they  are 
timeframe.  But
experience  also  shows  that  when  they  are  applied
indiscriminately  or  when  they  serve  overtly  ambitious
political  objectives, 
to
decrease  after  a  certain  amount  of  time,  and  they  may
even  produce  results  wholly  opposite  to  the  ones
initially envisaged. It is increasingly rare for sanctions
to  be  an  useful  instrument.  Too  often,  they  only
penalize  populations  without  reaching  the  targeted
rulers,  who  often  understand  how 
the
boomerang effect of such sanctions.
their  effectiveness 
in  a  realistic 
to  exploit 
inscribed 
In  Burundi,  where  action  by  the  countries  of  the
region  and  the  remarkable  facilitation  undertaken  by
former Presidents Nyerere and Mandela have started to
yield  promising  yet  still  incomplete  results,  it  is  also
time  for  our  Organization  and  the  principal  donor
countries  to  act  to  consolidate  the  gains  achieved  and
to set the country once and for all on the path to peace
and  development.  It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Belgium  will
participate  actively  in  the  meeting  organized  by  the
European Commission that is to be held in Brussels on
15  September  to  prepare  for  the  donors(cid:146)  conference
soon  to  be  convened  by  France  on  the  request  of
Nelson Mandela.
in 
Regardless of how  well-intentioned they  may  be,
efforts in the cause of peace can sometimes be to little
avail,  given  the  greed  and  rivalries  fuelled  by  the
illegal  exploitation  of 
local  resources.  Resources
attained 
that  way  are  financing  wars,  which
themselves  become a  source of profit. The  problem  of
the  diamond  trade  in  conflict  areas  is  at  the  centre  of
this  question.  We  know  that  war  diamonds  represent
only  a  fraction  of  international  trade,  but  these  illegal
revenues  nevertheless  contribute  to  destabilizing  the
situation,  encourage  the  logic  of  war  and  spread
corruption and anarchy. Belgium is active in the efforts
to create a global system of verification. It is high time
indeed  to  put  in  place  a  realistic  and  effective  legal
framework binding on everyone in order to regulate the
trade in diamonds.
I would now like to speak about non-proliferation
and  disarmament.  Last  April,  during 
the  Review
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  Belgium  intervened
vigorously  to  express  its  concerns  regarding  a  certain
number of elements that could lead to the weakening or
putting  into  question  the  very  foundation  of  the  non-
proliferation  regime  negotiated  in  recent  decades.  We
certainly  welcome  the  conclusions  of  the  Conference
and  the  reflection  that  it  triggered.  That  has  led  to  a
favourable  climate  for  the  implementation  of  the  plan
of action. That being said, numerous States still refuse
to adhere to the Non-Proliferation Treaty,  while others
have not yet ratified the Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
We  have 
followed  closely,  and  with  some
concern,  the  debate  in  the  United  States  on  anti-
ballistic  defence.  Belgium  is  not  opposed  in  principle
9
tends 
I would like to move now to a subject dear to my
heart, Central Africa. During the past year, my country
has expressed strongly its desire to be involved in, and
to  contribute  to,  the  mobilization  of  the  international
community  in  support  of  the  Lusaka  peace  process.  It
is essential that all Congolese parties engage resolutely
and without preconditions in a dialogue, as they agreed
to  do  in  Lusaka.  It  is  equally  essential  that  our
Organization  and  its  Members  who  have  the  means  to
do  so  support  the  rapid  deployment  of  the  United
Nations  Organization  Mission 
the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUC),  even  though  some
of the conditions and  modalities of that  operation  may
have to be reviewed in the light of the Brahimi report.
in 
One  thing  is  certain:  without  the  presence  of  a
peacekeeping  force  there  will  be  no  peace.  Nor  will
there  be  peace,  or  even  a  permanent  cessation  of
hostilities,  without  a  dialogue  between  the  Congolese
parties.  Both  these  questions  are  obviously  linked.  In
order to overcome the current impasse it is essential to
make progress where possible. It therefore seems to us
that  the  problem  should  not  be  stated  in  terms  of
preconditions,  order  of  events  or  priorities.  In  any
event,  the  responsibility  of  the  Security  Council  and
the international community remain in place. Without a
political leap by the parties to the conflict, and without
A/55/PV.13
to the idea of anti-missile defence. We are only stating
that  the  political  perception,  the  analysis  of  the  threat
and the means to counter it vary greatly from region to
region.  There  is  no  unique  or  universal  response,  but
what  is  essential  is  to  make  sure  that  an  anti-missile
system,  whatever  it  may  be,  should  contribute  to
general  stability  and  to  the  consolidation  of  mutual
confidence.  In  other  words,  the  decisions  will  have  to
be  taken  not  only  on  the  basis  of  a  strategic  and
technical  analysis,  but  also  on  a  consensual  basis  that
builds upon the overall political and strategic balance.
to  postpone 
We  welcome 
the  decision  by 
its  decision  on 
the  American
Administration 
the
launching of a programme. Besides the question of the
feasibility  of  such  a  programme,  its  unilateral  nature
would  have  a  negative 
impact  on  our  common
disarmament  objectives.  We  now  hope 
this
decision  will  encourage  negotiations  for  a  START  III
agreement between the United States and Russia. Rapid
progress  on  a  new,  substantial  reduction  of  strategic
nuclear arms could in turn lead to breaking the impasse
in  negotiations  for  a  fissile  materials  cut-off  treaty  at
the Disarmament Commission in Geneva.
that 
Belgium also  welcomes heartily the adherence to
date by 138 States to the Convention on the prohibition
of  anti-personnel  mines.  Further  efforts  have  to  be
made  in  order  to  implement  it  and  mobilize  the
necessary 
these  especially
inhumane weapons forever.
to  eliminate 
funding 
I have dwelled mainly on peace and international
security. I  would like to turn to the  two  other  subjects
that  Belgium  considers  a  priority  in  the  programme of
action  of 
these
priorities,  our  efforts  in  the  field  of  security  would  be
fruitless. I am referring to universal respect for human
rights and worldwide development.
the  Millennium  Summit.  Without 
country(cid:146)s 
The  protection  of  human  rights  is  a  leading
feature  of  my 
foreign  policy.  Our
participation in the Commission on Human Rights will
enable  us  to  further  enlarge  our  initiatives  and  our
political action. We will be able to act more directly in
the  fields  where  we  have  a  particular  interest,  such  as
the fight against racism and xenophobia, and the rights
of  the  child.  Belgium  was  actively  involved  in  the
negotiation of the Optional Protocol to the Convention
on the Rights of the Child aimed at sparing children as
much as possible from the suffering  and  consequences
of  armed  conflict.  The  signing  of  that  Protocol  on  the
10
occasion  of  the  Millennium  Summit,  as  well  as  our
country(cid:146)s  signature  of  the  second  Protocol,  on  sexual
exploitation  of  children,  are  specific  signs  of  our
common will to reinforce the protection of the rights of
the child.
I would like to reiterate my country(cid:146)s wish to see
the  death  penalty  permanently  abolished  all  over  the
world.  I  also  appeal  to  countries  that  are  not  in  a
position to do so at this time to adopt a moratorium as
a  transitional  measure.  We  certainly  cannot  accept  the
death penalty still being implemented in cases of those
who  were  minors  at  the  time  of  the  offence,  pregnant
women or the mentally ill.
law 
and 
aimed 
jurisprudence 
We  are  following  very  closely  the  evolution  of
international 
at
condemning  persons  convicted  of  crimes  against
humanity.  My  country  has  been  at  the  forefront  of
national legislation in this context and hopes that these
measures  can  serve  as  a  deterrent  and  an  example  for
other  States.  We  have  just  ratified  the  Statute  of  the
International  Criminal  Court,  and  we  are  encouraging
other States to do the same in support of this important
commitment.
is 
Let  me  say  a  few  words  on  globalization  and  its
problems.  Globalization 
the  expression  of  an
inevitable technological evolution. It makes little sense
to  condemn this  evolution  as  a  whole,  for  it  is  natural
and has  many  positive  effects, but  we  need  to  channel
its dynamics towards real economic and social progress
for the well-being of a larger number of people. But the
globalization  of  the  economy  and  trade  cannot  simply
mean the renunciation of our political and institutional
responsibilities.  The  risk  is  very  real.  We  are  already
witnessing a form of abandonment of responsibilities in
the  case  of  Governments  and  Parliaments  confronted
by  the  gigantic  challenges  of  globalization  and  the
almost  impossible  task  of  dealing  with  them  at  the
national  level.  In  the  absence  of  a  really  effective  and
recognized 
of
globalization  could  lead  us  into  a  political  vacuum.
There  will be  no  new  economic  world  order  without  a
new political world order in which national democratic
institutions,  politically  representative  and  accountable,
can  play  a  role.  This  is  another  challenge  facing  our
Organization  and  its  Member  States.  We  will  have  to
provide an answer in the new millennium.
authority, 
dynamics 
global 
the 
The  United  Nations  system  is  at  the  heart  of  the
issue  of  globalization,  whose  effects  are  becoming
more  and  more  evident.  Questions  have  been  raised;
now  it  is  time  to  find  the  answers.  We  are  convinced
that  only  the  United  Nations  system,  with  all  its
spheres of activity, is in a position to harmonize global
economic  development  with  human  development.
Here,  more than anywhere else,  we realize that  human
beings,  wherever they come  from,  share  a  high  degree
of  common  aspirations,  as  well  as  the  same  fears,  the
same  needs  and  the  same  dreams.  This  belief  has  to
guide us in all our actions, both here and at home.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her
Excellency Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of South Africa.
Ms. Dlamini-Zuma (South Africa): Allow me to
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your assumption of
the  stewardship  of  this  historic  Assembly  and  also  to
congratulate  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,
on his sterling guidance of the Assembly(cid:146)s work during
the previous session.
The  dawn  of  the  new  millennium  offers  us  a
unique  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  successes  and
failures  of  the  United  Nations  since  its  inception.  It
also provides us with an opportunity to dream about the
future  of  humanity  in  the  third  millennium.  The
founders  of  the  United  Nations  based  the  Charter  on
the  assertion  of  human  dignity,  human  rights  and  the
equality  of  women  and  men and  the  aim  of  promoting
better social standards. Indeed, billions of people today
enjoy  human  rights  and  live  in  dignity,  free  from
disease,  ignorance  and  fear,  enjoying  the  benefits  of
technology and scientific advances and able to take full
advantage  of  the  process  of  globalization.  Equally,
there  are  billions  who  are  humiliated,  degraded  and
stripped  of  their  innate  human  dignity  and  worth  by
poverty,  disease,  ignorance,  homelessness,  hunger  and
wars.
the  very 
This  Assembly,  following 
inspiring
Millennium  Summit,  provides  us  with  an  opportunity
to reflect on the wise words of the leaders of the world
and on the Declaration they adopted. Global consensus
has  at  last  emerged  and  confirms  that  we  live  in  one
world  and  belong  to  the  same  human  race;  therefore,
while  each  Government  has  the  responsibility  to  take
care of its citizens, we all have to work together for the
good of humanity as a whole. This means that we have
to  create  a  people-centred  world  that  is  more  caring,
with  a  strong  sense of  solidarity,  where  we  are  all  our
A/55/PV.13
brothers(cid:146)  and  sisters(cid:146)  keepers,  if  I  may  borrow  those
words from the Bible.
There is also universal consensus now  that  while
billions of people are being degraded and dehumanized
by  poverty,  disease  and  hunger,  there  are  indeed
enough  resources  in  the  world  to  feed,  educate  and
restore  the  dignity  of  all  human  beings  and  make  this
world a better place for all. It is therefore clear that the
eradication  of  hunger  and  poverty  should  be  the
priority  of  all  priorities  and  should  be  our  collective
responsibility.
tuberculosis  and  sexually 
There is also agreement that we have a collective
responsibility in dealing  with  infectious diseases,  such
as  malaria, 
transmitted
diseases,  especially  HIV/AIDS.  There  is  a  need  to
mobilize  material  and  human resources, provide better
infrastructure,  provide  health  education  and  ensure
access to affordable medicine.
There  is  also  consensus  that  Africa  poses  the
biggest  development  challenge.  The  success  or  failure
of the United Nations and of humankind as a whole in
this  century  will  be  determined  by  their  success  in
dealing with the African development challenge.
We  would  like  to  urge  the  United  Nations,  in
partnership with the Organization of African Unity and
regional  organizations,  to  accelerate  the  work  towards
peace  and  stability  in  many  of  the  countries  of  our
continent,  such  as  Sierra  Leone,  Ethiopia,  Eritrea,
Somalia,  Angola,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo, Sudan and Burundi, so that these countries may
take their rightful place in the continent, be seized with
the  needs  of 
their  people,  promote  development,
produce and export goods and not be areas of perpetual
suffering  and  war  that  result  in  their  being  the  net
exporters of refugees.  We  welcome  the  Brahimi report
and  are  studying 
it  contains  very  serious
suggestions  about  the  future  operations  of  the  United
Nations.
it,  as 
The  United  Nations,  particularly  the  Security
Council,  is  humanity(cid:146)s  principal  agent  for  collective
security and it needs urgent reform  so  as  to  be  able to
live  up  to  this  solemn  responsibility.  The  world  has
changed  dramatically  and  continues  to  do  so.  It  is
imperative 
the
Security  Council  reflect  that  change  and  not  remain
obsolete. The Bretton Woods institutions are equally in
need  of  urgent  reform  in  order  to  discharge  their
the  new  development
mandate  and 
the  composition  and  role  of 
respond 
that 
to 
11
A/55/PV.13
challenge.  The  World  Trade  Organization  has  to  adapt
its  international  trade  rules  so  that  they  are  equitable
and  fair  and  take  account  of  global  development
challenges.
It  is  a  source  of  great  concern  to  the  developing
countries that, increasingly, decisions are taken outside
the  United  Nations  and  other  global  structures  by
developed  and  rich  countries  when  these  decisions
have  a  great  impact  on  the  poorer  countries  and
directly affect the lives of billions of poor people. That
is  why  a  partnership  between  poor  and  rich  countries
and dialogue between North and South are so critical.
Nuclear  weapons  still  constitute  a  threat  to  our
planet.  We  have  to  pursue  the  path  of  universal
disarmament  and  the  destruction  of  all  weapons  of
mass destruction.
The need to protect the environment has assumed
greater importance and we can succeed only if we work
together.
The  self-determination  of  the  people  of  East
Timor, Western Sahara and Palestine must be a concern
to all of us. To this end, we urge the United Nations to
do  all  it  can  to  expedite  the  processes  in  East  Timor
and Western Sahara. We commend the peace efforts in
the  Middle  East  and  the  role  of  the  United  States.  We
would like to pledge our support to the Palestinian and
Israeli leaderships as they try to find creative solutions
to 
take
advantage  of  this  unique  historic  moment,  as  it  seems
that a real possibility exists for a solution.
their  problems.  They  must  be  urged 
to 
The  equality  of  women  and  men  still  remains  a
subject  of  great  concern.  All  we  need  to  do  is  look
around  this  Hall  to  realize  how  far  we  are  from
realizing  the  vision  of  the  founding  Members  of  the
United  Nations.  Secondly,  the  feminization  of  poverty
is a  big problem. The  marginalization  of  women,  both
in their countries and in the multilateral forums, means
that  our  countries  and  organizations,  including  the
United Nations, are functioning at half-capacity and are
deprived of the unique qualities, energies and creativity
that  women  would  bring.  In  this  context,  I  cannot
forget  the  plight  of  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi  in  Burma.  She
deserves  active  support  from  this  gathering  and  the
world.
The United Nations  was founded in part to  make
sure that the monsters of fascism and racism should not
rear their ugly heads again. Unfortunately, all over the
12
regions  are 
world  racism  and  xenophobia  are  on  the  increase.
Some  countries  and 
responding  by
developing  a  new  fortress  mentality,  which  does  not
help the situation. This should flash red warning lights
to  all  of  us  and  activate  our  utmost  vigilance  against
the scourges of racism and xenophobia.
to  host 
It  is  only  when  we  turn  our  backs  on  racism,
xenophobia  and  other  forms  of  discrimination  that  we
can  succeed  in  building  a  caring  world  where  we  feel
diminished by the suffering and hunger of other human
beings.  It  was  for  this  reason  that  we  felt  a  sense  of
obligation  and  agreed 
the  world  racism
Conference  next  year.  Of  course,  our  country  and
people  experienced  the  most  systematic,  most  brutal
and  most  inhumane  form  of  racism,  which  the  United
Nations  declared  a  crime  against  humanity.  We  are
happy  to  take  our  place  in  the  fight  against  racism  in
our country and in the world. It is our fervent hope that
the  Conference  will  come  up  with  a  programme  of
action  against  racism,  xenophobia  and  other  forms  of
discrimination.
In  conclusion,  let  us  all  put  our  collective  will,
courage  and  intellectual  creativity  together  in  shaping
the  dream  of  a  better  world;  a  world  of  solidarity;  a
world  where  no  child  should  starve  or  die  of
preventable  and  curable  diseases;  a  world  where  no
child  will  be  deprived  of  schooling;  a  world  where
children will not be sent to war; a world where no child
can be a slave or be used as an object for trafficking; a
world  where  children  grow  up  as  children  and  play
with toys and do not have to be breadwinners or worry
about  where  their  next  meal  is  going  to  come  from;  a
world where women will enjoy all rights and where the
eradication  of  poverty  and  war 
is  our  collective
responsibility.
The  dream  for  the  new  millennium  is  indeed
realisable.  If  we  act  with  courage  and  determination,
we can turn the hopes of billions across the world into
reality.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Yohei  Kono,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Japan.
Mr.  Kono  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English
text furnished by the delegation): First, I would like to
extend  my  heartfelt  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  a
former  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Finland,  on
your  assumption  of  the  office  of  President  of  the
General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session.
I would also like to pay my respects to Mr. Theo-
Ben  Gurirab,  Foreign  Minister  of  the  Republic  of
Namibia,  for  all  his  efforts  during  his  tenure  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fourth
session.
It  is  also  my  great  pleasure  to  welcome  the
admission  of  Tuvalu  as  a  new  Member  of  the  United
Nations.
Before proceeding to my main topic, I would like
to mention two important developments that took place
in  the  international  community  in  recent  months.
Concerning  the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  the
recent  inter-Korean  summit  was  indeed  epoch-making
and I strongly hope that this positive development will
continue,  advance  in  the  future  and  lead  to  peace  and
stability in North-East Asia. With regard to the Middle
East peace process, Japan is very much encouraged by
the  commitment  of  both  parties  to  continuing  their
negotiations  and, 
international
community,  will  strongly  support  the  efforts  of  the
parties to achieve a lasting peace in the region.
together  with 
the 
In order to ensure that the twenty-first  century  is
truly a century of peace, it is of the greatest importance
that the international community make united efforts to
address 
the 
and  non-
proliferation.
issues  of  disarmament 
In 1945, Hiroshima and Nagasaki became the first
two  cities  in  human  history  to  suffer  indescribable
nuclear  devastation.  That  experience  is  the  starting
point  of  Japan(cid:146)s  actions  aimed  at  the  realization  of  a
world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  With  succeeding
generations in this half-century, the extremely shocking
experiences  of  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki  might  very
well  be  pushed  to  the  edge  of  our  memory.  In  such
circumstances,  new  signs  of  proliferation  of  nuclear
weapons  and  missiles  are  arousing  our  concern.  I
believe, however, that engraving the tragic experiences
of  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki  in  our  minds  is  the  first
step  toward  the  creation  of  a  world  free  from  the
nuclear  threat,  which  is  one  of  the  biggest  challenges
facing the United Nations. In light of such experiences,
Japan  has  maintained  the  three  non-nuclear  principles
as  its  fundamental  national  policy  and  has  focused
particular  attention  on  nuclear  issues.  It  will  continue
to stress the importance of this issue.
Since the Second World War, we have adopted as
the basic  ideas  of  our  nation:  democracy,  commitment
to  peace  and  respect  for  fundamental  human  rights,
A/55/PV.13
which  are  enshrined  in  the  Japanese  Constitution.
Moreover,  under  its  basic  policy  of  not  becoming  a
military  power,  Japan  has  mobilized  all  its  available
resources for the prosperity of its people and achieved
economic  development. 
that
experience  and  make  a  further  contribution  to  the
economic development and enhancement of the welfare
of developing countries.
to  utilize 
It  hopes 
Throughout  my  political  career,  I  have  been
deeply  committed  to  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation  issues.  A  senior  politician  for  whom  I
have great respect once told me with great fervour:
(cid:147)I  hope  that  somebody  among  the  peoples
of  the  world  will  take  the  lead  in  advocating
peace,  and  that  all  others  will  cooperate  for  that
cause,  so  that  the  earth  will  avoid  a  crisis.  I
believe  that  Japan  must  play  the  role  of  that
somebody.(cid:148)
These  words  have  become  my  political  credo,  as
well  as  the  resolve  of  many  Japanese  people.  When  I
was  Foreign  Minister  in  1994,  Japan  submitted  to  the
General  Assembly  for  the  first  time  a  resolution
entitled  (cid:147)Nuclear  disarmament  with  a  view  to  the
ultimate  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons(cid:148)  (49/75  H),
which gained the support of an overwhelming majority
of  Member  States.  Japan(cid:146)s  support  of  the  indefinite
extension  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  in  1995  is  attributed  to  the
strong  will  of the Japanese people. I  highly  appreciate
the  final  document  adopted  at  the  2000  NPT  Review
Conference this spring, since it contains practical steps
to  be  taken  in  the  future  in  the  fields  of  nuclear
including  an
disarmament  and  non-proliferation, 
unequivocal  undertaking 
total
elimination  of  nuclear  arsenals.  I  also  appreciate  the
postponement  by  the  United  States  Government  of  its
decision  to  deploy  a  national  missile  defence,  as  a
result  of  prudent  consideration  with  an  emphasis  on
further  dialogue  on  this  important  issue.  Japan  hopes
that this announcement will inspire a further deepening
of the discussion on issues surrounding national missile
defence. I hope other countries respond to this move by
taking actions to avoid a vicious circle of an arms race
and  to  create  a  beneficent  circle 
toward  nuclear
disarmament.  The 
international  community  must
continue 
its  efforts  aimed  at  non-proliferation  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  demand  that  the
nuclear  weapon  States  further  reduce  their  nuclear
arsenals. This will definitely require a further reduction
to  accomplish 
the 
13
A/55/PV.13
by  the  United  States  and  Russia  in  their  nuclear
weapons  through  the  Strategic  Arms  Reduction  Talks
(START),  as  well  as  efforts  by  other  nuclear  weapon
States,  unilaterally  or  through  their  negotiations,  to
reduce  their  nuclear  arsenals.  I  also  believe  that  we
must seriously consider what kind of practical paths we
should  take  to  realize  a  world  free  from  the  fear  of
nuclear  weapons.  A  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons  is
not a dream; it is within our reach.
Mr. José Roberto Andino Salazar (El Salvador),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
To  that  end  Japan  will  submit  to  this  session  of
the  General  Assembly  a  draft  resolution  on 
the
elimination of nuclear weapons, which sets forth a path
towards  the  realization  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear
weapons,  while  ensuring 
the  non-proliferation  of
weapons  of  mass-destruction.  It  does  so 
through
measures  such  as  the  early  entry  into  force  of  the
Comprehensive  Nuclear  Test  Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  and
the immediate commencement  and  early conclusion  of
negotiations  on  the  fissile  material  cut-off  treaty,  as
well as the promotion of the Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty  III  negotiations,  and  through  further,  deeper
reductions  at  a  later  stage  in  nuclear  arsenals,  leading
in  the  final  stage  to  total  elimination.  Japan  expects
that  this  resolution  will  gain  wide  support  from  the
international community.
Further, I  would  like  to  point  out  the  importance
of  concluding  negotiations  on  the  protocol  to  the
Biological  Weapons  Convention  (BWC)  by  the  year
2001,  and  strengthening  efforts  to  cope  with  missile
proliferation.
Now  I  would  like  to  discuss  international  efforts
for conflict prevention. For the effective prevention of
conflicts,  it  is  important  to  employ  various  policy
measures in a comprehensive and effective manner. As
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan 
is
incumbent upon the international community to nurture
a (cid:147)culture of prevention(cid:148). The G-8 Miyazaki Initiatives
for Conflict Prevention, which was drawn up at the G-8
Foreign  Ministers  meeting  in  Miyazaki,  over  which  I
presided,  embodies 
idea  of  a  (cid:147)culture  of
prevention(cid:148).
advocates, 
it 
this 
On the issue of small arms and light  weapons, in
which  Japan  has  been  actively  engaged,  the  G-8
countries made clear for the first time that they will not
authorize  the  export  of  small  arms  if  there  is  a  clear
these  might  be  used  for  repression  or
risk 
that 
14
I  hope 
aggression  against  another  country. 
this
achievement will lead to the success of next summer(cid:146)s
United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small
Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. Moreover,
at Japan(cid:146)s initiative, a  fund relating to  small arms  was
established  at  the  United  Nations  this  spring.  The
purpose  of  this  fund  is  to  extend  assistance  for  the
collection  of  small  arms  and  the  reintegration  of  ex-
combatants into civilian society.
Under  the  G-8  Miyazaki  Initiatives  for  Conflict
Prevention,  we  will  actively  work  to  strengthen  such
development  assistance  that  contributes  to  preventing
the  outbreak  or  recurrence  of  conflicts.  For 
this
purpose, Japan will promote its collaboration with non-
governmental organizations by, for example, providing
assistance  for  their  emergency  humanitarian  activities
and  dispatching  joint  study  missions  for  emergency
rehabilitation.
In  recent  years,  United  Nations  peacekeeping
operations  have  had  to  be  deployed  more  rapidly.
Moreover,  as  the  examples  of  Kosovo  and  East  Timor
have shown, peacekeeping operations are now required
to carry out diverse mandates that include humanitarian
assistance,  emergency  rehabilitation  and  even  civil
administration.  To  make  possible 
rapid  and
effective deployment of such peacekeeping operations,
strengthening  the  Secretariat(cid:146)s  functions  as  well  as
more,  quick-response  cooperation  on  the  part  of  the
international  community  are  all  the  more  important.
Japan  welcomes  the  report  and  recommendations  by
the  Panel  on  United  Nations  Peace  Operations
established at the initiative of the Secretary-General.
the 
The  continued  high  toll  in  human  life  among
United  Nations  personnel  taking  part  in  peacekeeping
operations  and  humanitarian  missions  is  a  matter  of
profound  concern.  Recently  there  was  an  unforgivable
militia attack on the local office of the United Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  in  West
Timor. Measures  must be taken to ensure the safety of
United  Nations  personnel  through  close  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations,  the  country  concerned,
and its neighbouring countries.
With  regard  to  United  Nations  peace  operations,
Japan  intends  to  continue  to  do  its  best,  including
personnel  and  financial  contributions  to  peacekeeping
operations and assistance for emergency rehabilitation,
democratization  and 
legal
the  establishment  of 
frameworks,  as  well  as  assistance  to  international
organizations.
cooperation  with 
Poverty  reduction  is  a  high-priority  issue  for  the
leader  of  every  country.  Japan,  consistently  aware  of
the  importance  of  this  issue,  has  been  providing  more
aid than any country in the world for nine consecutive
years, since 1991. Henceforth, considering what would
be  most  effective  for  the  development  of  developing
countries, Japan will continue to make active efforts on
development 
those
countries.  It  accordingly  intends  to  contribute  towards
the  success  of 
international  and
intergovernmental  event  on  financing  for  development
expected  to  be  held  in  2001  under  the  aegis  of  the
United Nations and others.
is 
that
developing  countries  that  have  achieved  certain  levels
of  development  put  their  own  experience  and  know-
how to use in providing assistance to other developing
countries.  Japan,  in  collaboration  with  the  United
Nations  and  other  organizations,  will  strengthen  its
endeavours for South-South cooperation.
the  high-level 
Moreover, 
extremely 
valuable 
issues 
in 
it 
issue, 
Japan 
twice  hosted 
Concerning Africa, where poverty is an especially
serious 
the  Tokyo
International  Conference  on  African  Development
(TICAD) (cid:151) in 1993 and 1998. It intends to continue to
actively cooperate for African development through the
TICAD process. Bearing in mind the possibility of also
hosting  a  third  such  conference,  Japan  is  considering
holding  a  ministerial-level  meeting  before  the  end  of
fiscal  year  2001,  and  would  like  to  ask  for  the
cooperation  of 
the  countries  and  organizations
concerned.
A/55/PV.13
Fund  of  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt
(HIPC) Initiative of the World Bank. It will continue to
make  its  utmost  efforts  for  the  speedy  and  effective
implementation  of  the  enhanced  HIPC  Initiative,  for
example,  by  extending  technical  assistance  to  heavily
indebted  poor  countries  as  they  prepare  their  poverty-
reduction strategies.
As we enter the twenty-first century we are faced
issues,  such  as  conflicts,  poverty,
with  various 
refugees,  human 
rights  violations,  health,  crime,
terrorism and environmental degradation. Also we need
to  build  communities  in  which  the  rights  of  women,
children and various vulnerable members of society are
protected, in  which  they  can  demonstrate  their  talents,
and in which all people can live together. In addressing
such  issues,  it  is  increasingly  important  from  the
viewpoint of securing the existence, life and dignity of
each  individual  to  strengthen  efforts  that  place  human
beings  at  the  centre.  This  is  the  concept  of  human
security.
I would like first of all to touch upon the issue of
infectious  diseases,  which  are  not  only  a  threat  to  the
life  of  the  individual,  but  also  a  serious  obstacle  to
development  and  nation-building.  Japan  will  extend
assistance  to  the  efforts  of  developing  countries  to
combat infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria
and  tuberculosis.  It  will  also  actively  support  the
activities  of  non-governmental  organizations 
in
developing countries working in this area.
Moreover, Japan believes that the development of
a  United  Nations-centred 
for
combating transnational organized crime and terrorism
is urgently required.
framework 
legal 
In  April  Japan  hosted  the  second  Japan-South
Pacific  Forum  summit  meeting,  at  which  it,  together
with  small  island  States  burdened  with  geographically
disadvantageous  conditions,  put  forward  a  common
vision  and  a  course 
long-term
cooperation.  Moreover,  this  fall  Japan  will  hold  the
first  ministerial-level  conference  with  the  countries  of
the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM).  As  for  the
issue of  sustainable  development  in  landlocked  States,
it is Japan(cid:146)s policy to extend active cooperation for the
improvement  and  development  of  their  transportation
infrastructure, and other matters.
for  mid-  and 
Regarding 
the  heavily
to
indebted  poor  countries, 
contribute  up  to  a  total  of  $200  million  to  the  Trust
the  debt  problem  of 
Japan  has  decided 
Efforts to address global environmental issues are
becoming increasingly important from the viewpoint of
human  security  as  well.  Attaching  greater  importance
to  development  assistance  that  takes  the  environment
into  consideration,  Japan  has  allocated  approximately
40  per  cent  of  its  official  development  assistance  to
environmental  cooperation.  The  primary  tasks  at  this
moment  on  the  environmental  agenda  are  the  success
of the sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change  and  the  entry  into  force  no  later  than  2002  of
the Kyoto Protocol on global warming issues.
Concerning the Rio+10 event to be held in 2002,
Japan  believes  that  an  agenda  looking  to  the  future
should  be  set,  taking  into  account  the  debates  on  the
15
A/55/PV.13
implementation  of  many 
effective 
international
environmental  conventions,  as  well  as  globalization
and  the  technological  innovations  that  have  occurred
since the Earth Summit in 1992. Mapping out strategies
to  implement  more  effectively  the  large  number  of
environmental  conventions  concluded  in  recent  years
will also be important. Japan strongly supports holding
the  Rio+10  conference 
in  Asia  and  welcomes
Indonesia(cid:146)s candidacy to host the conference.
of 
Japan 
society. 
Further  endeavours  must  be  made  to  solve  the
problems  confronting  women,  children  and  various
vulnerable  members 
highly
appreciates  efforts  made  in  this  regard  by  the  United
Nations, including its convening in June of the special
session  of  the  General  Assembly  entitled  (cid:147)Women
2000:  gender  equality,  development  and  peace  for  the
twenty-first century(cid:148). Furthermore, Japan  will host the
Second  World  Congress  against  Commercial  Sexual
Exploitation  of  Children,  and  will  advance  its  efforts
for the protection of the rights of the child.
I  have  touched  upon  only  a  limited  part  of  the
efforts  focusing  upon  human  security.  Japan  has
contributed  more  than  9  billion  yen  (cid:151)  well  over  $80
million  (cid:151)  to  the  human  security  fund  that  was
established  at  the  United  Nations  last  year,  and  in  the
near  future  intends  to  make  a  further  contribution  of
approximately  10  billion  yen  (cid:151)  or  roughly  $100
million  (cid:151)  to  this  fund.  The  fund  has  borne  fruit  in
assisting  efforts  particularly  in  such  areas  as  post-
conflict  emergency  assistance  and 
reconstruction,
health  and  medical  care,  and  basic  education.  To
further  develop  and  deepen  the  concept  of  human
security and to study ways to strengthen efforts in this
context,  Japan  intends  to  establish  an  international
committee on human security, with the participation of
leaders of opinion.
As  I  have  stated,  issues  requiring  action  by  the
international  community  are  becoming  ever  more
diverse  and complex.  We  must  urgently  strengthen the
United  Nations  system  to  enable  it  to  deal  with  these
issues.
First  of  all, this  requires,  as  a  matter  of  urgency,
that  the  Security  Council  be  re-created  as  a  body  that
reflects  the  tremendous  changes  in  the  international
community. At the Millennium Summit held last  week
the 
representatives  of  approximately  a  hundred
Member  States  referred  to  this  issue  in  their  speeches
within  the  limited  time.  The  Millennium  Declaration,
16
expressing the determination to intensify our efforts to
achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  Security
Council, reflects the overall views of the heads of State
and Government of Member States. In particular, there
is  a  need  for  reform 
the  views  of
developing  countries,  which  are  playing  an  ever  more
important role in the international community, and that
fosters  the  participation  of  those  countries  with  the
capability to contribute to the solution of various issues
facing the developing countries.
that  reflects 
I  believe  that  both  the  representativeness  and
effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council  can  be  enhanced
through  an  expansion  of  both  the  permanent  and  non-
permanent  membership,  and  the  inclusion  of  both
developing  and  developed  countries 
the  new
permanent  membership.  Although  we  have  already
spent  seven  years  discussing  reform,  during  which
relevant  aspects  of  the  issue  have  been  exhaustively
explored,  we  have  yet  to  see  the  reform  materialize.
Even during the discussions, conflicts have broken out,
and poverty is worsening in various parts of the world.
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  time  has  come  to
seek a convergence of views among Member States on
the concrete form of Security Council reform.
in 
Today the maintenance of international peace and
security  requires  action,  not  only  in  political  and
security areas, but also in economic, social and various
other areas.
like 
When  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is
realized,  Japan  would 
to  assume  a  greater
responsibility  as  a  permanent  member  of  the  Council,
mobilizing 
in
various  areas, 
such  as  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation,  development  and  human  security,  and
based upon the ideas which I have discussed today.
its  capabilities  and 
its  experiences 
A  prerequisite  for  the  strengthening  of  United
Nations functions is securing a sound financial base. In
addition  to  streamlining  as  well  as  improving  the
efficiency and transparency of United Nations finances,
achieving  a  balance  in  financial  burden-sharing  is
especially  important.  Today(cid:146)s  financial  burden  sharing
cannot  be  considered  to  reflect  the  economic  strength
of 
their  positions  and
responsibilities within the United Nations. Japan would
like  to  appeal  for  its  urgent  revision.  I  strongly  hope
that  an  agreement  can  be  reached  on  a  more  equitable
scale  of  assessments  for  the  regular  budget  at  this
session, as an important step towards the establishment
respective  countries  or 
of  a  more  stable  financial  base.  Moreover,  I  hope  that
the substantive discussions for peacekeeping operations
budgets,  which  are  rapidly  increasing,  will  also  be
conducted during this session and that a more equitable
scale of assessments for these budgets can be agreed.
As  we  welcome  the  twenty-first  century,  while
respecting diversity, we must transcend the differences
that  arise  out  of  our  sense  of  belonging  to  an  ethnic,
religious  or  cultural  group.  The  foundation  for  these
endeavours  is  provided  by  international  relationships
based  on  universal  values  common  to  all  humankind,
such  as  democracy,  human  rights  and  freedom.  The
United Nations must play a central role in our efforts to
construct such international relationships.
In  order  to  achieve  peace,  we  must  engage  in
dialogue  with  each  other  in  a  spirit  of  tolerance,  and
join hands in tackling various challenges. At the United
Nations  this  year  is  designated  the  (cid:147)International  Year
for  the  Culture  of  Peace(cid:148),  and  next  year,  2001,  is
designated  the  (cid:147)United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue
among  Civilizations(cid:148).  These  designations  and 
the
implementation  of  related  substantive  activities  reflect
a growing recognition of this idea.
As  globalization  progresses  and 
economy-
oriented  rationalism  prevails,  we  should  pay  special
attention  to  the  task  of  raising  awareness  of  cultural
diversity,  nurturing  the  special  character  of  respective
countries  and  regions,  and  preserving  historical  and
cultural  heritage.  The  United  Nations  Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) should
play a central role in this regard. Every country should
recognize  the  role  of  UNESCO,  and  join  together  in
extending assistance to strengthen its activities.
I  believe  that  this  Millennium  Assembly,  which
began  with  the  Millennium  Summit,  should  be  an
epochal  starting  point  of  meaningful  progress  in  the
twenty-first century, both in consolidating our efforts to
tackle  various  challenges  and  in  strengthening  United
Nations 
through  Security  Council  and
financial  reform.  Towards  that  end,  I  should  like  to
conclude  by  underscoring  once  again  the  growing
importance of cooperation among all Member States.
functions 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  now
call on His Excellency Mr. Amre Moussa, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Egypt.
Mr.  Moussa  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic): It  is  a
great pleasure for me to convey through you, Sir, to the
A/55/PV.13
President  of 
the  General  Assembly  our  sincere
congratulations  upon  his  election.  I  am  confident  that
he  will  lead  the  work  of  this  Millennium  Assembly
most ably.
like
I  should  also 
to  express  our  sincere
appreciation 
the
Foreign  Minister  of  Namibia,  for  his  exceptional
leadership of the fifty-fourth session.
to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Gurirab, 
May  I  also  express  our  high  esteem  for  the
Secretary-General for his most efficient preparation for
both 
the  Millennium  Summit  and  Assembly.  We
appreciate his efforts to  maintain and promote the role
of  the  Organization  and  to  strengthen  its  effectiveness
and credibility.
The  convening  of  the  Millennium  Summit  and
Assembly is an important milestone in the international
system  and  the  future  of  the  United  Nations.  The  two
occasions constitute a unique forum to review the state
of the world and its developments and to take stock of
the performance of  the  Organization  so  as  to  enable  it
to  occupy  its  central  place  in  the  international  system
and hence lead the movement of change on the basis of
a general consensus and a meeting of all minds.
in 
the  most 
the  context  of 
The  goal  of  the  establishment  of  a  stable  and
effective system of collective security through dialogue
international
and  cooperation 
democracy  has  been  one  of 
important
objectives  of  the  United  Nations  and  those  of  the
international  community.  It  is  thus  necessary  to  allow
the  United  Nations 
its  objectives  by
adapting its  work to the current international  variables
that must take the United Nations seriously. This might
very  well  be  the  thrust  of  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
report to the Millennium Assembly.
to  achieve 
In our opinion, the first step down this road is to
agree  on  a  broad  modern  definition  of  collective
security  in  the  coming  decades.  Security  in  its  most
simple  and  realistic  definition  is  based  on  three  basic
and  organically  linked  rights,  namely,  the  right  to
safety  and  stability  and  avoidance  of  the  scourges  of
war, mass destruction and armed conflicts, the right to
development  and  to  a  decent  life  free  from  poverty,
destitution  and  want  and  the  right  to  live  in  a  healthy
environment  free  from  pollution,  disease  and  negative
social  phenomena.  A  cursory  glance  at  the  state  of
those  three  rights  would  reveal  that  during  the  last
decade  of 
they  have
become  exposed  to  new  threats,  while  existing  ones
transformations 
international 
17
A/55/PV.13
have  been  exacerbated  in  a  manner  threatening  grave
repercussions.
After  the  end  of  the  cold  war  and  the  end  of
tensions  between  the  two  super-Powers,  international
peace  became  exposed  to  a  new  kind  of  threat,  the
threat resulting from the disintegration of some States,
the  collapse  of 
the
victimization  of  their  people  due  to  internal  strife  and
negative foreign intervention.
their  national  structures  and 
Globalization,  world  market, the information  and
communications  revolution  and  the  emergence  of  new
kinds  of  economic  activities  all  hold  the  promise  of
unlimited  progress,  yet  they  carry  with  them  the
dangers of  widening the development gap between the
developed and developing world.
As  for  a  healthy  environment,  whole  continents
are 
suffering 
environmental
degradation,  backwardness  and  the  spread  of  ethnic
wars as well as the increased tragedies of refugees.
epidemics, 
from 
Africa is the region most affected by that horrible
triangle (cid:151) armed civil conflicts, poverty and economic
backwardness, degraded environment, natural disasters,
deadly  diseases  and  epidemics.  There  is  a  belt  of
tension 
economic
difficulties  and  problems  continue.  Africa  has  thus
reached an untenable situation that requires immediate
and  firm  attention  in  order  to  help  it  extricate  itself
from that quagmire.
continent  and 
encircling 
the 
resolution, 
I  must  reiterate  in  this  regard  that  the  African
States,  through  the  Organization  of  African  Unity
(OAU)  and  other  groupings,  are  discharging  their
responsibilities  as  best  they  can.  They  are  taking
necessary  measures  and  steps  to  place  themselves  on
the right path towards  a better  future.  Special  mention
should  be  made  here  of  the  OAU  Mechanism  for
strengthen
conflict 
peacekeeping 
subregional
groupings  and  the  establishment  of  common  markets
and economic groupings, such as  the  Common  Market
for  Eastern  and  Southern  Africa  (COMESA),  the
Southern  African  Development  Community  (SADC)
and  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States
(ECOWAS).  Our  continent  is  moving  towards  a  form
of  unity  on  the  basis  of  the  resolutions  of  the  recent
LomØ  summit,  which  will  be  followed  up  at  the
upcoming Sirte summit.
the 
capabilities 
through 
efforts 
to 
18
the  constructive  efforts  of 
An  agreement  was  recently  concluded  in  Arusha
on  the  settlement  of  the  Burundi  conflict.  A  new
President  of  Somalia,  Mr.  Abdi  Kassim  Salad  Hassan,
was  elected  after 
the
Government  of  sisterly  Djibouti.  There  are  efforts
under  way  in  the  Great  Lakes  region.  All  these
examples prove Africa(cid:146)s ability to deal on its own with
some  of  its  problems.  Yet  it  cannot  be  left  alone
without  the  support  of  the  international  community,
particularly  in  the  field  of  peacekeeping  and  peace-
making.  The  United  Nations  must  play  its  full  role  in
that field.
Meeting 
faced  by 
the  new  challenges 
the
international  community  and  achieving  the  goal  of
establishing  an  effective  system  of  collective  security
for  future  generations  require,  as  I  mentioned  earlier,
improving 
the  United  Nations  performance  and
adapting  it  to  the  demands  of  these  goals.  In  his
message 
last  week,
President  Mubarak  stressed  the  need  to  pay  special
attention to the maintenance of international peace and
to support efforts for development, poverty elimination
and  narrowing  the  widening  gap  between  the  rich  and
the poor in our world.
the  Millennium  Summit 
to 
Allow me to address these priorities and to stress
their  linkage  to  a  number  of  important  subjects  and
necessary  steps.  First,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to
strengthen  and  reform  the  United  Nations  in  general.
There  is  a  similar  need  to  reform  and  restructure  the
Security Council and to enhance its credibility. We are
determined  to  continue  our  contribution  to  the  current
dialogue  on  a  comprehensive  and  balanced  package
deal  on  the  expansion  of  both  the permanent  and  non-
permanent  membership  of  the  Council.  This  would
enable the Council to be more equitably representative.
It would also reflect the overwhelming  majority of the
developing countries, members of the Organization.
We  are  fully  committed  to  the  positions  of  the
Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
the  Organization  of
African  Unity  (OAU)  in  this  regard.  We  reiterate  the
need  for  expansion  of  the  Council  to  be  accompanied
by reform of its working methods and a revision of the
use of the veto power, with a view to rationalizing it.
I  wish to  stress  here  what  I  mentioned  earlier  (cid:151)
that  Egypt  has  a 
long  history  of  regional  and
international  contributions.  It  plays  a  significant  role
on  the  African,  Arab  and  Islamic  levels,  as  well  as  in
the  Middle  East  and  among  the  developing  countries
and emerging  economies. In  addition,  Egypt  has  made
many contributions to support United Nations activities
and achieve its objectives. It has also contributed to the
Organization(cid:146)s peacekeeping operations. All this makes
Egypt  eminently  eligible  and  qualified  to  shoulder  the
responsibilities  of  permanent  membership 
in  an
expanded  Security  Council,  within 
the  framework
the  African  heads  of  State  and
suggested  by 
Government since 1997.
legitimacy 
international 
Second, there is an equally urgent need to restore
the role of the General Assembly in the maintenance of
peace, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter,
especially when the Security Council fails to discharge
its  primary  responsibility  in  this  regard.  This  would
ensure that any collective actions or  measures  enjoyed
the 
the
Organization. There is a need to further develop United
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and  provide  them
with  a  rapid  deployment  capability.  There  is  also  a
need  for  concerted  efforts  to  increase  the  capacity  of
States,  particularly  African  States,  to  participate  in
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  or  those  of
regional  and  subregional  organizations  which  are
mandated  and  financed  by  the  United  Nations.  Egypt
will  address  these  important  issues  when  the  General
Assembly considers the Brahimi report (A/55/305).
represented  by 
intervention  and 
These considerations  must  be  kept in  mind  when
we address how to develop the conceptual and practical
framework  of  peacemaking  and  peacekeeping.  New
ideas,  such  as  humanitarian 
the
preventive  deployment  of  forces,  have,  since  the  last
session,  begun  to  gain  currency.  We  have  called,  and
continue to call, for discussion  of those  ideas  with  the
highest  degree  of  frankness  and  transparency.  Those
ideas  impinge  on  the  concept  of  sovereignty.  Some
tend to belittle the value and importance of sovereignty
when  the  matter  pertains  to  the  sovereignty  of  others.
Those  very  same  States  tend  also  to  consider  it
sacrosanct  and  inviolable  when  the  matter  pertains  to
their own sovereignty.
Third, 
the  sanctions  regime,  as  one  of 
the
component  parts  of  the  measures  taken  within  the
current system of collective security, needs a thorough
review.  Sanctions  cannot  last  indefinitely.  They  must
not cause human suffering to tens of millions of people
or  result  in  massive  and  destructive  harm  to  the
economic  infrastructures  or  social  fabric  of  States.
Sanctions  must  not  lead  to  the  creation  of  angry
A/55/PV.13
generations who will continue to be embittered by their
suffering, even after these actions are lifted.
to 
recognize 
of 
Fourth, 
there 
particularly 
is  a  need 
disarmament, 
the
importance  of  continued,  serious  consideration  of  the
question 
nuclear
disarmament,  which  is  the  most  destructive  and  poses
the  greatest 
threats.  The  priority  of  nuclear
disarmament  must  not  be  overshadowed  by 
the
increased  attention  paid  to  small  arms,  light  weapons
and anti-personnel landmines. This is not to say that we
do  not  recognize  the  importance  of  these  subjects  or
the  need  to  deal  with  them  comprehensively  and
appropriately.  In  this  regard,  we  reaffirm  Egypt(cid:146)s
initiatives  for  the  elimination  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction,  including  nuclear  weapons.  We  welcome
the  results  of  the  sixth  Review  Conference  of  the
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT) 
the  field  of  nuclear
disarmament  in  general.  We  welcome  in  particular  the
Conference(cid:146)s  recognition  of  the  specificity  of  the
situation in the Middle East and its reaffirmation of the
continued validity and importance of implementing the
resolutions  on  the  Middle  East  adopted  by  the  NPT
Review and Extension Conference in 1995.
in 
Fifth,  with  the  accelerated  pace  of  globalization
and  trade  liberalization,  the  gap  between  the  rich  and
poor  countries  is  widening  in  a  manner  that  threatens
grave  dangers.  The  comparison  between  patterns  of
production and consumption and standards of living in
the developing and developed worlds is both stark and
shocking.  Narrowing  this  gap  and  correcting  this
imbalance in the international structure is not merely a
international
moral  obligation,  but 
partnership  must  be  established 
this
objective.
is  vital.  An 
to  achieve 
The  call  for  social  justice  within  States  must  be
accompanied by a similar call for justice in sharing the
benefits  of  progress,  globalization,  the  information
technology  and  communications  revolution  and  trade
liberalization  among  members  of  the  international
family in the North and the South alike. We truly need
to  give  globalization  a  human  face and  an  equilibrium
that will enable it to contribute to bridging that gap.
United  Nations  literature  is  replete  with  studies
on  the  problems  of  and  obstacles  to  development  and
the elimination of poverty. This, however, is no longer
sufficient. In several international conferences we have
adopted  plans  and  programmes  of  action  containing
19
A/55/PV.13
clear  commitments  to  mobilize  the  financial  resources
necessary  to  implement  them.  Yet  implementation  has
not  been  at  the level of  the  commitments  contained  in
those documents.
the 
recommendations  of 
A  few  months  ago  we  reviewed  progress  in  the
implementation  of 
the
international  conferences  on  population,  women  and
social development. But what were the results of these
reviews?  What  are  the  ways  needed  to  face  the
obstacles  that  have  impeded  progress  and  made  the
implementation  of 
those
conferences fall below our expectations?
the  recommendations  of 
the 
about 
achievement?  What 
We have adopted the objective of halving poverty
in  the  world  by  2015.  What  is  the  course  charted  for
achieving this objective and what are the commitments
made to  mobilize the financial resources  necessary  for
its 
numerous
programmes  and  initiatives  for  African  development?
Have  their  achievements  been  commensurate  with  the
magnitude  of  the  problems  facing  the  continent?  Is  it
not  time  for  a  clear  commitment,  going  beyond  the
current 
the  burden  of  foreign
indebtedness  that  is  crushing  Africa?  We  need  a
genuine  partnership  between  the  North  and  the  South.
We  need  real  and  effective  support  by  the  donors  and
the  international  financial  institutions  to  implement
development efforts and attempts to eliminate  poverty,
not  only  as  a  moral  value  taking  the  form  of  freedom
from  want,  as  mentioned  in  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
report  (A/54/2000),  but  also  as  a  vital  objective
connected to the establishment of peace and stability.
initiatives, 
lift 
to 
for 
achieving 
development 
Sixth,  in  the  same  vein,  an  attempt  to  place
responsibility 
and
eliminating  poverty  solely  or  even  primarily  on  the
shoulders  of  developing  countries  is  both  dangerous
and  short-sighted,  because  it  would  undermine  the
concept  of  international  cooperation,  which  is  one  of
the  cornerstones  of  the  world  system,  and  ignore  the
repercussions of the widening gap between the rich and
the  poor  in  our  world.  That  gap  is  now  16  times  as
large as it was in the 1960s.
to 
An  attempt 
is  also  being  made 
link
international  cooperation  and  the  North(cid:146)s  support  for
the  South  with  concepts  and  values  that  in  themselves
we  support  but  whose  new  conditionality  we  reject.  I
am  referring  here  to  democracy,  good  governance  and
human rights. Questions  of democratic  transformation,
improved  governance  and  administration,  increased
20
transparency and accountability, and promoting respect
for human rights cannot be dealt with in isolation from
the questions of development, poverty and subsistence,
for  they  too  are  vitally  important  subjects.  Should  not
the  call  for  democracy  within  States  be  matched  by  a
similar  call 
for  democracy  among  States  and
international organizations? Should not the call for the
rule of law be accompanied by a similar call for respect
for international law, the sovereignty of States and  the
rights  of  peoples?  Can  good  governance  and
administration be achieved in the absence of a parallel
effort for the development of human resources and the
capacity-building?  Is  it  sufficient  just  to  pay  attention
to the civil and political rights of people while ignoring
their  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights,  foremost
among which is the inalienable right to development?
to 
The  attention  Egypt  pays 
Seventh,  the  success  of  the  development  efforts
of  the  peoples  of  the  world  at  this  stage  depends  on
their  efficient  use  of  the  tools  of  the  new  age,
particularly  information  technology.  The  technological
revolution  has  led  to  a  widening  of  the  gap  between
those  who  have  those  tools  and  those  who  do  not.
Nevertheless, information  and  knowledge technologies
are of such a nature as to enable them to contribute to
narrowing the gaps between the countries of the world.
these  global
questions does not take away from the attention it gives
to regional issues that  are  extremely  sensitive.  Among
those  questions,  I  would  like  to  concentrate  on  the
issues of peace in the Middle East and the situation  in
the Sudan, which are of the utmost importance to Egypt
and,  without  a  doubt,  to  many  in  the  Arab  world,
Africa and the international community at large.
The  Arab-Israeli  conflict  entails  vital 
issues
related  to  the  lives  of  peoples  and  to  the  future  of
nations. Those include recognition of legitimate rights,
sovereignty  over  national  soil,  the  inalienable  right  to
self-determination, 
the
acquisition  of  territory  by  force  and  the  right  of  all
States  to  live  peacefully  within  secure  borders.  All
these  issues  are  directly  linked  to  international  and
regional peace and security.
inadmissibility 
the 
of 
The  logic  that  must  govern  the  peace  process  in
the  Middle  East  should  not  stem  from  the  assumption
that one is dealing with a permanent foe or opponent. It
must  aim  instead  at  turning  past  animosity  into  good-
neighbourliness  and  normal 
the
peoples and the States of the region. What is at stake is
relations  among 
the  region  and 
the  security  of 
the  security  and
prosperity  of  future  generations,  and  not  short-term
political  considerations.  We  face  a  clear  choice
between  either  settling  the  issue  in  terms  of  real
estate (cid:151) in  which one party demands  metres,  miles or
tens  of  miles  (cid:151)  thereby  keeping  alive  the  seeds  of
tension  and  conflict,  or  by  seeking  through  clear
political  will  to  establish  a  just  and  lasting  peace  by
which  the  rights  of  all  parties  are  secured  and  their
obligations  are  well  defined 
through  necessary
international  guarantees.  The  latter  option  must  be
based  on  international  law,  something  that  applies  to
the  Israeli/Palestinian  track  and  to  the  Syrian/Israeli
track alike.
to 
the 
future 
There is no doubt that the overwhelming majority
of  States,  communities  and  individuals  support  the
achievement of a just solution that does not favour one
party  at  the  expense  of  the  other.  Most  people  would
opt  for  peace  and  justice  and  would  prefer  to  look
ahead 
in  a  positive  way.  The
overwhelming  majority  of  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli
people also want peace, a peace that is clear and clean
and  not  partial,  distorted  or  absent  (cid:151)  something  that,
at the end of the day, would be more of a headache than
a concrete peace. In that regard, I would like to say that
President Arafat and the Palestinian people face one of
two choices: either  no  solution or a  bad  solution. This
is  a  policy 
that  will  never  garner  support  or
appreciation or ever lead to a viable solution.
As  to  the  so-called  flexibility,  which  has  been  at
the forefront of commentary lately, it should mean only
flexibility within the realm of international law and not
outside  it.  If  we  are  talking  about  flexibility  on
Jerusalem,  that  cannot  in  any  way  mean  accepting
Israeli  sovereignty  over  Al-Haram  al-Sharif.  It  could
instead  mean  arrangements  for  the  new  Palestinian
State  that  would  give  it  sovereignty  over  all  its
territories  while 
sites  and
guaranteeing  their  protection  and  free  access  to  them.
That  would  assume  that,  as  a  full-fledged  member  of
the  international  community,  the  sovereign  Palestinian
State would be in charge.
respecting 
the  holy 
The  peace  process  is  but  a  few  miles  away  from
the  finish  line.  We  hope  it  will  not  take  many  long
years for Syria and Palestine to travel those few miles.
We  also  hope  that  the  sponsors  of  the  peace  process
will  be  wise  and  able  enough  to  propose  honest
solutions  to  the  parties  in  order  to  enable  the  honest
broker to lead the negotiations to a certain conclusion.
A/55/PV.13
At  this  juncture,  I  would  like  to  salute  President
Clinton(cid:146)s enthusiasm and tireless efforts in steering the
peace process during an eleventh-hour attempt to find a
lasting solution during his Administration.
that 
In order to achieve that objective it is essential to
uphold  one  guiding  principle 
cannot  be
circumvented,  namely,  full withdrawal  from  all  Syrian
and Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem, in
return for Israel(cid:146)s right to be integrated into the Middle
East  as  a  partner  with  equal  rights  to  security,  peace
and cooperation. That is the essence of resolutions 242
(1967) and 338 (1973) and of the principle of land for
peace.  Lasting  peace  and  security  can  be  established
only  on  that  basis.  If  Arab  territories,  or  any  part  of
those  territories,  remain  under  occupation  or  if  any
question  is  settled  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  the
principles of fairness and justice, it would create a time
bomb that could explode at any time. The desired peace
and  security  cannot  be  fully  realized  without  the
establishment of a full-fledged, independent Palestinian
State.
The stability of peace  and  security  in  the  Middle
East is tied to the need for serious consideration of the
question of armaments in the Middle East. Permanently
defusing tensions calls for dealing with the problem of
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and
their  delivery  vehicles.  This  will  also  contribute
directly  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security. Peace and stability in the Middle East will not
be  complete  or  lasting  without  the  establishment  of  a
comprehensive  regional  security  system  that  ensures
control  over  the  quantity  and  quality  of  armaments  in
the region and establishes a zone free from weapons of
in  accordance  with  President
mass  destruction, 
Mubarak(cid:146)s 
global
understanding and support.
initiative, 
enjoys 
which 
The  Sudan  is  a  State  of  unique  character  in
regional  relations.  It  is  at  once  a  major  component  of
the  Arab  world  and  an  integral  part  of  the  African
community.  Its  stability  is  also  vital  for  the  security
and stability of the Horn of Africa, the Red Sea and the
Nile  basin.  The  importance  Egypt  attaches  to  this
brotherly  country  therefore  stems  not  only  from  the
fact that it is Egypt(cid:146)s strategic twin, but because it is a
central  factor  to  the  security  of  a  vast  and  vitally
important region.
Many  efforts  have  been  made,  and  many
initiatives have been presented, to achieve peace in the
21
A/55/PV.13
Sudan,  most  of  which  were  made  in  good  faith.
However, they all dealt with the situation from a single
perspective,  that  of  the  southern  Sudan  against  the
north.
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  this  fifty-fifth
session of the General Assembly. I wish also to extend
our greetings to Tuvalu as a new Member of the United
Nations.
at 
Consequently,  Egypt  and  Libya  saw  the  need  to
those  efforts  with  a  comprehensive
complement 
programme 
aimed 
achieving  broad  national
reconciliation encompassing all the factions and all the
parties. The objective  is to create  a  new  Sudan,  where
stability and harmony prevail within a basic framework
of  unity  and  territorial  integrity,  equality  among  its
citizens,  and  consensual  self-determination  by  all  its
citizens  and  component  parts.  This  will  bring  comfort
and  reassurance  to  the  Sudanese  people  and  to  all  its
neighbours.
The  Egyptian-Libyan  initiative  has  gone  a  long
way 
the  parties  closer.  The
towards  bringing 
coordination  of  this  initiative  with  that  of  the  Inter-
Government  Authority  on  Development  (IGAD)  is
possible. Efforts will continue to ensure the convening
of  a  conference  on  national  reconciliation  to  achieve
peace in that important country.
The achievement of peace in the Middle East, the
Horn of Africa and in the continents of Asia and Africa
as a whole is a necessary condition for  world stability.
The  situation  in  Afghanistan,  Kashmir,  the  Caucasus,
Sri  Lanka,  the  continued  tragedy  of  Iraq,  and  the
conflicts  in  Africa  and  their  attendant  social  and
economic  problems  all  give  rise  to  serious  concerns
about the  new  world  order (cid:151)  about  its  credibility and
effectiveness.  We  must  act  quickly  in  order  to  resolve
these problems in a context of international legitimacy
and within the framework of the United Nations.
Finally,  amid  all  that,  the  United  Nations  stands
as  an  expression  of  the  will  of  the  international
community. The purposes and principles of its  Charter
are a guiding beacon. Let this Millennium Summit and
Assembly be a new turning point that will put us on the
right  path  towards  a  world  of  greater  security,  justice
and stability, a world that builds upon the achievements
of  the  twentieth  century  and  closes  the  chapter  on  its
grave errors.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  give
the  floor to  Mr.  Nguyen  Dy Nien,  Minister  of  Foreign
Affairs of Viet Nam.
Mr. Nguyen Dy Nien (Viet Nam): I would like to
convey our  warm congratulations to  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri
22
This year(cid:146)s session of the General Assembly is of
special significance, as it is taking place right after the
Millennium Summit. The Summit marked an important
milestone for the United Nations in the discharge of the
lofty  responsibilities  of 
its
Member  States  towards  the  future  of  humankind.  The
Millennium  Declaration adopted by the  Summit points
out  humanity(cid:146)s  most  pressing 
the
Organization(cid:146)s  primary  priorities  and  directions  at  the
beginning  of  this  new  era.  Thus  the  Millennium
Declaration  can  be  considered  a  new  charter  and
platform of action of the United Nations.
the  Organization  and 
issues 
and 
to 
is  how 
translate 
The  question  now  confronting  the  international
community 
the  Millennium
Declaration  into  reality.  This  session  of  the  General
Assembly must mark the beginning of a new awareness
and  determination,  to  be  demonstrated  by  concrete
results.  Only  by  so  doing  can  we  further  consolidate
the confidence of the world(cid:146)s people in the work of the
United Nations, the largest Organization on our planet.
The  realization  of  the  Millennium  Declaration
will  be  a  long  process,  but  not  a  simple  one.  It  will
require  the  strong  determination  and  efforts  of  each
country,  the  international  community  and  the  United
Nations,  especially  since  globalization 
is  having
negative  effects,  leading  to  the  uneven  distribution  of
opportunities and benefits at the expense of developing
countries.
Poverty  eradication  and  development  must  be
accorded primary priority and supported so that we can
achieve  the  targets  set  by  the  Millennium  Summit,
including  the  target  to  halve,  by  the  year  2015,  the
current  proportion  of 
the  world(cid:146)s  poor  people,
endeavouring  to  make  the  right  to  development  a
reality for everyone. Among human rights, the right to
development is of paramount importance. With poverty
and  without  development,  there  can  be  no  peace  and
stability, let alone human rights. On the other hand, the
consolidation  of  international  peace  and  security  will
help  to  create  a  stable,  enabling  environment  for
development  and  poverty  eradication,  in  each  country
and each region, as well as throughout the world.
To achieve development  and  poverty  eradication,
the  first  decisive  requirement  is  for  countries  to
enhance  their  efforts  and  adopt  suitable  policies  and
programmes  aimed  at  making  the  fullest  use  of  their
resources  and  potential,  while  at  the  same  time  fully
mobilizing  and  effectively  utilizing  resources  from
outside.  The  United  Nations,  for  its  part,  should
strengthen 
the  necessary
resources  necessary  to  support  the  poverty-eradication
efforts of the Member States.
its  capacity  and  direct 
Another  extremely  important  point  is  that  the
developed  and  industrialized  countries,  as  well  as
economic centres, must further enhance their assistance
to  developing  countries  in  their  endeavour  to  achieve
development  and  poverty  eradication.  That  should
include  debt-relief  and  write-off  measures  and  an
increase  in  official  development  assistance  to  0.7  per
cent  of  gross  domestic  product,  to  which  they  have
committed themselves.
in 
The  objectives  set  out 
the  Millennium
Declaration have long been considered by Viet Nam as
its primary policy priorities.  For  example, through our
own  determined  efforts  and  with  the  assistance  of  the
United  Nations  and  other  countries,  we  have  reduced
the poverty rate, according to Viet Nam(cid:146)s criteria, to 11
per  cent  in  2000  from  30  per  cent  in  1992.  We  hope
that 
this  support  and  assistance  will  be  further
enhanced  to  facilitate  Viet  Nam(cid:146)s  consolidation  of  the
achievements recorded.
In the final analysis, all of these issues are aimed
at  serving  the  human  being.  Human  resources  and
cultural  development  are  two  closely  related  aspects
within  the  overall  programme  of  development  and
poverty  eradication.  They  are  therefore  both  the  goal
and the driving force of development. This is the lesson
that we can draw from the experience of many decades.
It  needs  to  be  given  appropriate  and  close  attention  in
the policies of all countries.
Those  objectives  have  been  reflected  also  in
Vision  2020  of  the  Association  of  South-East  Asian
Nations  (ASEAN)  and  in  the  Hanoi  Programme  of
Action.  They  include  the  expansion  of  cooperation  in
South-East  Asia  and  in  East  Asia  and  the  building  of
development  triangles  and  quadrangles  crossing  poor
regions.  Concrete  examples  include  the  promising
initiatives  of  the  East-West  corridor  for  development
and the proclamation of the first decade of the twenty-
first  century  as 
the  Decade  of  Greater  Mekong
Subregion  Development  Cooperation,  a  proclamation
which  is  supported  by  the  Economic  and  Social
A/55/PV.13
Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  (ESCAP).  Those
programmes  are  fully  compatible  with  the  directives
contained  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  and  they
should  therefore  be  properly  supported  by  the  United
Nations and by the international community. Viet Nam
and  ASEAN  will  also  contribute  to  further  advances
along this path.
In many regions of the world, protracted conflicts
continue,  causing  instability  and  hindering  the  efforts
of those regions and the countries in them to eradicate
poverty  eradication  and  attain  development.  Viet  Nam
and  ASEAN  support  the  resolution  of  disputes  by
peaceful  means,  without interference or imposition,  so
as  to  improve  and  consolidate  regional  peace,  and  not
to further complicate the situation and adversely affect
the  confidence  of 
the  countries
concerned 
international
community.  Our  common responsibility  is  therefore  to
guarantee that there will no repetition of interference of
the  kind  that  occurred  recently  in  violation  of  the
United  Nations  Charter  and  to  put  an  end  to  the
embargoes  that  have  imposed  untold  sufferings  on  the
peoples of Cuba and Iraq.
the  endeavours  of 
the  peoples  of 
in 
the 
Greater efforts should be made to further enhance
disarmament,  especially  disarmament 
to
nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass
destruction,  and  to  curb  the  growing  danger  of  a  new
arms  race,  including  attempts  to  deploy  new  missile
systems.
relating 
to  promote 
In South-East Asia and in East Asia, the ASEAN
countries have been leading the effort to build a region
of amity, cooperation and prosperity, free from nuclear
weapons; to resolve outstanding issues in the region; to
implement  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Cooperation  in
South-East Asia and the Treaty on the South-East Asia
Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone;  and 
the
ASEAN Regional  Forum  for dialogue  and  cooperation
with  other  countries  and  organizations.  In  this  field,
confidence-building  measures  should  be  enhanced  on
the  basis  of  strict  respect  for  the  principles  of  non-
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  States,  and
of the preservation of the national and cultural identity
of  each  country  and  of  each  region  as  a  whole.  Viet
Nam  and  ASEAN,  bilaterally  or  through  the  Regional
Forum,  will  further  promote  efforts  to  develop  a
regional  code  of  conduct  on  the  South  China  Sea
between ASEAN and China. We fully support the 1992
ASEAN  Declaration  on  principles 
resolving
for 
23
A/55/PV.13
to 
follow  up 
this  session, 
further  enhance 
disputes  in  the  South  China  Sea,  and  we  welcome
recent positive developments on the Korean peninsula.
In order to implement the new major directives of
the  Millennium  Summit  and 
the
momentum created by it, the General Assembly should,
at 
the  process  of
reforming,  revitalizing  and  democratizing  the  United
Nations.  Viet  Nam  supports 
restoration  and
strengthening  of  the  central  position  of  the  General
Assembly,  an  organ  that  represents  all  Member  States
on  the  basis  of  sovereign  equality.  The  reform  of  the
United  Nations  (cid:151)  and  most  important,  the  reform  of
the structure, composition and decision-making process
of  the  Security  Council  (cid:151)  is  the  responsibility  of  all
Member States.
the 
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  be  based
on  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  It
should ensure increased representativeness,  democracy
and equitable geographical distribution, through  which
developing  countries  will  be  represented  appropriately
and will participate fully in the Council(cid:146)s decisions on
important  matters  of  world  peace  and  security.  Viet
Nam supports expansion  in both  categories  of  Council
membership, permanent and non-permanent. Regarding
the increase in the permanent  membership, the general
package 
that
developing countries from the three continents of Asia,
Africa  and  Latin  America  are  represented;  and  it  may
also take into account the inclusion of some developing
countries that can play a significant role and of certain
developed  countries  that  have  made  major  financial
and material contributions to the United Nations. Such
countries would include India, Japan and Germany.
to  be  agreed  upon  should  ensure 
Now  more  than  ever  before,  the  United  Nations
must  ensure  that  it  can  demonstrate  the  ability  to
reform itself and move forward with tangible steps. We
need  to  act,  and  to  ensure  that  the  reform  reflects  the
abundant vitality of the United Nations.
to 
resolve 
implement 
As it participates in this session, Viet Nam shares
the  common 
the  historic
Millennium Declaration to build a just and better world
and  a  worthier  and  more  effective  United  Nations.
Fully  aware  of  its  responsibility  as  a  Member  State
towards 
the
international community, Viet Nam has for many years
been  making  an  effort  to  attain  the  common  goals  of
mankind  and  of  the  United  Nations,  and  it  will
continue  to  do  so  in  the  future.  A  very  recent  vivid
the  United  Nations 
towards 
and 
24
the  Socialist  Republic  of  Viet  Nam  at 
example was the proposal put forward by the President
the
of 
Millennium  Summit,  recommending 
the  first
decade  of  the  twenty-first  century  be  proclaimed  a
decade of the greatest efforts towards development and
poverty eradication.
that 
In its capacity as a Member of the United Nations
and  as  Chairman  of  ASEAN,  Viet  Nam  will  do  its
utmost to contribute actively to the development of the
United Nations in general and of ASEAN in particular,
and to promote cooperation between Viet Nam and the
United  Nations  as  well  as  between  ASEAN  and  the
United  Nations.  We  wish  at  the  same  time  to  develop
close  and  effective  cooperation  with  other  Member
States and with organizations of the United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  now
give the floor to Her Excellency The Honourable Billie
Miller, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign
Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados.
Ms. Miller (Barbados): I join other delegations in
congratulating  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri  of  Finland  on  his
election  to  preside  over  the  proceedings  of  the  fifty-
fifth session of the General Assembly, and on Finland(cid:146)s
able  service  as  Co-Chairperson  of  the  Millennium
Summit. My delegation(cid:146)s appreciation is extended also
to  the  outgoing  President,  the  Foreign  Minister  of
Namibia.
I take this opportunity also to express the distinct
pleasure of the Government of Barbados at the fact that
another  member  of  the  fraternity  of  small  island
developing  States, Tuvalu,  has recently taken its  place
at our table.
Five  short  years  ago, 
the  United  Nations
celebrated  its  fiftieth  anniversary  with  a  massive
gathering of world leaders not much different from the
event which engaged our attention for the better part of
last  week.  Then  as  now,  the  report  card  was  weighed;
then as now, amid critical assessment of its deficiencies
and calls for bold reform, the Organization(cid:146)s continued
validity  was  ultimately  recognized  and  its  unique  and
inherently  positive 
relations
emphatically supported.
in  multilateral 
role 
We  hope  that  this  time  the  Millennium  Summit
will  have  served  as  more  than  just  a  familiar  echo
reverberating,  unchanged, 
intervals
through  these  chambers,  magnified  among  the  myriad
murmurs 
from  other  occasions  of
five-year 
linger 
that 
at 
specialized  summitry.  For  there  is  nothing  inherently
magical about the passing of a millennium, or a decade,
or  even  a  quinquennium.  Indeed,  the  proliferation  of
(cid:147)plus  fives(cid:148)  in  this  place  is  enough  to  confound  the
entire  fraternity  of  mathematicians  and  accountants.
And  none  of  us  is  totally  confident  that  the  final
reckoning  will  leave  us  on  the  plus  side  of  the  ledger.
On  the  contrary,  it  seems,  sadly,  that  we  have  become
consumed by the show, not the substance; the process,
not the result; the plan, not the implementation.
In  this,  the  last  year  of  the  second  Christian
millennium,  as  we  review  the  progress  of  the  peoples
of  the  planet  over  the  past  century,  we  find  that,  on
balance,  humankind  has  not  done  very  well.  In  many
fundamental  ways,  the  twentieth  century  has  not  lived
up to the promises and expectations that an era marked
by 
technological  change  and
innovation  should  have  produced.  In  contrast,  it  has
ushered  in  a  time  of  unprecedented  violence  and
suffering,  visited  mainly  upon  innocent  civilians  by
international 
fought  with
increasingly sophisticated and deadly weaponry.
internal  warfare 
and 
such 
far-reaching 
The  end  of  the  ideological  divide  has  not  been
followed  by  an  era  of  peace  and  development,  as  we
had  all  anticipated,  but  by  a  horrendous  upsurge  in
genocidal, religious and  ethnic conflicts. The threat  of
nuclear  proliferation  and  biological  warfare  has  only
partially receded, and the scourges of terrorism, narco-
trafficking  and  transnational  crime  continue  to  scar
innocent  lives  and  threaten  democratic  governance.
While a few thousand souls live in obscene luxury, half
of  the  world(cid:146)s  population  subsist  on  less  than  two
dollars  a  day,  and  millions  remain  desperately  poor,
with  no  prospects  of  bequeathing  a  better  life  to  their
children.  The  new  plague  of  the  twentieth  century,
AIDS,  continues  its  decimation,  with  disproportionate
effects upon the poor in the developing world. In sum,
our  modern  civilization  has  not  evolved  into  a  caring
and  enlightened  species,  but  rather  into  one  that  has
often  abused  the  positive  aspects  of  its  heightened
capacity  and  modernization 
the  detriment  of
humanity and of the earth.
to 
We well know that the United Nations is not, and
cannot  be,  the  panacea  for  all  the  problems  of  the
twenty-first  century,  but  we  are  convinced  that  it  can
and  should  serve  as  a  mechanism  through  which  the
Governments of the  world, and  their  people,  can  work
in  common  cause  to  find  real  solutions  to  the  most
pressing  global  problems  and  challenges.  In  our
A/55/PV.13
increasingly interdependent world, there is little chance
of success for unilateral action. This applies equally to
the  Organization(cid:146)s  mandates  for  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  and  those  for  the
promotion  of  economic  development  and  social
progress.
the  effectiveness  of 
Since  the  Organization(cid:146)s  creation  in  1945,  the
landscape  has  changed  considerably.
international 
Internecine  and 
intra-territorial  conflicts  based  on
religious and ethnic differences have escalated, and the
United  Nations  has  seen  its  peacekeeping  role  used
more  in  the  last  decade  than  ever  before.  At  the  same
time, 
that  peacemaking  and
peacekeeping capacity has been called into question by
international  public  opinion  and  Governments  alike.
We  continue  to  expect  miracles  of  the  United  Nations
in ending the bloodshed in the most troubled corners of
the world, but we seldom provide it with the tools, the
financing  and  the  appropriate  mandate  to  allow  for
timely  and  decisive  action.  Without 
this  support,
United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts  will  remain
reactive, and not preventive.
in 
One  of  the  most  complex  issues  currently  being
debated  in  the  context  of  an  enhanced  role  for  the
international  community 
the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  is  the  clash  between
the  opposing  tenets  of  sovereignty  and  humanitarian
intervention.  My  delegation  believes  that  this  is  a
matter of such fundamental importance that it requires
in-depth discussion and the elaboration, by broad-based
consensus,  of  clear  new  rules  under  international  law.
For  while  we  do  not  believe  that  the  international
community can stand idly by in the face of massive and
genocidal violations of the human rights of citizens by
power-hungry tyrants, we must at the same time ensure
that any international response to such situations is not
influenced primarily by the national ambitions of third
States.
Decisions  must  be  based  on  clearly  defined
criteria,  informed  by  an  objective  verification  of  the
facts.  Action  must  be  confined  to  the  saving  of  lives,
not  the  overthrowing  of  Governments.  Humanitarian
intervention,  however  compelling  the  circumstances,
must  never  be  used  as  a  guise  for  unwarranted
interference in internal State governance.
The balance sheet for the twentieth century in the
area  of  economic  and  social  development  is  similarly
mixed.  While 
its
the  United  Nations, 
through 
25
A/55/PV.13
in 
live 
specialized  agencies  and  programmes,  has  made  great
the  fight  against  hunger,  disease  and
strides 
deprivation, 
that  progress  has  not  been  evenly
distributed.  The  goal  of  the  alleviation  and  ultimate
eradication of poverty remains largely unfulfilled, with
desperate consequences for the growing numbers of the
world(cid:146)s  population  who 
in  extreme  poverty.
Structural  adjustment,  the  errant  compass  of  the  so-
called  lost  decade  of  the  1980s,  has  taken  its  heavy
social  toll.  So,  too,  has  the  burden  of  debt,  which,
despite  the  promise  of  debt  forgiveness  for  the  least
developed  countries  and  special  initiatives  for  the
highly  indebted  poor  countries,  continues  to  constrain
future  economic  prospects  for  a  large  number  of
developing  countries.  At  the  same  time,  the  decline  in
official development assistance has had a direct impact
on the  most  vulnerable  sectors  of  society  (cid:151)  I  refer  to
women, children, the elderly and the infirm.
challenged 
The  Secretary-General  has 
the
international community to set  a target  for  the  halving
of  the  numbers  of  the  population  living  in  extreme
poverty  by  2015.  For  this  to  be  achieved,  there  is  an
urgent  need  for  a  higher  level  of  political  will  and  a
shared  commitment  to  create  the  necessary  social  and
economic 
and
dispossessed to redirect their lives.
framework 
to 
enable 
the  poor 
Education  remains  the  most  powerful  tool  for
ensuring  social  progress  and  the  betterment  of  living
standards for the underprivileged. It is therefore one of
the  most  disappointing  truths  of  this  closing  century
that  the  international  community  has  failed  in  its
collective  endeavour  to  eradicate  illiteracy,  especially
among children. Although in the  developing  world  the
adult  literacy  rate  has  increased  by  half,  from  48  per
cent  in  1970  to  72  per  cent  in  1998,  the  information
revolution  now  threatens  to  create  a  new  category  of
functional  illiterates.  The  eradication  of  illiteracy  and
the  provision  of  at  least  primary  basic  schooling  are
eminently achievable goals.
As an engine of social mobility, education stands
as  the  most  important  component  in  ensuring  the
success  of  an  individual  and  of  a  society.  It  is  the
greatest  social  liberator  and  facilitator  of  peace  and  is
one  of  the  fundamental  pillars  supporting  democracy,
competitiveness and social stability.
The  development  of  my  country,  Barbados,
provides ample proof of how education can empower a
people and foster upward mobility for each succeeding
26
generation.  Education  has  always  been  one  of  the
highest  priorities  for the  Government  of  Barbados  and
a  major  source  of  budget  expenditure.  We  are  one  of
the  very  few  countries  where  access  to  education  is
free  at  point  of  delivery,  mandatory  up  to  16  years  of
age and universal at the primary, secondary and tertiary
levels.  Currently,  the  Government  of  Barbados  is
embarked  upon  an  ambitious  programme  within  the
schools  known  as  EDUTECH  2000,  which  aims  to
ensure 
to  function
successfully in the new information age.
that  every  child 
is  equipped 
As we approach the new century, the world faces
probably  one  of  the  most  disastrous  threats  to  its
sustainability, a threat  which has ended the lives of an
unimaginable  number  of  persons, 
the
economies and threatened  the productive  workforce of
southern  Africa,  and  taken  an  increasing  toll  in  Asia
and in my own subregion, the Caribbean. I am referring
to the pandemic of AIDS/HIV.
crippled 
Current estimates indicate that there are over 33.4
million  people  worldwide  who  are  now  infected  with
the  disease.  In  the  Caribbean  region  alone,  that  figure
numbers  some  330,000,  which  is  an  astounding  and
frightening  statistic  to  contemplate  for  a  country  like
Barbados,  with  a  population  of  267,000  people.  Our
region  has  the  highest  prevalence  per  capita  in  the
western  hemisphere,  and  a  prevalence  second  only  to
that of sub-Saharan Africa. It has been reported by the
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS
(UNAIDS)  that,  every  day,  there  are  16,000  new  HIV
infections  and  that  95  per  cent  of  all  reported  AIDS
cases occur in the developing world.
The  AIDS  pandemic  is,  in  our  view,  the  gravest
economic and social crisis facing the global community
as  we  enter  the  twenty-first  century.  Many  of  our
leaders  and  policy-makers  are  only  now  beginning  to
grasp  the  enormity  of  the  problem  and 
to  fully
appreciate  the  devastating  impact  which  AIDS  is
having,  and  will  continue  to  have,  on  the  economic
sustainability of every country, from the smallest, most
undeveloped  nation  to  the  largest,  most  economically
viable State, because  AIDS is  not  only  a  human  and  a
social tragedy (cid:151) it is also an economic one. It attacks
our  present  workforce  not  only  in  its  productive,  but
also  in  its  reproductive  capacity,  thus  simultaneously
decimating  the  economic  potential  of  two  generations.
It  is  a  sobering  reality  that  AIDS  is  now  the  leading
cause of death among young men in the Caribbean, and
it  is  projected  that  the  disease  may  cause  a  decline  in
the region(cid:146)s gross domestic product by as much as 4 to
6 per cent over the next decade.
the 
Pan 
financial 
American 
the  Caribbean  Community  and 
We  cannot  tackle  this  grave  crisis  solely  on  the
basis  of  current  strategies  and 
flows.
Containing  the  spread  of  AIDS  and  dealing  with  its
economic  impact  is  an  immediate  priority  which  will
require  a  major  commitment  of  human  and  financial
resources.  In  this  regard,  I  am  pleased  to  note  the
serious  attention  now  being  given  to  the  crisis  by  the
World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  the  World  Bank
and  other 
institutions.  Just
international  financial 
yesterday 
in  Barbados,  a  major  conference  was
convened  under  the  auspices  of  the  World  Bank,
UNAIDS, 
Health
Organization/WHO,  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme, 
the
Canadian  International  Development  Agency  to  bring
together  high-level  Caribbean  health,  education,
economic  development  and  labour-policy  makers  to
map out a new crisis strategy for the Caribbean region.
Barbados  applauds  the  recommendations  of  the
Secretary-General that the United Nations should adopt
as an explicit goal the reduction of HIV-infection rates
in persons 15 to 24 years of age by 25 per cent  within
the most affected countries before the year 2005 and by
25 per cent globally by 2010. The United Nations must
make  AIDS  education  and  research  a  priority  for  the
coming  century.  Determined  leadership  is  needed  to
persuade 
international
pharmaceutical  companies  that  a  partnership  must  be
developed to combat the disease, both through research
and through the provision of drugs at reasonable cost to
those who are most in need.
Governments 
and 
led 
The trafficking in and abuse of illegal drugs have
paralysed  the  development  of  many  of  our  societies.
They  have  also  eroded  the  productivity  of  the  work
force  and 
to  social  discord,  violence  and  a
conspicuous  erosion  of  values  and  respect  for  the  rule
of  law.  The  countries  of  the  Caribbean  have  not
remained  untouched  by 
this  affliction,  both  as
transhipment  and,  more  recently,  sadly,  as  consuming
States.
In  the  fight  against  this  menace,  the  United
Nations  Drug  Control  Programme  (UNDCP)  has
played  a  crucial  role  and  its  subregional  office  in
Barbados  deserves  special  mention  for 
its  active
support  for  our  own  efforts.  In  Barbados,  UNDCP
assistance  has  been  invaluable  in  the  establishment  of
A/55/PV.13
the  Integrated  Drug  Programme  through  our  domestic
National  Council  on  Substance  Abuse  and  also  in
facilitating  our  community  outreach  efforts.  Of
particular  note 
the
establishment of an Anti-Money  Laundering  Authority
in Barbados.
too,  has  been 
role 
its 
in 
threatened 
technological  advances  have 
As  a  small  island  developing  State,  Barbados  is
very  aware  that  the  natural  environment  performs  for
us  free  basic  services  without  which  human  beings
could  not  survive.  At  the  same  time,  certain  industrial
and 
the
biodiversity  of  many  of  the  small  island  developing
States.  Therefore,  for  ecological  reasons  and  for
reasons  of  sovereignty  and  sustainable  development,
Barbados,  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of  Caribbean
States,  last  year  launched  an  initiative  leading  to  the
adoption  of 
resolution  54/225  on  promoting  an
integrated  management  approach to the  Caribbean  Sea
area in the context of sustainable development. We are
grateful for the recognition by the General Assembly of
the efforts of the Caribbean to protect and preserve our
most precious resource.
The functions of the Caribbean Sea are many and
multi-layered. It is the source of our food, it is the main
attraction  which  drives  our  tourism  markets  and  it  is
our  primary  and  most  reliable  link  with  the  outside
world.  The  destruction  that  would  be  caused  if  there
were an accident involving nuclear  waste  or  oil in our
waters would be beyond catastrophic and it would take
centuries for our environment to fully recover. We look
forward  to  continued  assistance  from  the  international
community  in  helping  us  to  achieve  the  objectives  of
that  resolution  to  maintain  and  protect  this,  our  most
vital  natural  resource.  It  remains  the  ultimate  goal  of
the  region  to  have  the  Caribbean  Sea  recognized  as  a
special  area  within 
sustainable
development.
the  context  of 
In  this  spirit,  Barbados  also  welcomes  the  newly
established  United  Nations  Open-ended 
Informal
Consultative  Process  on  Ocean  Affairs  and  intends  to
be an active participant in the consultative process. We
welcome  the  efforts  of  the  General  Assembly  to
address  the  problems  of  over-exploitation  of  living
marine  resources  and  the  degradation  of  the  marine
environment.
The  collective  efforts  of  our  Governments  to
alleviate  poverty  and  disease  and  to  help  our  human
capital  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  opportunities  for
27
A/55/PV.13
economic and social advancement take place within the
parameters  of  a  challenging  new  international  order.
Naturally, I refer to the phenomenon of globalization.
revolution 
international 
is  making  possible 
Globalization is not entirely new. It has existed in
various incarnations among trading  nations  throughout
history.  What  makes  the  modern  incarnation  different,
however,  is  the  manner  in  which  the  accompanying
information 
the
integration  of  trade,  investment,  finance,  production
and  services  across  national  boundaries.  What  also
distinguishes  it  is  the  philosophy  of  multilateralism,
which offers all countries, developed and developing, a
say (cid:151) at least in theory (cid:151) in shaping the rules  which
govern 
will 
henceforth 
economic
transactions.  Nor 
is  globalization  as  a  concept
inherently negative. The precepts of expanding  market
access,  trade  liberalization,  increased  technological
advancement 
effective
mechanisms  of  manufacturing  and  agriculture  are  all
positive elements. It is in the rigid application of these
elements, however, and their application without regard
to the social dimension of development, that distortions
have arisen which threaten to widen further the income
gap between the developed and the developing worlds.
I 
the  new
multilateralism will be to ensure that globalization does
not become an instrument of oppression for the peoples
of the developing  world, but,  rather, becomes  a  means
of offering a better life to all of our peoples.
true  challenge  of 
and  more 
efficient 
and 
reiterate 
that 
the 
for  adequate 
transitional  measures 
In our efforts to sensitize the developed  world  to
the  need 
for
developing countries and for recognition of the special
vulnerabilities  of  small  economies,  Barbados  has
frequently  pointed  to  the  fact  that  our  Caribbean
countries  are  being  asked  to  undertake  in  10  years  a
process  which  was  carried  out  by 
the  advanced
industrialized  societies  over  a  period  of  more  than  40
years,  spread  over  eight  rounds  of  multilateral  trade
negotiations between 1947 and 1994. In this regard, we
have  emphasized  that,  however  clinically  sound  a
procedure might be, the compression of its application
into too short a time period can often be a fatal therapy.
the
One  of 
the  greatest  essential 
contemporary  global  economy 
the
developed  world  was allowed an extended period over
which  to  properly  phase  in  trade  liberalization,  to  its
benefit, smaller, less endowed societies with less scope
to  absorb  the  shocks  of  adjustment  are  expected  to
make  a  potentially  beneficial  adjustment  over  an
inequalities  of 
is 
that,  while 
28
incredibly  short  period  of  time.  It  would  not  have
worked  for the  developed  world;  it  will  not  now  work
for  the  developing,  and  is  in  fact  the  consideration
which  argues  the  case  for  longer  phase-in  periods  to
apply the changes in the global trading regime.
Barbados  is  not  opposed  to  globalization.  We
have already indeed begun the process of restructuring
our economy and repositioning our society to meet that
challenge. But our efforts, we believe,  must be  met by
a similar display of good faith on the part of the World
Trade  Organization,  which  must,  as  my  Government
has  repeatedly  stated,  review,  repair  and  reform  itself,
adopt an ideology that is developmental and embrace a
developmental agenda that is progressive and balanced
in its substance, its processes and its outcomes.
in  which 
constructive 
That  display  of  good  faith  is  also  necessary  in
promoting 
and  mutually  beneficial
dialogue between the industrialized countries and their
developing country partners on the crucial matter of the
regulation  of  international  financial  centres  in  their
jurisdictions.  My  country  has  spoken  extensively  in
other  forums  about  our  serious  concerns  over  the
unilateral  manner 
the  Organization  for
Economic  Cooperation 
has
proceeded  on  its  so-called  harmful  tax  competition
initiative,  and  on  the  real  motives  underlying  this
unfortunate  move. The  setting  of  international rules in
the  area  of  financial  services  cannot  properly  be  done
by  a  grouping  of  29  countries  to  the  exclusion  of  all
other  interested  parties.  In  this  age  of  enlightened
multilateralism  there  is  no  place  for  the  application  of
unilateral,  extra-territorial  solutions  to  international
economic developments.
and  Development 
On  balance,  we  must  not  allow  our  frustration  at
the  many  missed opportunities  to  obscure  the  fact  that
the  twentieth  century  has  produced  much  that  is
positive. As we look forward, in the words of the Prime
Minister  of  Barbados,  the  Right  Honourable  Owen
Arthur:
the  dismantling  of  barriers 
(cid:147)We face the prospect that the simultaneous
operation of the enormous power of technological
change, 
the
movement of output, capital, ideas and skills, and
the  emergence  of  rules-based,  consensus-driven
institutions  of  global  scope  will  create  a  new
global  society 
is  capable  of  affording
development to all, and of putting the scourge of
poverty  behind  us  for  ever.  We  will  leave  the
that 
to 
the 
twentieth  century  and  enter 
twenty-first
conscious  of  the  dangers,  but  excited  by  the
prospects.(cid:148)
The  Acting  President  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  I  give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Rosario
Green, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mexico.
Ms.  Green  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My
country is pleased  at the  election of  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri
to preside over the work of the fifty-fifth session of the
General Assembly. We are certain that, with his talent,
ability  and  experience,  the  efforts  of  this  extremely
important  Assembly session  will be highly  productive.
My delegation would also like to extend its recognition
to  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab  for  his  outstanding  work  as
President  of  the  Assembly  at  the  session  that  has  just
concluded.
renews 
its  willingness 
Last  Friday,  during  the  Millennium  Summit,  the
leader  of  the  Mexican  nation,  Ernesto  Zedillo,  stated
his  personal  commitment  and  that  of  the  Mexican
people  to  the  values  and  principles  that  sustain  the
activities  of  our  Organization.  Today,  through  me,  the
Mexican  Government 
to
continue  working  and  participating  constructively  to
strengthen  the  United  Nations,  the  reason  for  those
historic  meetings.  We  will  do  this  guided  by  our
traditional  policy 
the  multilateral  arena:  by
encouraging  dialogue,  consensus,  and  unrestricted
respect 
this
convinced, as well, that we must make good use of this
opportunity  to  give  renewed  impetus  to  the  United
Nations,  so 
the
challenges  that  we  confront,  and  can  fulfil  the  goal  of
building,  in  this  new  century,  a  safer,  more  just  and
equal world for all. As the President of Mexico stated,
we  will  do  it  confident  that  we  Mexicans  have  the
necessary  foundation  to  do  our  share  in  achieving  the
targets contained in the report of the Secretary-General
and the Millennium Declaration.
law.  We  will  do 
it  can  progress 
international 
in  solving 
that 
in 
for 
for 
respect 
to  guarantee 
My  country  is  convinced  that  the  practice  of
democracy  is  indispensable  for  the  development  of
nations  and 
individual
freedoms.  But  we  are  also  sure  that  democracy  is
sustained  by  the  sovereign  will  of  its  citizens  and  is,
therefore,  a  domestic  process  that  cannot  be  imposed
from the outside, although, without a doubt, it can and
must  be  nourished  by  international  dialogue  between
countries  and  by  the  cooperation  that  can  be  provided
by the United Nations.
A/55/PV.13
that, 
Mexico 
just  as 
is  also  convinced 
the
predominance of democracy  within the  membership of
our  Organization  is  imperative,  it  is  essential  that
relations  between  nations  follow  democratic  practices
as  well,  and  that  these,  in  turn,  be  reflected  in
organizations  such  as  the  United  Nations  that  we,  the
peoples  of  the  world,  have  created  to  organize  our
coexistence.
in 
Today  we  find  ourselves  with  an  extraordinary
opportunity  to  advance  in  that  direction:  to  cover
further  ground 
the  democratization  of  our
Organization; to achieve a level of democratization that
allows  the  United  Nations  to  successfully  fulfil  the
mission  with  which  we  entrusted  it  in  San  Francisco,
the validity of which we seek to renew today, a level of
democratization  that  reinforces  the  legitimacy  of  our
Organization  and  invigorates  its  initiatives,  a  level  of
democratization  that  supports  the  domestic  processes
that  many  of  our  countries  are  undertaking  and  will
consequently be enriched by them.
Mexico  has  stated  on  various  occasions  that
strengthening  the  General  Assembly,  the  international
community(cid:146)s  most  representative  universal  forum,  is
indispensable  to  guarantee  the  full  democratization  of
the  United  Nations.  We  have  also  asserted  that  it  is
necessary to  modify  the  structure  and  operation  of  the
Security  Council,  so  that  it  can  fully  shoulder  its
responsibilities 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and
international security.
in 
It 
is  for 
this  reason 
that  my  country  has
repeatedly  proposed  that  we  undertake  a  profound
reform  of  the  Security  Council;  a  reform  that  is  not
limited  to  modifications  of  its  composition;  a  reform
that also considers the Council(cid:146)s working methods and
decision-making  process;  a  reform  that  allows  that
important  organ  of  the  United  Nations  to  reflect  the
plurality  and  diversity  of  our  Organization;  a  reform
that  takes  into  account  the  transformations  of  the
political  landscape  in  recent  times;  a  reform  that  does
not  lead  to  the  creation  of  new  centres  of  power  and
privilege;  a  reform  that  regulates  and  limits  the  scope
of the veto, avoiding its abuse or selective application;
a reform that institutionalizes the  relationship between
the Security Council and the General Assembly so that
their  links,  contacts  and  exchanges  of  information  are
clearly regulated; in short, a reform that guarantees that
the  Security  Council(cid:146)s  decisions  have  the  legitimacy
that  can  come  only  from  the  universal  assent  of  the
General Assembly.
29
A/55/PV.13
Based  precisely  on  this  unwavering  faith  in  the
universality  of  international  law,  which  Mexico  fully
shares,  my  country  has  engaged  in  its  most  important
battles  in  this  world  Organization.  Mexico  has  always
been ready to participate in codifying international law,
but  we  have  continually  insisted  that  progress  along
this  path  should  involve all of  the countries that  make
up 
the  only
guarantee  for  preserving  legality  and  for  ensuring
cordial,  constructive  and  mutually  beneficial  relations
between all of us.
the  community  of  nations.  This 
is 
The  humanitarian  crises  in  Kosovo,  East  Timor
and  Sierra  Leone,  to  refer  to  only  a  few  recent  cases,
have  made  us  reflect  on  the  scope  of  and  limits  to
current  international  law.  These  crises  have  made  us
see  that  it  is  imperative  to  find  a  balance  between  the
urgent  need  to  respond  adequately  to  humanitarian
emergencies  and  the  need  to  respect  the  sovereign
integrity  of  all  States.  These  crises,  in  short,  have
alerted us to the need to transform ourselves into a true
assembly  that  analyses  and  proposes  new  paths,  and
they  have  alerted  us  to  what  holds  us  back  from
becoming an authentic forum where different positions
are  heard  and  where  answers  that  realistically  reflect
the possible consensuses are found.
We  must  therefore  move  forward  and  begin  a
process  of  further  codifying  our  international  law;  a
process  based  on  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  as  a
living reality, not just a theoretical principle; a process
in which the weak and the strong, the rich and the poor,
and  the  small  and  the  large  can  express  themselves
openly.  A  process  that  clearly  establishes  the  rules  of
the  game.  A  process  that  enshrines  democracy  as  the
only way in which to reach truly legitimate agreements.
Because  we  believe  in  these  democratic  values,
Mexico  has  always  opposed  the  legitimization,  in
practice, of any type of interference, especially when it
is  based  on  unilateral  decisions  or  the  decisions  of  a
small  group  of  countries.  To  the  contrary,  we  have
reiterated  that  the  United  Nations  must  be  provided
with  a  modern  political  structure  that  permits  it  to
confront the new challenges to international peace and
security  brought  by  the  end  of  the  cold  war.  For  this
reason, we have insisted on the need to begin, as soon
as possible,  a broad process  of  consultation;  a  process
that is absolutely democratic; a process that allows for
the  discernment  of  the  mood  of  our  community  of
nations  in  order  to  respond  correctly  and  in  timely
30
fashion  to  humanitarian  crises  without  weakening  the
Organization by doing so.
I call upon the President of the General Assembly
to  formally  begin,  as  soon  as  possible,  this  broad
process  of  consultation  that  will  allow  us  to  reflect
together  on  this  issue  of  crucial  importance  for  the
United Nations.
to  a  significant  number  of 
Mexico  stands  ready  to  continue  contributing  to
the  ongoing  process  of  codifying  international  law  to
which  I  have  referred.  We  will  do  so  with  the  same
confidence  with  which,  in  recent  years,  we  have
adhered 
international
instruments proposed by this, our most important world
Organization.  We  will  do  so  with  the  same  will  with
which  we  Mexicans  have  committed  ourselves  to
modifying  our  national  legislation  in  order  to  comply
with the obligations that derive from those instruments.
Such 
is  our 
its
advancement.
international 
law  and 
trust 
in 
With  this  trust,  only  a  few  days  ago  my  country
signed the  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,
as  well  as  the  Protocols  to  the  Convention  on  the
Rights  of  the  Child.  With  this  trust  we  ratified,  this
year, the Convention on the Status of Refugees and its
Protocol,  as  well  as  the  Convention  relating  to  the
Status of Stateless Persons.
With  this  trust,  last  week  Mexico  deposited  its
ratification  instrument  for  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  Some
months  ago,  we  did  the  same  with  regard  to  the
International  Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the
Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and  Members  of  Their
Families.
With that same trust, Mexico continues its fight to
achieve  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons  and
tests,  and  reiterates  the  call  made  last  April,  by  the
group  of  countries,  including  Mexico,  that  are  part  of
the  new  agenda  for  disarmament  initiative,  for  the
nuclear  Powers  to  commit  themselves  to  the  total
elimination of their nuclear arsenals.
Future  generations  deserve  a  world  free  of
nuclear weapons. They deserve a world that is also free
from  the  uncontrolled  manufacture  and  trafficking  of
conventional  arms.  They  deserve,  without  a  doubt,  a
world  where  anti-personnel  landmines  cease  to  claim
thousands of innocent lives.
Our 
commitment 
to 
preservation  of 
the  human  race  extends  also 
the 
protection 
and
to
combating  the  pandemics  of  our  time.  Today,  a  fatal
disease,  AIDS,  threatens  to  cut  off  the  existence  of
millions of beings on the planet. This is  why only two
days  ago,  the  women  Secretaries  and  Ministers  for
Foreign  Affairs  of  13  countries  sent  a  letter  to  the
Secretary-General  in  support  of  his  call  to  stop  and
reverse  the  spread  of  AIDS  by  2015  and  to  provide
special assistance to children orphaned by this scourge.
I want to renew the appeal of our 13 nations to all the
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  support  the  Joint
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS)
and  to  resolutely  launch  the  common  efforts  that  are
necessary to fight this global scourge.
fight 
children, 
including 
As  is  well  said  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  and  in  the  Declaration  of  the  Millennium
Summit,  the  protection  of  our  common  environment,
the  fight  against  transnational  organized  crime,  the
promotion  of  human  rights,  attention  to  vulnerable
individuals, 
for
disarmament,  and  international  aid  to  respond  to  the
demands  of  the  least  developed  countries  (cid:151)  these  are
the foundation for  allowing the  people  of  the  world  to
live  not  only  free  of  fear  and  misery,  but  also  with
hope.  These  are  also 
that  our
Organization  and  its  Members  must  respond  to,  by
consolidating  an 
is
sustained by democracy and not by the concentration of
power;  an  international  architecture  based  on  respect
for  international  law,  and  not  on  unilateral  decisions;
an 
the
universal  character  of  our  community  and  not  selfish
individualism;  in  short,  an  international  architecture
that  emphasizes  solidarity  and  cooperation  as  the
values  that  give  sustenance  and  permanence  to  the
Organization.
international  architecture 
international  architecture 
that  encourages 
the  challenges 
the 
that 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  now
give the floor to His Excellency Niels Helveg Petersen,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Denmark.
Mr.  Petersen  (Denmark):  Allow  me  first  to
associate  myself  with  the  statement  by  my  colleague,
the  French  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  on  behalf  of
the  European  Union.  May  I  also  congratulate  you,
you,  President
Mr. Vice-President, 
Holkeri,  on  your  election 
this
millennium Assembly.
to  preside  over 
through 
and 
A  few  days  ago,  leaders  from  all  over  the  world
gathered  at  the  Millennium  Summit.  They  gathered  to
reaffirm their faith in the Charter and to give direction
A/55/PV.13
to  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The
Charter remains as relevant as ever with its mandate to
promote  peace  and  security,  create  an  international
community based on the rule of law, uphold respect for
human rights and promote social development.
The new millennium brings new challenges to the
United Nations in an ever more globalized world.
Increased  communication  between  countries  and
peoples  reinforces  the  need  for  common  norms  of
social  and  economic  behaviour.  The  global  United
Nations conferences within the last decade bear witness
to  the  value  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  unique  norm
setting forum. The follow  up conferences to the  social
Summit in Copenhagen and the Beijing Conference on
Women are cases in point.
the 
financing 
These United Nations summits have advanced our
understanding  of 
interaction  between  peace,
development  and  human  rights.  The  United  Nations
process  on 
for  development  offers  an
opportunity  for  renewed  commitment  and  action.  The
relationship 
and
promotion  of  human  rights  is  today  recognized.  The
best  preventive  action  against  conflict  and  strife  is  to
ensure  sound  economic  and  social  development  based
on  good  governance,  respect  for  human  rights  and
protection of minorities.
development 
between 
social 
An  encouraging  and  innovative  feature  is  the
decision  adopted  by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
in  July  to  establish  a  permanent  forum  on  indigenous
issues thereby  advancing  the aspirations  of indigenous
peoples.  The  Danish  Government  and  the  home  rule
Government  of  Greenland  welcome 
recent
development. We will actively support the work of the
permanent forum.
this 
I  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Security  Council  has
shown increasing attention to humanitarian issues. The
open meeting in the Council on Africa in January gave
new prominence to the humanitarian challenges for this
continent.  In  the  past  year,  the  Council  has  taken  up
issues  as  diverse  as  AIDS  in  Africa,  protection  of
civilians  in  armed  conflicts  and  children  in  armed
conflict. These initiatives increase our awareness of the
root causes of conflict.
The  international  community  must  shoulder  its
responsibility in relation to the AIDS epidemic in sub-
Saharan  Africa.  The  rapid  spread  of  HIV/AIDS  could
seal the fate of more than 30 million Africans over the
31
A/55/PV.13
next  five  years  and  epidemic  undermines  decades  of
development efforts and dissolves the social texture of
nations.  It  could  destabilize  entire  regions.  The  AIDS
epidemic  is  not  a  local  problem.  It  is  a  matter  of
security  of  global  importance.  Africa  has  enormous
potential  but  millions  continue  to  survive  on  less  than
one dollar a day.
The  growing  transfer  of  private  capital  rarely
flows  to  the  countries  in  Africa.  We  must  do  more  to
integrate  Africa 
the  world  economy.  Trade
opportunities  must  be  improved.  We  must  give  free
access  to  the  markets  of  industrialized  countries,  as
well  as  to  products  where  African  countries  have  a
genuine competitive advantage.
into 
The 
legal 
framework  of 
the  World  Trade
Organization (WTO) must take into account the special
difficulties  of  developing  countries.  Trade-related
technical assistance must be improved.
Peace  and  security,  we  know,  are  fundamental
conditions  for  economic  and  social  development.  War,
internal strife and political unrest have devastated large
parts  of  Africa,  causing  untold  human  suffering  and
destruction.  No  one  should  expect  easy  solutions,  but
we  must  work  together  to  prevent  and  resolve  armed
conflicts in Africa.
security.  The 
We  witness  an  increased  African  effort  in  the
international
field  of  peace  and 
community  must  support  this  trend  through  our  active
involvement.  We  must  assist  in  capacity-building  by
relevant  African  organizations,  and  by  backing  United
Nations peacekeeping efforts.  Africa itself  must  create
the  conditions 
involvement.  We
welcome  the  initiatives  by  the  Security  Council  to
for  United  Nations
create 
peacekeeping  operations  by 
the  parties
involved  to  discussions  and  special  sessions  of  the
Council in New York.
international 
common 
inviting 
ground 
for 
in 
on 
down 
differences 
the  Middle  East, 
Although  the  Camp  David  talks  did  not  bring
they
about  an  agreement 
represented  a  major  step  forward.  They  helped  to
narrow 
issues.  A
breakthrough has never before seemed so close at hand.
Time,  however,  is  quickly  running  out.  I  urge  the
parties  to  seize  this  historic  opportunity.  I  salute  the
political  courage  displayed  by  the  Israeli  and  the
Palestinian  leadership  in  their  efforts  to  achieve  a
durable solution. I  welcome  the recent decision by the
Palestinian Central Council to defer the decision on the
key 
32
question  of  statehood 
negotiations.
in 
the 
interest  of  further
Democracy  is  a  peacemaker.  Democracies  are
much  less  prone  to  violent  conflicts.  The  Secretary-
General recently called attention to what he called (cid:147)fig
leaf democracies(cid:148). The fig leaf of elections does not by
itself  turn  a  dictatorship  into  a  democracy.  Elections
can  even  lead  to  a  backlash  as  frustrations  rise  and
tensions turn into violence.
Denmark  increasingly  turns  her  efforts  towards
the prevention  and  management  of  violent  conflicts  in
line with our comprehensive engagement in developing
countries  and  active  involvement  in  United  Nations
peacekeeping activities. We will strengthen this ability
to react quickly and effectively.
We  will  also  continue 
regional
cooperation  also  when  it  comes  to  countering  the
uncontrolled  spread  of  small  arms.  Landmines  are
substantial obstacles  to  development.  Increased  efforts
by 
the  United  Nations,  Governments  and  non-
governmental  organizations  are  necessary.  Right  now,
new  momentum  is  needed.  The  second  meeting  of
States  Parties  to  the  Ottawa  Convention  provides  an
important opportunity.
to  support 
I 
fully 
support 
in  Rwanda. 
Peace  operations  are  no  longer  a  question  of
merely keeping the warring parties apart or monitoring
ceasefires.  They  are  a  comprehensive  and  complex
undertaking  involving  disarmament,  demobilization  of
combatants,  supervision  of  elections,  monitoring  of
human rights and training of local police among others.
We must enable the United Nations to adapt to the new
realities,  do  things  better  and  avoid  such  failures  as
happened 
the
recommendations  in  the  Brahimi  Report  on  United
Nations  peace  operations.  We  must  provide  stronger
political  and  financial  support  to  the  Organization.  I
welcome the proposed shift towards the use of civilian
police  and  the  rule  of  law,  as  I  welcome  the  focus  on
rapid  deployment  of  military  and  civilian  personnel.
Police  and 
to
rebuilding the economy in civil society, and their work
must be based on a solid peace-building strategy. Close
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  other
international  organizations  is  called  for.  We  must
establish a partnership between the United Nations and
regional actors.
Last  year 
the  Secretary-General  called  upon
Member States to pursue more effective policies to stop
judicial  experts  are 
indispensable 
organized mass murder and violations of human rights.
I fully support this view. We cannot leave large groups
of  people  unaided  where  national  authorities  do  not
live  up  to  their  responsibilities.  Conflicts  in  Kosovo
and  East  Timor  raise  serious  questions  with  regard  to
some  of  the  classic principles  of  international  law,  the
principle  of  State  sovereignty,  the  principle  of  respect
for  human  rights  and  the  principle  of  the  non-use  of
force  in  international  relations.  On  the  one  hand,  we
had  a  basic  rule  of  international  law  incorporated  into
the  United  Nations  Charter  (cid:151)  that  the  use  of  force  in
international  relations  is  prohibited  unless  authorized
by the Security Council or in self-defence. On the other
hand,  many  countries  find  that  there  is  a  political  and
moral obligation to act in the face of atrocities causing
large-scale human suffering within another State.
the 
There  is  no  clear-cut  solution  to  this  dilemma.
But  surely  no  legal  principle,  including  sovereignty,
can  be  used  as  a  shield  to  commit  crimes  against
humanity and other serious violations of human rights.
The  Security  Council  has  a  moral  obligation  to  act  on
behalf  of 
international  community.  We  must
remember that the United Nations  was  founded,  in  the
words  of  the  Charter,  in  order  (cid:147)to  reaffirm  faith  in
fundamental human rights(cid:148). Any intervention reflects a
failure of prevention. As a last resort, the international
community  must  have  the  ability  to  act  in  the  face  of
organized mass murder or ethnic-cleansing, even if the
Security  Council  is  blocked.  The  challenge  is  to  keep
open  the  option  of  humanitarian  intervention  without
Security Council authorization in extreme cases, but to
do so without jeopardizing the international legal order.
the  Security  Council
functions  as  effectively  as  possible.  If  not, 
the
influence  of  the  Council  will  be  diminished.  The
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  should
apply  the  right  of  veto  only  in  matters  of  vital
importance.  Therefore,  I  reiterate  my  proposal  to
establish a procedural rule; a rule according to which a
permanent member of the Security Council would have
to  state  the  reasons  why  it  has  decided  to  exercise  its
right  of  veto  in  a  given  situation.  Furthermore,  the
Member  State  should  state  on  which  grounds 
it
considers that matters of vital importance are at stake. I
hope that this idea can be further developed and that it
can gain broad support.
We  must  ensure 
that 
I have addressed new challenges and possibilities
at  the  start  of  the  new  millennium.  Let  me  end  by
reminding this  Assembly  that old  challenges  still  need
A/55/PV.13
the 
still  pursuing 
to  be  addressed.  Weapons  of  mass  destruction  are  a
lethal legacy of the cold war. They need our continued
attention.  Certain  States  are 
the
acquisition  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and
building a missile capacity. There is a need for further
improvement  of 
international  non-proliferation
regimes.  Peace,  development  and  human  rights  have
been  the  essentials  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations
from  the  very  beginning.  They  remain  essential.  The
primary responsibility for  a more peaceful,  prosperous
and just  world rests  with Governments, but the  United
Nations  is  here  to  help  us.  The  Millennium  Summit
confirmed  our  common  will  to  work  together  as  truly
united nations.
I  cannot  leave  this  Assembly  without  expressing
my  deep  concern  at  the  situation  in  Burma.  The
treatment of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi is a disgrace, and
I  call  on  the  regime  in  Burma  to  immediately  restore
Mrs.  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi(cid:146)s 
freedom  of  speech,
movement and communication.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  now
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Youssouf  Ouedraogo,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Burkina Faso.
(Burkina  Faso) 
Mr.  Ouedraogo
in
French):  Exactly  one  week  ago, 
the  Millennium
Summit was held in this very Hall, in which more than
150  leaders,  heads  of  State  and  Government  took  an
active and interactive part.
(spoke 
This  Summit,  which  my  delegation  wishes  to
salute  once  again,  has  played  a  great  service  in
bringing  together  so  many  eminent  personalities  to
truly take stock of the state of the world through a stark
re-reading  of  the  mission  of  and  the  basic  strategic
objectives assigned to the United Nations.
What  more  can  be  said?  How  can  it  be  better
said?
The  conclusions  arrived  at  by  our  leaders,  which
go  to  the  very  substance  of  the  diverse  and  changing
problems  that  undermine  humanity,  frame  the  items
inscribed on the agenda of the fifty-fifth session. They
also  give  us  the  opportunity to  strike  while  the  iron  is
hot 
their
implementation where it is possible.
immediately 
embark 
on 
and 
to 
In that context, the general debate in progress is a
real challenge; a challenge to stay the course, but also a
challenge to our ability to get down to basics.
33
A/55/PV.13
But  before  I  go  on,  I  wish  to  convey  to  the
President,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  heartfelt  warm
congratulations on his election to the presidency of our
Assembly.  This  election  is  a  well-deserved  tribute  to
him and his country, Finland, with which Burkina Faso
enjoys  an  excellent  relationship  of  friendship  and
cooperation.
My  country  is  a  Bureau  member  and  we  wish  to
assure  the  Bureau  of  our  full  willingness  to  cooperate
with it.
Our  congratulations  also  go  to  His  Excellency
Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of
Namibia,  on  the  effectiveness  of  his  guidance  of  the
previous session of the General Assembly.
I also  wish to renew Burkina  Faso(cid:146)s appreciation
and support for the work of the Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi  Annan,  who  guides  the  work  of  our  world
Organization with courage, lucidity and determination.
The  waning  millennium  will  no doubt  forever  be
etched  in  the  memory  of  humankind.  Unfortunately,  it
will  be  etched  in  blood,  as  during  it  we  witnessed,  as
virtually  powerless  bystanders,  the  rise  of  slavery,
colonization and racial discrimination; the escalation of
the  most  atrocious  kinds  of  war; 
the  ongoing
degradation  of  the  environment;  and  the  deterioration
of the terms of trade. But it will also be etched in gold,
for  we  witnessed 
and
technological  progress  and  economic  and  industrial
growth,  even  though  the  structure  for  sharing  their
fruits was slow moving and unfair.
prodigious 
scientific 
little  (cid:151) 
them,  or  of 
their  sharing  but 
No  continent  more  than  Africa,  no  people  more
than  Africans,  bear  more  heavily  today  the  stigma  of
the  scourges  they  have  suffered,  which  will  for  ever
mark 
if
anything (cid:151) of the benefits  of  progress.  My delegation
therefore  believes  that  we  should  embrace  that  history
together  and  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity,  agree  to  be  the
living and collective memory of it and learn its lessons
so  that  we  may  strengthen  our  capacity  to  solve  with
greater  efficiency  and  equity  the  problems  of  security,
peace,  development  and  a  better  quality  of  life  that
make  up  the  core  of  our  priorities.  Whether  that
involves  resolving  the  smouldering  or  open  conflicts
that continue  to  decimate our  populations  and to  force
them to  flee  by  the thousands  into  exile,  or  whether  it
entails looking for lasting solutions to the problems of
underdevelopment,  the  unbearable  debt  burden,  the
AIDS  pandemic,  malaria  or  natural  and  environmental
34
disasters,  we  must,  whatever  the  cost  continually  go
back to our sources and history.
I 
therefore  make  a  solemn  appeal 
the
conscience  of  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations  to
prevent  hegemony  and  domination  from  being  the
hallmark  of  our  Organization  during 
third
millennium.  That  would  be  a  betrayal  of  this  history,
and make our collective memory a selective memory.
the 
to 
those 
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  despite  the  progress
made  during the  second  millennium,  there  still  remain
questions  and  concerns  among  developing  countries,
particularly 
in  Africa.  Their  questions  and
concerns are not caused solely by the  acceleration  and
unprecedented  worsening 
continued
impoverishment.  Unfortunately,  they  also  stem  from
the  fact  that  today,  at  the  dawn  of  the  twenty-first
century,  international  relations  continue  to  be  based
essentially  on  force.  That  sad  fact  is  made  worse
because, with the end of the cold war, we are passively
and almost with a resigned attitude witnessing a single
mind-set developing.
their 
of 
reforms  at 
the  national, 
As most heads of State and Government have said
from  this rostrum,  the  time  has  come  to  undertake  the
necessary 
regional  and
international  levels  to  build  a  more  just,  equitable,
unified  and  fraternal  world. Let  us  hope  that  the  basic
challenge,  I  would  even  call  it  heroism,  of  the  new
millennium  will  be  to  move  forward  together  in
solidarity, 
towards
globalization  while  we  remain  ourselves  (cid:151)  that  is,
retain  our  intrinsic  values  and  our  dignity  as  free
individuals.
democratically 
calmly 
and 
to 
With  regard 
thorough  examination  of 
the  United  Nations,  we  are
convinced that making it more democratic is absolutely
necessary.  That  democratization  must 
include  a
thorough  reform  of  the  decision-making  processes  of
the  system,  and  of  the  Security  Council  in  particular,
and  should  go  hand  in  hand  with  giving  greater
attention to development  issues,  particularly through  a
more 
idea  of  a
development  council,  as  proposed  by  the  Millennium
Summit.  It  also  means  making  the  Organization  truly
universal.  In  this  regard,  Burkina  Faso  welcomes  the
admission  of  Tuvalu  as  the  189th  Member  State.  We
also  think  it  is  unfair  to  continue  to  marginalize  the
Republic  of  China,  a  country  that  meets  all  the
requirements  of  a  sovereign  State  to  take  its  place  in
the United Nations.
the 
from 
learning 
Throughout its  history,  and  particularly  since  the
1990s,  Burkina  Faso, 
its  own
experience (cid:151)  experience  grounded  in  a  culture  of
dialogue  and  negotiation  (cid:151)  has  based  its  contribution
on  the  quest  for  solutions  to  national  and  subregional
conflicts  on  the  basis  of  dialogue  and  agreement.  We
have  done  so  because  we  are  convinced  that  dialogue
and agreement (cid:151)  which are certainly not the  weapons
of the weak (cid:151) are the only way to reach lasting peace.
We are therefore very surprised and disappointed
that for some time now my country has been forced to
confront  accusations  and  all  sorts  of  completely
baseless recriminations. Is this the result of a deliberate
desire  to  harm,  or  simply  of  misunderstanding?  It  is
wrong and unfair that in efforts to find lasting solutions
to  conflicts one  should  yield to the  easy  temptation  of
accusation, recrimination, condemnation and exclusion.
Burkina  Faso  has  never  hesitated  to  demonstrate  its
good  faith,  to  show  its  willingness  to  cooperate  with
the United Nations and the international community, or
to express its desire for transparency.
is  why  we  set  up  an 
inter-ministerial
committee  on  Angola  and  Sierra  Leone  to  follow  up
and  monitor  implementation  of  the  sanctions  decreed
by the Security Council. We also invited the Council to
undertake  any  investigations  in  Burkina  Faso  that  it
to  find  the  truth.  Two  United
deemed  necessary 
therefore  recently  visited 
Nations  delegations 
the
country.  Their 
had
they 
accomplished their missions freely and peacefully.
leaders 
That 
stated 
that 
Similarly,  in  the  face  of  the  recent  surprising,  to
put  it  mildly,  allegations  by  Guinea,  we  would  like  to
reassure  that  beloved,  fraternal  country,  as  well  as  the
international  community,  that  Burkina  Faso  had  no
part, directly or indirectly, in those unfortunate events.
We  repeat  our  readiness  to  welcome  or  support  any
initiative that could shed light on this matter, which we
find profoundly distressing.
At  the  national  level,  Burkina  Faso  is  resolutely
continuing  to  consolidate  and  anchor  the  democratic
process  begun  in  1990.  That  process  is  essentially
characterized  by  the regular and  systematic  holding  of
elections  at  the  municipal,  legislative  and  presidential
levels,  in  objective,  transparent  and  fair  conditions
recognized  by 
the
strengthening of public freedoms and the promotion of
human  rights;  public  financing  of  political  parties,
unions and an independent press; recognition of official
international  community; 
the 
A/55/PV.13
status for the opposition; reform of the judicial system
to  allow  it  to  play  its  full  role  in  consolidating  and
regulating 
strengthening
decentralization and local governance.
law;  and 
rule  of 
the 
Turning  to  the  economy,  our  Government  is
concentrating  on  a  truly  unified  type  of  development.
Its  priorities  are  poverty  eradication,  environmental
protection,  food  self-sufficiency,  and  education  and
health for all.
We welcome the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) Debt Initiative, which seeks to reduce the debt
of  poor,  highly  indebted  countries,  and  the  election  of
our  country  to  that  body,  which  strengthens  our  anti-
poverty strategy.
At 
the  African 
level,  Burkina  Faso  has
consistently  worked  to  strengthen  good-neighbourly
relations  and  to  promote  subregional  and  regional
integration as well as peace and security.
That is why we are committed to the institutional
stability  and  the  strengthening  of  the  subregional
cooperation  or  integration  organizations  of  which  we
are a member, in particular the West African Economic
and  Monetary  Union,  the  Economic  Community  of
West  African  States  and  the  Economic  Community  of
Sahel-Saharan  States.  We  hope  that  the  latter  will  be
accorded the status of observer at the United Nations.
For  that  reason  we  have  spared  no  effort  to  help
create the African Union, which the African peoples so
fervently desired.
These  are  the  main  ideas  that  Burkina  Faso
wanted  to  share  with  the  international  community  and
which  attest  to  our  unswerving  commitment  to  the
ideals  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  our  unshakable
faith  in  our  common  ability  together  to  forge  a  better
future (cid:151) a glorious future for the whole of humankind.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  give
the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmed  Ould  Sid
Ahmed,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation
of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Mr.  Ould  Sid  Ahmed  (Mauritania)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  On  behalf  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of
Mauritania,  I  should  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Harri
Holkeri  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  fifty-
fifth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  We  are
confident  that  his  personal  qualities  and  his  extensive
political  and  diplomatic  experience  are  an  excellent
35
A/55/PV.13
guarantee of the success of this session. I should like to
assure him of the full cooperation of our delegation  in
this lofty task.
thanks 
sincere 
I  should  like  also  to  seize  this  opportunity  to
express  our 
to  his  predecessor,
Mr. Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  for  the  outstanding  way  in
which he guided the work of the previous session. I pay
tribute  also to the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan.
We  deeply  appreciate  his  efforts 
to  reform  and
restructure  the  Organization  as  well  as  to  develop  its
methods of work and rationalize its role in all domains
so that it meet the needs and challenges of today.
listened  closely 
the
Secretary-General(cid:146)s  presentation  of  his  report  on  the
work  of  the  Organization.  It  is  also  my  pleasure  to
welcome Tuvalu as a new Member of the Organization.
We  are  prepared  to  cooperate  fully  with  it  in  order  to
achieve the objectives of our Organization.
this  respect,  we 
In 
to 
The  reform  and  restructuring  process  of  the
United  Nations  bodies  has  become  a  necessity  for  the
common  interest.  The  conditions  in  which  the  United
Nations  was  founded  more  than  50  years  ago  have
changed,  and  major  developments  have  taken  place  in
all fields and at all levels, making it essential to review
the methods of work and structure of the Organization.
For  that  reason,  we  support  the  expansion  of  the
Security  Council,  in  keeping  with  the  principles  of
transparency  and  justice,  so  as  to  achieve  equitable
geographic 
the
universality  of  the  Organization,  in  accordance  with
Article 24 of the Charter.
representation 
reflect 
and 
to 
This session is being held at the dawn of the third
millennium, at a time when the majority of humanity is
living  in  conditions  that  prevent  them  from  realizing
their  aspirations.  Despite  some  encouraging  indicators
in some of the third-world countries,  the  general trend
is  towards  a  wider  gap  between  the  industrialized
world  and  the  developing  one,  which  is  facing  major
obstacles  such  as  external  debt,  low  prices  for  their
commodities,  and  the  difficulty  of  accessing  world
markets.
Our Organization should exert all possible efforts
to  alleviate 
the  economic  and  social  difficulties
confronting the developing countries. It must help them
accelerate their development in an effective manner by
increasing  official  development  assistance  and  by
allowing  more  direct  foreign  investments  into  these
36
countries  and  the  opening  of  the  markets  of  the
developed  countries  to  the  products  of  developing
ones,  all  of  which  will  contribute  to  the  establishment
of a new  world order based on consensus,  cooperation
and solidarity among all States.
the 
interest  of 
The  problem  of  debt  must  also  benefit  from  the
attention  and 
international
community, because  it  is  an obstacle  to  the  economies
of the developing countries. In this respect, my country
hopes that the initiative undertaken to alleviate the debt
of highly indebted and poor countries will contribute to
the solution of this problem.
the 
The  world  today  is  facing  numerous  problems
and  challenges,  the  effects  of  which  are  not  contained
by  national  boundaries.  They  jeopardize  international
security  and  undermine  the achievements  registered  in
all  fields.  Thus  it  is  our  duty  to  work  relentlessly  to
resolve these problems. They include, to give but a few
examples,  terrorism,  poverty  and  violations  of  human
rights.
In this respect,  my country wishes to reaffirm  its
condemnation  of  the  phenomenon  of  terrorism,  in
whatever form and whatever its origin. We call for the
reinforcement  of  cooperation  and  consultation  at  the
international  level  in  order  to  face  this  phenomenon
with determination.
There  is  also  a  need  to  put  in  place  policies  and
adopt  measures  to  combat  poverty,  in  order  to  ensure
sustainable  development.  My  country  has  created  a
commission entrusted with combating poverty and with
implementing concrete programmes aimed at preparing
our  citizens  to  play  a  role  in  development.  This
commission  is  also  responsible  for  guaranteeing  the
promotion of individual and collective rights.
of 
the  General  Assembly 
In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  special
social
session 
development,  held 
last  June,  which
reaffirmed  and  stressed  once  again  the  Programme  of
Action  adopted  at 
the  World  Summit  for  Social
Development, held in Copenhagen in 1995.
in  Geneva 
on 
We hope that the outcome of  that  special  session
will  contribute 
living
conditions  of  all  people  and  to  the  attainment  of
sustainable  development  by  strengthening  the  links
between social issues and development.
improvement 
to  an 
the 
in 
We express our satisfaction at the outcome of last
the  General  Assembly,
June(cid:146)s  special  session  of 
(cid:147)Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace
for  the  twenty-first  century(cid:148),  and  we  hope  it  will
enhance the role played by women in all spheres.
The  foreign  policy  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of
Mauritania  is  founded  on  good-neighbourly  relations,
peaceful  coexistence  and  strengthening  regional  and
international cooperation. In line with those principles,
my  country  attaches  great  importance  to  consolidating
stability  and  eliminating  the  causes  of  conflict  and
tension 
international  peace  and
security  and  hamper  development  in  many  regions  of
the world.
that  can 
threaten 
Turning  to  the  Middle  East,  my  country,  while
reaffirming its support for the peace process, considers
that  a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the
region can come about only on the basis of the Madrid
agreements, the principle of land for peace, and the full
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  242
(1967)  and  338  (1973)  to  ensure  complete  Israeli
withdrawal  from  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories
and  from  the  Syrian  Golan  and  the  restoration  to  the
Palestinian  people  of  their  legitimate  national  rights,
foremost  among  them  the  right  of  self-determination
and  the  right  to  the  establishment  of  an  independent
State  with  the  holy  city  of  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its
capital.  This  requires  us  to  intensify  our  efforts  to
overcome the obstacles to peace in the region, a region
that so sorely needs a chance to realize its potential and
to turn a new page in the history of its peoples. In that
context,  we  note  with 
Israeli
withdrawal from southern Lebanon.
satisfaction 
the 
We  hope  that  efforts 
to  bring  stability  and
understanding to the Gulf region will be successful. My
country  reaffirms  its  respect  for  and  adherence  to
international  legitimacy,  and  reiterates  its  rejection  of
anything  that  could  impinge  on  the  independence  or
territorial integrity of Kuwait, as well as its rejection of
any measure that would threaten the unity or territorial
integrity  of  Iraq.  We  call  for  an  end  to  the  embargo
imposed  against  the  Iraqi  people,  who  have  suffered
immensely  from  that  embargo;  it  is  children,  women
and the elderly who have suffered most.
On the question of the Arab Maghreb, my country
is working staunchly and resolutely in cooperation with
our  sister  countries  in  the  Arab  Maghreb  Union  to
strengthen  cooperation  and  consultation  to  realize  the
aspirations of the people of that region.
A/55/PV.13
On  Western  Sahara,  my  country  reaffirms  its
readiness 
the
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  settlement  plan
for that conflict.
to  make  every  effort 
to  promote 
Turning  to  developments  in  the  Lockerbie  crisis,
we  wish  to  express  our  satisfaction  at  the  progress
towards  a  comprehensive  settlement,  including  the
suspension  of  the  embargo  imposed  on  Libya.  We
welcome  the  success  of  the  diplomatic  approach,  and
we hope that this problem will be resolved once and for
all.
We  are  concerned  about  the  ongoing  conflict  in
Somalia,  and  we  hope  that  our  Somali  brothers  will
agree  to  engage  in  constructive  dialogue  in  a  spirit  of
responsibility and patriotism  with a view to a peaceful
settlement  and 
restoring  unity  and  national
sovereignty  to  the  country  so  that  it  can  once  more
enjoy stability and a climate of conciliation.
to 
We regret the continuing tension in Sierra Leone,
and  hope  that  ongoing  efforts  will  bear  fruit,  so  that
that country, which for nine years has been suffering in
a destructive  war, can once again enjoy stability and  a
climate of conciliation.
On  the  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of
the  Congo,  we  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  Lusaka
Ceasefire  Agreement,  which  in  our  view  is  the  only
acceptable  framework  for  a  peaceful,  comprehensive
and lasting solution.
With  respect  to  Angola,  my  delegation  reaffirms
its  full  support  for  Security  Council  resolutions  864
(1993),  1127  (1997)  and  1173  (1998),  and  calls  upon
UNITA  to  fulfil  its  commitments  under  the  Lusaka
Protocol  so  that  peace  and  security  may  return  to  that
country.
Turning  to  the  conflict  between  Ethiopia  and
Eritrea,  we  express  our  satisfaction  at  the  ceasefire
achieved  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  President  Abelaziz
Bouteflika  of  our 
the  People(cid:146)s
Democratic  Republic  of  Algeria.  We  hope  that  the
negotiations  between  the  parties  will  result  in  a  final
solution to that conflict.
sister  country 
the  positive  developments 
On Kosovo, my country expresses its satisfaction
the
the
at 
towards  ending 
violence,  restoring  confidence  and  rebuilding 
country after many years of war.
37
A/55/PV.13
The  United  Nations  was  established  to  attain  the
common purposes of all mankind, notably international
peace,  security  and  stability.  The  text  of  the  Charter
contains  the  provisions  necessary  to  ensure  a  balance
between  the  rights  and  the  duties  of  all  those  wishing
to  serve  the  common  interests  of  international  society.
That  is  why,  at  the  dawn  of  the  third  millennium,  we
must  spare  no  effort  to  ensure  the  maintenance  of
international peace and security.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I  now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Iaia  Djal(cid:243),
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  the  Communities  of
Guinea-Bissau.
Mr. Djaló (Guinea-Bissau) (spoke in Portuguese;
English text furnished by the delegation): I wish at the
outset to convey my warm congratulations to Mr. Harri
Holkeri of Finland on his election to the presidency of
the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth  session  and  to
reaffirm our confidence in his ability to guide our work
at this session. The delegation of Guinea-Bissau, which
it  is  my  privilege  to  head,  assures  the  President  of  its
full  cooperation.  Our  congratulations  go  also  to  his
predecessor,  Mr. Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  who  fulfilled  his
mandate  in  a  constructive  manner,  thus  making  an
important  contribution  to  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly.
We  wish  also 
to  express  our 
trust  and
appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
and to thank him for the important steps that have been
taken  on  his  initiative  towards  substantive  reform  of
the  United  Nations  and 
the
Organization(cid:146)s international credibility.
towards  bolstering 
The  universality  of  the  United  Nations  gains
whenever a new Member State is admitted. By joining
the  United  Nations,  Tuvalu  has  affirmed 
the
international 
shoulder
responsibility for the full exercise of its sovereignty. Its
accession 
the
representative nature of this world forum.
to  membership 
community 
reinforced 
it  will 
that 
to 
has 
In the third millennium, with our eyes focused on
a new century, we are passing through a historic period
in  which  new  and  significant  events  give  rise  to  new
hopes on the international scene.
This diagnosis,  however,  encompasses  both  hope
and scepticism, for it shows that the transitional period
we  are 
involves  factors  of  both
integration and disaggregation.
through 
living 
38
relations 
international 
If,  on  the  one  hand,  the  end  of  bipolarism  that
dominated 
diminished
ideological  antagonisms,  this  new  and  unprecedented
process,  by  undoing  old  political  and  strategic
balances,  is  promoting  democratic  impulses,  freeing
the  energy  of  States  and  creating  space  for  a  new
international order more in line with our times.
On 
the  other  hand, 
the  rise  of  nationalist
aspirations,  supported  by  the  yearning  for  the  right  to
free  evolution,  has  had  the  effect  of  triggering  old
conflicts,  some  of 
time.  This
phenomenon  has  led  to  an  exponential  growth  of
conflicts that menaces the internal cohesion of States as
well as international peace and security.
them  forgotten 
in 
It  was  predicted,  and  legitimately  so,  that  the
international economy would be able to take advantage
of  the  peace  dividend  resulting  from  the  end  of  the
arms  race.  It  had  been  expected  that  those  resources
would  be  invested  in  the  poorest  countries  and,  thus,
would  have  contributed  to  the  acceleration  of  global
economic  growth  and  development.  Our  perception,
the  present  state  of
however, 
that,  due 
international  economic 
those  optimistic
expectations have not come to fruition.
to 
relations, 
is 
As 
the 
international  balance  of  power  has
changed,  the  relative  position  that  placed  different
countries  in  the  international,  political  and  economic
pecking  order  has  also  changed.  The  very  nature  of
relations  among  States  has  also  been  transformed.
However,  the  rules  and  practices  giving  structure  to  a
new  international  order  are  yet  to  be  defined.  Our
perception  is  that  this  is  the  main  unresolved  issue.
This  calls  for  the  community  of  nations,  through  our
common institutions, to  work determinedly together  in
order to bring the present transition to a successful end.
To  do  so,  it  will  be  essential  to  empower  the
system  of  collective  security  embodied  in  the  United
Nations.  In  particular,  we  attach  great  importance  to
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the
rationalization  of  its  agenda.  We  also  feel  there  is  a
need to reform the Security Council so that that organ,
which has special responsibilities, will be able to fulfil
its original mission and be reborn as the main political
instrument for action in the United Nations.
Expectations without precedent devolve upon the
United Nations. We should all strive to find a solution
to  the  present  structural  and  financial  crises  faced  by
the  Organization.  It  will  be  necessary  to  reactivate  its
dynamism  in  order  to  implement  the  (cid:147)Agenda  for
Peace(cid:148)  and  to  make  the  (cid:147)Agenda  for  Development(cid:148)  a
reality.
in 
its 
the 
crisis 
the  gravest 
that  almost  destroyed 
It  is  widely  known  that  Guinea-Bissau  has  just
country  has
overcome 
experienced 
recent  history.  We  are  still
convalescing from the terrible effects of an absurd and
disastrous  war.  In  addition  to  irreparable  loss  of  life,
Guinea-Bissau  society  was  deeply  traumatized  by  a
conflict 
the  entire  existing
infrastructure.  Guinea-Bissau  was  made  more
impoverished  and  more  vulnerable.  Its  reconstruction,
the  foundations  of  which  are  fragile,  will  be  very
difficult,  because  even  simple  tasks  have  assumed
urgent  priority.  The  urgency  and  the  sheer  volume  of
the effort  needed to rebuild the  country  go  far  beyond
the  limited  possibilities  of  a  Government  that  is  near
exhaustion. In order to succeed, that effort will need to
be supplemented by the effective participation of every
partner of Guinea-Bissau.
In 
the 
this  new  period  of 
restoration  of
democratic  legality,  the  people  of  Guinea-Bissau  have
elected their new Government within the framework of
a  pluralist  democracy.  The  new  National  People(cid:146)s
Assembly has approved a general programme of action,
prepared by  the  Government,  which  defines  a  strategy
for sustainable development aimed at implementing the
priorities 
in  cooperation  with  Guinea-
Bissau(cid:146)s  partners.  This  programme  of  action  and  the
project  of  building  a  new  society,  required  by  the
evolution of the situation in Guinea-Bissau,  have  been
set  out  by  Guinea-Bissau(cid:146)s  new  President,  who  was
freely  elected  by  the  people.  Aware  of  the  sacred
responsibility  incumbent  upon  him,  President  Kumba
YalÆ  has  committed  himself 
the
programme of action.
to  upholding 
identified, 
As on past occasions when we were beneficiaries
of  timely  and  precious  solidarity  extended  by  the
international  community,  we  are  hopeful 
that  the
political,  economic  and  social  progress  of  Guinea-
Bissau will be further supported and maintained.
Amilcar  Cabral, 
the  founder  of  our  nation,
considered  himself  and 
the  other  Guinea-Bissau
freedom fighters to be combatants for the noble causes
upheld  by  the  United  Nations.  Today,  after  the  heroic
struggle  that  led  to  our  independence,  and  thanks  also
to 
international
community  and  the  United  Nations,  Guinea-Bissau  is
received 
support 
from 
the 
the 
A/55/PV.13
participating  in  the  highest  world  diplomatic  forums
with  serenity  and  determination,  embarking  on  an
unrelenting  search  to  improve  on  the  heritage  of  our
forebears.
Therefore, 
acting  with 
responsibility 
and
specificity,  Guinea-Bissau  has  undertaken  its  own
initiatives, as well as presenting proposals aimed at the
defence  of  its  interests  and  at  contributing  to  the
advancement  of  the  causes  of  peace  and  international
cooperation. We recognize that in today(cid:146)s international
situation,  rife  with  conflicts  and  contradictions,  the
United Nations remains, without a doubt, the necessary
forum for the development of the activities undertaken
by our Government to affirm the international presence
of Guinea-Bissau.
The  five  African  Portuguese-speaking  countries,
joined  with Brazil, Portugal and Timor Lorosae (cid:151)  the
latter still being an observer (cid:151) to form the Community
of  Portuguese-Speaking  Countries.  This  Lusophone
solidarity 
Community 
and
and
tolerance, 
sentiments 
perceptions  rooted  in  a  melding  of  cultures 
that
expresses the experience of our respective peoples.
characterized  by 
shared 
based 
upon 
is 
We  would  like  to  salute  the  development  in  the
processes of democratization of Government structures
that  is  now  occurring  in  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,
Mozambique  and  Cape  Verde,  similar 
to  what
in  Guinea-Bissau.  This  will  allow  our
happened 
Governments 
legitimate
aspirations of our peoples.
to  better  respond 
the 
to 
We  wish  to  express  our  solidarity  with  the
Angolan  Government 
and  people,  which  have
experienced  the  nightmare  of  almost  40  years  of  war.
We  support the efforts  in  search  of peace  and  national
reconciliation.  We  strongly  favour  the  implementation
by  the  United  Nations  of  the  Lusaka  Protocol  and  the
full implementation of the sanctions established by the
Security Council.
In our West African subregion, Guinea-Bissau has
tried, and to a certain extent has attained, in terms of its
will  for  integration,  a  political  commitment  aimed  at
improving our relations with neighbouring countries so
as  to  promote  the  cause  of  peace.  In  this  spirit,  we
recognize that in its essence the conflict of Casamance
is  an  internal  issue  of  Senegal.  As  such,  we  also
perceive its negative consequences on the neighbouring
States. Our country is ready to work in the search for a
just solution to and peaceful resolution of that conflict.
39
A/55/PV.13
We  feel,  however,  that  we  are  neither  a  part  of  the
problem  nor  its  source  of  origin.  The  constructive
actions  undertaken  by  Presidents  Kumba  YalÆ  of
Guinea-Bissau  and  Wade  of  Senegal,  with  the  support
of  President  Jammeh  of  the  Gambia,  allow  us  to  look
with optimism to the future evolution of that issue.
We  deeply  deplore  the  tragedy  that  has  befallen
Sierra  Leone,  a  country  of  our  subregion.  The
increased  violence  in  that  country  has  resulted  in  a
humanitarian disaster.  We  urge the belligerent  factions
and the Government of Sierra Leone to cooperate with
the 
find  a
definitive solution to that fratricidal conflict.
international  community 
in  order 
to 
The  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo and in the Great Lakes region continues to be a
source  of  concern  to  Guinea-Bissau.  It  is  necessary  to
summon the political will of the countries of the region
to diminish the tension and to continue to search for a
just solution.
the 
result  of 
The  Lusaka  accords  are 
the
perseverance  of  the  parties  involved  and  should  be
implemented  rapidly  and  comprehensively.  They  are
the  essential  framework  for  the  resolution  of  the
conflict.  We  are  convinced  that  the  implementation  of
Security  Council 
(2000),  which
established the United Nations Organization Mission in
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  represents  the
road to peace.
resolution  1291 
In  the  Horn  of  Africa,  Guinea-Bissau  welcomes
the  acceptance  by  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  of  the  peace
plan put forward by the Organization of African Unity.
We  encourage  both  parties  to  persist  on  the  path  of
dialog  and  negotiation  and  to  continue  to  cooperate
with our continental organization.
In  the  immediate  vicinity  of  our  continent,  the
Middle  East  peace  process  is  entering  a  decisive
period.  This  process  and  the  quest  for  equanimity
should  be  accelerated  in  order  to  ensure  a  lasting  and
just  peace  that  respects  the  inalienable  right  of  the
Palestinian  people  to  an  independent  State  of  its  own,
as well as the right of all States of the region, including
Israel, to national independence.
Far  from  the  African  continent,  Guinea-Bissau
continues  to  pay  special  attention  to  the  issue  of  East
Timor.  We  are  linked  to  that  territory  by  special
historic and cultural bonds and we are therefore closely
following  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Transitional
40
in  East  Timor  and 
Administration 
recent
establishment  of  a  transitional  Government.  We  hope
that the process will culminate in the full independence
of  Timor  Lorosae  and  with  its  admission  as  a  full
Member of the United Nations.
the 
Finally,  we  believe  that  the  situations  created  by
the  imposition  of  embargoes  against  certain  countries,
in  which  sanctions  affect  the  poorer  sectors  of  the
populations,  particularly  women  and  children,  should
be  addressed  through  dialogue  and  negotiation  with  a
view to finding a definitive solution.
In  the  age  of  globalization,  we  should  not  lose
sight  of  the  human  being  and  its  vital  needs.  If  it  is
legitimate that all parties have the right to expect profit
from  progress,  it  is  also  correct  that  we  should  seek
economic  growth  with  social  equity.  Mankind  faces
many 
achieving
comprehensive development is  without doubt  the  most
important, because the lack of development is the main
source of the  conflicts that  lead  to the  crises  afflicting
our  planet.  Therefore,  if  we  wish  globalization  to  live
up to its promise, we should learn better to work and to
act together in order to correct its negative effects.
challenges, 
among 
which 
It is urgently necessary to give momentum to the
North-South  dialogue  on  the  basis  of  equality  and  to
develop  a  wide  network  of  South-South  cooperation
with  a  view  to  minimizing  the  risks  of  globalization.
That effort must be fully supported by the international
community  with  a  view  to  a  true  partnership  for
development.  Such  partnership,  in  our  view,  should
enable  us 
the  modalities  of  a  coherent
international  action  to  ensure  sustainable  economic
growth in the context of true development.
to  find 
The structural adjustment policies adopted by the
majority of African countries are, per se, clear proof of
their  willingness  to  improve  the  management  of  their
national  economies.  Nevertheless,  in  most  cases,  the
response  of  our  development  partners  has  not  been  in
line  with  the  sacrifices  demanded  and  the  urgency  of
the  problems  identified.  From  our  point  of  view,  it  is
necessary 
to
promote  a  true  social  adjustment,  keeping  the  human
individual as its central point of reference.
the  mechanisms  needed 
identify 
to 
In this context, the collective challenge we face is
to  stress  a  dynamic  image  of  international  solidarity,
which may be translated into effective action for social
and  economic  cooperation  in  favour  of  developing
countries.
the  best  opportunity 
Our  gathering  here  at  the  General  Assembly
represents 
the
imbalances that destabilize the global process. We need
to muster the determination of all our countries in order
to  raise  relations  among  States  to  the  high  level  of
dignity required by our shared future.
to  correct 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for
this meeting.
I  shall  now  call  on  those  representatives  who
wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I
remind  members  that,  in  accordance  with  General
Assembly  resolution  34/401,  statements  in  exercise  of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second  and
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Al-Humaimidi (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): The
statement  made  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Kuwait 
this  morning
contained a distortion of facts that requires a reply.
the  General  Assembly 
to 
First of all, concerning the issue of those missing
in  action,  the  Kuwaiti  Minister  attempted  to  politicize
the  matter  and  to  confine  it  exclusively  to  missing
Kuwaitis.  He  claimed 
the  Iraqi  Government
refuses  to  participate  in  the  meetings  of  the  Tripartite
Commission,  whereas  the  facts  of  the  matter  are  as
follows.
that 
First of all, the matter of the missing in action (cid:151)
be they Kuwaitis, Iraqis or of other nationalities (cid:151) is a
humanitarian  issue  that  should  not  be  exploited  to
cheap  political  ends,  such  as  that  of  maintaining  the
embargo  against  the  Iraqi  people.  While  Kuwait  has
fewer  than  600  persons  missing  in  action,  Iraq  has
more than 1,150, whose files are with the International
Committee of the Red Cross. The Kuwaiti Government
is  expected  to  submit  information  concerning  those
missing  persons.  The  Kuwaiti  Government  is  called
upon  to  put  an  end  to  the  suffering  of  all  the  families
that  do  not  know  the  fate  of  their  sons,  regardless  of
their  nationality,  for  human  suffering  knows  no
nationality.
Secondly, the  work  of  the  Tripartite  Commission
concerning missing persons is hampered by the United
States  of  America  and  the  United  Kingdom,  which
insist  on  participating  in  its  meetings  despite  the  fact
that  they  are  not  concerned  with  its  work  nor  do  they
have  any  missing  nationals  whose  fate  they  would  be
A/55/PV.13
interested  in  learning  about.  However,  the  United
States  does  have  one  missing  person,  a  pilot  whose
plane  was  shot  down  over  Iraqi  territories  during  the
aggression against Iraq in 1991. The United States has
not  asked  that  the  case  of  this  missing  pilot  be  dealt
with  within  the  Tripartite  Commission,  but  rather
requested  to  deal  with  it  on  a  bilateral  level  under  the
supervision  of  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red
Cross.  Once  again  we  wish 
that  Iraq
endeavours to have the Tripartite  Commission  meet as
soon  as  possible  with  the  participation  of  the  parties
that do have persons missing in action (cid:151) Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait  and  Iraq  (cid:151)  under  the  supervision  of  the
International Committee of the Red Cross.
to  affirm 
that 
The  Kuwaiti  Minister  claims 
the  Iraqi
Government  has  not  yet  complied  with  the  resolutions
of  the  Security  Council,  neglecting  the  fact  that  Iraq
has  indeed  complied  with  those  resolutions,  whereas
his  own  Government  has  been  violating 
those
resolutions  on  a  daily  basis.  All  relevant  United
Nations  resolutions  have  called  for  respect  for  the
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  independence  of
Iraq.  Yet  ever  since  1992  scores  of  American  and
British planes have been taking off daily from bases in
Kuwait  and  Saudi  Arabia  to  bombard  Iraqi  civilian
targets, in blatant violation United Nations resolutions,
international  law  and  humanitarian  international  law.
We  call  upon  Kuwait  to  end  that  aggressive  attitude,
which  represents  a  serious  threat  to  the  security  and
stability of Iraq and the States of the region.
Thirdly,  the  Kuwaiti  Minister  claimed  that  Iraq(cid:146)s
intentions  towards  Kuwait  are  not  peaceful.  But  the
facts  do  indicate  that  Kuwait(cid:146)s  intentions  and  actions
towards Iraq  are  aggressive.  Kuwait  chooses  to  ignore
the  facts  of  history  and  geography  and  the  collective
opinion  of  the  international  community,  including  the
Arab  States.  More than one speaker  has  affirmed  such
an  opinion,  when  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
the  Arab  States  have asked in  this  very  Assembly  that
the sanctions against Iraq be lifted in order to alleviate
the  suffering  of  the  Iraqi  people.  Those  who  prevent
the  termination  of  the  inhumane  sanctions  against  the
Iraqi  people  are,  in  fact,  the  masters  of  the  Kuwaiti
Government (cid:151) the Americans and the British, who are
interested 
their  own  political
programme  without 
international
legitimacy.
in  carrying  out 
respect 
for 
Mr.  Flores  (Spain)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  My
delegation  wishes  to  refer  to  the  mentions  made  this
41
A/55/PV.13
morning to the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla and
to  other  parts  of  Spanish  territory  in  the  speech  that
was  made  to  the  plenary  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of Morocco, a
country  with  which  Spain  maintains  and  wishes  to
continue  maintaining  excellent  relations  based  on
sincere friendship, good-neighbourliness, respect and a
rich shared history of which we are proud.
In underlining the excellency of our relations and
the  importance  that  my  country  attaches  to  them,  I
repeat  that  the  cities  of  Ceuta  and  Melilla  and  the
adjacent 
integral  part  of  Spanish
territory, whose citizens are represented in the Spanish
Parliament  with  exactly  the  same  status  and  under  the
same conditions as the rest of their compatriots.
islands  are  an 
Mr.  Al-Otaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My
delegation  listened  attentively  to  the  response  of  the
representative  of  Iraq  to  the  statement  of  the  Deputy
Prime  Minister  and  Foreign  Minister  of  Kuwait,  and  I
find  it  really  difficult  not  to  refute  some  of  the
contradictions  in  his  response.  I  find  it  necessary  to
clarify  the  facts  that  are  already  known  to  most
Member States and further to reiterate them.
is  chaired  by 
the  Committee(cid:146)s  work.  Regarding 
First, regarding the issue of the Kuwaiti prisoners
and  detainees,  Iraq  has  boycotted  the  work  of  the
Tripartite  Commission,  which 
the
International  Committee  of 
the  Red  Cross,  since
December  1998.  This  is  not  the  first  time  Iraq  has
boycotted 
the
participation  of  the  countries  of  the  alliance  (cid:151)  the
United Kingdom, the United States and France (cid:151) they
have  participated  in  the  work  of  the  Commission  as  a
result  of  an  agreement  concluded  by 
the  parties
concerned  (cid:151)  Iraq,  Kuwait  and  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi
Arabia (cid:151) in Riyadh in 1999. The agreement spells out
the  composition  of  the  Commission  and  its  modus
operandi.  Iraq  is  regrettably  trying  to  pull  out  of  that
agreement  and  to  renouncing  it.  Iraq  is  required  by
Security  Council  resolutions  686  (1991),  687  (1991)
and  1284  (1999)  to  resume  its  participation  in  the
works  of 
its
subcommittee  and  to  cooperate  with  the  high-level
international  coordinator,  who  was  appointed  by  the
Secretary-General  in  order  to  facilitate  the  solution  of
this humanitarian problem.
the  Tripartite  Commission 
and 
What  Kuwait  is  asking  for  is  implementation  of
the  Security  Council  resolutions  and  serious  and
constructive  cooperation  to  solve  this  problem  on  a
purely  humanitarian  basis,  not  linked  to  any  other
political  issues.  What  Iraq  is  doing  is  linking  its
participation  in  the  Tripartite  Commission  to  the  non-
participation of the countries of the Alliance.
Secondly,  regarding  the  missing  Iraqi  persons,
despite our information that Iraq  has  pushed this  issue
in  order  to  create  confusion  and  divert  attention  from
the  main  problem  (cid:151)  the  issue  of  Kuwaiti  and  third
countries(cid:146) prisoners or detainees (cid:151) Kuwait has agreed,
for  humanitarian  reasons,  to  consider  and  study  any
files 
Iraq  might  submit.  Kuwait  has  also
cooperated  seriously  with  the  Tripartite  Commission
and  has  expressed 
receive  any
committee that  might be established to visit prisons or
any  other  places  that  this  committee  might  deem
suitable inside Kuwait.
its  readiness 
that 
to 
There is a specific mechanism for considering all
the files, adopted and approved by all the parties. There
is  also  a  timetable  that  was  agreed  to  during  the
meetings of the Tripartite Commission and its technical
subcommittee. If Iraq were keen to know the fate of the
missing  Iraqi  persons,  why  did  it  not  attend  the
meetings of the Commission?
The fact of the matter is that the issue of the Iraqi
missing  persons  is  not  mentioned  in  any  of  the
resolutions of the  Security Council. This  is in  contrast
to the issue  of  Kuwaiti prisoners and  detainees,  which
is an integral part of the obligations of Iraq, obligations
that Iraq is expected to fully meet.
Thirdly,  regarding  Iraq(cid:146)s  allegations  vis-(cid:224)-vis
Security  Council  resolutions,  Kuwait  is  not  the  only
country  that  says  that  Iraq  has  not  fully  implemented
Security  Council  resolutions.  The  Gulf  Cooperation
Council,  the  Arab  League,  the  Organization  of  the
Islamic  Conference,  the  Non-aligned  Movement,  and
the  Security  Council  (cid:151)  all  such 
regional  and
international  organizations  have  called  on  Iraq  to
implement the resolutions of the Security Council. This
can be seen in paragraph 54 of the Secretary-General(cid:146)s
report on the work of the Organization, from which His
Excellency the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Kuwait quoted in his speech.
42
Kuwait is not responsible for the embargo and the
sanctions regime. The Security Council is the sole and
only body that has the authority to  lift or  maintain the
sanctions.  Kuwait  is  not  a  member  of  the  Council.
Kuwait  is  a  small  country  and  does  not  have  such
influence on all  the  Council members that it can  force
maintenance or extension of the sanctions.
The meeting rose at 7.25 p.m.
A/55/PV.13
43
