United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
14th plenary meeting
Thursday, 14 September 2000, 10 a.m.
New York

A/55/PV.14
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/55/345/Add.4)
The President:  I  should  like  to  inform  members
that,  since  the  issuance  of  documents  A/55/345  and
Addenda  1  to  3,  Grenada  and  Guinea  have  made  the
necessary  payments  to  reduce  their  arrears  below  the
amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May  I  take  it  that  the    General  Assembly  duly
takes note of this information?
It was so decided.
The President: This information will be reflected
in document A/55/345/Add.4, to be issued.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I now call on His Excellency Mr.
Selim  El-Hoss,  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Lebanese
Republic.
Mr.  El-Hoss  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It
gives  me  pleasure,  Sir,  to  congratulate  you  on  your
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its
fifty-fifth  session.  I  am  confident  that  your  vast
experience  and  unswerving  efforts  will  guarantee  the
achievement of the best results at this session.
for  having  wisely 
I  would  also  like  to  thank  your  predecessor,  Mr.
Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
Republic  of  Namibia, 
and
successfully  conducted  the  deliberations  of  the  fifty-
fourth session. I  would be remiss if I failed to  express
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  our  thanks
and  appreciation  for  his  efforts 
the
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  with  a  view  to
consolidating  the  prospects  for  peace  and  stability
around the world.
to  preserve 
A  new  century  has  been  ushered  in.  Our  peoples
and  countries  believe  in  the  United  Nations  and  in  its
ability to embrace  new  visions  and  concepts.  We  have
high  hopes  that  a  reinvigorated  Organization  will
promote  a  new  world  order  forged,  in  essence,  by  the
new forces at play. This will be a world order free from
the  new  power  play  in  order  to  consolidate 
the
prospects  for 
in
international  peace  and  security 
different  parts  of  the  globe  and  to  meet  the  costs  of
development,  which  is  the  right  of  each  and  every
individual.  This  can  only  be  accomplished  if  we
succeed  in  reactivating  the  central  role  of  the  United
Nations.  The  primary  organs  of  the  Organization,
namely,  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and
Social  Council,  must  be  entrusted  with  containing  and
checking  the  dangers  that  face  humanity  and  that
threaten  its  social  and  economic  peace  as  well  as  its
security.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-64208 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.14
I am pleased to announce that, towards the end of
next  year,  Lebanon  will  host  the  summit  of  the
International  Organization  of  La  Francophonie  to  be
held 
among
Civilizations.  Lebanon(cid:146)s  experience  in  coexistence,  its
pluralistic  nature  and its  openness  to  the  world  are,  in
our view, the best expression of such a dialogue.
the  Dialogue 
context  of 
the 
in 
We  all  agree  that  the  United  Nations  is  an
indispensable international  institution,  notwithstanding
its inability to settle  many disputes since its inception.
The United Nations has at times been  lax in  enforcing
its own resolutions, and at others it has been influenced
by  the  international  balance  of  power,  which  made  it
blind  to  the  double  standards  at  play.  But  what  is
that 
indisputable 
is 
its
mandates  and 
its  multifaceted  world  activities,
constitutes  a  major  human  achievement  and  tradition.
We  must  build  upon  this  achievement  by  evincing  the
necessary will to lead the world towards reconciliation
whilst  maintaining  the  necessary  balance  between  the
collective interests of States, large and small.
the  United  Nations,  with 
Our  actions  must  be  based  on  the  principles  of
solidarity, equality and justice enshrined in the Charter.
This is of particular importance at this crucial juncture
in  our  human  existence.  While  vast  regions  of  the
world are plagued by poverty, deprivation and disease,
others are enjoying a social and economic boom rarely
matched  in  the  history  of  mankind.  It  is  therefore
important  to  jump  start  the  different  United  Nations
organs  and  specialized  agencies,  which  have  already
impressed  us  with  daily  records  of  achievement  that
stand  as  a  true  measure  of  our  collective  spirit  of
solidarity . This solidarity must be the cornerstone of a
new humanitarian world order capable of protecting the
individual and of respecting all aspects of his rights.
In this context, we highly value the steps taken to
restructure  some  of  the  development  organs  of  the
Organization.  Such  steps  have  introduced  into  their
work programmes  the  concept  of  cooperation  with  the
institutions  of  civil  society  and  with  international
financial  institutions,  the  private  sector  and  the  donor
community.
In the second half of May this year, Lebanon and
the United Nations witnessed a historic event when my
country recovered most of its occupied territories in the
south  and  in  western  Bekaa.  Thanks  to  the  resistance
and  steadfastness  of  the  Lebanese  people  and  the
support  of  the  international  community,  Israel  had  to
2
these 
withdraw  from 
territories  after  a  ferocious
occupation that lasted more than 22 years. It left behind
a  trail  of  devastation  and  destruction  of  infrastructure,
private  property  and  the  environment,  as  well  as  a
collapse in local production centres.  Lebanon  has  paid
dearly  for  its  liberation.  Thousands  fell  as  martyrs  on
the road to victory and thousands more were injured or
disabled.
Human  and  material  losses  were  not  confined  to
the areas that  were immediately under occupation.  For
30 years, the Israeli arm of aggression has stretched far
to  reach  all  Lebanese  territories.  Repeated  Israeli
strikes  terrorized  our  civilian  population,  destroyed
civilian and vital establishments and wreaked havoc on
our  economic  and 
Israeli
withdrawal came in the wake of 22  years of continued
refusal  to  comply  with  Security  Council  resolutions
425 (1978) and 426 (1978), which called upon Israel to
withdraw 
from
Southern  Lebanon  and  the  western  Bekaa  to  the
internationally  recognized  borders,  with  strict  respect
for  the  territorial  integrity,  sovereignty  and  political
independence of Lebanon.
immediately  and  unconditionally 
sectors.  The 
service 
confirming 
in 
For the  first  time  since  1978,  the  United  Nations
Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL)  was  allowed  to
fulfil  its  mandate  under  resolution  425  (1978).  To  do
this,  the  United  Nations  had  to  identify  a  line  for  the
purpose  of 
Israeli  withdrawal.
Regrettably, 
line  did  not
this 
conform  to  the  internationally  recognized  boundary
line  demarcated 
in  1923  between  Palestine  and
Lebanon  under  the  French  and  British  Mandates.  The
United  Nations  border  line  also  leaves  the  Shabaa
farmlands  outside  UNIFIL(cid:146)s  area  of  operation 
in
Southern Lebanon.
locations, 
three 
the 
to 
the 
fulfil 
requirements 
Lebanon has seriously cooperated with the United
Nations 
the
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  425
(1978).  Despite  Israel(cid:146)s  repeated  violations  of  the
withdrawal  line  and  its  obstructive  practices,  which
hindered  the  deployment  of  the  international  work
force  for  weeks,  the  force  was  at  long  last  able  to
deploy, accompanied by the Lebanese armed forces.
for 
At  this  juncture,  I  see  it  fit  to  recall  Lebanon(cid:146)s
civilized  stance  and 
tolerance
graciously shown by its valiant people after its victory
and  the  withdrawal  of  the  Israeli  forces.  Contrary  to
dire  predictions,  no  mayhem  or  acts  of  vengeance
the  wisdom  and 
ensued.  This  has  earned  us  the  appreciation  and
admiration of the international community.
On  this  occasion,  allow  me  to  pay  tribute  to  the
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan, to his assistants and to the officers and soldiers
of UNIFIL for the tireless and unswerving efforts they
have been making in fulfilment of their noble task and
in  compliance  with  the  resolutions  of  international
legitimacy.
its 
that 
In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  underline  the
importance  of  the  following  points.  First,  Lebanon
insists 
internationally  recognized  borders
remain  intact.  They  are  the  borders  demarcated  in
accordance  with  the  1923  Paulet-Newcomb  maps,  and
reaffirmed  later  in  the  1949  Israeli-Lebanese  General
Armistice  Agreement.  Second,  Lebanon  confirms  its
reservations  on  three  locations  on  the  blue  line  of
withdrawal  adopted  by  the  United  Nations  as  the
withdrawal  line.  This  reservation  is  included  in  the
report  submitted  by 
the
Security Council on 16 June 2000.
the  Secretary-General 
to 
Third, Lebanon insists on its right to  sovereignty
over the Shaba(cid:146)a farmlands,  which are an integral part
of  Lebanese  territories.  Fourth,  Lebanon  insists  on  its
sovereignty and authority over the locations set by the
United  Nations 
the  United  Nations
Disengagement  Observer  Force  (UNDOF)  line  in  the
Mount Hermon area.
inside 
Fifth, Lebanon demands the immediate release of
all  Lebanese  detainees  from  Israeli  prisons.  They  are
kept  as  hostages  in  violation  of  the  terms  of  the  1949
Fourth  Geneva  Convention,  of  the  relevant  Protocols
and  of  the  Hague  Convention  of  1907.  Lebanon
believes  that  the  release  of  the  detainees  will  be  a
completion of the Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon and
will  therefore  be  a  fulfilment  of  Security  Council
resolution 425 (1978).
Sixth,  the  liberation  of  Lebanese  territories  from
Israeli  occupation  shall  remain  compromised  unless  a
just  solution  is  found  to  the  problem  of  Palestinian
refugees  residing  in  Lebanon.  The  solution  lies  in
allowing these refugees to return to their homeland, as
provided 
international
legitimacy.
resolutions  of 
the 
for 
in 
Israel  must  compensate  Lebanon  for  the  human,
material  and  economic  losses  sustained  as  a  result  of
Israeli  occupation  and  other  acts  of  aggression,  in
A/55/PV.14
accordance  with  international  and  customary  laws  and
with  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  In
this  regard,  we  recall  Security  Council  resolution  262
(1968),  which  entitled  Lebanon  to  appropriate  redress
for  the  enormous  destruction  it  suffered  when  Israel
attacked Beirut(cid:146)s International  Airport  in  late  1968.  In
that  attack,  Israel  destroyed  13  civilian  Lebanese
aircraft.  The  Lebanese  firmly  believe  in  their  right  to
receive adequate and fair reparations for the substantial
loss  and  devastation  inflicted  upon  them  after  many
long  years  of  occupation  and 
repeated  acts  of
aggression. Those acts have been perpetrated by Israel
since  1978  in  stark  defiance  of  the  will  of  the  United
Nations.
Lebanon  will therefore  resort  to  the International
Court  of  Justice  (ICJ),  which  is  the  proper  organ  to
which to address its  claims. We  hope that the  ICJ  will
be able to endorse our request for adequate reparations
and  we  appeal  to  the  international  community  to
support our just and fair demands.
of 
the 
The 
question 
the  Lebanese 
reconstruction 
liberated 
and
rehabilitation  of 
territories
enjoys  a  high  priority  on  the  Lebanese  agenda.  It  also
enjoys tangible international support. In this context, I
would  like  to  recall  the  preparatory  meeting  of  the
donor  community,  held  in  Beirut  on  27  July  in
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme (UNDP) and the support of the World Bank
and  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan.  This
meeting  was  attended  by  representatives  of  40  States
and international financial institutions. The participants
discussed  the  question  of  providing  urgent  financial
assistance  to  help  restore  normalcy  to  the  liberated
territories.  The 
deliberations  were
promising  and  we  hope  to  see  them  materialize  at  the
donors(cid:146) conference to be held at the ministerial level in
October.
preliminary 
the 
feel 
that 
The  Lebanese 
international
community  did  not  exert  adequate  efforts  to  compel
Israel  to  comply  with  Security  Council  resolution  425
(1978), which called upon Israel to end its occupation a
long  time  ago.  Due  to  this  delay,  Lebanon  as  a  whole
had to suffer the dire consequences of occupation. Our
resources  plummeted,  our  economy  crumbled  and  our
people  endured  untold  suffering.  From  this  rostrum,  I
appeal to the donor countries, to international financial
institutions  and  to  the  United  Nations  specialized
agencies 
the
reconstruction  and  rehabilitation  of  South  Lebanon.
to  provide  sufficient  assistance  for 
3
A/55/PV.14
This  will  be  a  token  of  solidarity  on  behalf  of  the
international community.
the 
We  thought  that  the  prospects  for  the  realization
of  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  region  were
the  recent  rounds  of  negotiations.
real  following 
Regrettably, 
results  were  disappointing.  The
negotiations  for  peace  floundered  and  the  process  was
derailed on all tracks. This was due to the fact that the
Israeli  leaders  gave  the  logic  of  (cid:147)No(cid:146)s(cid:148)  precedence
over  the  principles  of  right  and  justice.  This  is
particularly  unfortunate  in  the  light  of  the  many
achievements  made  in  bringing  the  negotiations  so
close  to  an  optimal  solution,  especially  on  the  Syrian
track.
The  prerogatives  of  peace  are  not  commensurate
with the Israeli (cid:147)No(cid:146)s(cid:148). These (cid:147)No(cid:146)s(cid:148) run counter to the
resolutions of international legitimacy that provided for
the return to Syria of the entire Golan up to the line of
4  June  1967.  These  resolutions  also  recognized  the
need  to  enable  the  Palestinian  people  to  recover  their
inalienable 
to  self-
determination,  the  establishment  of  their  independent
State  on  their  own  national  soil,  with  Jerusalem  as  its
capital,  and  their  right  to  return  to  their  homeland  in
Palestine.
including 
rights, 
right 
their 
The liberation of most of the Lebanese territories
from  Israeli  occupation  will  not  affect  Lebanon(cid:146)s
commitment  to  the  process  of  peaceful  settlement  of
the Middle East question. Lebanon upholds its position
with  regard  to  the  inseparability  of  the  Syrian  and
Lebanese tracks.  We believe that the opportunity  for  a
just  and  comprehensive  peace  remains,  provided  that
Israel  complies  with  the  resolutions  of  international
legitimacy and the Madrid terms of reference.
Lebanon  believes  that  Israel  has  forfeited  the
achievements  made  in  its  negotiations  with  the  Arab
side due to the conflicting domestic agendas of various
Israeli political groups. This  will hinder the settlement
process in the region, and will further compromise our
protracted  pursuit  of  peace.  Lebanon  calls  on  the  co-
sponsors of the peace process (cid:151) the United States and
the  Russian  Federation  (cid:151)  and  the  European  Union  to
renew  their  efforts  to  relaunch  the  peace  process  from
the point where it left off in 1996.
Lebanon  cannot  fail  to  stress  once  again  that  in
order  to  achieve  a  peaceful  settlement,  the  Palestinian
refugees,  particularly  those  hosted  by  Lebanon,  must
be  allowed  to  return  to  their  homeland.  Ignoring  their
4
problem or attempting to resettle them in Lebanon will
further  exacerbate  the  tension  and  the  volatility  of  the
region.  This  would  in  turn  threaten  the  prospects  of  a
just and lasting peace.
More  than  10  years  have  passed  since  the  Iraqi
invasion  of  Kuwait.  Nevertheless,  the  question  of  the
release  of  the  Kuwaiti  detainees  and  prisoners  of  war
still awaits a solution. We in Lebanon have condemned
this  invasion.  We  believe  that,  in  addition  to  other
measures required of Iraq, the release of prisoners will
be  an  important step  towards improving relations  with
that  country.  Lebanon  calls  for  lifting  the  sanctions
imposed  on  Iraq  in  order  to  alleviate  the  suffering  of
the brotherly Iraqi people and to allow them to restore
their security, stability and prosperity.
There  is  a  favourable  trend  in  the  relationship
between Iran and the Gulf States. That trend must be an
incentive  to  settle  the  dispute  over  three  islands  that
has been going on between the Islamic Republic of Iran
and the United Arab Emirates for over three decades. It
should 
good-
neighbourliness and the common interests promoted by
the League of  Arab  States  and the  Organization of the
Islamic Conference.
context 
settled 
the 
of 
be 
in 
The Millennium Summit was convened as part of
a  global  effort  to  foster  the  credibility  of  the  United
Nations and its ability to seek solutions to the problems
of  all  countries  and  peoples.  The 
international
Organization  must  be  capable  of  keeping  up  with  the
demands  and  challenges  of 
the  new  millennium,
whenever and wherever they arise. The deliberations of
the Millennium Summit made it clear that what was at
stake was the individual. Attempts to arrive at a global
vision  may  differ  in  the  details,  but  should  definitely
agree  on  the  substance.  In  our  view,  the  Millennium
Declaration embodied creative ideas and principles that
must  be  embraced  in  a  global  blueprint  and  translated
into 
introduces  novel
approaches to the purposes and working methods of the
United Nations.
reality.  Such  a  blueprint 
Lebanon  agrees  with  the  conclusions  of  the
Summit.  The  main  challenge  we  face  today  is  to
guarantee  that  the  benefits  of  globalization  are  shared
by all peoples of the world. The correct approach is for
us 
its
manifestations  and  results  will  have  a  human  face.
Adequate  controls  must  be  developed  and  must  take
into  account  the  different  cultures,  traditions  and  real
that  globalization  and 
to  stand  united  so 
needs  of  the  peoples  of  the  world.  The  costs  and
benefits  of  globalization  must  be  fairly  and  equally
distributed.
Lebanon  also  believes  that  the  protection  of  our
common  environment  presents  a  different  kind  of
challenge.  Careful  strategies  must  be  developed  for
water-resource management, combating desertification,
respecting  and  preserving  ecosystems  and  combating
environmental  pollution.  Those  strategies  must  be
governed  by  new  ethics.  God  has  privileged  Lebanon
with  a  scenic  landscape  and  an  optimal  geographic
location.  Regrettably,  we  have  had  our  share  of
environmental  degradation.  We 
attach
increasing  importance  to  environmental  issues.  Laws
are currently  being  enacted  for  the  preservation  of  the
environment  pursuant  to  the  decisions  of  relevant
international  conferences.  We  need  the  support  of  the
international community in our endeavours.
therefore 
Development has become the main preoccupation
of  the  developing  and  least  developed  countries.  It
must  be  linked  to  an  open  and  just  global  trading
system  within 
that
guarantees  unobstructed  investment  and  capital  flows,
as well as the transfer of technology.
institutional 
framework 
an 
We  must  develop  an  international  mechanism
within  the  United  Nations  to  address  the  indebtedness
of developing countries.
In our view, there is an inherent link between the
maintenance  of  regional  and  international  peace  and
security  and  the  process  of  development  and  peace-
building.  Hotbeds  of  tension  and  protracted  armed
conflict in some regions of Africa, the Balkans and the
Middle  East 
integrated
development.  Our 
international  Organization  must
therefore dedicate more efforts to defusing tensions and
to  resolving  crises  by  reforming  and  invigorating  the
roles  of  its  two  primary  organs,  namely,  the  Security
Council and the Economic and Social Council.
the  realization  of 
impede 
In conclusion, Lebanon is a founding Member of
the  United  Nations  and  has  contributed  to  the  drafting
of the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Today,
Lebanon looks forward to playing a distinct role in the
regional  and  international  arenas.  We  are  anxious  to
reconstruct  and 
rehabilitate  our  vital  and  civil
institutions  and  productive  sectors  after  the  liberation
of our land from the Israeli occupation. We in Lebanon
are  striving  for  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the
Middle East that will bring back stability to our region
A/55/PV.14
and  allow  us  to  play  a  positive  role  in  building  a  new
world in which we aspire to live.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Norway, His Excellency
Mr. Thorbjłrn Jagland.
Mr. Jagland (Norway):  First  of  all, I  would like
to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your assumption
of  your  important  position.  I  would  also  like  to
welcome  Tuvalu  as  a  new  Member  of  the  United
Nations.
have 
served 
Norway  is  committed  to  a  strong  and  effective
United Nations. For decades, we have pursued a policy
of  translating  our  commitment  to  the  United  Nations
into  substantial  contributions  to  the  various  activities
of the United Nations system. That is why some 60,000
Norwegians 
in  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations.  That  is  why  Norway  today
contributes  1,500  military  and  civilian  personnel  to
United  Nations 
and  United  Nations-mandated
peacekeeping operations around the world. That is why
we  are  supporting  the  peace  and  reconciliation  efforts
of  the  United  Nations  in  the  Middle  East,  Colombia,
Cyprus  and  Sudan.  And  that  is  why  a  relatively  small
country of 4.5  million  inhabitants is  one of the  largest
donors  of  voluntary  contributions  to  the  economic,
social  and  humanitarian  programmes  of  the  United
Nations.  This  year,  Norway  is  providing  $1.3  billion
dollars  for  development  cooperation.  My  Government
plans  to  increase  that  amount  substantially  over  the
next few  years. A large part of that  will be channelled
through the United Nations system.
At  the  first  session  of  the  General  Assembly  in
the 
twenty-first  century,  and  after 
the  successful
Millennium Assembly last week, it is time to take stock
and act upon the decisions we have made. Here is what
Norway will give priority to in the time ahead.
We  will  focus  on  the  root  causes  of  conflict  and
put  the  fight  against  poverty,  underdevelopment  and
environmental degradation at the top of our agenda.
Financing  for  development  is  essential.  Norway
reached the 0.7 per cent target more than 20 years ago.
We  are  currently  devoting  0.9  per  cent  of  our  gross
national  product  for  official  development  assistance,
and my Government has pledged to reach a full one per
cent.
We  will 
increase  our  support 
multilateral  development  agencies, 
through 
the
including  our
5
A/55/PV.14
support to the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP).
to 
continue 
advocate 
We  will 
a  more
comprehensive  approach  to  peace-building.  Conflict
prevention, 
long-term
development  cannot  be  regarded  as  separate  tasks.
They  must  be  part  of  an  integrated  and  coherent
strategy of human security.
humanitarian 
relief 
and 
We  will continue to combat malaria,  tuberculosis
and other diseases. Malaria alone takes two lives every
minute    of  every  day  of  every  year,  mainly  those  of
children  and  pregnant  women.  We  will  significantly
increase our contribution to the vaccination of children,
so that they do not die of easily curable diseases.
We  will  intensify  our  efforts  to  help  contain  and
reduce  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS,  which  in  many
countries  has  become  the  single  largest  threat  to
development.  We  will  focus  even  more  strongly  on
Africa, as Africa needs a new  and better deal.  We call
for  a  renewed  commitment  to  Africa  and  are  prepared
to contribute substantially to this effort.
The  United  Nations  has  mounted  more  peace
operations  during  the  last  10  years  than  during  the
previous  four  decades  combined.  We  have  witnessed
significant  successes,  but  also  uncovered  disturbing
and tragic weaknesses. Far too often (cid:151) and frequently
at  great  cost  to  the  people  we  were  supposed  to
protect (cid:151) the United Nations has relied on last-minute
efforts and ad hoc arrangements. The rich and powerful
Member States must honour their promises to the weak
and defenceless.
Norway  supports  the  recommendations  in  the
report  of 
the  United  Nations  Panel  on  Peace
Operations, headed by  Ambassador Brahimi. We  stand
ready  to engage  in  a broad  dialogue  on  how  to  ensure
the  speedy  and  efficient 
the
implementation  of 
recommendations contained in the Brahimi report.
Together with our partners, we  will push forward
towards  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  We  will  work  for  further  reductions  in
nuclear  arsenals  with  a  view  to  eliminating  them,
building  on  the  important  results  of  the  Treaty  on  the
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  Review
Conference here in New York.
We  will  continue  to  combat  illicit  trade  and  the
spread  of  small  arms.  We  should  make  full  use  of  the
the  United  Nations
opportunity 
provided 
by 
6
Conference  on  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and
Light Weapons  in  All its  Aspects to take  firm  steps  to
curtail this deadly traffic.
None  of this  can  be done,  however, if  we  do  not
secure  a  sound  financial  basis  for  the  United  Nations
itself. We must put United Nations finances on a  more
secure and  predictable  footing.  We  must  close  the  gap
between  the  tasks  we  ask  the  United  Nations  to  carry
out  and  the  resources  we  make  available  to  it.  Zero
growth  is  clearly  not  sufficient.  We  cannot  expect  the
United  Nations  to  carry  out  new  and  additional  tasks
without additional funding.
No one must be allowed to commit war crimes or
crimes  against  humanity  with 
impunity.  Norway
therefore  strongly  supports  the  Statute  establishing  an
International  Criminal  Court.  Now  we  must  seek  its
speedy implementation.
To  effectively  meet  our  common  challenges,  we
the  United
must  build  new  partnerships  between 
Nations,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector.  The
(cid:147)Global  Compact(cid:148)  is  one  such  initiative.  The  (cid:147)Global
Alliance  for  Vaccines  and  Immunization(cid:148)  (GAVI)  is
another.  Early  next  year  Norway  will  host  an
international  conference  in  Oslo  on  the  role  of  the
private  sector  in  promoting  investment  and  economic
development in the least developed countries.
We  will  continue  to  support  efforts  to  enable
developing  countries  to  take  full  advantage  of  the
benefits  of  multilateral  cooperation.  In  particular,  we
would  like  to  assist  the  least  developed  countries  (cid:151)
including  small  island  developing  States  (cid:151)  to  benefit
more  fully  from  joint  international  efforts,  including
the legal regime for the seas and oceans established by
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
provides 
opportunities 
it  can  also 
Globalization 
for
unprecedented  growth,  but 
to
marginalization and isolation. In our  globalized  world,
markets have become global  much faster than  politics.
There  is  an  urgent  need  to  adapt  the  international
trading and financial systems so that every country can
obtain its fair share of the benefits of globalization.
lead 
In  our  shrinking  world,  providing  humanitarian
aid  and  emergency  relief  to  people  in  need  is  the
responsibility  of  every  Government.  Norway  will
increase  its  humanitarian  efforts  (cid:151)  which  are  already
among  the  most  intensive  in  the  world  (cid:151)  both
bilaterally  and  through  United  Nations  agencies  and
non-governmental organizations.
We  will  to  the  best  of  our  ability  continue  to
facilitate peace efforts in countries where the parties to
a  conflict 
involvement.  Ultimately,
however, the responsibility for lasting peace rests  with
the parties themselves.
request  our 
Finally,  we  reiterate  our  call  for  reform  and
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  in  terms  of  both
permanent  and  non-permanent  members.  Broader
membership and increased transparency are essential to
the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council.
For the first time since 1979, Norway is seeking a
seat  on  the  Security  Council.  We  hope  to  be  elected,
after 22 years, based on our contributions to the United
Nations  and  on  the  principles  of  fair  rotation.  We
therefore ask for the support of the Assembly. Norway
will  deeply  respect  a  mandate  from  the  Assembly.  We
will  be  attentive  to  its  voices  and  concerns.  We  will
remain  committed  to  help  those  who  suffer  from
poverty and war, disasters and famine to place a strong
United Nations at the centre of world affairs, to ensure
that  those  who  have  the  strongest  backs  bear  the
heaviest  burden.  We  ask  the  Assembly  to  allow  us  to
serve all Members.
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the  Secretary
of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
His Excellency The Right Honourable Robin Cook.
Mr. Cook (United Kingdom): I am conscious that
the central problem for all of us when we rise to speak
to  the  General  Assembly  is  that  there  are  too  many
issues  of  concern  to  hope  to  address  them  all  in  one
speech.  There  is  no  shortage  of  challenges  to  the
United  Nations  as  we  meet  for  the  first  time  in  a  new
century to debate the issues of a modern world.
It  is  a  world  united  by  the  new  technologies  of
communication.  We  have  never  had 
so  much
opportunity  to  share  the  know-how  for  economic
growth. Yet our world has never before been so divided
between  rich  and  poor.  In  the  year  ahead,  we  must
make  sure that all  the  United  Nations  agencies  and  its
international  financial  institutions  work  together  in  a
coordinated way to promote development and to reduce
debt.
It  is  also  a  world  bound  together  by  growth  in
trade between our countries. But we failed at Seattle to
A/55/PV.14
make further progress on removing the obstacles to that
trade. In the year ahead, we must launch a world trade
development  round  which  is  fair  to  those  countries
whose  main  exports  are  agricultural 
than
industrial.
rather 
It  is  a  world  which  faces  a  common  threat  to  its
global climate.  We  are  each learning the  alarming rate
at  which  that  climate  is  changing  as  the  result  of  our
own actions. Before the end of the year, we must try to
reach agreement  at the  sixth  Conference of  the Parties
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on
Climate  Change 
the  Kyoto
measures to stabilize climate change.
into  effect 
to  bring 
Each of these  is  an  important  challenge.  Each  of
them is a strategic priority for our work programme for
the coming year. This morning, though, I wish to focus
my  remarks  on  the  central  theme  of  the  Millennium
Summit  and  of  this  fifty-fifth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
How  do  we  equip  the  United  Nations  with  the
real
in  peacekeeping 
that  matches 
capacity 
demands for it around our world?
the 
In  his  opening  address,  the  Secretary-General
invited  us  to  give  a  swift  response  to  the  Brahimi
report  on  peacekeeping 
(A/55/305).  The  United
Kingdom  is  happy  to  respond  to  that  invitation  by
offering  our  support  for  the  report(cid:146)s  conclusions  and
pledging  our  commitment  to  its  implementation.  The
report begins  by reminding  us  that  the  United  Nations
was  founded,  in  the  words  of  its  Charter,  (cid:147)to  save
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war(cid:148).  Too
often, though, we have failed to save those who needed
our  protection  from  the  suffering,  the  pain  and  the
terror of brutal conflict. We must be frank in facing up
to  those  failures  if  we  are  to  learn  their  lessons.  And
we must be determined to improve the capacity of this
Organization to keep the peace if  we are to succeed in
the future.
I want to set out six tasks which we must address
if  we  are  not  to  repeat  past  failures.  First,  we  must
equip  the  United  Nations  with  a  more  effective  and
more  rapid  capacity  for  peacekeeping.  In  the  space  of
about one year, the number of troops on United Nations
peacekeeping  missions  around  the  globe  has  trebled.
The  United  Kingdom  has  forces  operating  in  eight
different 
theatres  where  peacekeeping  has  been
authorized by the United Nations.
7
A/55/PV.14
is 
that  demands  changes.  It 
But  it  is  not  the  new  size  of  our  peacekeeping
effort 
the  different
character  of  the  peacekeeping  challenge.  It  used  to  be
the  case  that  United  Nations  forces  were  typically
deployed  to  observe  a  ceasefire  between  two  States
both  of  which  wanted  to  end  the  fighting.  Today,  our
peacekeepers  are  typically  deployed  within  States,  not
between them,  and often  where one  or  more parties to
the  conflict  is  not  seriously  committed  to  peace.  In
those circumstances, United Nations peacekeepers need
a robust mandate. As the Brahimi report puts it, where
one  side  is  violating  a  peace  agreement,  treating  both
sides  equally  can  amount  to  complicity  with  evil.
United  Nations  peacekeepers  who  witness  violence
against civilians should be presumed to be mandated to
halt it.
if 
But 
those  peacekeepers  are 
to  act  with
determination,  then  we  must  equip  them  with  the
capacity 
to  do  so.  The  United  Nations  needs  a
Headquarters unit capable of rapid deployment within a
few  weeks,  not  a  few  months,  of  a  Security  Council
resolution. And each of us must develop the number of
troops who are trained in the principles and practice of
peacekeeping  whom  we  can  commit  to  the  United
Nations. That is why the United Kingdom has proposed
a  permanent 
for  United  Nations
peacekeeping. The United Kingdom has offered to host
such  a  resource  for  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  if
that  is  welcome  to  other  members  of  the  General
Assembly.
staff  college 
The  second  task  is  to  be  more  rapid  and  more
imaginative  in  tackling  tension  before  it  results  in
conflict. By definition, any mission to restore peace  is
an  admission of  failure to prevent  conflict.  As  well  as
coping  with  the  consequences  of  conflict,  we  need  to
address  the  root  causes  of  conflict:  poverty,  bad
governance  and  the  denial  of  freedom  or  of  minority
rights.  I  welcome  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  intention  to
submit  a report on conflict  prevention  early  next  year.
It will be a natural companion to the Brahimi report. I
hope  it  can  enable  us  to  develop  an  early  warning
system which will alert us to potential conflict and give
our agencies the chance to offer help before it becomes
a real conflict.
Too  often,  internal  conflict  is  fuelled  by  the
external demand for the illicit trade in diamonds or the
evil trade in drugs. Measures to ban conflict diamonds
from  international  sale  or  to  defeat  the  drugs  barons
8
must be key elements of any comprehensive strategy of
conflict prevention.
The  third  task  is  to  take  tighter  control  of  the
flows  of  arms  which 
supply  conflict.  As  an
international community, we have put much effort into
controlling  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The  good
progress  we all  made at the Review  Conference of  the
States  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) underlines the
importance  which  each  of  us  attaches  to  this  strategic
issue.  The  United  Kingdom  has 
the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  has  reduced
by half its planned strategic nuclear warheads, and has
supplied greater transparency on our nuclear arsenal.
ratified 
Yet,  over  the  past  decade,  the  true  weapons  of
mass  destruction  have  been  small  arms,  which  have
killed  5 million  people  in  conflicts  around  the  globe.
Overwhelmingly, those killed were civilians rather than
soldiers.  And,  overwhelmingly,  they  were  killed  in
countries which do not manufacture firearms. We must
make  a  success  next  year  of  the  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and
Light  Weapons  in  all  its  Aspects.  We  need  to  reach
agreement  to  mark  firearms  at  the  point  of  production
so that they can be traced. The United Kingdom would
support at that conference the presumption that military
firearms  should  not  be  licensed  for  sale  other  than  to
legitimate  Government  bodies.  And  we  must  seek  the
help  of  the  international  economic  agencies,  including
the  World  Bank, 
reward  with
development aid the surrender of firearms.
fund  and 
to 
to 
The  fourth  task  is  to  provide  the  United  Nations
with  the  civilian  resources  to  promote  reconciliation
and  reconstruction.  In  Kosovo,  and  again  now  in  East
Timor, we have learned that the end of conflict is only
the starting point. When the troops have brought peace,
we need judges and administrators to bring justice and
development.  The  peacekeepers  must  be  followed  by
peace-builders.  In  particular,  we  need  to  muster  the
civilian police who can establish law and order in place
of violence and conflict. I was astonished to read in the
international
Brahimi 
organization  has  only  nine  civilian  police  on 
its
Headquarters  staff,  administering  8,600  civilian  police
in the field around the world. I am confident that every
one  of  them  is  the  very  best,  in  keeping  with  the
tradition of United Nations staff. But if  we are serious
about  succeeding  on  the  ground,  we  need  a  more
serious  back-up  at  the  centre.  Four  times  in  the  past
this  mighty 
report 
that 
decade,  the  United  Nations  has  been  called  upon  to
undertake  a  transitional  civilian  administration.  We
need a better, permanent, capacity here at the centre to
support our operations in the field.
The  fifth  task  is  to  enforce  the  international  law
on  crimes  against  humanity.  If  we  are 
to  have
international  justice,  we  must  have  an  international
court. The United Kingdom has given strong support to
the  International  Criminal  Court,  and  we  have  just
published  our  draft  legislation  to  ratify  the  treaty
setting  up  such  a  Court.  The  International  Criminal
Court  will  send  a  strong  warning  to  any  future  tyrants
that  they  will  be  called  to  account  for  their  crimes
before the bar of international justice. It will be one of
the most powerful advances for human rights since we
agreed  50  years  ago  to  the  Universal  Declaration  of
Human Rights.
And  finally,  we  must  strengthen  the  authority  of
the United Nations. In 50 years, there has been no new
permanent  member  of 
the  Security  Council.  The
Security Council needs to represent the world as it is in
this century, not the world as it was in the middle of the
last  century.  It  needs  to  be  made  representative  of  the
100  or  more  countries  that  have  joined  as  Members
since  the  Security  Council  was  set  up.  The  United
Kingdom  supports  a  doubling  of 
the  permanent
membership  to  include  Germany,  Japan  and  three
countries  from  each  of  the  continents  of  Asia,  Africa
and  Latin  America.  We  also  want  more  members
among those who are elected, in order that the Security
Council  can  be  more  representative  of  the  General
Assembly.
For  seven  years,  we  have  been  debating  this
question. It  is becoming  an  issue  of  credibility  for  the
United Nations. How can we pretend to end conflict if
we  cannot  end  this  disagreement  among  ourselves?  A
more  representative,  modern  Security  Council  would
speak  with  more  authority  when  it  challenges  those
who breach the peace.
I  have  been  frank  about  where  we  must  improve
our  capacity  for  peacekeeping  and  strengthen  our  will
to  halt  conflict.  But  we  should  not  underrate  the
immense  achievement  of  the  United  Nations.  Our
Charter  begins  by  recalling  the  untold  sorrow  to
mankind inflicted by two  world  wars. It  was a Charter
written  by  ministers  and  officials  determined  to  end
war  between  States.  And in this  they  were  remarkably
A/55/PV.14
successful.  External  aggression  between  States  is  now
unusual.
But the  benefits  have  been  unevenly  shared.  The
industrialized  nations  have  enjoyed  half  a  century  of
peace. That has provided the security and good order in
which  their  prosperity  has  advanced  at  a  rate  without
precedent  in  history.  Yet,  in  the  same  half  century,
people  elsewhere  in  the  globe  have  lived  through
violence  and  conflict  which  have  broken  their  human
rights  and  impoverished  their  standards  of  living.  It  is
largely poor countries that now experience the scourge
of war which our Charter sought to banish.
The challenge for the United Nations is to ensure
that the peace and security which have been enjoyed by
many Member States are shared by all. None of us can
prevent  humanitarian  catastrophe  by  acting  alone.  But
this United Nations can, if we act together.
The  Brahimi  report  tells  us  what  we  need  to  do.
As  an  organization,  we  publish  many  reports.  Nobody
could  fault  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to
produce  reports.  But  we  are  not  always  as  good  at
implementing them. Let us make sure that the Brahimi
report does not gather dust on library shelves but is put
into  practice  before  we  meet  again  next  year.  Let  us
show  the  determination  and  the  conviction  that  the
right  in  our  Charter  to  be  preserved  from  war  is  an
equal right  for the people of all  our  nations,  large  and
small, rich and poor.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Abdurrahman  Shalghem,  the  Secretary
of the General People(cid:146)s Committee for Foreign Liaison
and  International  Cooperation  of  the  Libyan  Arab
Jamahiriya.
in 
to  wish  you  every  success 
Mr.  Shalghem  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke
in Arabic): It gives me great pleasure, Sir, to extend to
you,  on  behalf  of  my  country(cid:146)s  delegation,  our
congratulations  on  your  election  as  President  of  this
session,  and 
the
management of its affairs. I would also like to express
our  appreciation  to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Theo-Ben
Gurirab, 
the  Foreign  Minister  of  Namibia,  who
administered the work of the fifty-fourth session of the
General  Assembly  most  competently.  I  wish  also  to
seize  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude  to
Secretary General Kofi Annan for his initiatives, which
have  been instrumental in putting an end  to  tension  in
many parts of the  world  and  for  his  endeavours aimed
at  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  enhancement
9
A/55/PV.14
of  its  role,  so  that  it  may  better  fulfil  its  duties,
according  to  the  Charter.  A  word  of  welcome  is  also
due  to  the  Republic  of  Tuvalu,  which  joined  us  a  few
days ago as a new member of the United Nations.
its 
in 
this 
assuming 
responsibilities 
the  outcome  of 
the  past  few  days, 
This  session  is  convened  in  the  aftermath  of
several  developments.  In 
the
Secretary-General submitted (cid:147)Comprehensive report on
peacekeeping  operations;  it  included  a  number  of
recommendations that  would  assist  the  United  Nations
in 
field.
Furthermore,  over  the  last  few  months,  the  General
Assembly  convened  two  special  sessions,  the  first
conducted  a  review  of  the  progress  made  in  the
implementation  of 
the  World
Conference  on  Women,  and  the  second  reviewed
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  outcome  of  the
World  Summit  for  Social  Development  and  beyond.
Last  week,  this  hall  witnessed  the  convening  of  the
Millennium  Assembly,  at  the  conclusion  of  which  the
leaders  of  the  world  expressed  their  adherence  to  the
United  Nations  and  renewed  their  commitment  to  the
purposes  and principles of its  Charter,  as  well  as  their
intent to lend it their support and to enhance its role to
enable  it  to  cope  with  the  new  century,  with  all  its
changes 
these
developments will undoubtedly contribute to the efforts
aimed  at  achieving  the  goals  of  this  Organization.
However,  it  must  also  be  noted  that  we  are  still  far
from achieving the ultimate goal for which we strive (cid:151)
namely, the establishment of a world that enjoys peace,
security,  freedom,  equality,  and  justice,  a  world  free
from  oppression,  acts  of  aggression,  and  attempts  to
impose hegemony and domination.
challenges. 
view, 
and 
In 
our 
for 
There  are  many  regions  in  the  world  today  that
suffer  from  wars  and  conflicts.  Famine  and  diseases
such  as  cancer,  malaria,  and  acquired 
immune
deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS)  still  threaten  the  lives  of
millions.  Resources  provided  by  nature 
the
sustenance  of  life  are  being  seriously  endangered.
Developing  countries  have  not  benefited  from  the
advantages of globalization in a manner proportional to
their  suffering  from  its  negative  impact.  In  fact,
international  financial 
to
impose  severe  conditions  on  these  countries  to  the
extent that they find themselves at the  mercy of a new
form  of  colonialism.  Attempts  to  intervene  in  the
internal  affairs  of  other  States  have  threatened  to
eliminate sovereignty (cid:151) not only to violate it.
institutions  have  started 
10
There  are  also  unilateral  boycott  policies  and
imposition  of  unjust  sanctions,  even  aggression,  under
the  pretext  of  so-called  international  legitimacy.  Old
ideological barriers have been replaced by new barriers
that  obstruct  the  States  of  the  South  from  access  to
technology they desperately need for development, and
that impose trade protection measures on their products
by  making other  markets  inaccessible to them.  We  are
of
also  witnessing 
disarmament  and  double  standard  policies 
the
treatment of international issues. Furthermore, criminal
activities  have 
illicit  drug
trafficking,  the  financing  of  organized  crime  and  all
kinds of transnational crimes.
sphere 
in 
selectivity 
increased, 
including 
the 
in 
Such  is  the  current  state  of  the  world,  with  its
various  variables  and  challenges,  after  the  collapse  of
international  equilibrium.  Such  a  state  of  affairs
necessitates the adoption of certain measures to combat
and  rectify  the  prevailing  conditions.  The  United
Nations, in its capacity as an  instrument  and reference
authority  for  all,  should  perform  a  pivotal  role  in
dealing with these variables. However,  we believe that
the  Organization  will  not  be  capable  of  making  an
effective  contribution  in  this  respect  unless  radical
reforms  are  introduced  into  the  composition  of  its
organs  and  the  working  mechanisms  of  its  entities.  In
order  to  guarantee  success  for  this  process,  we  should
make  it  a  comprehensive  one  that  takes  into  account
the  aspirations,  ideas,  and  proposals  of  all  Member
States,  big  and 
strong  and  weak.  The
responsibility  for  success  or  failure  of  this  process
must ultimately be a joint responsibility.
small, 
My country, wishing to contribute to the ongoing
efforts aimed at reforming the United Nations, believes
that  the  required  reform  should  achieve  the  following
objectives:  first,  strengthening  the  role  of  the  General
Assembly  so  that  it  becomes  the  authority  responsible
for  determining  and  deciding  the  conditions  that  must
be deemed truly threatening to international peace  and
security.  A  mechanism  answerable  to  the  General
Assembly 
the
implementation  of  its  resolutions  and  to  enable  it  to
control  and  hold  accountable  other  United  Nations
organs,  including  the  Security  Council,  which  itself
should be an executive entity for the implementation of
General Assembly resolutions.
should  be  established 
to  ensure 
Secondly,  restructuring  the  Security  Council  so
that  it  achieves  fair  geographical  representation  in  its
membership, with equity for African,  Asian, and Latin
American  States  that  are  not  fairly  represented  in  the
membership of the Council.
abolition  of 
Fourthly,  we  urge 
Thirdly,  improving  the  ways  and  methods  by
which  the  Security  Council  conducts  its  work  so  that
its activities are rendered more transparent. Its rules of
procedures  should  also  be  reviewed.  In  fact,  the
General  Assembly,  which  represents  all  the  Member
States  of  the  Organization,  should  issue  such  rules;
otherwise,  it  would  be  meaningless  to  say  that  the
Council acts on behalf of the international community.
the
prerogatives  that  the  victors  of  the  Second  World  War
granted  to  themselves,  particularly  the  right  of  veto,
which  should  be  eliminated  because 
is  non-
democratic  and  undermines  the  principle  of  the  full
equality of Member States, as enshrined in the Charter.
Fifthly,  in  order  to  enable  the  Organization  to
follow up on its plans and programmes, we propose the
establishment of an international committee answerable
to  the  United  Nations,  with  subcommittees  that  cover
most  regions  of 
the
necessary  mandates  and  resources  to  undertake  the
tasks  of  inspecting  and  implementing  United  Nations
programmes.
the  world,  empowered  with 
the 
it 
in  Burundi 
Despite  the  problems  suffered  by  many  African
countries, 
the  current  year  has  witnessed  some
encouraging developments. In Somalia, Parliament was
able to choose a new President for the country and the
disputing  parties 
signed  a  national
reconciliation  agreement.  The  fighting  that  broke  out
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  has  been  contained  and
both  sides  have  signed  a  ceasefire  agreement.  These
solutions  were  the  fruits  of  efforts  made  by  the
Organization of African Unity (OAU) and a number of
African  leaders  who  sincerely  care  for  the  security,
stability and development of the continent. For its part,
my country has contributed to all these efforts and will
pursue, 
the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, our initiatives
aimed  at  securing  a  just  settlement  acceptable  to  all
parties  to  the  conflict  in  Sierra  Leone.  We  will  also
continue  our  good  offices  with  the  aim  of  finding  a
solution  to  the  conflict  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of
Congo  and  the  Great  Lakes  region  on  the  basis  of  the
implementation  of  the  Sirte  agreement,  which  was
completed  in  Lusaka,  for  the  purpose  of  ending  the
dispute in that region.
in  cooperation  with 
the  OAU  and 
A/55/PV.14
From  the  outset,  we  in  Libya  have  realized  that
Africa(cid:146)s problems are partly due to its disunity and the
fragmentation of its own peoples(cid:146) efforts. Therefore, in
order for the continent to be truly capable of facing the
challenge  of  disputes,  disease  and  backwardness,  as
well as others imposed by new international situations,
Brother  Colonel  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi,  the  leader  of
the  revolution,  has  pursued  his  efforts  to  unify  the
continent  so  that  it  may  be  ushered  into  the  new
century  strong  and  unified.  It  was  in  this  spirit  that  a
meeting  of  African  foreign  ministers  was  held  in
Tripoli  last  April,  at  which  the  founding  law  for  the
African  Union  was  drafted.  This  law  was  approved  in
LomØ last June at the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government.  At  the  invitation  of  the  leader  of  the
revolution,  the  African  presidents  will  meet  in  Sirte
early  next  year to declare the  official  establishment  of
the  African  Union.  This  bears  witness  to  the  fact  that
Africa  has  overcome  the  negative  aspects  of  the  past
and  realized  the  dream  of  unity,  which  has  been  the
aspiration of African peoples for decades.
All  these  initiatives  and  endeavours  provide  new
evidence  that  Africa  fully  realizes  that  the  solution  to
its  problems  and  the  advancement  of  its  capacities
reside  basically  in  the  efforts  of  its  own  sons  and
daughters.  Nevertheless,  it  should  be  emphasized  that
international peace is  indivisible  and that  international
stability  cannot  be  achieved  partially.  This  means  that
the international community has an obligation to assist
Africa in its efforts to realize peace and stability on its
soil. As we reiterate today our invitation to all States to
help  Africa  in  developing  a  programme  to  eliminate
epidemics  and  diseases,  provide  a  solution  to  the
problem  of  its  external  debt  and  ensure  that  the
continent is dealt with on new, just and equitable terms,
rather than be considered merely as a consumer market
for the products of the industrialized world, we wish to
recall, as we have always done, that Africa(cid:146)s problems
lie  in  the  abuse  of  its  resources,  the  plundering  of  its
wealth  and  riches,  intervention  in  its  internal  affairs
and  the  imposition  of  foreign  concepts  alien  to  its
traditions  and  culture.  We  demand  that  such  practices
be  discontinued,  as  they  constitute  one  of  the  main
reasons  for  political  instability  in  many  parts  of  the
continent and for economic backwardness in  most. We
also call upon the States that colonized Africa, drew its
borders  and  scattered  and  enslaved  its  people  to  offer
their apologies to the continent and to fully compensate
it for all the damage inflicted by colonialism.
11
A/55/PV.14
the 
their  State  on 
its  capital.  On 
No solution has yet been found to the Palestinian
question because the essence of this  problem  has been
ignored.  My  country  emphasizes  once  again  that  there
is no solution to the Palestinian problem other than the
return  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  their  homeland  and
land  of
the  establishment  of 
Palestine,  with  Jerusalem  as 
this
occasion,  as  we  salute  the  people  of  Lebanon  who,
thanks  to  their  steadfastness,  were  able  to  defeat  the
enemy and liberate their occupied land,  we once again
stress  the  need  for  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  the
Syrian  Golan  Heights.  We  also  demand  the  immediate
lifting  of  the  sanctions  imposed  on  Iraq  and  call  upon
the international community to put an end to the human
tragedy  endured  by  that  country(cid:146)s  people,  to  preserve
the  unity  and  integrity  of  its  territories,  to  respect  its
sovereignty,  to  refrain  from  interfering  in  its  internal
affairs and to cease the military aggression waged daily
against it.
The 
has  made
continuous  efforts  in  the  field  of  disarmament.  My
country,  which 
international
conventions  in  this  area,  is  still  fully  convinced  that
some 
international  conventions  addressing  certain
aspects in this field should be reviewed. I  would refer,
as  one  example,  to  the  Ottawa  Convention  on  the
Prohibition  of  the  Use,  Stockpiling,  Production  and
Transfer  of  Anti-personnel  Mines  and  on  Their
Destruction,  which deals only  with  simple  weapons  of
limited  effect.  We,  as  one  of  the  third  world  peoples
who  are  incapable  of  defending  our  borders  and  lands
against  the  powerful  who  possess  aircraft  carriers  and
aircraft  that  refuel  in  flight,  feel  that  humanity  should
be  preoccupied  with 
the  destruction  of  nuclear,
chemical  and  biological  weapons,  as  well  as  with
ballistic  weapons,  rather  concern  itself  with  mines,
which are a simple form of weaponry.
international 
community 
is  a  party 
to  most 
On the other hand, we have noticed that a number
of obstacles still hinder the efforts to establish a world
free  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Those  who
possess  nuclear  arms  have  not  yet  undertaken  actual
measures  to  dispose  of  their  nuclear  arsenals.  In  fact,
some of them have continued to develop these weapons
vertically,  instead  of  beginning  to  destroy  them.  The
Israelis,  who  possess  hundreds  of  nuclear  warheads
with  which  they  threaten  the  Arab  people  from  the
Atlantic Ocean to the Arabian Gulf, still refuse to join
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons  and  to  place  their  nuclear  installations  under
12
the  supervision  and  the  safeguards  system  of  the
International Atomic Energy Agency.
the  Israelis 
that,  unless 
to  accept  and 
In  raising  this  most  serious  and  momentous
subject,  we  are  fully  convinced 
the
international  community  adopts  effective  measures  to
force 
the
international conventions on nuclear disarmament,  and
unless the nuclear-weapon States take practical steps to
prove  the  seriousness  of  their  undertakings,  efforts  to
prevent the proliferation of nuclear arms will be utterly
worthless and any claims concerning the destruction of
nuclear arms will be a major act of deception that  will
not fool the peoples of the world.
implement 
Terrorism  still  constitutes  a  source  of  grave
danger  to  humanity,  because  no  effective  measures
have been taken to trace the roots of  this phenomenon
in order  to  eradicate  it.  My  country,  which  has  been  a
direct  victim  of  state 
relentlessly
reiterated  its  strong  condemnation  of  terrorist  acts  and
its  willingness  to  cooperate  with  all  international
efforts  aimed  at 
their  elimination.  My  country(cid:146)s
eagerness to put an end to terrorism was so strong that
we  called  in  1992  for  the  convening  of  a  special
session  of  the  General  Assembly  to  consider  methods
to eradicate all forms of terrorism and violence.
terrorism,  has 
Today,  in  reiterating  this  request,  it  is  most
important  that  we  clarify  that  the  correct  approach  to
eliminating  terrorism  must  begin  with  providing  a
definition  for  terrorism  that  is  universal,  objective,
democratic  and  scientific. It  is  genuinely  unacceptable
that some still classify the struggle of peoples for their
freedom  and  the  fight  of  persecuted  groups  against
their  persecutors  as  forms  of  terrorism,  whereas  they
turn  a  blind  eye  to  real  terrorism,  embodied  in  unjust
sanctions, occupation, invasion, foreign military bases,
naval  fleets,  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  the  use
and  threat  of  use  of  force.  Unless  all  such  matters  are
dealt with, it is certain that any international efforts to
eliminate terrorism will be of no avail.
We  believe  that  it  has  become  necessary  to  take
additional  measures  to reinforce  international  systems,
such as the Statute of the International Criminal Court,
concerned  with  the  punishment  of  perpetrators  of  the
most serious crimes against international security. In its
present  form,  the  Statute  is  designed  to  try  only  the
weak. We ask that it be modified to guarantee the trial
of  all  perpetrators  of  acts  of  aggression,  drug
smugglers and their trading partners, those responsible
for  massacres  of  innocent  people,  and  those  who
commit  acts  of  aggression  against  United  Nations
troops.
We  look  forward  to  the  establishment  of  a  world
in which equality and justice prevail and  which is free
from discrimination, oppression and injustice. This will
require  the  drafting  of  laws  that  preserve  the  rights  of
mother and child and guarantee that a person may own
his  own  house  and  be  a  partner  in  his  own  productive
work,  that  his  basic  needs  will  not  be  subject  to
commercialization  and  that  his  rights  are  not  usurped
as a source of income.
the  phenomenon  of 
We also look forward to taking practical measures
that lead to the realization of a world free from motives
of  aggression,  manifestations  of  violence,  epidemics
and diseases. We also hope that efforts will be joined to
combat 
the  (cid:147)white  poisons(cid:148).
Moreover,  in  order  to  protect  our  planet  from  the
dangers  that  threaten  it,  we  should  work  to  eradicate
pests,  strive  to  establish  low-cost  water  desalination
systems  and  seek  to  prevent  the  flow  of  waters  of
rivers, rain and snow to seas and oceans. Furthermore,
all  factors  that  hinder  the  prevention  of  desertification
and  the  expansion  of  agricultural  development  should
be  removed.  One  of  these  factors  is  the  problem  of
mines  and  other  remnants  of  war  from  which  many
countries, including my own, still suffer. There are still
millions  of  mines  in  our  lands  planted  by  the  fighting
forces during the Second World War. We hope that the
States  responsible  for  planting 
these  mines  will
respond  to  the  international  decisions  that  call  upon
them to make available maps for their locations and to
provide technical assistance for their removal.
to  raise  a  subject 
that  has
preoccupied 
international
community for the last seven years, namely the dispute
between  my  country  and  a  number  of  Western  States
concerning  the  Lockerbie  incident.  I  would  like  to
focus on the manner in which the Security Council has
dealt  with  this  issue  since  the  suspension  of  the
sanctions in April of last  year.  As  you  are  well aware,
more than a year and a half have now elapsed since the
two  suspects  appeared  before 
the  Scottish  court
convened  in  the  Netherlands.  Almost  the  same  period
has  elapsed  since  the  Secretary-General  submitted  his
report  to  the  Security  Council  pursuant  to  resolutions
883  (1993)  and  1192  (1998),  in  which  he  confirmed
that my country has fulfilled the demands stated in the
relevant Security Council resolutions. Despite all these
Allow  me  now 
attention  of 
the 
the 
A/55/PV.14
developments,  however, 
the  Council  has  been
prevented  from  adopting  the  resolution  that  requires
the lifting of the sanctions, because of the intransigence
of  one  country,  the  United  States.  This  intransigence
has been such that a threat to use the right of veto was
voiced.
is 
still 
that  Libya 
justifications 
The United States gave a number of justifications
to prevent the  Security  Council  from  lifting  the  unjust
sanctions imposed upon the Libyan people. The first of
these 
supports
terrorism.  This  is  a  groundless  pretext.  My  country,
which  was  itself  a  victim  of  terrorism  in  1986  and
before,  has  repeatedly  declared  its  condemnation  of
international terrorism in all its aspects and forms, and
stressed its support for all international efforts aimed at
its  eradication.  Moreover, 
the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
report  has  given 
the
vacuity  and  lack  of  truth  of  all  American  claims  that
Libya supports terrorism.
irrefutable  proof  concerning 
The  second  of  these  American  justifications  is
that  Libya  should  cooperate  with  the  Scottish  court
convened  in  the  Netherlands.  This  is  a  refutable
justification,  as  my  country  has  pledged  from  the
beginning,  that  it  will  cooperate  fully  with  the  court.
This  pledge  has,  in  fact,  been  proven  since  the  court
started reviewing the case. In fact, the United States is
the one that has not fully cooperated with the court by
hiding basic information requested by the court, which
in  itself  violates  Security  Council  resolutions  that  call
upon all States, and in particular the concerned ones, to
cooperate  with 
the
Netherlands.
the  Scottish  court  sitting 
in 
for 
the 
The third, and the strangest of these justifications,
is  the  demand  that  Libya  pay  compensation  to  the
families of the victims of  the Pan  Am  Flight  103. The
question  to  be  raised  here  is:  How  could  the  United
States  ask  for  compensation  while  the  Scottish  court
has not yet reached a verdict? Does this not constitute a
complete  disregard 
that
stipulates a presumption of innocence until the accused
is  proven  guilty?  Furthermore,  why  does  the  United
States 
to  conclusions  and  deliver  a  ready
conviction, while acquittal or conviction is a matter for
the  court  alone  to  decide?  Libya(cid:146)s  fulfilment  of  its
obligations  was  confirmed  by  the  Secretary-  General(cid:146)s
report a  year and a half ago. It  was also reaffirmed by
the  decisions  of  the  Summit  of  the  Organization  of
African  Unity, 
the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  the  Arab
the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
legal  principle 
jump 
13
A/55/PV.14
League  and  lastly  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  which
called  for  a  complete  lifting  of  the  unjust  sanctions
imposed on the Libyan people.
In view of all of the above, my country demands
the following:
First,  this  issue  should  not  politicize,  as  it  has
now  become  a  legal  matter  that  should  be  left  to  the
discretion  of 
the
in 
Netherlands without interference from any parties.
the  Scottish  court  convened 
Secondly, the Security Council should, as early as
possible,  adopt  a  resolution  under  which  the  sanctions
imposed on the Libyan people are fully and irrevocably
lifted.  This  is  the  only  procedure  that  reaffirms  the
commitment  of  the  Council  to  paragraph  (16)  of  its
resolution 883 (1993), and the  second  paragraph of its
resolution  1192  (1998).  It  would  also  reaffirm  the
Council(cid:146)s  response  to  the  wishes  of  the  absolute
majority  of  the  international  community,  on  whose
behalf the Council is supposed to work.
Should  the  Council  be  further  hindered  from
adopting the required resolution, my country  will have
no  choice  but  to  resort  to  this  august  Assembly  so  it
could take the  necessary  measures to  vindicate  us  vis-
(cid:224)-vis one State that refuses to lift the sanctions, a State
that was behind the imposition of these sanctions in the
first place.
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
Mr.  Joschka  Fischer,  Deputy  Chancellor  and  Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Germany.
Mr.  Fischer  (Germany)  (spoke 
in  German;
English text furnished by the delegation): First of  all I
would  like  to  warmly  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your
election  as  President  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the
General  Assembly,  and  wish  you  every  success  with
your  work.  I  would  like  to  thank  Foreign  Minister
Gurirab  for  his  dedication  in  chairing  the  fifty-fourth
session of the General Assembly. I welcome Tuvalu as
the one hundred and eighty-ninth member of the United
Nations  and congratulate  it on  its  accession.  I  endorse
the statement of my French colleague, Hubert VØdrine,
on behalf of the European Union.
At this session of the General Assembly, the first
in  the  new  millennium,  we  are  asked  to  determine  the
future  tasks  of  the  United  Nations  and  which  reforms
are necessary in order to master them. The Millennium
Declaration,  which  we  all  adopted  on  8  September,
shows us the way forward. The implementation of this
14
Declaration should be a main focus of the consultations
of  this  and  future  sessions  of  the  General  Assembly.  I
propose  that  the  Secretary-General  make  use  of  the
opportunity to draw up review reports at the beginning
of the next session of the General Assembly.
Particularly 
developing 
If 
issue 
offers 
great 
opportunities. 
There  was  one 
in  particular  which
dominated  this  debate,  namely  globalization.  It  will
radically  change  the  economy  and  finances,  politics
and  culture  everywhere.  The  question  is,  will  a  new
order  which  guarantees  peace,  justice  and  an  equal
share in our common progress be established or  will  a
new divide evolve in the  world? Will the future of  the
globalized  world  manifest  its  pluralist  character  in  a
multilateral  order?  Only  the  future  can  provide  the
answers to these questions.
for 
countries,
globalization 
it
nevertheless provokes strong opposition, this lies in the
imbalances of this historical process. Indeed, just under
a  decade  after  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  our  world  is
today  at  risk  from  a  new  divide,  one  between  the
winners  and  losers  of  the  economic  globalization
process.  In  his  impressive  Millennium  Report,  the
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  rightly  highlights
the  growing  inequalities  in  the  distribution  of  income,
resources, investments and access to new technologies.
international
community  must  make  every  effort  in  the  coming
decade to ensure that globalization benefits all peoples.
If  market  forces  are  not  balanced  by  a  political
corrective mechanism, it is to be expected that injustice
in the world will increase further. Those who have been
hitherto excluded from the advantages of globalization
must  be  included  to  a  greater  extent.  They  must  be
given  more  say  in  the  political  decisions  made  about
steering  global  processes  and  they  must  be  given  an
opportunity to gain a fairer share in the development of
the world economy.
In  view  of 
this  situation, 
the 
In  the  twenty-first  century,  we  will,  more  than
ever before, need a form of global governance if we are
to  solve  global  challenges.  The  United  Nations  will
play a key role here. It is the only organization  within
which  the  injustice  between  rich  and  poor  can  be
overcome  and  where  a  reconciliation  between  peoples
and regions, global peace and sustainable development
can be achieved.
Greatly strengthening the United Nations capacity
to act is, therefore, a crucial question for the  whole of
humanity in the twenty-first century. In addition to the
crucial reform  of  the  Security  Council,  this  will  entail
the  United  Nations  entering  into  creative  partnerships
with industry and civil society.
strongly 
supports 
Germany 
the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s 
idea  for  a  global  compact  with  major
companies.  The  German  initiative  for  a  resolution  in
the General  Assembly on  global  partnerships  will  take
up  this  and  other  issues  relating  to  the  globalization
process.
Global poverty is the key problem in North-South
relations.  It  lies  at  the  root  of  many  global  risks  and
threats 
to  peace.  The  Secretary-General  provided
precise and stimulating analyses of this in his report.
The 
industrialized  nations  have  a 
special
obligation to support the  poorest  of the poor.  With  the
Cologne  debt  initiative  launched  by  Germany,  we  are
combining  debt  relief  with  a  strategy 
to  combat
poverty. The 20 poorest developing countries should be
debt-free by the end of the year.
The  least  developed  countries  should  be  granted
access  to  world  markets  with  the  greatest  possible
exemption  from  duties  and  quotas.  We  must,  also  by
way  of 
the  World  Trade
Organization,  prevent 
these  countries  from  being
socially excluded even further.
liberalization  steps 
in 
This  applies  in  particular  to  the  new  economy.
The  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  must
intensify  their  efforts  to  make  it  easier  for  these
countries  to  use  the  information  and  communication
technologies. This is  contingent  upon initiatives in the
field  of  education,  as  well  as  the  availability  of  the
necessary resources.
than 
the  North  by 
However,  how  can  poor  countries  ever  catch  up
economically if they are, at the same time, afflicted to a
much  greater  degree 
terrible
diseases? The fight against the disastrous spread of the
AIDS virus, particularly in Africa, must be priority for
us  all.  The  focus  must  be  on  prevention.  At  the  same
time,  access  to  medicines  must  be  improved  and
vaccine research must be intensified. The World Bank(cid:146)s
promising  idea  of  establishing  a  future  fund  for  the
purchase  of  vaccines  deserves 
support.
Particularly in the fight against AIDS, new partnerships
between Governments and companies are crucial.
every 
The second major issue of this General Assembly
is  peacekeeping.  The  Secretary-General  showed  the
A/55/PV.14
ahead  with 
the  Brahimi 
way 
report.  The
recommendations  it  contains  should  be  examined  and
implemented as quickly as possible. Germany will play
its part. Peace missions need a more robust mandate, as
well as more personnel and equipment. Member States
must  do  considerably  more 
the  rapid
secondment  of  well-trained  troops,  police  officers  and
civilian experts. The further development of the police
concept  is  one  of  the  most  important  tasks  in  this
connection (cid:151) as the last few months and years have, in
fact been teaching us.
to  ensure 
The  German  Government  will  offer  German
training  for civilian peace-mission personnel and  offer
civilian  capacities  to  the  United  Nations  stand-by
system. In addition, we are drafting a plan for training
civilian experts for peace missions, thus creating a pool
of  qualified  personnel  who  can  be  deployed  at  short
notice.
The  prevailing  form  of  conflict  today  is  conflict
within States. Therefore the main task of peacekeeping
must  be  to  address  the  internal  roots  of  conflicts.  In
addition  to  focusing  on  an  improvement  in  socio-
economic  conditions,  our  efforts  must 
focus  on
promoting  human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of
law.  Mary  Robinson, 
the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  aptly  said  that  the
human  rights  violations  of  today  are  the  wars  of
tomorrow.
Numerous  concrete  tasks  are  on  the  agenda.  The
protocols  relating  to  the  involvement  of  children  in
armed  conflict  and  to  the  sale  of  children,  child
prostitution  and  child  pornography  must  enter  into
force as early as possible. The equality of women must
be  advanced  in  all  spheres.  I  call  upon  all  states  to
ratify  quickly 
the
the  new  Optional  Protocol 
Convention  on 
the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Discrimination  against  Women  and  to  abolish  all  laws
that  discriminate  against  women  by  2005.  The  World
Conference  against  racism,  to  be  held  in  2001,  must
tackle  all  aspects  of  this  issue.  Out  of  a  sense  of
responsibility for our history, our State and our society
will  stand  up  firmly  against  all  forms  of  right-wing
radicalism, racism and anti-Semitism, both in our  own
country and in the world.
to 
I call upon all States to respect the integrity of the
Statute of the International Criminal Court, to sign and
to ratify it, so that the Court can commence work soon.
There can be no exceptions to the Rome Statute.
15
A/55/PV.14
the 
arms 
regional 
risk  of 
international  arms-control 
One  of  the  greatest  dangers  facing  humanity
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
remains 
destruction.  The 
races,
particularly  in  South  Asia,  has  increased.  Further
developing 
regime
therefore continues to be one of the United Nations key
tasks. This  will require resolute  implementation  of  the
results of the sixth Review Conference of the Parties to
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons. Against this background, President Clinton(cid:146)s
decision  not  to  commit  now  to  the  development  of  a
national  missile  defence  system  is  very  welcome.  The
Anti-Ballistic  Missile  (ABM)  Treaty  must  remain  as  a
cornerstone  of  strategic  stability  and  the  basis  for
further nuclear-disarmament measures.
In  poor  countries  the  excessive  stockpiling  of
small  arms  must  be  stopped.  We  must  therefore  do
everything  we  can  to  achieve  tangible  progress  at  the
United  Nations  small  arms  conference  to  be  held  in
2001.  This  presupposes  the  inclusion  of  all  aspects,
including 
transfer  of  production  and
stockpiles.
legal 
the 
triangle  between  Central  Asia, 
Regional  cooperation  has  proved 
to  be  an
extremely effective means of preventing conflicts. The
United Nations can do much to help here. Allow me to
mention  two  regions  where  progress  is  particularly
urgent.  The 
the
Caucasus  and  the  Middle  East  is  full  of  destabilizing
factors  (cid:151)  oil,  religious  fundamentalism,  terrorism,
drugs  and  the  nuclear  arms  race  (cid:151)  and  this  area  is
threatening  to  become  the  crisis  region  of  the  century
ahead.  A  new  comprehensive  regional  process,  along
the 
fosters
cooperation  instead  of  confrontation,  could  play  an
important stabilizing role. Germany is prepared to take
part in such a process.
the  Helsinki  model,  which 
lines  of 
In  Africa,  regional  approaches  have  gained  in
significance. In the main, however, it is, unfortunately,
too  early  to  talk  of  effective  peacekeeping  structures.
Unfortunately,  the  efforts  on  the  part  of  the  United
Nations  and  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  to
resolve  the  conflicts  in  the  Congo  and  Sierra  Leone
have not achieved a breakthrough so far. In the conflict
between Ethiopia and Eritrea it is to be hoped that the
ceasefire  that  has  finally  been  concluded  will  be
consolidated and that the United Nations peace mission
will  be  lent  the  full  support  of  the  parties  to  the
conflict.
16
The 
third 
issue,  protection  of  our  natural
environment,  will  probably  become  the  crucial  issue
affecting  our  planet.  In  the  course  of  the  twentieth
century 
the  world(cid:146)s  population  quadrupled,  while
consumption  of  energy  and  raw  materials  increased
tenfold.  We  must  end  the  squandering  of  natural
resources  and  switch  to  renewable  energy  sources  as
quickly  as  possible.  This  cannot  only  be  a  matter  for
industrialized  nations.  We  are  witnessing  at  this  very
moment  what  a  burden  high  oil  prices  places  on  poor
countries in particular. It  must  be  in  the  interest  of  all
States  to  bring  about  the  transition  from  the  oil  to  the
hydrogen  age  as  quickly  as  possible.  The  most
important 
the
deadlock  in  the  climate-protection  negotiations  and  to
ensure that the Kyoto Protocol can be implemented by
2002, 10 years after the Rio Summit.
to  finally  overcome 
thing  now 
is 
Another  key  issue  for  humanity,  the  future  of
genetic  engineering,  can  only  be  mastered  within  the
framework of  a  global  consensus.  Genetic  engineering
has  the  potential  to  revolutionalize  medicine  and
agriculture. At the same time, it raises more ethical and
human  rights  questions  than  any  other  technology.  Do
we not need clear, binding rules for dealing with such a
powerful  new  technology?  Why  do  we  not  seriously
consider  within  the  United  Nations  creating  under
that  meaningfully
international 
promotes  genetic  engineering  and  safeguards 
the
freedom  to  research  and  the  findings  of  this  research,
while,  at  the  same  time,  defining  an  ethical  basis  and
guaranteeing protection against abuse?
law  a  convention 
The  Millennium  Declaration  points 
the  way
ahead.  But  what  help  will  that  be  if  an  increasing
number of Members allow the world(cid:146)s real problems to
be  dealt  with  and  decided  somewhere  else?  If  we  do
not succeed in adapting the United Nations to deal with
the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  and  in
modernizing  it  fully,  it  will  be  sidelined,  with  fatal
consequences  for  peace  and  development,  human
rights, the environment and social progress.
We will all, rich and poor, lose out.
We  must 
the  strength 
therefore  muster 
to
resolutely  implement  the  Millennium  Declaration.  We
need  a  world  Organization  that  is  strong  and  we  must
use its scarce resources more effectively. An important
prerequisite  for  this  is  that  the  United  Nations  be
placed  finally  on  a  solid  financial  footing.  Together
with  its  European  Union  partners,  Germany  has  put
forward  proposals  for  a  fairer,  more  balanced  scale  of
assessments,  which  must  continue  to  be  based  on
Member States(cid:146) ability to pay..
become  more 
The  Security  Council  no  longer  reflects  the
political  reality  of  our  world  at  the  dawn  of  the  new
millennium.  We  share  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  view
that  this  central  steering  organ  of  the  international
community  must 
representative,
legitimate and effective,  also involving  the developing
countries.  Last  week  Chancellor  Schroeder  reaffirmed
Germany(cid:146)s  willingness  to  take  on  more  responsibility
in this connection. I would like to take this opportunity
to  thank  my  friend  and  colleague  Robin  Cook  for  the
clear 
the  General
Assembly just a few minutes ago.
that  he  used  before 
language 
The  General  Assembly  must  structure  its  work,
debate global problems in a more focused fashion than
hitherto  and  identify  courses  of  action.  The  synergetic
potential  between  United  Nations  organizations,  for
example in the environmental field, must be better used
and  resources  pooled  to  a  greater  extent  by  merging
organizations.
Reform of the United Nations will play a decisive
role  in  ensuring  that  the  twenty-first  century  is  safer
and  more just than  the twentieth  century.  Allow  me to
conclude  with  a  quote  from  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
Millennium Report:
(cid:147)No shift in the way we think or act can be
more critical than this: we must put people at the
centre  of  everything  we  do  ...  Only  when  that
begins to happen will we know that globalization
is  indeed  becoming  inclusive,  allowing  everyone
to share its opportunities.(cid:148) (A/54/2000, para. 16)
The President: I now call on His Excellency Mr.
Farouk  Al-Shara(cid:146),  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
Syrian Arab Republic.
to 
the  presidency  of 
Mr.  Farouk  Al-Shara(cid:146) (spoke  in  Arabic):  It
gives  me  great  pleasure  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on
your  election 
this  General
Assembly session. We are confident that the posts you
have  assumed  in  your  country  and  the  international
respect that  you enjoy  will facilitate the task  entrusted
to you in leading the deliberations of this session of the
General Assembly to their desired objectives.
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Namibia  for  his
efforts in leading the work of the previous session to a
A/55/PV.14
successful  conclusion.  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  failed  to
thank  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his
efforts  to  maintain  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the
Charter and for the distinguished role he has played in
crystallizing  the  idea  of  convening  the  Millennium
Summit  last  week.  It  was  indeed  an  unusual  event  in
United Nations history.
The  historic  Millennium  Summit  Declaration
confirmed  unequivocally  and  clearly  the  commitment
of all the Heads of State and Government of the world
to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the
United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the  absence  of  any
substantial  difference  between  the  Charter  and  the
Declaration  is  an  important  achievement  in  itself.  The
historic  Declaration  issued  by  the  Millennium  Summit
may  be  considered,  in  one  way  or  another,  as  a
renewed vote of confidence in the Charter, particularly,
as the world has recently witnessed major changes and
dangerous challenges. One may therefore conclude that
the  principles  and  purposes  adopted  by  peoples  and
nations do not undergo major changes with the passage
of time.
to  underestimate 
It  would  be  wrong 
the
significance  of  this  conclusion  for  the  history  of  the
United  Nations.  The  end  of  the  cold  war  did  not
prevent  the  peoples  and  nations  of  the  world  from
denouncing  and  condemning  crimes  of  aggression,
ethnic-cleansing, 
oppression,
extremism,  injustice,  corruption,  racism  and  double
standards.  Nor  did  this  make  us  hesitate  to  glorify
many  noble  objectives,  such  as  freedom,  peace,
equality,  solidarity,  tolerance,  human  rights  and  social
justice.
foreign  occupation, 
It is fortunate that third world countries and poor
countries  host 
large  populations  with  bountiful
resources  and  great  heritage.  This  constitutes  a  safety
net  for  those  countries  that  were  able  to  contribute  to
maintaining  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United
Nations  when  drafting  the  Millennium  Declaration.
This  explains  the  lack  of  any  reference  to  the  new
world  order,  either 
the  Millennium  Summit
Declaration  or  in  any  other  official  text.  Regrettably,
however,  this  becomes  evident  in  reality,  whereby
hegemony  seems  to  have  the  upper  hand  in  the
international arena.
in 
Strengthening the role of the United Nations  was
the  main  topic  on  the  Summit(cid:146)s  agenda.  This  role
would  also  become  clear  in  reforming  the  Security
17
A/55/PV.14
the  Council 
Council  and  expanding  its  membership.  The  United
Nations  membership  considers 
the
Organization(cid:146)s  primary  organ.  This  reform  process
should  be  accomplished  by  expanding  the  Security
Council membership, the granting of equitable and fair
geographical  representation  and  the  gradual  phasing
out of the use of the right of veto, which contradicts the
concept  of  democracy,  particularly  when  its  aim  is
nothing short of undermining the democratic process.
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  have
contributed to creating conditions conducive  to  ending
the  deterioration  of  security  conditions 
in  many
countries  of  the  world.  Throughout  the  past  years,  the
Syrian  Arab  Republic  has  done  everything  it  could  to
preserve  the  security  and  safety  of  United  Nations
peacekeeping  personnel  and 
they
successfully carry out their missions and mandates. But
peacekeeping operations must be confined to enforcing
United  Nations  resolutions  and  those  of  international
legitimacy.  The  Security  Council  has  therefore  to
enforce its resolutions so that peacekeeping operations
will not simply become operations to impose the status
quo, which makes the achievement of true peace a very
elusive objective.
to  ensure 
that 
the  authority  and 
The  peace  process  launched  in  Madrid  has  been
losing its momentum, incentive and compass, day after
day  and  year  after  year.  The  Security  Council,  which
has 
to
enforce  its  own  resolutions,  has  been  kept  out  of  the
Middle  East  peace  process.  It  has  become  a  silent
witness to the fact that the peace process in the Middle
East has reached a dead end.
international 
legitimacy 
It has become quite obvious to all those involved
in  the  peace  process,  both  inside  and  outside  our
region,  that  continued  Israeli  occupation  of  Arab
territories (cid:151) which is sometimes explained by Israel(cid:146)s
psychological  need  for  security  and  at  other  times  by
superstitious myths (cid:151) is the major obstacle on the road
to  peace.  Those 
futile  claims,  which  have  no
foundation in reality whatsoever, have caused the peace
process to become an endless negotiating process  with
neither end nor resolution in sight.
At  any  rate,  the  serious  and  carefully  considered
negotiations  that  Syria  has  conducted  have  proven  to
the  international  community  at  large,  and  to  Arabs  in
particular,  two  main  things:  first,  that  Israel  is  neither
desirous  of,  nor  serious  about,  pursuing  a  just  and
comprehensive  peace 
in  accordance  with  United
18
Nations  resolutions;  and,  secondly,  that  Syria  has  the
right to a full return of the entire  Golan,  to  the  4 June
1967 line, without concessions or compromises.
those  positions 
to  embarrass  anyone  or 
We  would like to  mention  another  fact  known  to
our  foes  and  friends  alike.  That  fact  is  that  Syria  has
unreservedly  supported  every  Arab  and  Palestinian
right  during  every  stage  of  the  peace  talks.  It  did  not
take 
to
negotiate  on  their  behalf.  As  a  matter  of  principle,
Syria  has  been,  and  continues  to  be,  committed  to  the
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to return to
their lands, to self-determination, and to establish their
independent State on their national soil.  On that basis,
Syria  presented  its  position  clearly  and  firmly  at  the
meeting of the Jerusalem Committee that was convened
in  Morocco  at  the  end  of  last  month  in  support  of  the
rights 
and
uncompromised  Palestinian  sovereignty  over  Al-Quds
Al-Sharif.
of  Muslims 
and  Arabs 
to 
full 
The  Arabs  are  an  ancient  and  time-honoured
nation  known  for  its  religious  tolerance.  But  tolerance
is  one  thing  and  conceding  one(cid:146)s  rights  is  something
else.  Territory  and  sovereignty  are  matters  of  national
dignity that can never be forfeited or compromised.
At  the  Millennium  Summit,  the  countries  of  the
world  expressed  their  belief  that  we  live  today  in  an
age  of  international  law  and  under  the  United  Nations
Charter, international legitimacy and human rights, and
not  in  an  age  of  the  law  of  the  jungle  and  futile
religious  claims  to  justify  the  usurpation  of  other
peoples(cid:146) 
the
international  community  and  the  United  Nations  a
more  firm  and  non-selective  stand  in  defending  the
Charter  and  international  law  and  in  prompting  Israel
to  respect  international  legitimacy  and  international
conventions  and  to  implement  the  resolutions  of  the
United Nations.
land  by  force.  This  requires  from 
The  brotherly  Lebanese  people  have  achieved  a
historic milestone, thanks to their solidarity and that of
their  State,  in  strongly  resisting  Israeli  occupation.
Syria  stood  by  Lebanon  firmly  in  order  to  ensure  the
full  implementation  of  resolution  425  (1978).  Syria
will  always  stand  by  Lebanon  and  support  all  its
national  issues,  especially  the  ones  concerning  the
return of  all  its  territory  and  the  return  of  its  hostages
held  in  Israeli  jails.  In  this  regard,  we  urge  the  donor
countries  to  fulfil  their  commitments  to  help  Lebanon
rebuild  what  Israel  has  destroyed,  particularly  the
damage  it  caused  during  its  occupation  of  southern
Lebanon.
From  this  international  forum,  Syria  would  like
once again to stress the great importance it attaches to
maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq. We call for
relieving the suffering of the Iraqi people by lifting the
economic sanctions that only affect the people. We also
stand  against  any  measures  taken  against  Iraq  outside
the context of United Nations resolutions so that those
resolutions will retain the necessary credibility to bring
about their implementation.
We  also  deem  it  necessary  to  find  a  just  and
humane  solution  to  the  question  of  Kuwaiti  and  other
prisoners  of  war,  within  a  practical  framework  agreed
upon  between  the  Kuwaiti  and  Iraqi  sides.  We  do  not
want the issue of prisoners of war and missing persons
to  remain  outside  the  human  and  political  framework
that will allow us to arrive at a solution.
Syria  also  calls  upon  the  Security  Council  to
quickly  and  permanently  lift  the  sanctions  it  imposed
against  Libya.  Libya  has  delivered  on  all 
its
commitments  under  Security  Council  resolutions.  We
fully support Libya(cid:146)s demands.
In view of the strong, brotherly relations between
Syria,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  the  Islamic
Republic  of  Iran,  we  call  upon  the  two  neighbouring
countries  to  pursue  negotiations  to  resolve  peacefully
the  dispute  over  the  three  islands  on  the  basis  of  the
principles of good neighbourliness and mutual respect.
Syria  believes  that  the  establishment  of  a  trilateral
committee  to  pave  the  way  for  direct  negotiations
between Iran and the United Arab Emirates through the
creation  of 
is  a  practical
initiative. We hope that it will allow the two parties to
arrive at a satisfactory conclusion.
favourable  conditions 
We  would  like  to  welcome  the  achievements  of
the representatives  of  Somalia  in  forming  a  temporary
Somali parliament and  electing  Mr.  AbdiKassim  Salad
Hassan  as  President  of  democratic  Somalia.  We
consider  these  achievements  as  major  pillars  for  the
restoration  of  Somali  State  institutions.  We  call  upon
the  international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to
help  Somalis  carry  out  the  tasks  of  reconstruction  and
rehabilitation.
The continued tragic situation in Afghanistan is a
source  of  great  concern  to  us.  We  are  convinced  that
the  problem  of  Afghanistan  can  only  be  solved  by
A/55/PV.14
stopping the fighting and beginning negotiations aimed
at  achieving  national  reconciliation.  It  must  also  be
solved  by 
finding  an  acceptable  and  permanent
political  settlement  that  brings  about  security  and
stability for the Afghan people. Many Arab and Islamic
countries  fear  that  continued  and  senseless  fighting  in
Afghanistan  may  lead  to  undermining  the  concept  of
the  State  in  that country  and  to  destroying  its  heritage
and whatever is left of its historic traditions.
Syria  welcomes  the  discussions  convened  at  the
highest  level  in  Pyongyang  in  June  2000.  We  express
the  hope  that  this  rapprochement  between  the  two
Koreas  will  contribute  to  achieving  the  aspirations  of
the  Korean people  in reunifying  the  peninsula  through
peaceful means.
in 
stressed 
live.  The  Summit 
the  Millennium  Summit  and 
There was a consensus in the statements delivered
at 
the  Summit
Declaration about the need to exert all possible efforts
to  rid  humanity  of  the  humiliating  and  inhumane
conditions  of  extreme  poverty,  in  which  more  than  a
billion  people 
the
commitment  of  Member  States  to  basic  human  rights,
as well as to the right of every country to development.
We  think this  will require developing a  new  economic
international  order  that  is  just,  fair  and  democratic.  It
will also require finding a multilateral commercial and
financial 
transparency,
equality and non-discrimination. We must also find the
best  mechanism  possible 
to  solve  developmental
problems,  especially  on  the  African  continent.  Such  a
system  should  also  give  preferential  treatment 
to
developing  countries  in  order  to  facilitate  investment
and  the  transfer  of  technology  and  know-how.  That
would  allow  for  full,  effective  and  equal  participation
by  the  South  in  the  process  of  decision-making  at  the
international  level.  Although  these  requests  seem  far-
fetched  now,  they  will  in  the  final  analysis  serve  all
parties and States, whether they be rich or poor, in the
North or in the South.
characterized  by 
system 
that  a 
We  had 
fervently  hoped 
just  and
comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East  would  have
been  achieved  by  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first
century  and  with 
this  new
millennium.  Nonetheless,  we  remain  optimistic.  Peace
will remain our strategic choice and that of all peoples
who  aspire  to  a  bright  future  in  which  peace,  security
and prosperity prevail for human beings everywhere.
the  ushering 
in  of 
19
A/55/PV.14
The  President:  As  members  can  see,  we  are
making good progress this morning as far as the list of
speakers  is  concerned,  and  there  will  be  some  time
remaining. In view of this, Bosnia and Herzegovina has
agreed to be the last speaker at this meeting.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Minister  of  Foreign
Affairs of Ireland, His Excellency Mr. Brian Cowen.
the  Millennium  Assembly 
Mr.  Cowen  (Ireland):  Your  election,  Sir,  as
President  of 
is  fitting
recognition  of  your  great  dedication  to  international
peace. 
for  your
outstanding contribution to the Good Friday agreement
signed in Belfast in 1998. We are sure that the qualities
that  you displayed then  will serve  you  well in  guiding
the work of this session.
is  especially  grateful 
Ireland 
Our  thanks  are  due  also  to  Foreign  Minister
Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, the wise and thoughtful
President  of  the  fifty-fourth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  We  are  happy  also  to  welcome  Tuvalu  as  a
new Member of the Organization.
My  colleague,  Foreign  Minister  VØdrine  of
France,  has  already  addressed  the  Assembly  on  behalf
of the European Union. Ireland is fully associated with
his remarks.
at 
the 
adopted 
The  Declaration 
historic
Millennium  Summit  sets  out  the  principles,  objectives
and  targets  which  should  inspire  the  work  of  this
session.  Ireland  is  fully  committed  to  these  principles
and  objectives,  and  we  are  determined 
to  work
vigorously to achieve real results. Critics of the United
Nations  may  doubt  our  ability to  achieve  such  results;
we  are  determined  to  prove  them  wrong.  Such  critics
ignore 
the
Organization  in  recent  years.  Major  reform  of  all
aspects  of  the  Organization  has  resulted  in  a  more
efficient,  streamlined  operation.  We  will  work  with
others  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  in  order  to
fulfil  the  commitment  made  in  the  Declaration  (cid:151)  to
ensure  a  more  effective  instrument  for  pursuing  the
fight  for  peace  and  development  and  against  poverty,
ignorance and disease.
achievements 
considerable 
the 
of 
The  cause  of  peace 
transcends  all  other
challenges.  Whether  in  the  Middle  East,  the  Western
Balkans,  Africa  or,  indeed,  in  our  own  island  of
Ireland,  determined  efforts  to  build  a  secure  and
durable  peace  must  be  tirelessly  pursued.  Our  own
experience  in  Ireland  has  taught  us  that  there  is  no
20
greater  prize,  no  more  difficult  task  and  no  greater
satisfaction than to begin to heal the wounds of history
and the scars of intolerance.
Our own efforts at building peace have convinced
us that to be effective, such efforts require international
support  and  validation.  We  have  also  learned  that
economic  development  goes  hand 
in  hand  with
building  a  society  with  hope  in  its  own  future  and
pledged to overcome the bitterness of the past. It is this
experience  which  helps  guide  our  approach  to  peace-
building  in  the  wider  world.  It  is  this  experience  of
peace-building  and  development  which  we  will  bring
to  the  deliberations  of  the  Security  Council  if  elected
by the membership in the coming weeks.
Security  and  development  are  indivisible  and
interrelated.  Yet  too  often  we  in  the  international
community stand aside as hapless witnesses, hesitating
to become involved, while the innocent suffer. We need
to  strengthen  the  capacity  and  commitment  of  the
Organization to fulfil its mandates. I therefore strongly
welcome  the  exercise  of  its  authority  by  the  United
Nations  in  East  Timor  last  year  and,  more  recently,  in
Sierra  Leone.  It  is  our  duty  as  Governments  to
underpin that authority.
We  must  address  those  issues  which  prolong
conflict,  even  when  root  causes  become  blurred.  Let
me  give  two  examples.  First,  the  illicit  flow  of  small
arms  and  light  weapons  into  areas  of  conflict  must  be
stopped;  and  secondly, 
in  high-value
commodities, particularly the trade in so-called (cid:147)blood
diamonds(cid:148),  which  has  exacerbated  conflicts  in  Africa,
must  be  prevented.  Carefully  targeted,  time-limited
sanctions will help to counter this menace.
trafficking 
and 
settlement 
post-conflict 
Enhancing  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in
peacekeeping is a  priority  for  this  session. To  broaden
that  role,  we  urge  an  integrated  approach  combining
prevention, 
peace-
building. While the Security Council has a global remit
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security  in  every
region  of  the  world,  it  is  right  that  it  pay  special
attention at this time to the promotion of durable peace
in Africa. We therefore welcome the declared intention
of  the  Security  Council  at  the  Millennium  Summit  to
ensure that it plays a more effective role in this urgent
and necessary task.
Peacekeeping 
Ireland(cid:146)s
contribution  to  the  United  Nations.  For  more  than  40
years  we  have  participated  continuously  in  United
the  heart  of 
is  at 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  Irish  personnel  have
served  under  United  Nations  command  in  the  Middle
East,  Africa,  the  Americas,  Asia  and  Europe.  We  are
proud of the contribution which our peacekeepers have
made in so many areas of the world. At the same time,
we deeply regret that 82 of our Irish soldiers have died
in  the  service  of  the  United  Nations.  Other  Member
States  have  also  sustained  losses,  and  I  would  like  to
express my deep regret at the brutal attack last week on
United  Nations  personnel  in  West  Timor  as  well  as  at
the recent outrages in Sierra Leone.
It  is  because  of  our  own  long,  and  at  times
frustrating,  experience  of  peacekeeping  that  Ireland
welcomes the publication of the Brahimi report. In the
light  of  this  experience,  I  will  focus  in  particular  on
three aspects.
First, the United Nations must have the resources
and  capacity  to  deliver  well-planned  and  effective
peace  support  operations.  The  Member  States  must
give  the  Secretary-General  and  his  staff  the  means  to
do the job.
Secondly, if the United Nations is to save lives, it
must  be  capable  of  deploying  into  conflict  areas
rapidly. This requires rapid decision-making.
Thirdly,  effective  operations  depend  on  well-
trained peacekeepers. A more integrated approach must
be  taken  to  develop  training  and  equipment  of  United
Nations  peacekeeping  personnel.  Ireland(cid:146)s  own  United
Nations Training  School  has  provided  such  training  to
over  170  officers  from  40  countries,  and  we  intend  to
enhance  this  role  in  cooperation  with  like-minded
countries.
To those ends,  we  will contribute actively in  this
Assembly to the urgent follow-up of the proposals that
have been put forward.
Progress 
in  disarmament 
remains  crucially
important  both  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  to
development.  At  the  sixth  Review  Conference  of  the
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear Weapons, very considerable efforts were made
by all the States parties to ensure a successful outcome.
That  reflects  the  central  role  of  the  Treaty  in  the
achievement  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  The
outcome highlights the underlying premise of the Non-
Proliferation Treaty: that these weapons do not provide
assurances  of  peace  and  security.  The 
to
threat 
A/55/PV.14
humanity  posed  by  their  continued  existence  will
remain until we achieve an effective and global ban.
the  nuclear-weapon  States  of 
There  have  been  welcome  and 
significant
reductions  by 
their
arsenals.  But  defence  strategies  based  on  nuclear
weapons continue to include the possible use, even the
first  use,  of  those  weapons.  The  Non-Proliferation
Treaty  is  not  a  charter  for  the  indefinite  retention  of
nuclear  weapons  by  any  State.  It  represents  a  clear
obligation  to  make  nuclear  disarmament  a  reality.  At
the  Review  Conference, 
the  Non-
Proliferation  Treaty  came  closer  in  their  common
understanding  of  what  is  demanded  by  the  Treaty.  In
that  connection,  the  unequivocal  commitment  to  the
total elimination of their nuclear weapons made by the
nuclear-weapon States is of fundamental significance.
the  parties 
to 
the 
five 
However, 
let  us  not 
lull  ourselves 
root-and-branch  elimination  of 
into
complacency because we have reached agreement on a
programme  of  action.  We  now  have  an  opportunity  to
begin 
these
weapons. Progress is primarily dependent on action by
the 
nuclear-weapon  States.  States  which
participate  in  security  arrangements  involving  nuclear
weapons  have  a  particular  responsibility  to  diminish
the  role  of  nuclear  weapons  in  security  policies.  All
States share a  responsibility  to  advance  negotiation on
those  measures  needed  to  guarantee  a  world  free  of
nuclear weapons. For our part, Ireland and our partners
in  the  New  Agenda  Coalition  are  determined  to  work
vigorously for the achievement of that goal.
I referred earlier to the role of conventional arms
in conflict situations. The ravages and suffering caused
by  small  arms  as  well  as  by  landmines  are  immense.
We are, at least in the case of landmines, beginning to
see  positive  results  from  the  implementation  of  the
Ottawa  Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Use,
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel
Mines and on Their Destruction. The practical outcome
has  been  the  destruction  of  over  22  million  mines  by
some  50  States;  expenditure  on  mine  clearance  has
more  than  doubled,  and  countless  lives  have  been
saved.
Next year, the United Nations will focus on small
arms with the first international conference specifically
addressing that issue.  We  must  set ambitious  goals  for
the conference so that we may have a basis for making
genuine inroads on the  culture  of  violence  fostered  by
the dissemination of those weapons.
21
A/55/PV.14
Peace  and  development  are  essential  to  each
other.  Without  peace,  there  can  be  no  development.
Without development, peace is hard to sustain. Without
freedom  from  the  threat  of  war,  from  human  rights
abuse and from famine, there can be no lasting human
progress.  The  elimination  of  poverty  and  access  to
basic  health  care  and  education  are  crucial 
to
sustainable  development.  Nonetheless,  we  witness
today an unprecedented contrast between the prosperity
of  developed  countries  and  the  poverty  of  those  that
have  been  left  behind.  And  yet,  at  the  same  time,  we
are  witnessing  an  actual  decline  in  the  international
community(cid:146)s  development  aid  levels.  Clearly,  that
trend must be reversed.
It  has 
long  been  an  objective  of 
Irish
Governments  to  bring  our  development  cooperation
effort into line with our national economic growth and
to  meet  the  United  Nations  development  cooperation
target.  Last  week  our  Government  took  an  important
step  forward  by  when  our  Taoiseach,  our  Prime
Minister,  Bertie  Ahern,  speaking  at  the  Millennium
Summit, committed Ireland to meet the United Nations
target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  by  the
end of 2007, and to reach the level of 0.45 per cent by
the  end  of  2002.  This  will  clearly  represent  a
significant 
in
meeting  our  targets,  we  anticipate  a  fourfold  increase
by  Ireland  in  our  aid  over  the  next  seven  years.  That
will  greatly  increase  our  ability  to  make  a  real  impact
on the lives of some of the poorest people on earth. Our
aid  budget  is  both  a  test  and  a  reflection  of  our
commitment to the values and principles set out in the
Millennium  Summit  Declaration.  We  shall  not  fail  in
this  task  we  have  set  ourselves  as  a  country:  to  be  an
example to all who could contribute more.
terms.  Indeed, 
in  volume 
increase 
issues  which 
As  we  enter  the  new  millennium,  we  are  faced
with 
require
several  development 
immediate  attention.  We  must  begin  to  address  the
question of debt relief in a more coherent manner. The
most heavily indebted countries need a sound basis for
the  achievement  of  acceptable  levels  of  growth  free
from grinding debt. We must recognize that the burden
on  those  States  is  unsustainable  in  the  face  of  the
challenges of poverty alleviation and AIDS.
Speed  is  essential  in  delivering  results  from  the
Enhanced  Debt Initiative  if it is  to  remain  credible.  In
addition  to  a  European  Union  contribution  of  almost
$1 billion,  Ireland  has  bilaterally  contributed  over
$40 million  in  debt  relief,  although  as  a  matter  of
22
principle we have never extended loans in the guise of
development assistance. That is why our aid has always
been in grant form, and why all of our development aid
is also untied.
Greater  market  access  by  the  least  developed
countries  must  be  a  priority.  With 
the  early
implementation  of  the  European  Union(cid:146)s  commitment
to  grant  duty-free  and  quota-free  access  to  its  market
by the least developed countries by 2005, a major step
in this direction will have been taken.
One of  the  greatest  challenges  to  development  is
HIV/AIDS. If the spread of AIDS is to be arrested, we
need: strong political will in the leadership of the most
affected  countries;  we  need  greater 
international
resources;  we need greater  access to essential drugs  at
prices  that  are  affordable;  and  we  need  more  research
funds  for  the  development  of  vaccines.  The  fight
against  AIDS  is  now  an  integral  part  of  all  Irish
development activities, with funding budgeted for both
prevention and the search for vaccines.
to 
and 
is  central 
Respect  for  human  rights 
the
maintenance  of  peace 
the  promotion  of
development.  It  underpins  all  the  activities  of  the
United  Nations.  Putting  weapons  in  the  hands  of
children and sending them into conflict undermines the
most  basic  rights  and  the  innocence  of  the  child.  That
is  a  scandal  which  cannot  be  allowed  to  continue.
Through  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the  Convention  on
the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children
in  armed  conflicts,  which  Ireland  was  among  the  first
to sign, a start has been  made in addressing this issue.
But much more must be done.
The  establishment  of  an  International  Criminal
Court offers a unique opportunity to bring to justice the
perpetrators  of  crimes  against  humanity  and  other
serious  violations  of 
is
moving  rapidly  to  ratify  the  Statute.  The  international
criminal 
tribunals  for  former  Yugoslavia  and  for
Rwanda  demonstrate  how  necessary  it  is  to  exercise
international jurisdiction to end the culture of impunity
where violations of basic human rights occur.
law.  Ireland 
international 
Racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and
intolerance persist in all our societies. The 2001 World
Conference  against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,
Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance  will  provide  an
opportunity  to  create  a  vision  for  the  fight  against
racism and all intolerance for the coming century. I pay
tribute here to  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner
for  Human  Rights,  Mary  Robinson.  Taoiseach  Bertie
Ahern,  TD,  our  Prime  Minister,  was  pleased  to  be
amongst  the  first  to  sign  the  declaration  entitled:
(cid:147)Tolerance  and  diversity:  a  vision  for  the  twenty-first
century(cid:148),  which  was  presented  at  the  Millennium
Summit.  I  believe  that  it  will  generate  a  positive
approach to the World Conference.
I  know  that  our  friends  in  the  international
community  continue  to  follow  developments  in  the
peace process in Ireland with close interest. Indeed, the
Governments  of  many  Member  States  have  played  an
important  and  concrete  part  in  the  successes  we  have
achieved to date. I am particularly pleased therefore to
be  able  to  report  that  in  the  past  year,  in  the  face  of
many difficulties, we have made real progress towards
the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement.
The new political institutions are up and working
well.  In  Northern  Ireland  there  is  an  Executive  on
which  all  parts  of  the  community  (cid:151)  nationalist,
unionist  and republican  (cid:151)  are  represented  as  of  right,
and  where  Ministers  are  working  constructively
together  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  for  all  the
people.  The  North/South  Ministerial  Council,  which
brings together Ministers from both jurisdictions on the
island,  and 
it
oversees,  are  developing  new  ways  of  working
together, delivering tangible benefits in areas of mutual
importance  and  interest.  In  the  British-Irish  Council,
we  are  forging  new  relationships,  including  with  the
devolved administrations in Scotland and Wales.
the  Implementation  Bodies  which 
Policing  reform  is  a  vital  part  of 
We  are  firmly  committed  to  ensuring  that  all
other aspects of the Agreement are implemented in full.
the  new
dispensation  we  are  striving  to  create  in  Northern
Ireland.  All  sides  of  the  community  want  to  see  an
effective,  accountable  policing  service  to  which  they
can give allegiance and which young people,  whatever
their background, can join. The Agreement promised a
new  beginning  in  this  area,  and  the  Patten  Report  set
out  how  it  can  be  achieved.  It  is  now  crucially
important that the legislative proposals currently before
Parliament at Westminster secure that outcome.
also 
that 
contains 
The  Agreement 
extensive
commitments  in  the  area  of  human  rights,  and  we  are
working 
they  are  delivered.  My
Government  has  established  an  independent  Human
Rights  Commission,  with  a  mandate  and  remit  that
surpass the standards set in the Paris Principles. We are
to  ensure 
A/55/PV.14
in  the  process  of  appointing  its  members.  We  look
forward  to  the  Commission  working  closely  with  its
counterpart 
the  protection  and
promotion  of  human  rights  throughout  the  island  of
Ireland.
the  North  for 
in 
We  also  need  to  see  continued  progress  towards
security  and  justice  arrangements  appropriate  to  a
society  in  which  peace  will  become  the  norm,  and  to
see  the  question  of  arms  resolved  for  all  time.  To  this
end,  we  have  made  great  strides  forward  in  recent
months.
Our  task  in  the  peace  process  has  always  been
more  than  the  putting  in  place  of  a  new  set  of
institutions  and  arrangements,  important  though  they
undoubtedly are. We are endeavouring to create a  new
beginning for what has been a deeply divided society, a
new  beginning  where  the  divisions  of  the  past  are
overcome. The task which the Irish Government has set
itself  is  to  work  with  others  in  peace  and  partnership,
and in a spirit of mutual tolerance and respect, building
together a better future for all of the people of Ireland.
This  demands  patience,  persistence  and  perseverance.
A great deal remains to be done.
Far  too  many  people  continue  to  have  their  lives
blighted  by  sectarianism  and  hatred.  There  are  still
those  who  prefer  to  foster  division,  retarding  rather
than  advancing  the  cause  of  reconciliation.  On  both
sides there are still small groups of dissidents prepared
to  use  violence  to  bring  down  the  Agreement  and  to
frustrate  the  democratically  expressed  wishes  of  the
people. They have nothing to offer, and they will not be
allowed to succeed.
to 
their 
In  Northern  Ireland  many  people  have  yet  to
experience the full benefits of change and the return of
hope  and  normality 
lives.  Some  remain
sceptical  about  the  benefits  of  the  Agreement.  But,
working together with the British Government and with
the  representatives  of  all  sides  of  the  community,  we
will  continue  to  do  all  in  our  power  to  convince  them
that the Agreement represents not only a balanced and
honourable  accommodation,  but  also  the  only  way
forward.
The 
international  community  has  made  an
important  contribution  to  our  achievements  to  date.
Without 
the
international  community,  we  could  not  have  come  so
far. When we embarked on our journey towards peace,
we knew that it would take a great deal of time and of
the  support  and  encouragement  of 
23
A/55/PV.14
work  to  see  the  Agreement  implemented  in  full.  We
remain  firmly  committed  to  the  task  and  take  heart
from  the  substantial  progress  we  have  made  and  draw
courage  from  the  international  community(cid:146)s  continued
support.
In  the  course  of  my  statement  I  have  set  out  my
Government(cid:146)s  position  on  the  key  issues  facing  the
United  Nations.  It  is  this  approach  and  commitment
that  will  inform  our  actions  if  we  are  elected  to  the
Security  Council.  Ireland  is  standing  for  election  after
20 years absence from the Council. We do so as a small
State which has already made a significant contribution
to  the  work  of  this  Organization.  Faithful  to  the
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter,  we  have  faced
and  tried  to  overcome  the  legacies  of  strife  and
underdevelopment  that  have  marked  our  own  history.
Membership  of  the  Security  Council  will  allow  us  to
bring  to  the  service  of  all  the  lessons  of  our  own
experience,  as  well  as  our  full  commitment  to  the
United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Her
Excellency  Ms.  Anna  Lindh,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Sweden.
Ms.  Lindh  (Sweden):  The  individual  human
being  must  always  be  at  the  centre  of  our  work.
Burmese  students  fighting  for  democracy,  victims  of
ethnic  violence  in  Kosovo,  women  in  Afghanistan
denied  their  right  to  education  and  equality,  children
dying  of  curable  diseases,  people  simply  trying  to
survive  in  the  utmost  poverty  (cid:151)  have  given  us  our
task.  Meeting  the  needs  of  the  peoples  and  realizing
their  aspirations remain the starting  point,  the  purpose
and the vision of our Organization.
But the United Nations  will only be  what  we,  its
Members, allow it to be. This year(cid:146)s General Assembly
session  provides  an  occasion  to  revitalize  our  much
needed,  but  often  criticized,  global  Organization.  The
Secretary-General(cid:146)s  excellent  report  on  the  role  of  the
United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century  provides  a
firm  basis  for  the  creation  of  a  truly  modern  United
Nations  (cid:151)  a  United  Nations  with  maintained
legitimacy  and  increased  credibility,  greater  efficiency
and continued global relevance.
Globalization  opens  the  market  for  those  who
have  the  resources  and  instruments  to  benefit  from  it.
Globalization  makes  knowledge  and 
information
available to those who have the tools and skills to make
technology.  Globalization  brings
use  of 
the  new 
24
opportunities  to  improve  life  for  all  people,  but  it  has
also  led  to  an  increasing  gap  between  those  who  can
take advantage and those left behind.
Safeguarding  the  universal  and  indivisible  rights
and  values  of  humanity  is  a  key  responsibility  for  the
United  Nations  in  the  age  of  globalized  economy,
technology and communications.
targets  and 
responsibility 
The  world  community  has  to  do  its  utmost  to
integrate  the  least  developed  countries  into  the  global
economy.  Solidarity  and 
from  all
international
countries  are  necessary  for  reaching 
development 
to  an
improved  standard  of  living  for  all  people.  Solidarity
and  responsibility  are  essential  in  fighting  two  of  the
greatest  threats  to  development  and  human  security  in
our  time:  poverty  and  HIV/AIDS.  We  need  to  work
with  a  wide  range  of  measures  to  overcome  these
threats.
for  contributing 
Sustained  and 
increased  official  development
assistance remains of vital importance. Today only four
countries,  Sweden  among 
the  United
Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income
in development aid.
them,  meet 
trade, 
look  at 
financing 
But  we  must  also 
for
in  a  broader  perspective.  Domestic
development 
resources, 
international  finance  and  official
development assistance must all be taken into account.
Sweden  wants  an integrated  approach  to  development.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  United  Nations,  the
World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the
World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  and  others  are
working  together  in  preparing  next  year(cid:146)s  high-level
events on these issues.
important 
to  growth 
contribution 
The start of new negotiations under the WTO can
be 
an 
and
development.  Let  us  together  make  sure  that  such
negotiations  truly  turn  into  a  development  round.  The
major 
committed
themselves  to  giving  free  market  access  to  products
from  the  least  developed  countries.  It  is  time  to  put
these commitments into effect.
trading  nations  have 
already 
There  is  no  contradiction  between  development
and  respect  for  human  rights.  On 
the  contrary,
development benefits from respect for the human rights
and participation of all citizens, and discrimination and
oppression  are  threats  to  development.  For  women  in
many  parts  of  the  world,  discrimination  means  being
excluded  from  participation  in 
the  economic  and
political fields; their potential contribution is lost. Two
thirds  of  all  illiterates  are  women.  For  millions  of
women, domestic violence is a daily reality. This is not
in accordance with the basic values of our international
community  and  it  is  a  major  obstacle  to  sustainable
development. The legal basis for ending discrimination
exists  with  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All
Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women  and  the  new
agreement of the special session in June.
For the children, next year(cid:146)s special session of the
General Assembly provides an excellent opportunity to
set  a  global  and  concrete  agenda.  The  Convention  on
the  Rights  of  the  Child  is  the  basis  for  this  agenda  to
reduce  forcefully  maternal  mortality,  to  give  more
children  access  to  primary  school  and  to  promote  the
participation of  young people in  shaping  our  societies.
Girls  must  be  given  the  same  rights  and  opportunities
as  boys.  I  thus  welcome  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  new
system-wide girls(cid:146) education initiative.
A  growing  problem 
in  many  countries  and
regions  is  the  traffic  in  human  beings,  especially
exposing  women  and  children  to  sexual  exploitation
and  to  forced  labour.  These  criminal  acts  call  for  our
immediate  attention  and  a  forceful  reaction  from  the
international  community.  We  need  and  actively  seek
closer cooperation between Europe, Asia and others in
order to develop strong and efficient  measures to fight
this appalling violation of human rights.
Respect for human dignity requires an end to the
use  of  the  death  penalty.  This  brutal  and  irrevocable
form of punishment has no place in a modern, civilized
society.  It  is  time  for  the  international  community  to
fully recognize the  most  fundamental  human right  and
abolish the death penalty.
Disrespect for democracy and human rights paves
the way for crisis and conflict. National sovereignty is
firmly  coupled  with  a  Government(cid:146)s  responsibility  to
protect and promote human rights. It is the duty of the
international  community  and  our  duty  as  political
leaders  to  act  and  react  when  human  rights  and
fundamental  freedoms  are  violated.  We  cannot  idly
stand  by  when  people  are  being  brutalized  behind
national borders.
In  many  armed  conflicts,  deliberate 
terror
directed against civilians is used to create fear. Women
suffer from violence and rape. Children are denied their
dignity and childhood when forced to become soldiers.
A/55/PV.14
Men  are  imprisoned  in  concentration  camps,  forced  to
take  sides  or  killed.  Lives  and  families  are  ruined  and
the  perpetrators  often  go  unpunished.  Sierra  Leone  is
one example, Kosovo another.
Strengthening international law and humanitarian
law  does  increase  the  protection  of  the  individual.  It
also  creates  confidence  amongst  people,  since 
it
demonstrates  that  a  culture  of  impunity  will  not  be
tolerated.  A  good  example  was  the  decision  by  the
Security  Council  to  set  up  a  special  court  to  try  those
responsible for war crimes during the conflict in Sierra
Leone.
The  establishment  of  an  International  Criminal
Court  will  give  us  a  safer  and  more  just  world.
Suspected perpetrators of  crimes  against  humanity can
and  will  be  tried  in  accordance  with  international  law
whenever national courts are unable or unwilling to do
so. There is a strong need for joint and early  action  to
make the International Criminal Court operational.
The  past  year  saw  a  new  honesty  in  drawing
conclusions  from  previous  mistakes  and  I  want  to
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  for  having  initiated
the  studies  of  our  failures  in  Bosnia  and  Rwanda.  The
lessons 
the
massacre in Srebrenica and on the genocide in Rwanda,
as well as from the senseless terror in East Timor, must
be put to constructive use for the future.
the  chilling  reports  on 
learned  from 
National  sovereignty  must  not  be  used  as  an
excuse  to  prevent  the  United  Nations  from  taking
necessary  measures  when  fundamental  humanitarian
values  are  at  stake.  It  is  our  common  responsibility  to
make  sure  that  commitments  are  made  and  that  the
resources  for  peace  operations  are  available  when
needed.  My  Government  warmly  welcomes 
the
recommendations  in  the  Brahimi  report,  for  example
concerning 
for  United  Nations
Headquarters  support  for  peacekeeping  operations.  By
implementing the many recommendations in the report,
the United Nations capacity to act will be significantly
strengthened.
funding 
core 
If  the  Security  Council  cannot  act  in  an  urgent
situation,  due  to  a  veto  or  the  threat  of  a  veto,  its
credibility  and  its  legitimacy  suffer.  Necessary  action
ought not to be hindered or blocked by a veto. Now is
the  time  for  the  permanent  members  to  agree  on  a
moratorium on the use of the veto.
25
A/55/PV.14
The credibility of the Security Council is of vital
interest  not  only  to  its  members,  but  to  the  United
Nations  membership  at  large.  All  efforts  should  be
made  to  use  the  Security  Council  as  a  forum  for
negotiations  and  decisions  in  order  to  avoid  not  only
the  unnecessary  threat  of  or  use  of  the  veto,  but  also
unilateral action whereby the Council is circumvented.
A  modern  United  Nations  requires  a  Security  Council
that  reflects 
international
relations.  The  Council  should  therefore  be  enlarged  to
make 
representation  of
countries,  not  least  from  the  developing  world.  We
should  also  be  prepared  to  periodically  review  the
composition  of  the  Security  Council.  At  stake  is  the
global  relevance  of  the  Security  Council  in  a  world
vastly different from that of 1945.
the  realities  of 
today(cid:146)s 
room 
for  an 
increased 
The recent developments on the Korean peninsula
show  that  long-lasting  tension  can  also  be  challenged
through  enlightened  statesmanship.  But  the absence  of
armed  conflict  does  not  equal  lasting  peace.  It  is
essential  to  address  the  root  causes  of  violent  conflict
by building democracy and safeguarding human rights,
by promoting economic and social development and by
removing trade barriers and debt burdens.
regional  entities  could  be 
There  is  no  alternative  to  the  United  Nations  in
preventing  and,  if  needed,  managing  conflicts.  The
United  Nations  provides  legitimacy  for  global  action,
but the United Nations alone cannot meet the needs and
demands  in  this  area.  Cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and 
further
developed.  Sweden  believes 
the  civilian  and
military  capacity  for  crisis  management  and  conflict
prevention  now  being  developed  by  the  European
Union  (EU)  could  be  put  to  use  in  the  future  by  the
United  Nations.  We  will  continue  to  work  for  close
cooperation between the EU and the United Nations on
these matters during the Swedish presidency of the EU
in the spring of 2001.
that 
During  the  past  year,  the  Security  Council  has
placed  emphasis  on  early  action  and  on  the  need  to
focus  on  the  prevention  of  violent  conflicts.  Sweden
strongly  supports  this  shift  towards  identifying  and
taking  early  measures.  We  are  prepared  to  work  with
other countries to support the Secretary-General in the
development  of  a  comprehensive  conflict  prevention
strategy.
Improved 
the  Security
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  other
interaction  between 
26
United  Nations  bodies  and 
the  Bretton  Woods
institutions,  including  the  use  of  joint  fact-finding
missions,  will  facilitate  early  action.  Sweden  would
like to see the establishment of a standing fact-finding
mechanism at the disposal of the Secretary-General, as
a  complement  to  Security  Council  missions.  Such  a
mechanism  could  be  utilized  at  an  early  stage  in  an
emerging crisis situation, without undue delays.
international 
Another part of a United Nations  strategy  should
be to explore and develop the link between democracy
and  prevention  of  violent  conflict.  Democracy  offers
peaceful  ways  of  handling  conflicts  and  different
interests.  Democratization  is  a  process  in  which  the
holding  of  elections  should  only  be  the  first  step  in  a
long-term 
commitment.  Establishing
peace  and  democracy  takes  a  lot  more  than  free  and
fair  elections,  even  if  that  is  the  beginning.  The
sanctions  instrument  needs  to  be  refined  to  become
truly  effective.  By  now,  we  have  ample  evidence  that
sweeping economic sanctions frequently do more harm
than good. The guiding principle should be to exert the
strongest  possible  pressure  on  the  decision-makers,
while  no  effort  should  be  spared  to  avoid  negative
effects  on  civilians.  Every  future  sanctions  regime
ought  to  consist  of  sharp  and  enforceable  measures,
directed against the factors that cause and fuel crisis or
conflict. Sweden stands ready to  contribute  actively  to
the  debate  on  how  this  instrument  of  the  United
Nations Charter can be made more efficient.
To  promote  disarmament  and  prevent 
the
proliferation of weapons of mass-destruction remains a
major challenge for the United Nations and its Member
States. The result  of this  year(cid:146)s  Review  Conference  of
the  Parties  to  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty
(NPT)  gives  certain  hope  in  this  regard.  For  the  first
time  in  many  years,  a  consensus  document  on  the
agenda  for  nuclear  non-proliferation  and  disarmament
was  adopted.  For  the  first  time  ever,  the  nuclear-
weapon  States  unconditionally  pledged 
totally
eliminate  their  nuclear  arsenals.  For  the  first  time,  a
number  of  practical  steps  were  identified  for  how  to
work towards this goal.
to 
A  world  free  from  nuclear  weapons  will  not  be
achieved overnight. Nor are these steps to be taken in a
distant  future  or  held  hostage  to  States(cid:146)  perception  of
the  appropriate  strategic  balance.  The  momentum
achieved  at  the  NPT  Conference  has  to  be  sustained.
The  countries  of the  New  Agenda  Coalition  will  work
for  the  implementation  of  the  NPT  results.  All  States
ought  to  immediately  cease  production  of  nuclear
weapons  and  fissile  material  for  weapons  purposes.
The  Conference  on  Disarmament  should  now  start  its
work  on  a  ban  on  such  material.  The  world
community(cid:146)s  efforts  to  prevent  the  further  production
of  nuclear  weapons  must  not  be  blocked  by  China,
India,  Pakistan  or  any  other  State.  It  is  high  time  to
bring  the  Comprehensive  Test-Ban  Treaty  into  force.
We expect all States to live up to their commitments.
The  United  States(cid:146)  plans  for  a  national  missile
defence  system  causes  concern.  In  today(cid:146)s  globalized
world,  we  must  always  take  account  of  the  global
effects of our decisions. It is hard to see how a possible
threat, from a few States, would best be countered by a
missile  shield  that  may  or  may  not  work,  and  which
risks  setting  off  a  renewed  arms  race,  with  immense
costs  in  terms  of  wasted  resources  and  loss  of  human
security. The recent announcement by the United States
administration to postpone the decision on the national
missile defence system was therefore welcome. A more
secure  world  ought  to  be  built  on  cooperation  rather
than  on  isolation  and  confrontation. The  Anti-Ballistic
Missile Treaty is crucial to global security and must not
be jeopardized.
the 
issue 
to  address 
A major cause of concern is also the uncontrolled
and  destabilizing  spread  of  small  arms  and  light
weapons. The international conference  on  illicit traffic
in  small  arms  and  light  weapons  next  year  will  be  an
important  opportunity 
in  a
comprehensive  way.  It  should  result  in  a  concrete
action-plan in the global, regional and national context.
The  United  Nations  today  is  stronger  and  leaner
than 
the  Secretary-General
three  years  ago  when 
launched his reform programme. But there is still work
to  be  done,  for  example  regarding 
interplay
between  the  main  bodies  of  the  United  Nations.  We
should  give the  Secretary-General the  full  authority  to
act  in  his  leadership  role.  We  support  the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s  proposal  for  a  shorter,  more  focused  agenda
for the General Assembly and restructuring of its work.
Another main issue for the Millennium Assembly is to
reach an agreement on the scales of assessment for the
regular  United  Nations  budget  and  for  peacekeeping
operations. While it is imperative that all members pay
their  dues  on  time,  in  full  and  without  conditions,
Sweden  believes  that  a  review  of  United  Nations
contributions  should  be  done.  The  aim  however  must
always  be  a  fairer  distribution  of  the  financial  burden
the 
A/55/PV.14
among Member States, adapted to today(cid:146)s realities, and
with capacity to pay as the guiding principle.
The  United  Nations  must  not  be  used  as  a
scapegoat  when  the  real  problem  is  lack  of  political
will  or  hesitance  from  us  Member  States  to  provide
necessary  resources.  Accordingly,  any  call  for  action
must be followed by a pledge to provide the personnel
or financial means.
The United Nations, with its global character and
legitimacy, can  make a difference  for  mankind  as  well
as  for  the  individual.  Behind  the  much  used  term
globalization there are billions of people. They want us
to  provide  hope.  They  expect  us  to  act  responsibly.
They  need  to  see  concrete  results.  We  are  here,
representing  them,  on  a  mission  to  make  the  United
Nations a true guardian of human dignity.
The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Jadranko  Prlić,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
to 
like 
I  would 
Mr.  Prlić  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  At  the
outset 
extend  my  warmest
congratulations  to  the  President  on  his  well-deserved
election. I also wish to express our sincere appreciation
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab  for  his
devoted  work,  tireless  efforts  and  dedication  while
successfully  presiding  over  the  fifty-fourth  United
Nations General Assembly.
The  Millennium  Summit  that  concluded  only  a
few  days  ago  has  reaffirmed  the  unanimous  belief  of
the  world  leaders  that  only  together,  guided  by  the
spirit and the objectives  of  the  founding  fathers  of the
United  Nations  and  respecting  the  established  system
of  principles,  norms  and  standards  of  international
relations  and  international  law,  can  we  successfully
respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century.
Despite its weaknesses, imperfections, inadequate
efficiency  and  sometimes  missed  opportunities,  the
consequences of  which  were partly felt in  my  country,
the  United  Nations  succeeded  in  maintaining  global
security,  in  containing  several 
local  and  regional
conflicts,  in  preserving  peace  and  in  facilitating  the
normalization of life. It has been successful in offering
relief  and  hope  to  the  most  unfortunate  ones.  Again,
my country experienced this side of the United Nations
as  well.  In 
this  respect,  we  again  welcome 
the
Srebrenica Report and subsequent Brahimi Report.
27
A/55/PV.14
If  all 
this  was  achieved  mostly  under 
the
conditions  of  the  confrontations  of  the  cold  war,  in  a
climate  of  mistrust  and  in  the  century  during  which
humanity  not  only  achieved  the  highest  objectives  but
also  touched  the  lowest  depths,  there  should  be  no
doubt  that  the  United  Nations  can  fulfil  its  new  tasks.
Addressing this Assembly on behalf of the country that
in  the  memory  of  humankind  is  associated  with  the
eruption of the First World War (cid:151) an event that was an
early  omen  of  the  entire  tragedy  of  the  twentieth
century (cid:151) I would like to express hope that at the very
end of  this  century,  after  all the  horrors of  the  Second
World War  and after the inconceivably tragic conflicts
following  the  dissolution  of  the  Socialist  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has
exhausted  all  the  misfortune  of  being  at  the  epicentre
of  historic  earthquakes.  And  I  hope  that,  under  the
auspices  of 
and
Herzegovina  is  ready  to  gain  anonymity  through  a
speedy  recovery  and  blessed,  long-lasting  and  happy
progress.
the  United  Nations,  Bosnia 
in 
international 
relations  and 
The United Nations through its activities has and
will  continue  to  influence  the  developments  in  the
world. It has to follow the rapid and very often radical
changes 
to  adjust
accordingly  and  find  the  best  ways  to  exercise  its
duties and its role. The reform of the United Nations no
doubt is a very delicate issue. But its postponement and
endless debates that only maintain the status quo are an
even greater issue. Furthermore, these things bring into
question the ability of the United Nations to modernize
and  democratize  in  order  to  improve  its  capacity  and
efficiency. An agreement has been reached on some of
the  most  crucial  issues  regarding  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council, 
its
membership (cid:151)  both  its  permanent  and  non-permanent
seats (cid:151) to include the representatives of the developed
and  the  developing  countries  and  to  provide  more
equitable  geographical  representation  of  the  countries.
I  believe  that  by  adopting  this  minimum  of  initial
reforms  of 
through
continuous work on the other related issues (cid:151) such as
the issue of the veto (cid:151) a favourable atmosphere would
be created and this would positively influence relations
within and all the activities of the United Nations.
the  Security  Council  and 
including 
increase 
the 
in 
In  our  address  to  the  General  Assembly  a  year
ago,  our  delegation  announced  that  we  would  like  to
become  a  more  active  member  of  the  international
community,  primarily  of  the  United  Nations.  We  said
28
to 
the  position  of  a  contributor 
that  we  were determined  to move  from  the  position of
the  recipient  of  the  concern  and  attention  of  the
international organizations and forums (cid:151) a position in
which  we  were  placed  for  more  or  less  well-known
reasons  (cid:151) 
to
international efforts. The fact that  we are in a  position
to consider the need or even the imperative of taking a
more  active  and  creative  role,  and  thus  a  bigger  share
of responsibility, testifies to the trend of normalization
of the situation in our country, which was ravaged by a
war only five years ago. Although small in number, an
integrated  group  of  13  policemen  from  both  entities,
comprising  representatives  of  all  three  constituent
peoples  (cid:151)  who  only  recently  were  fighting  each
other (cid:151)  have  been  deployed  with  the  international
peacekeeping  force  in  East  Timor.  Furthermore,  with
significant assistance from and the endorsement of  the
United  Nations  Mission  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina
(UNMIBH),  efforts  to  form  a  joint  unit  composed  of
the  military  from  both  entities  are  under  way.  Once
established,  the  unit  would  be  sent  to  a  peacekeeping
mission  under 
the  United  Nations  flag.  We  are
considering very seriously the possibility of presenting
the  candidature  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  for  a  non-
permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  after  the  year
2010. In this  way,  we  are  confirming  our  commitment
to  the  stabilization  and  normalization  of  life  in  our
country, and particularly  our  commitment  to  economic
and democratic development. We are confident that, as
early  as  10  years  from  now,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina
will  succeed  in  becoming  a  member  of  the  most
important body of the United Nations.
in 
its  assistance  and  support 
Although  we  display  courage 
in  expressing
readiness  to  take  a  larger  share  of  responsibility  as  a
Member  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  other  regional
organizations, we are fully aware that we still need the
international presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that
we  still  need 
the
normalization  of  life,  in  eliminating  the  consequences
of  war  and  in  preparing  ourselves  for  self-sustainable
development  and  progress.  Implementation  of 
the
Dayton/Paris  Peace  Agreement  still  remains  the  main
focus  of  the  activities  of  the  authorities  in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina at all levels. Its implementation is also the
primary  focus  of  the  international  community  and  its
representatives  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  Imperfect
as the Peace Agreement undoubtedly is, this cannot be
an  excuse 
its
its  consistent
implementation.  For 
implementation that can bring us closer to the point at
lack  of  commitment 
it 
is  exactly 
for  a 
to 
which  it  would  be  normal,  and  even  unavoidable,  to
establish  a  new  framework  and  new  directions  for
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina(cid:146)s  progress  towards  higher
levels  of  development  and  higher  living  standards.
However, this  will only be possible  when the common
institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina become a place
and  an  instrument  for  the  realization  of  common
interests and objectives of both of its entities and of all
of  its  constituent  nations  and  peoples  (cid:151)  instead  of
being  a 
for  very  costly  obstructions  and
confrontations  to  the  detriment  of  all,  in  particular
those who want to return to their homes.
locus 
areas 
In  many 
throughout  Bosnia 
and
Herzegovina  in  the  past  12  months  progress  has  been
made.  This  is  encouraging  and  indicative  of  the  fact
that  in  many  fields  of  life  things  could  advance  faster
and  more  successfully  along  the  road  towards  desired
and needed progress.
The  return  of  refugees  and  internally  displaced
persons still remains the priority. There continue to be
cases in which returnees have to flee their only recently
rebuilt  homes  when  faced  with  brutal  attacks  by
neighbours  of  different  ethnicities  or  religions.  But  at
the  same  time  it  is  encouraging  that  more  often  the
returnees  are  welcomed  by 
their  neighbours  and
offered  assistance  and  support.  During  the  first  six
months of this year three times more so-called minority
returns  were  registered  compared  to  the  same  period
last year. However, the number of returns is considered
to  be  even  larger,  since  not  all  returns  have  been
registered or have not been fully completed as yet. The
other positive development noticed in the returns is the
fact that among the returnees there are  more and  more
young  people  and  families  with  school-age  children,
which was not the case in the past, when only so-called
elderly  households  returned 
their  homes.  This
progress,  of  course,  may  be  the  result  of  improved
security  conditions,  freedom  of  movement,  somewhat
better  infrastructure  or  offering  assistance  with  the
repairing  of  houses  or  apartments;  but,  above  all,  this
progress  is  the  result  of  a  growing  awareness  on  the
part of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is
savage,  illegal  and  inhuman  to  deprive  people  of  their
sacred rights to home, life and security.
to 
Returns were also significantly increased because
indicted war criminals were more successfully brought
to  justice  and  because  of  a  more  independent,  more
reasonable  and  more  constructive  engagement  on  the
part  of  the  media.  Still,  the  role  of  the  international
A/55/PV.14
In 
to 
take 
like 
the  Office  of 
this  context,  I  would 
community in achieving all that has been mentioned (cid:151)
in  particular  the  role  of  the  High  Representative,  the
Peace  Implementation  Council,  the  United  Nations
Mission  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  the  Stabilization
Force, 
the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the  Organization  for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (cid:151) is irreplaceable.
this
opportunity to express our gratitude to the members of
the Security Council for inviting the three  members of
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  to  New
York  last  November  on  the  occasion  of  the  fourth
anniversary of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreement. That
visit  resulted 
the  New  York
Declaration.  Implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the
Declaration  brought  about  major  achievements:  the
establishment  of 
the
formation  of  the  Secretariat  of  the  Presidency  and
improvements  that  facilitated  the  functioning  of  this
joint institution, the reconstruction and  enlargement  of
the Council of Ministers, and the creation of conditions
conducive  to  the  return  of  refugees  and  internally
displaced  persons.  Also,  as  a  related  activity,  the  first
steps  in  organizing  the  battle  against  corruption  have
been taken.
the  State  Border  Service, 
the  adoption  of 
in 
The  decision  of  the  Constitutional  Court  of
Bosnia and Herzegovina on the  constituency  of all  the
three nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina will have far-
reaching  consequences  for  overall  developments  in
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  This  decision  should  reduce
the  unique  ethnic  and 
religious  apartheid  and
disenfranchisement  of  citizens  belonging  to  the  so-
called  minority  nations.  Among  the  achievements  that
encourage and have a positive impact on the change of
the overall climate in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be
mentioned  those  made  in  the  area  of  the  judicial
system.  Those  achievements  are  reflected 
the
professionalization  of  judges  and  prosecutors  and  in
their  modernization.  Through  the  establishment  of
multi-ethnic 
uncompromised
police 
professionals, 
training  and  education  of  young
policemen  in  police  academies,  composition  of  police
forces that reflect the demographic picture of the local
population,  the  space  for  abuses  is  thereby  narrowed,
and  an  environment  favourable  to  arbitrary  behaviour
and  unpunished  harassment  and  oppression  of  citizens
belonging to so called minority nations is eliminated.
comprising 
in 
It  is  my  pleasure  to  inform  the  Assembly  that
significant efforts are being made in the promotion and
29
A/55/PV.14
In 
for 
protection  of  human  rights  and  civil  freedoms  in
Bosnia and Herzegovina in all fields.
the  course  of  preparing 
the  World
Conference  against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,
Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance,  we  will  request
the  police  force,
that  government  bodies,  courts, 
schools 
non-governmental
organizations,  religious  institutions  and  their  leaders
and distinguished individuals from different spheres of
life,  challenge  those  who  still  advocate  and  practise
different  forms  of  discrimination  and  intolerance  and
step on human rights, freedoms and human dignity.
universities, 
and 
We,  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  are  aware  that
the  consequences  of  war  and  post-war
healing 
stagnation  and  removal  of 
to  faster
stabilization  and  progress  rests  primarily  with  the
domestic political leadership.
impediments 
the 
slower 
progress.  Bosnia 
inflow  of  contributions, 
We  are  also  aware  that  the  future  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  is  in  its  integration  into  European  and
other  institutions.  The  Stability  Pact  for  south-eastern
Europe  has  therefore  been  accepted  as  a  framework
conducive 
to  regional  cooperation,  elimination  of
mistrust,  strengthening  of  security  conditions  and  for
catching up with missed opportunities in the spheres of
rights  and  democratic  emancipation  and
human 
economic 
and  Herzegovina
wholeheartedly embraces the Stability Pact as the most
important  regional  endeavour  so  far,  convinced  that,
despite the slow realization of a number of projects and
despite 
its
objectives  are  fully  consistent  with  the  objectives  of
Bosnia 
foreign  policy.  The
achievement  of  these  objectives  would  embark  us  on
the  road  to  faster  integration  into  the  Council  of
Europe, 
the  World  Trade
Organization 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty
Organization.  There  is  no  doubt  whatsoever  that  the
Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia 
should
participate in the Stability Pact, but we share the views
of 
the
necessary  democratic  changes  in  that  country.  At  the
same  time,  we  consider  that  the  other  countries  of  the
region should not be kept hostage by the FRY on their
way  to  Euro-Atlantic  integration.  In  this  context,  we
would  like  to  recall  that,  at  the  early  stages  of  the
establishment  of  the  European  Union,  there  was  no
waiting  list  for  the  present  members  of  the  Union  and
the  European  Union, 
those  who  condition 
its  participation  on 
and  Herzegovina(cid:146)s 
(FRY) 
and 
30
that they did not have to pass the entering examination
successfully and  simultaneously.  At this  point  in  time,
the  waiting  lists  and  admission  procedures  could  be
counterproductive and could encourage those forces in
the  region,  including  in  my  own  country,  to  persist  in
continuing the state of chaos and exclusion.
At the beginning of this  year, the situation in the
neighouring Republic of Croatia has been significantly
improved by the opposition victory in the elections.  A
number  of  issues  that  burdened  the  relations  between
the two countries have practically been resolved, since
some  of  the  issues  were  tackled  in  the  bilateral
meetings  at  the  highest  levels  immediately  after  the
elections.  The  change  brought  about  by  the  elections
also  positively 
the  return  of  refugees,
although  more  visible  results  in  this  area  are  still  to
come.
influenced 
is 
still 
there 
However, 
regrettably, 
no
improvement  in  relations  with  the  FRY  and,  at  this
point, it is still uncertain when the improvement might
occur. For sure,  without democratic changes in Serbia,
the  establishment  of  full  diplomatic  relations  between
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  the  FRY  could  hardly
occur.  The  democratic  changes  in  the  FRY  certainly
would  positively  reflect  on 
internal  relations
between the two entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina as
well  as  on  overall  relations 
the  region.  The
democratic  changes  in  the  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina
neighbourhood  have  certainly  cut  off  the  influx  of
exported  elements  of  destabilization  and  crisis.  I  have
already  referred  to  the  positive  example  of  changes  in
Croatia.
the 
in 
We,  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  must  gather  the
courage and  strength  to  face  our  reality  and  to  choose
the  path  and  the  direction  that  would  lead  us  speedily
towards  the  achievements  that  would  compensate  for
the  decade  of  suffering,  deprivation  and  missed
opportunities.  In  the  process  of  making  this  clear  and
rational  choice,  we  would 
the
unreserved support of the international community, and
on  a  rather  sooner  than  later  integration  into  Euro-
Atlantic 
this
integration  is  already  very  much  behind  schedule  and
we do not have a lot of time to waste.
institutions.  We  have 
to  count  on 
to  say 
that 
like 
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
